跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
Czech, Australian diplomacy objecting to Russian steps in Ukraine
473 字
2022 年 2 月 23 日 16:23 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Feb 23 (CTK) - Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky agreed with his Australian counterpart Marise Payne that clear objections must be expressed to Russian steps in eastern Ukraine, Lipavsky (Pirates) told reporters after their bilateral talks today.

He welcomed it that Australia had also decided to impose sanctions against Russia for its recognition of the two separatist republics in eastern Ukraine.

"I have welcomed it that Australia is taking certain sanction steps that are very close to what the European Union and other players on the international scene are taking," Lipavsky said.

He said that with Payne, they also agreed that security of Europe and the Indo-Pacific Region is actually one and the same security and that they must help each other in this respect.

Australia supports its partners, the European Union and NATO and it is also trying to secure that Russia will pay dearly for its aggression, Payne said.

Australian PM Scott Morrison has announced that the country is introducing financial sanctions and a ban on travelling for eight Russian representatives who helped the Russian military invade eastern Ukraine. They include members of the Russian Security Council , among others. Moreover, the Australian government is expected to extend the sanctions to further Russian citizens and firms.

Australia considers the Russian justification of its steps as a legitimate intervention total propaganda and peak of disinformation, Payne said. The fact that Russia denotes this as the entry of peacekeeping forces is a completely perverted distortion of the peace-keeping principle that was applied all over the world, she noted.

The democratic world cannot accept the Russian aggression towards its democratic neighbouring country, Payne said, adding that if the situation further escalates, Australia will not hesitate to extend the sanctions.

Payne also appreciated the decision by German Chancellor Olaf Scholz to freeze the approval of the controversial Russian Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline due to the escalation of tension in Ukraine.

The EU countries unanimously agreed on imposing sanctions on Moscow. The United States, Canada, Britain, Australia and Japan also announced their sanctions.

According to Lipavsky, the sanctions are aimed at particular persons and banks serving primarily the Russian regime to finance military projects and the state apparatus. "In the case of the European Union , they (sanctions) are aimed at the funding of the Russian state debt," Lipavsky said.

Lipavsky today also signed the provision of healthcare aid to Ukraine worth ten million crowns. "The acquisition of several ambulance cars is planned as well as further aid to follow up the trauma or first aid kits," he said.

The Czech Republic is preparing further aid and working talks about it are underway, he said. "In general, we can observe a great political will to help Ukraine," he added.

($1 = 21.596 crowns)

hol/dr/vok

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220223ei2n0000f


Czech president: Russia should be cut off from SWIFT
124 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日 10:20 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
PRAGUE (Reuters) - Czech President Milos Zeman, who had in the past promoted warm relations with Moscow, said on Thursday Russia's attack on Ukraine was "crime against peace" and required a response through harsh sanctions including cutting the country from the SWIFT international payments system.

"It is time to reach for much tougher sanctions than those originally planned, by which I mean above all a sanction in the area of the so-called SWIFT," Zeman said in a speech.

"It is needed to isolate a madman, not just defend against him by words, but by concrete measures."

(Reporting by Jan Lopatka and Robert Muller; Editing by Alison Williams)

Released: 2022-2-24T10:20:59.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220224ei2o02df2


Czech pro-Russian president condemns Russian invasion of Ukraine as crime against peace
355 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日 14:54 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czechia's pro-Russian president Milos Zeman in his speech to the nation on Thursday called[https://ct24.ceskatelevize.cz/domaci/3446732-fiala-oznacil-rusky-utok-za-neospravedlnitelny-akt-agrese-cernochova-svolava-stab] Russia’s invasion of Ukraine a “crime against peace” which must be condemned in the strongest possible terms, not only by words but also by actions.

The head of state said it is time to resort to much stronger sanctions against Russia than had been announced earlier this week. "I like Russian culture, I appreciate the sacrifices of the Russian people in the Second World War, but that does not mean I will agree to a foreign army entering the territory of a sovereign state without a declaration of war," he noted.

Last week, Zeman said that in his opinion that Russia will not start an armed attack against Ukraine. In an interview with daily Mlada Fronta DNES, he said that intelligence given by the US about the alleged Russian invasion is just another blunder. He also said that the sanctions against Moscow would do more harm to Russians than what Russia would gain from invading Kiev.

“A few days ago, I said that the Russians are not crazy and that they will not attack Ukraine. I admit I was wrong. The irrational decision of the leadership of the Russian Federation will cause significant damage to the Russian state itself,” Zeman said in his address.

“I believe that it is time to resort to much harsher sanctions than were originally planned, and I am referring in particular to the so-called SWIFT sanction, which is an international banking or financial network that would mean the exclusion of the Russian Federation from the payment system. The madman needs to be isolated and we should not defend against him just with words, but with concrete measures,” the president stressed.

“I also believe that the situation will calm down, however, not by a cowardly compromise, but by a measured response against the aggressor. I deeply regret that this is happening, but we must behave like brave people who will not allow aggression out of own own interests,” he added.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220224ei2o00462


Czech Republic This Week - February 25, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 2 月 25 日, 3766 字, (英文)
Confidence in the Czech economy increased further in February, up by 1.6 percentage points (pp) month-on-month to 99.2, shows data published by the Czech Statistics Office. Both components (business and consumer confidence) rose.

The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says it is "highly likely" Russian forces have...
7945 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 21:33 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says it is "highly likely" Russian forces have captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.

A statement from the MoD said: "Russian forces have highly likely captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Workers have reportedly been detained by Russian troops."

In an intelligence update just after 1am, the MoD also said it is "unlikely" Russia achieved its planned objectives for the first day of its military action in Ukraine.

"The Ukrainian Armed Forces have reportedly halted Russia's advance towards Chernihiv," the MoD statement said.

"Fighting probably continues on the outskirts of the city.

"It is unlikely that Russia has achieved its planned Day 1 military objectives. Ukrainian forces have presented fierce resistance across all axes of Russia's advance."

Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, said Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine marks the "beginning of a new era" as she outlined a package of further sanctions on Russia.

Ms von der Leyen said on Twitter: "First, this package includes financial sanctions, targeting 70% of the Russian banking market and key state owned companies, including in defence.

"Second, we target the energy sector, a key economic area which especially benefits the Russian state. Our export ban will hit the oil sector by making it impossible for Russia to upgrade its refineries.

"Third: we ban the sale of aircrafts and equipment to Russian airlines.

"Fourth, we are limiting Russia's access to crucial technology, such as semiconductors or cutting-edge software.

"Finally: visas. Diplomats and related groups and business people will no longer have privileged access to the European Union.

"These events mark the beginning of a new era. Putin is trying to subjugate a friendly European country. He is trying to redraw the map of Europe by force. He must and he will fail."

The Ukrainian foreign minister has said "horrific rocket strikes" have hit Kyiv in an attack he compared to the city's 1941 shelling by Nazi Germany.

"Last time our capital experienced anything like this was in 1941 when it was attacked by Nazi Germany," he tweeted.

"Ukraine defeated that evil and will defeat this one. Stop Putin. Isolate Russia. Severe all ties. Kick Russia out of (everywhere)."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said on Twitter the UK has been "true to our word" that Russia's invasion would result in the "toughest sanctions we have ever imposed".

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Russia's assault on Ukraine is "barbaric, unjustified and shows a callous disregard for human life".

She tweeted: "Solidarity with (Ukrainian foreign minister) @DmytroKuleba and the Ukrainian people.

"Putin's assault on Ukraine is barbaric, unjustified and shows a callous disregard for human life. We will continue to hold Putin to account and remain steadfast in our support. £StandwithUkraine".

Mr Kuleba said in a tweet just before 4am on Friday that "horrific rocket strikes" hit Kyiv in an attack he compared to the city's 1941 shelling by Nazi Germany.

The EU ambassador to the UK has said the sanctions imposed on Russia "is a show of strength" from other nations.

Joao Vale de Almeida told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme the package of sanctions are "robust, massive and unprecedented".

He said: "I think equally important is the message that we are sending out. The first one is solidarity with Ukrainian people and Ukrainian leaders, who are suffering right now.

"The second one is condemnation, clear condemnation of the action of Russia and its leader.

"Thirdly, that unity of the West, unity of those that share the same values, not only inside the European Union, but with the United Kingdom, with the US, with Canada, with Japan, Australia and beyond.

"This is a show of strength on our side."

The EU ambassador to the UK has said the sanctions on Russia will have a "huge impact".

Joao Vale de Almeida told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme they will "touch the heart" of the country's economy.

He added: "The measures we are taking today will have a huge impact on Russia, it impacts 70% of the banking system.

"It touched the heart of the state-owned companies that financed the war effort."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said it is believed Russia intends to invade the whole of Ukraine.

Asked if it is his view the Russians are intent on taking Kyiv and removing Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky from power, he told Sky News: "It's definitely our view that the Russians intend to invade the whole of Ukraine."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he would expect Russian President Vladimir Putin to be "held to account" if he committed a war crime.

He told Sky News: "If President Putin commits a war crime, then, just as I do if I were to commit a war crime, I should expect to be held to account."

Asked if Mr Putin's actions already constituted a war crime, he said: "I'm not, I'm afraid, an international lawyer.

"I couldn't tell you the difference between breaking international law insofar as directing your forces to invade another country, versus a war crime - eg. things like genocide, and indeed, you know, torture, etc.

"I wouldn't want to speculate the differences. What I would say is he's clearly broken international law, he's occupying or trying to occupy a sovereign country who made one mistake in his eyes. Their mistake in his eyes was not to choose the Kremlin as a way for their future. And that's all they have done."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said "it doesn't matter how much effort we made" to prevent an invasion of Ukraine because Vladimir Putin "has been set on this for many, many months and certainly over a year".

He told Sky News: "I wrote an article in January that President Putin was beyond this type of persuasion. President Putin, I said and got criticised at the time, there was a whiff of Munich about President Putin.

"It wasn't the bit about appeasement I was referring to, I was referring that in ... Munich in 1938 Adolf Hitler all along had a plan to invade parts of Europe and all the diplomacy was about a straw man sort of attempt by him to buy time.

"Putin has been set on this for many, many months and certainly over a year, and I think that's why, you know, it doesn't matter how much effort we made - and we all made unbelievable amounts of effort, we saw President Macron go, my Prime Minister regularly spoke to Putin - didn't matter.

"As we're seeing today, it's not about the Donbas, it's not about a minority, it is about a greed to subsume Ukraine into the Russian Federation, or indeed for President Putin to land-grab."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russia had "failed to deliver" on its "day one" objectives.

He told Sky News: "Our assessment as of this morning is that Russia has not taken any of its major objectives, in fact it is behind its hoped-for timetable.

"They've lost over 450 personnel. One of the significant airports they were trying to capture with their elite Spetsnaz has failed to be taken. In fact, the Ukrainians have taken it back.

"So, I think contrary to great Russian claims and indeed President Putin's sort of vision that somehow the Ukrainians would be liberated and would be flocking to his cause - he's got that completely wrong. The Russian army has failed to deliver on day one its main objective."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said he believes Russian President Vladimir Putin's legacy will be "isolation", adding that "diplomacy is absolutely off the table" at this stage.

He told BBC Breakfast: "I think President Putin is slowly but surely building a wall around himself. He will be isolated.

"I think, you know, his legacy is not what he hopes it will be. I think his legacy will be isolation."

He added: "I think at the moment diplomacy is absolutely off the table. We tried. I went to Moscow, Liz Truss went to Moscow, (the) Prime Minister spoke regularly to President Putin and met him on a number of occasions, as did practically every president of, or prime minister of, senior countries in the West.

"So, you know, I'm not sure what more diplomacy would achieve at this very moment in time."

He added: "I think it's important to have a diplomatic link, it's important for us to give messages to the Kremlin direct."

Boris Johnson committed to providing further support to Ukraine after receiving an update from president Volodymyr Zelensky on the "terrible developments" in Kyiv.

A Downing Street statement said: "The Prime Minister spoke to President Zelensky this morning to express his solidarity with Ukraine.

"President Zelensky updated the Prime Minister on the most recent Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes on Ukrainian cities and the terrible developments in Kyiv in the early hours of this morning.

"The Prime Minister assured President Zelensky that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing. He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russia's campaign of violence, and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.

"The Prime Minister committed to provide further UK support to Ukraine in the coming days as the people of Ukraine and the world continue to demonstrate that Putin cannot act with impunity."

President Volodymyr Zelensky said Ukraine demands "effective counteraction" from allies against Russia including further sanctions after talking with Boris Johnson.

The Ukrainian leader tweeted: "Held talks with PM @BorisJohnson. Reported on the course of (Ukraine's) defence and insidious attacks on Kyiv by the aggressor. Today (Ukraine) needs the support of partners more than ever.

"We demand effective counteraction to the Russian Federation. Sanctions must be further strengthened."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said British troops will not be sent to fight "directly" with the Russians.

He told BBC Breakfast: "I said very clearly about a month ago that we are not going to be sending British troops to fight directly with Russian troops.

"We are going to hold the line in Nato. We've always supported Ukraine's application to Nato over the last 15 years, not every country has wanted them to join.

"We've done the next best thing, which is train over 20,000 Ukrainians, provided them with lethal capabilities, which they are using right now.

"But I'm not putting British troops directly to fight Russian troops. That would trigger a European war, because we are a Nato country, and Russia would therefore be attacking Nato."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said he believes "further financial restrictions" against Russia are needed.

Speaking on Good Morning Britain, Sir Keir said he supported the Government's package of sanctions announced on Thursday but called for extra measures.

He said the UK should "break open" shell companies in Britain providing support to Vladimir Putin and target Russia via Swift, an international financial system.

Reacting to news that Russian troops were nearing Kyiv, Sir Keir said the situation was "extremely serious" and Britain should be "absolutely clear" in its stance.

"We have to stand together with our allies, particularly Nato, and it's very important we must stand together as one United Kingdom, and therefore yesterday was significant in Parliament because all political parties spoke with one voice in our support for Ukraine and our support for Nato.

"In relation to the sanctions, I thought what the Government put forward earlier this week was not strong enough. They came forward yesterday with a stronger package and I was able to say that we, the opposition, will support those further sanctions.

"I do want to go further. I think that we do need further financial restrictions, particularly the Swift mechanism. I also think we've got to break open the shell companies we have here in the UK that are providing financial support for Putin."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said political parties across Parliament will "not be divided" in the response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking on ITV's Good Morning Britain, he said Vladimir Putin had "calculated the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs" and said MPs must stand together against him.

"Putin wants to see division among our allies, among our Nato members, and among political parties back here in the United Kingdom, and we are not going to be divided," he said.

But he added that there needs to be a "change" in the way Mr Putin is handled.

"The combined package in response to this, financial measures, sanctions, etc, must not only isolate Russia but must be capable of crippling its ability to function."

"He added: "We are talking about Russia invading a European country here. It's as serious as it gets. We must have an absolutely full response."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russian President Vladimir Putin "won't stop" after invading Ukraine.

He said the decision not to "put British service personnel in direct fighting" was not about "risk", but to avoid triggering a "war across Europe".

"It's not about risk, as much as I care for my personnel. It's not about risk," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

"It's about if we were to directly attack Russian aircraft, we would have a war across Europe."

He added: "I have said continually for a long time, as has Britain, and the Prime Minister has supported this position, that Putin is not rational.

"He is trying to invade Ukraine. He won't stop after he's ... with Ukraine. He will use everything in the Baltic states. He doesn't believe the Baltic states are really countries.

"And we will have to stand up to it. Now, I cannot trigger a European war and I won't trigger a European war. But what I will do is help Ukraine fight every street with every piece of equipment we can get to them, and we will support them, and that is the reality."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said Jeremy Corbyn was wrong about Nato and the party itself has "never wavered" in its support for the alliance.

Asked on Sky News about the former Labour leader's stance on stopping the expansion of Nato, Sir Keir said: "Jeremy Corbyn was wrong about that but the Labour Party's policy never shifted under his leadership and I've been very clear."

Sir Keir added that the "collective failure of the West" in the past response to Vladimir Putin may have emboldened the Russian president but described the party's support for Nato as "unshakeable".

He said: "I do think that the failure, the collective failure, of you know, the West... in relation to action he's taken in the past, so many examples - Georgia, Crimea, Donbas - have given him the sense that as I say the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs.

"We have to be clear that that isn't the case here in relation to Ukraine and that that response package from the rest of the world will be so strong that it will not only isolate Russia but also cripple its ability to function."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Britain has been asked to provide more support to defend Ukrainian airspace.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "So first of all, anti-air is being supplied to the Ukrainians, and has been.

"A number of the Baltic states, the United States provided Stinger missiles, which has brought down clearly a number of Russian aircraft.

"The ability to defend their airspace from (the) ground has been enabled. And (of) course, there is more to do and... we've been asked and a number of other nations for that.

"But... to do a no-fly zone... I would have to put British fighter jets directly against Russian fighter jets. Nato would have to effectively declare war on Russia because that's what you would do."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said if Boris Johnson brought forward tougher sanctions on Russia, they would be voted through Parliament "very, very quickly" with the Labour Party's support.

He also strengthened his appeal for Russia to be banned from international financial system Swift, describing the move as a "now decision" which should be made as soon as possible.

"That is a now decision and the Labour Party would support it in full. We think it should happen now," he told BBC Breakfast.

Sir Keir called for shell companies in the UK supporting Vladimir Putin's regime to be targeted, saying there was "frustration" in Parliament that the Government hasn't "got on with this".

"What I've said to the Prime Minister is whatever criticism I've got for you, not having done it now, do it now. If you bring forward legislation, I said to the Prime Minister on Monday, we the Labour Party will vote for it.

"We could bring this through Parliament very, very quickly because those shell companies are hiding assets that are supporting Putin and we have to get our house in order and there's such a will in Parliament at the moment."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Britain will "work all day" to try to get the Swift international payment system "turned off for Russia".

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Britain wants the Swift system to be turned off for Russia. But unfortunately the Swift system is not in our control - it's not a unilateral decision."

Mr Wallace said the system is used "to move money around", explaining: "When you pay Russia for its gas, it probably goes through the Swift system, for example. It is based in Belgium. It has a number of partners that control it, or nation states."

He added: "We want it switched off. Other countries do not. We only have so many options. We are going to work all day to try and get it (switched off for Russia)."

An urgent question on the military situation in Ukraine will take place in the House of Commons from 11am.

It has been tabled by Conservative MP Peter Bone (Wellingborough).

The House of Lords will be debating Ukraine and Russia from 10am.

The Government has been pressed to give an update on China's position on Ukraine and on missiles "arriving in Serbia ready to destabilise" peace in Bosnia.

As the Commons began a Friday sitting, Conservative MP Sir Bernard Jenkin (Harwich and North Essex) said: "I appreciate there is an urgent question on Ukraine later on, but I wonder if the Government has given any indication about whether they are going to make a statement about our relations with China, given that China has done nothing to condemn the Ukrainian incursion, and whether the Government will also make a statement about what is happening in the Balkans where I understand that missiles are arriving in Serbia ready to destabilise the Dayton Agreement and create a new crisis there."

Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle said he was sure the Government would take Sir Bernard's comments "very seriously".

Sir Lindsay said: "I have been given no notification that anything is forthcoming. What I would say is that we do have the urgent question and I am sure that he may be able to press the minister if he were able to catch my eye."

Conservative MP Peter Bone (Wellingborough) has tabled an urgent question on the latest information about the invasion of Ukraine, due to be answered at 11am Friday.

Defence minister James Heappey is expected to respond to the urgent question granted in the Commons on Ukraine at 11am.

Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries welcomed Uefa's decision to strip St Petersburg of the Champions League final over the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

She said: "I welcome Uefa's decisive action to strip St Petersburg of staging this year's Champions League Final.

"Russia must not be allowed to exploit sporting and cultural events on the world stage to legitimise its unprovoked, premeditated and needless attack against a sovereign democratic state."

Defence minister Baroness Goldie said there is currently no indication Russia intends to "directly target" UK or Nato forces, but they "remain on guard", with cyber attacks expected.

Opening a debate in the House of Lords, Lady Goldie said 1,000 troops are on stand-by to deal with the exodus of people from Ukraine.

She told peers: "It goes without saying that our thoughts and prayers remain with the Ukrainian people, many of whom have family and friends in the UK, and will now find themselves under attack for no reason whatsoever.

"But at the same time we remain on guard. While there is no indication at present that Russia intends to directly target British or Nato forces, we should expect their forces and proxies to launch cyber attacks and misinformation campaigns, seeking opportunities to embarrass the UK or Nato and to undermine our resolve.

"We stand ready to protect our country against any threats, whether conventional or in cyberspace.

"However, I'm afraid there's no disguising the fact that a dark new chapter has opened in our history."

The UK will send further armed forces to Estonia "earlier than planned" to reinforce the Nato ally in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Responding to an Urgent Question, Defence minister James Heappey told the Commons: "In addition to the Royal Tank Regiment battle group that has been in place in Estonia for the last six months, the Royal Welsh battlegroup will be arriving in Estonia earlier than planned to double up our force levels and those doubled-up force levels remain indefinitely.

"They will be augmented by the headquarters of 12 Mechanised Brigade, meaning that the United Kingdom will have an armoured brigade in Estonia reassuring one of our closest Nato allies."

Nato troops must not enter Ukraine because of the "risk of miscalculation" leading to "existential" threat, a minister has said.

Defence minister James Heappey told MPs that the Government would "explore all that we can do to support the Ukrainians themselves over the next few days".

He added: "But we must all in this House be clear that British and Nato troops should not, must not, play an active role in Ukraine.

"We must all be clear what the risk of miscalculation could be and how existential that could very quickly become if people miscalculate and things escalate unnecessarily."

A software engineer and Masters student in Kyiv has said that Ukrainians are "scared, but hopeful and extremely angry" as Russia targets the Ukrainian capital.

Olesia, 22, has been sheltering with friends and family in her home and said she has heard sirens go off four times on February 25.

She told the PA news agency: "We hosted some people, because our house is more reliable, and are hosting family and friends here. We've heard sirens that indicate air alarm, I believe, four times today...

"We have some acquaintances in the part of the city where heavy shelling was coming just now, glad to know they're okay.

"People are scared, but hopeful and extremely angry. We trust our military, we believe we will withstand the attacks, some of my relatives have gone to the territorial defence, I'm considering that too."

She added that she wants the "international public to realise this is a threat to world's safety, not just Ukraine" and for governments across the globe "to ban Russia from Swift and to shelter Ukrainian sky, to provide military and financial help to Ukraine".

Conservative MP Peter Bone asked the minister to update the House on whether the UK and Western allies will institute a no-fly zone on Ukraine.

The MP for Wellingborough said: "We are seeing history repeat itself, as a powerful country, headed by a mad man, is extending its territorial boundaries. First by annexing regions of sovereign countries and then invading those countries. This, of course, is what happened in the 1930s and led to World War."

He added: "The Ukraine ambassador to the United Kingdom has asked for us and our allies to institute a no-fly zone of Ukraine. As the ambassador said, people are dying as we speak.

"This action will be a significant and a real help for the people of Ukraine. Yesterday, when I asked the Prime Minister about this request, he indicated it was not ruled out. Could the minister update the House on this request for help?"

Defence minister James Heappey said a no-fly zone is "somewhat difficult to implement in a hostile airspace against a peer adversary".

He noted eyes must be open to the reality that "in such an event, Nato jets would not possibly, but would most certainly probably, come into a combat situation with Russian jets."

Mr Heappey went on: "The risk of miscalculation and escalation and the triggering of Article 5 could not be understated in those circumstances. In the air domain, the risk of miscalculation is greater because things are happening at Mach 2. And there is no time for political calibration."

Shadow defence secretary John Healey pressed the Government on whether the UK will provide Ukraine with short-range handheld anti-tank missiles.

He said: "On Wednesday, the Prime Minister told the House the UK will be shortly providing a further package of military support to Ukraine. We understand the minister's comments about detail, but has this further military assistance being provided?

"The minister knows he has Labour's full support for this."

Mr Healey said the "UK's short-range handheld anti-tank missiles are working well", adding: "He knows that the Ukrainians need more of these urgently to defend Kiev and their other cities. So, can he confirm that he is willing to go that bit further?"

Mr Healey concluded his remarks by saying: "We've taken peace and security in Europe for granted since the end of the Cold War. We can no longer do that.

"I fear that we will be dealing with the consequences of this Russian invasion now for years to come."

Responding to shadow defence secretary John Healey, Defence minister James Heappey said anti-tank missiles had "already proven to be invaluable" in the conflict in Ukraine.

Mr Heappey said the weapons were "high on our list of things that we are looking to supply", adding: "They are unsubstantiated reports, but nonetheless we are aware of the number of circumstances in which they have been used to defeat Russian armour, and we are therefore very aware of their utility both in open battle during the initial phase of the conflict but also in the urban domain in any resistance or insurgency that might follow."

The Defence minister also shared insight that Russia's invasion had not been as successful as planned.

He said: "Suffice to say, we are pretty certain that in the Kremlin last night there will have been some pretty urgent reflections on the speed of the advance compared to what they anticipated.

"I think that Russian people should be calling President Putin and the kleptocracy that surrounds him out on that, because young Russian men and women are being sacrificed in the name of President Putin's hubris."

A total of 1,000 UK troops are on stand-by to support Ukraine's neighbours with refugee responses, a Defence minister has said.

Labour MP for Pontypridd Alex Davies-Jones asked: "Will the 1,000 UK troops that he has placed on stand-by to help with the humanitarian crisis now be urgently deployed?"

Defence minister James Heappey replied: "Just to be very clear - because I think unless I am almost doing her a dis-service - I might have understood her question to be will the 1,000 troops go into Ukraine as they did into Kabul into the summer to facilitate the egress of Ukrainians.

"I am afraid she will be disappointed. That is just not something that could realistically be done. This is a highly kinetic combat situation and the probability of Nato troops being caught up in combat with Russian armed forces is far too high and would lead to huge escalation.

"The 1,000 troops that are on stand-by are there to support Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Poland with the expected humanitarian challenges that they will face as people make their way out of Ukraine."

Conservative MP Dr Luke Evans (Bosworth) asked: "What sanctions and steps will we take to make sure that Belarus feel the pain for what they are doing?"

Mr Heappey replied: "The Belarusian ambassador has been summoned to the Foreign Office today to have the views of Her Majesty's Government shared with them. Belarus has also been included in the sanctions regime."

Downing Street said "nothing is off the table" in support of Ukraine.

A spokesman for Boris Johnson said: "We remain firmly behind Ukraine and will continue to support them."

The spokesman said he could not go into detail over the support being provided but the UK had "talked about protective equipment, helmets, body armour, as well as some of the defensive lethal aid that we've provided in terms of anti-tank weaponry".

The UK Government is working "incredibly closely" with Ukraine's neighbours to support those fleeing the country, No 10 said.

"You'll be aware that we deployed an extra 350 troops to Poland a fortnight ago to help exactly with that task," a spokesman for Boris Johnson said and he pointed towards the Home Secretary's announcement on visa extensions.

Boris Johnson is expected to raise the prospect of banning Russia from the Swift payment system with allies again on Friday, Downing Street said.

A spokesman for the Prime Minister was asked whether the UK would be pushing for the sanction and he said: "You'll have heard the Prime Minister's comments in the House on this yesterday, we will continue to work with allies to try and cut Russia off from Swift.

"You'll be aware that the PM raised this in his call with G7 leaders yesterday, I expect he will raise it at the Nato leaders meeting again today."

The spokesman would not be drawn on which countries were holding out on the proposal but he said: "We've set out why we want to ensure that we can do this, as the Prime Minister said yesterday to ensure that we send a clear message to Vladimir Putin that his efforts will not succeed and to ensure that we can deal a severe blow to the Russian economy."

"As I say, the Prime Minister will raise it again later today," he added.

Conservative MP Nickie Aiken (Cities of London and Westminster) wondered if President Vladimir Putin may listen to the Russian mothers of the soldiers who are now undertaking his aggression.

She said: "As I said goodbye to my own children this morning and wish them a good day in school, my thoughts turned to the mums in Ukraine who now fear for the future of their own children.

"And, as we saw in the newspaper today, and I was taken by the photos in the Daily Mail of children, primary school children taking shelter in in bomb shelters, if President Putin has failed to listen to the major international diplomatic efforts, if he has failed to listen to Nato, to the EU, and the Ukrainian people, does my right honourable friend think he may listen to the Russian mothers of the soldiers who are now undertaking his aggression?"

Defence minister James Heappey said: "I hope so, but I fear that he's not the sort of man that does and that's why we need to do everything we can to empower those people with all the information we can get them about the complete disregard that President Putin has for the lives of their boys and girls."

Mr Heappey said he was "struck" by reports of the Russian use of mobile crematorium to follow their front lines as whilst colleagues back from Iraq and Afghanistan were buried in flag-draped coffins, "Putin just sends around a mobile crematorium and burns them".

This is a "social media rage war", defence minister James Heappey has said.

Mr Heappey's comments came as Labour former minister Dame Diana Johnson pressed the minister on whether the Government will be recording the use of sexual violence in warfare.

She said: "I wanted to just press the minister a little bit more on war crimes. I'm very pleased to hear that they are being recorded and monitored.

"I wondered, in particular, if the minister could just say something about the use of sexual violence in warfare, and how his Government will be recording that, and then what exactly will happen next, just so I understand what the process will be?"

Mr Heappey replied: "It's no consolation to the people of Ukraine but within the British armed forces we've given a huge amount of thought to how we must operate in future conflict very mindful of women, peace and security, and the challenges that far too many women and children face in conflict broadly pursued between men.

"I'm not sure, I'm afraid, that there is that much regard for that being given by the Russians. But I would come back to it if I have any information to the contrary."

The minister insisted war crimes will be monitored "as best we can", adding: "As she's seeing from all of the open source intelligence that's available on social media, this is a very different type of war to even Gulf War One and Two. This is a social media rage war. And these outrages are often there."

Boris Johnson will host the leaders of the V4 countries in London next month to discuss the Ukraine crisis.

No 10 said the Prime Minister will hold a meeting with the leaders of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia on March 8 to "discuss the situation in Ukraine and the UK's support for security in the region".

More sanctions are needed to hit Russia, including targeting Vladimir Putin's inner circle, Boris Johnson has agreed with the leaders of the Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF).

The JEF is a UK-led group comprising Iceland, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Latvia and the UK which works together to deliver forces at high readiness, across a range of roles.

A No 10 spokesman said the Prime Minister spoke to the leaders on Friday.

The spokesman said: "He reiterated that this was a defining moment in European history, with global implications. The Prime Minister said he believed the Ukrainian people would continue to fight and had done so gallantly in the recent hours and days.

"The leaders agreed that more sanctions were needed, including focusing on President Putin's inner circle, building on the measures that had already been agreed."

Mr Johnson said more support must be given to Ukraine "as a matter of the greatest urgency".

Maxim Yermalovich, the ambassador to the UK from Russia-ally Belarus, has arrived at the Foreign Office after being summoned over the Ukrainian invasion.

Russia has said the Defence Secretary could have used "similar adjectives" to describe Boris Johnson when he told troops that Vladimir Putin had gone "full tonto".

Ben Wallace made the unguarded comments while chatting to serving military personnel earlier this week.

Maria Zakharova, Russia's foreign affairs ministry spokesperson, was asked about the comments by Sky News at a press briefing on Friday.

According to the translation on Sky News she said it was "surprising that such evaluations are given by (the) defence minister of the UK regarding authorities of a different state".

She said that "I think he could have thought up of similar adjectives... thinking of (the) British Prime Minister, if we talk about personal judgment."

The bulk of Russian forces advancing on Kyiv remain "more than 50km from the centre of the city", the Ministry of Defence (MoD) has said.

In an intelligence update posted about 3.30pm, the MoD said the Russian armoured forces had "opened a new route of advance towards Kyiv having failed to capture Chernihiv".

The report said there were "reports of sporadic clashes in the northern suburbs of Kyiv, which we continue to monitor" but that "the bulk of Russian forces advancing on Kyiv remain more than 50km from the centre of the city".

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly urged Belarus to "stop supporting Russia's illegal and unprovoked" offensive in Ukraine after summoning Minsk's ambassador.

A Foreign Office statement added: "Belarus needs to desist from its support to Russia and respect Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty in line with its international obligations."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner said President Putin's actions in attacking Ukraine were "disgraceful".

Speaking in Newcastle, she said: "It is absolutely heartbreaking to see the footage out of Ukraine, and the responsibility and the death and the bloodshed lies with Putin.

"He shouldn't have done this. He knows that he's broken international law.

"This is devastating to see what's happened here and the hand of history will not be kind to Putin and his regime for what they've done.

"It is really devastating to see what's happening.

"All of my thoughts are with the people of Ukraine and people who are watching that, and people in Russia who have strong links to family in Ukraine who are seeing this.

"It's disgraceful what Putin has done and he will be judged by his actions by the international community."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner welcomed the Prime Minister's vow to help Ukrainian refugees.

Speaking in Newcastle, she said: "We should be working with our international allies and partners to support every Ukrainian who needs that support at the moment.

"They are in need, and we should be responding to that need."

She said she was proud to be British and to see the support shown for Ukrainians.

Ms Rayner said: "To see those pictures and to hear that statement for those soldiers that wouldn't give up when they were told to give up, 13 of them, and they all were killed, to see that and to see the defiance against that regime who was trying to use bloodshed to bring people to their knees.

"I'm incredibly proud of the Ukrainians and I'm proud I'm proud of what our country is doing to support their freedom and their right to exist.

Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg has said "the world will hold Russia and Belarus accountable for their actions".

Addressing a press briefing following a virtual meeting of Nato leaders, Mr Stoltenberg said: "We call on Russia to stop this senseless war immediately."

He warned that "the Kremlin's objectives are not limited to Ukraine" and that "we are facing a new normal in European security where Russia openly contests the European security order and uses force to pursue its objectives".

He said: "President Putin's decision to pursue his aggression against Ukraine is a terrible strategic mistake."

Mr Stoltenberg added that although significant sanctions had already been announced "we must stand ready to do more, even if it means we have to pay a price, because we are in this for the long haul".

The secretary-general said Nato had deployed thousands more troops to the eastern part of the alliance, and will "do what it takes to protect and defend every ally and every inch of Nato territory".

Britain's chief of defence intelligence has said that Russian forces are seeking to encircle the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, with a view to imposing a pro-Moscow regime.

Lieutenant General Sir Jim Hockenhull said the Ukrainian military was continuing to offer "strong resistance" in the face of the Russian advance.

"Russian forces continue to advance on two axes towards Kyiv.

"Their objective is to encircle the capital to secure control of the population and change the regime," he told reporters.

"Overnight Russian launched a concerted series of strikes on targets Kyiv. Ukrainian armed forces continue to offer strong resistance focusing on the defence of key cities throughout Ukraine."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng met with BP's chief executive Bernard Looney on Friday to discuss the company's 20% stake in Russia's state-backed oil giant Rosneft.

Mr Looney also sits on the Rosneft board, along with former BP boss Bob Dudley.

Rosneft's chief executive Igor Sechin - a close ally of Vladimir Putin - is on the US sanctions list.

A Whitehall source told the PA news agency: "BP left the meeting with no doubt about the strength of the Business Secretary's concern about their commercial interests in Russia."

Boris Johnson has told Nato leaders that "immediate action" must be taken to ban Russia from the Swift payment platform to "inflict maximum pain" on Vladimir Putin.

The Prime Minister attended a virtual meeting of the leaders on Friday afternoon and warned Nato leaders that Mr Putin was "engaging in a revanchist mission to overturn post-Cold War order", according to a No 10 spokesperson.

The spokesperson said the PM had "urged leaders to take immediate action against Swift to inflict maximum pain on President Putin and his regime"

Mr Johnson told the leaders "the UK would introduce sanctions against President Putin and foreign minister Sergei Lavrov imminently, on top of the sanctions package the UK announced yesterday", bringing the Government in line with measures announced by the EU.

The spokesperson said: "He warned the group that the Russian president's ambitions might not stop there and that this was a Euro-Atlantic crisis with global consequences."

No 10 said Boris Johnson told Nato leaders that the UK armed forces "stood ready for any further request" for further military support.

A Downing Street spokesperson said the Prime Minister told a meeting of Nato leaders on Friday "that the world must make certain President Putin would fail in this act of aggression".

The spokesperson said the PM told the meeting "Ukraine was showing strong resistance, he added that there could no normalisation of relations with Russia after this act".

"The Prime Minister outlined details of the UK's new offer to Nato across its eastern flank. The UK stood ready for any further request from Nato's Supreme Allied Commander Europe to go further with military support to Nato from UK Armed Forces, he said," according to the spokesperson.

"Nato should have primacy in the future of European security and it was vital that it was strengthened now, the Prime Minister added."

Western allies fear Russia could use thermobaric weapons against Ukrainian forces if they continue to hold up their advance.

Western officials believe Russian forces missed most of their day one objectives of the invasion and could resort to indiscriminate firing to make up ground.

One official said this could include thermobaric weapons which Russia is known to have in its armoury and has used in past conflicts - although they have not been seen so far on the battlefield in Ukraine.

"My fear would be that if they don't meet their timescale and objectives they would be indiscriminate in their use of violence," the official said.

Ireland's deputy premier Leo Varadkar has branded Vladimir Putin the "Hitler of the 21st century".

The Tanaiste acknowledged that sanctions such as the potential banning of Russia from the Swift payment network would have economic implications for Ireland.

But he said those consequences needed to be accepted given the situation in Ukraine.

"I don't think we're in that space where we can be concerned about the economic impact on Ireland when a democratic country in the European Union is being invaded and the attempt is being made to overthrow a democratic government there," he told RTE Radio One.

Mr Varadkar added: "The last time I can think of that happening in Europe is in the 1930s and I think we should see this conflict in that context.

"We knew that Putin was a bad man, we've known that for a long time now, but we didn't think that he would be the Hitler of the 21st century and I think he's putting himself into that space."

Russian ambassador to Ireland Yuri Filatov has claimed his country's invasion of Ukraine is a "humanitarian intervention".

Mr Filatov said there was no proof that Russian forces had targeted civilians in the assault.

He claimed Ukraine had used engagement in diplomacy in recent times as a cover for preparing an offensive on the Donbas region of the country.

"It's not our choice, the military option is not our choice," he told RTE.

He added: "There was no other choice to end the suffering of Donbas through real humanitarian intervention - that's what this special operation is exactly about.

"The only aim of the operation is to neutralise the ability of the Ukrainian military to inflict any more suffering on Donbas. Ukrainians should not be afraid of that."

His comments come amid increasing calls from opposition parties in Ireland to expel Mr Filatov from the country.

Asked why he should be allowed to stay, the ambassador said: "You might ask your Government, it's up to them. I can leave any time."

The Transport Secretary said he has extended a UK flight ban on Russian aircraft to include private jets.

The Government previously announced it was banning Russia's flag carrier Aeroflot from landing in the UK.

Grant Shapps tweeted: "Putin's actions are unlawful and anyone benefitting from Russia's aggression in Ukraine is not welcome here. I've strengthened our ban in the UK so that no Russian private jet can fly in UK airspace, or touchdown - effective immediately."

Boris Johnson has addressed a message directly to the people of Russia, saying in Russian: "I do not believe this war is in your name."

In a video posted on social media, the Prime Minister also spoke Ukrainian after urging an end to the conflict "because the world needs a free and sovereign Ukraine".

He said: "The scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy.

"Brave young soldiers and innocent civilians are being cut down, tanks are rumbling through towns and cities, missiles raining indiscriminately from the skies.

"It's a generation or more since we witnessed such bloodshed in Europe. We hoped we would never have to see such sights again."

Mr Johnson continued: "The people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the face of this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.

"We salute the fierce bravery and patriotism of your government, your military and your people."

The Prime Minister went on to say: "Like Ukraine, Russia's poets and artists and authors have shaped our culture and Russia's soldiers fought so bravely with us in the struggle against fascism.

"But Putin's actions are leading to complete isolation for Russia, shunned by the rest of the international community, hit by immense economic sanctions and facing a needless and bloody war that is already costing countless lives, from innocent Ukrainians to your Russian soldiers who will never see their families again."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220225ei2p000gp


Czech Republic: Government considers additional sanctions against Russia - Rakusan
330 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Rakusan doesn't elaborate, but mood is towards strictest sanctions possible

Government has set aside CZK 1.5bn to accommodate refugees

Senate wants Russia thrown out of international organisations

The Czech government currently considers additional sanctions against Russia, beyond where the EU is willing to go, interior minister and deputy PM Vit Rakusan (STAN) told the Senate. He didn't elaborate further, but the Czech government is apparently ready to sanction Russian institutions even if the EU doesn't apply enough restrictions. Reportedly, Germany and Italy and holding back on sanctions, like denying Russia access to SWIFT, which is why some Eastern European members are discussing their own options.

Rakusan added that the government had already set aside CZK 1.5bn for refugee assistance and CZK 300mn for humanitarian aid, and the Czech Republic is ready to accept 5,000 people from Ukraine in the first refugee wave that is expected. In addition, defence minister Jana Cernochova (ODS) is going to propose sending a Czech force to NATO's external borders, likely in Slovakia or Romania. As we expected, she means a battalion-sized force of 580 soldiers.

The Czech Senate adopted a declaration that Russia should be taken out of all international organisations, through a unanimous vote. It remains unclear how this can be ever implemented, but at least there hasn't been any fracture among parties, both in government and in opposition. Even the SPD, a nationalist populist party with friendly positions towards Russia, currently prefers to remain silent.

As far as immediate consequences are concerned, there are reported mass cash withdrawals from Sberbank's Czech subsidiary. The Russian-owned bank doesn't have a big weight in the Czech bank sector, as it accounts for only 1.1% of the sector's assets and provides 1% of total loans, so even if the subsidiary experiences liquidity issues, the CNB can easily guarantee the bank's solvency, if needed.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220228ei2p0000p


Live updates: Zelenskyy declines US offer to evacuate Kyiv
By The Associated Press
9102 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 04:04 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The latest on the Russia-Ukraine crisis[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-attack-a05e7c4563ac94b963134bba83187d46] :

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was asked to evacuate Kyiv at the behest of the U.S. government but turned down the offer.

Zelenskyy said in response: “The fight is here; I need ammunition, not a ride,” according to a senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of the conversation, who described Zelenskyy as upbeat.

Invading Russian forces closed in on Ukraine’s capital on Saturday, in an apparent encircling movement after a barrage of airstrikes on cities and military bases around the country.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — A second Russian Ilyushin Il-76 military transport plane was shot down near Bila Tserkva, 50 miles (85 kilometers) south of Kyiv, according to two American officials with direct knowledge of conditions on the ground in Ukraine.

On Friday, Ukraine’s military said it had shot down a Russian military transport plane with paratroopers on board.

According to a statement from the military’s General Staff, the first Il-76 heavy transport plane was shot down near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles south of Kyiv. The Russian military has not commented on either incident so far, and the reports could not be immediately verified.

___

TOKYO — Japanese Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi says he spoke with his U.S. counterpart, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, on the phone Saturday and they agreed they must respond to Russia's invasion of Ukraine properly to prevent it from becoming “a wrong lesson” because of its potential influence in Asia and the Indo-Pacific region.

Hayashi declined to comment if Japan plans to join the United States, Britain and the European Union in imposing sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Hayashi said Japan will stay in close touch with other Group of Seven members and other international leaders while watching the developments.

Hayashi told reporters that he and Blinken reaffirmed their commitment to work closely with the rest of international society and they agreed it is necessary to reject Russia's unilateral act to change the status quo.

___

UNITED NATIONS—Russia has vetoed a U.N. Security Council resolution demanding that Moscow stop its attack on Ukraine and withdraw all troops.

Friday’s vote was 11-1, with China, India and the United Arab Emirates abstaining. It showed significant but not total opposition to Russia’s invasion of its smaller, militarily weaker neighbor.

The United States and other supporters knew the resolution wouldn’t pass but argued it would highlight Russia’s international isolation. The resolution’s failure paves the way for backers to call for a swift vote on a similar measure in the U.N. General Assembly. There are no vetoes in the 193-member assembly. There’s no timetable as yet for a potential Assembly vote.

___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria on Friday introduced a ban on the entry of Russian aircraft into the country’s airspace.

All aircraft licensed by the Russian Federation may not enter the sovereign airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the airspace over its territorial waters, the government announced. The ban is effective starting Saturday.

The government said it took the action in connection with the escalation of the military conflict and in solidarity with Ukraine.

___

SYDNEY—Australia is imposing sanctions against all 339 members of the Russian parliament and is considering sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin as well as his Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne also announced on Saturday sanctions against eight Russian oligarchs close to Putin. Australia was also taking steps to imposed sanctions on key figures in the Belarusian government who had aided the Ukraine invasion.

Payne said she was seeking advice from her department on following western allies’ example in sanctioning Putin.

“It is an exceptional step to sanction leaders, but this is an exceptional situation,” Payne said.

___

WASHINGTON—Ukraine’s top diplomatic envoy in the U.S. is urging countries to sever diplomatic relations with Russia over its invasion of their country.

Ambassador Oksana Markarova’s request came in an emergency meeting Friday at the Washington-based Organization of American States, whose members were debating a resolution condemning the military attack ordered by President Vladimir Putin.

“It’s hard to imagine that something like this happens in the center of Europe in the 21st Century,” an emotional Markarova said during the meeting. She urged delegates to supply Ukraine with defensive weapons and follow the lead of the Federated States of Micronesia, a Pacific island nation that earlier Friday broke all ties with Russia.

Alexander Kim, a senior diplomat at Russia’s embassy in Washington, towed closely to the Kremlin’s unsubstantiated claim that the military incursion was an attempt to “de-Nazify” a government that had committed scores of atrocities against civilians.

“We are open to diplomacy,” Kim told representatives of more than 30 Latin American governments, many of whom have pursued closer relations with Moscow in recent years. “However, diplomacy presumes an ability to negotiate. It is not a tool for blackmailing and imposing the decision of Washington and its satellite states.”

___

LONDON—British Prime Minister Boris Johnson says he is in “close contact” with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, as he hailed “the fierce bravery and patriotism” of Ukraine’s government and people.

In a recorded message, Johnson said “the scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy,” calling it bloodshed Europe has not seen in a generation or more.

He said “the people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the face of this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.”

Johnson also urged Russians to oppose the invasion, which he called “a tragedy for Russia” as well as for Ukraine.

Speaking in Russian, he said: “I do not believe this war is in your name.”

Britain has imposed asset freezes and other sanctions on scores of Russian companies and several oligarchs, and has joined the U.S., Canada and the European Union in slapping sanctions on President Vladimir Putin and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary—Hungary’s foreign minister has offered Budapest as a possible location for negotiations between the leaders of Russia and Ukraine as Russia’s invasion intensifies.

“Budapest can serve as a safe venue for both the Russian and Ukrainian negotiation delegations,” Peter Szijjarto said in a video on Facebook late Friday, adding that he had made the proposal to both Russia’s and Ukraine’s governments, neither of which dismissed it.

“I sincerely hope that an agreement can be reached within a few hours or days to start discussions; the sooner the talks begin, the sooner there will be peace and the fewer people will have to die in the war,” Szijjarto said.

___

BRUSSELS—With a military intervention in Ukraine off the table, countries around the world are looking to heap more financial punishment on Moscow.

The United States, Britain and European Union said Friday they will move to sanction Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

The EU’s unanimous decision, part of a broader sanctions package, indicated that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki indicated the U.S. sanctions will include a travel ban.

___

TORONTO—Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is announcing sanctions on Russian Vladimir Putin, his chief of staff and foreign minister Sergey Lavrov.

Trudeau also says Canada supports the removal of Russia from the SWIFT banking system.

The prime minister is also announcing sanctions against Belarus.

Meanwhile, Canada’s largest province is pulling Russian products from shelves from government owned liquor stores.

Ontario Finance Minister Peter Bethlenfalvy says the province joins Canada’s allies in condemning the Russian government’s act of aggression against the Ukrainian people, and will direct the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to withdraw all products produced in Russia from store shelves.

The French-speaking province of Quebec is also considering banning Russian liquor.

___

UNITED NATIONS—The U.N. plans to seek over $1 billion in donations for humanitarian relief in Ukraine over the next three months, the world body’s humanitarian chief said Friday.

Martin Griffiths said at a news briefing that the exact amount of the appeal is still being decided but will be “well north of $1 billion.”

The U.N. announced Thursday that it was immediately allocating $20 million to expand its humanitarian operations in Ukraine. Even before Russia’s attack this week, the world body estimated about 3 million people were in need of aid after years of fighting between Russian-backed separatists and the Ukrainian government in the country’s east.

Now, “the scale of need in these very, very extraordinary circumstances is going to be of the highest,” Griffiths said.

The U.N. issues multiple appeals each year for international donors, mainly governments, to finance humanitarian efforts in trouble spots around the world. Last month, it requested more than $5 billion for Afghanistan, the largest-ever appeal tied to a single country.

___

RICHMOND, Va.—Criminal ransomware operators are posting messages on the dark web pledging to launch retaliatory cyberattacks if Russia is attacked.

The ransomware group Conti, which experts say has ties to Russia, said in a note on its dark web site Friday that it would “use all our possible resources to strike back at the critical infrastructures of an enemy.”

Ransomware gangs are mostly Russian-speaking and operate with near impunity out of Russia and allied countries.

In a follow up note, the Conti group stressed it was not an ally of any government and said: “we condemn the ongoing war.”

Major ransomware attacks in the last year, including against the biggest U.S. fuel pipeline, have underscored how gangs of extortionist hackers can disrupt the economy and put lives and livelihoods at risk. The U.S. government has been warning critical infrastructure entities to prepare for possible attacks and to make sure their defenses are up to date.

Non-state hackers have promised to be active in both sides of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The online collective Anonymous recently pledged to conduct cyberattacks to support Ukraine.

___

BERLIN—The German government says it plans to deploy troops and the Patriot anti-missile system to Slovakia as part of NATO plans to strengthen the alliance’s eastern flank.

The Defense Ministry said Friday that it plans to send an infantry company as part of a combat troop battalion. And it said that Germany also will contribute the Patriot system.

The ministry stressed that the so-called “enhanced vigilance activity battlegroup” has a purely defensive function.

Slovakia is a NATO and European Union member that borders Ukraine. Germany already is beefing up its troop contingent in Lithuania, another nation on NATO’s eastern flank.

___

KYIV, Ukraine--Russian troops are bearing down on Ukraine’s capital of Kyiv.

Mayor Vitaly Klitschko says five explosions hit an area near a major power plant on the city’s eastern outskirts. There was no information on the cause of the blasts, which Klitschko said occurred at intervals of several minutes. No electricity outages were immediately reported.

The invasion of a democratic country has fueled fears of wider war in Europe and triggered worldwide efforts to make Russia stop.

___

BELGRADE, Serbia—Serbia defied calls from the European Union and the U.S. to join sanctions against Russia, although its autocratic president said that Moscow’s assault against Ukraine is against the international law.

With the move, Serbia remains a rare European state together with Belarus not to join Western sanctions introduced against Moscow for its invasion of a sovereign European state.

“Serbia respects the norms of the international law,” President Aleksandar Vucic said. “But Serbia also understands its own interests.”

Vucic said that Serbia regards the violation of Ukraine’s territorial integrity as “very wrong,” but added it won’t join international sanctions against Russia.

Despite formally seeking EU membership, Serbia has been strengthening ties with its traditional Slavic ally Russia. Moscow has been supplying Serbia’s armed forces with weapons, leading to more tensions in the Balkans which went through a bloody civil war in the 1990s.

___

ROME—Thousands of Romans and Ukrainians who live in the Italian capital marched side-by-side to the Colosseum to denounce Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

They took up the call by Rome’s mayor to clutch lit candles on Friday evening and walk from the square atop the Capitoline Hill to the ancient arena, a few minutes’ stroll away.

Several of the Ukrainians among the marchers wept. They put a hand over their heart while singing the Ukrainian anthem. Others held Ukrainian flags or protest signs or shouted, “hands off our country” or voiced other denunciations of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Among the marchers was Ruslan Yakubovskyy, a Ukrainian.

“I live here, I bought a home here, my family is here, but I am thinking about going back to Ukraine to fight and lend a helping hand,″ he said. “The situation is so difficult that either it’s that the rest of the world is pretending not to see or it doesn’t want to see it at all."

City Hall and the Colosseum were illuminated in the colors of the Ukrainian flag, yellow and blue.

___

WARSAW, Poland - Presidents of NATO’s eastern flank member states gathered Friday in Warsaw voiced their support for tough sanctions on Russia and its leaders for the invasion of Ukraine.

Nine presidents of the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine held a security summit with the participation of European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. They also remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

“There cannot be any ‘business as usual’ in this situation in relations with Russia because that would have been a betrayal of the principles of the honest, open world,” Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, said after the talks that he had hosted.

___

LONDON — Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Britain would introduce sanctions against Russian leader Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to inflict maximum punishment for invading Ukraine, his Downing Street office said Friday.

Johnson’s pledge comes as the European Union approved an asset freeze on Putin and Lavrov. The comments from Johnson suggest that Western powers are acting in concert on unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor.

In comments to NATO leaders, the UK leader pressed again for immediate action to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions. European nations have faced criticism for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network in offering sanctions on Thursday.

Johnson said “the world must make certain President Putin would fail in this act of aggression.”

___

TIRANA, Albania—Albania's prime minister on Friday said the tiny Western Balkan country would welcome Ukrainian refugees.

Speaking after a NATO summit Prime Minister Edi Rama said that like all the other NATO member countries, Albania would be ready to welcome a few thousand Ukrainians leaving their country due to the Russian invasion.

Rama did not give any concrete number.

Albania, a NATO member since 2009, has followed the United States and European Union on its stand denouncing Russian invasion.

Albania was the first to offer shelter and then house some 2,400 Afghan evacuees after the Taliban came to power in August last year. Some 300 have already left, mainly for the United States.

___

BRUSSELS — NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Friday that U.S. President Joe Biden and his counterparts have agreed to send parts of the organization’s response force to help protect allies in the east over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking after chairing a NATO meeting, Stoltenberg said the leaders decided to send parts of the NATO Response Force and elements of a quickly deployed spearhead unit. He did not say how many troops would be deployed, but confirmed that the move would involve land, sea and air power.

The NRF can number up to 40,000 troops, but Stoltenberg said that NATO would not be deploying the entire force. Parts of a force known in NATO jargon as the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF), which is currently led by France, will also be sent.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has released a video of himself and his senior aides in Kyiv to reassure the nation as Russian troops were closing in on the capital.

In the video Zelenskyy recorded in the street outside the presidential office, he said he and his top officials are staying in the capital.

“Our troops are here, citizens are here,” Zelenskyy said, adding that “All of us are here protecting our independence of our country. And it will continue to be this way. Glory to our defenders, Glory to Ukraine, Glory to Heroes.”

Russian troops bore down on Ukraine’s capital Friday, with gunfire and explosions resonating ever closer to the government quarter.

In the fog of war, it was unclear how much of Ukraine remains under Ukrainian control and how much or little Russian forces have seized. The Kremlin accepted Kyiv’s offer to hold talks, but it appeared to be an effort to squeeze concessions out of Ukraine’s embattled president instead of a gesture toward a diplomatic solution.

___

ROME — Premier Mario Draghi’s Cabinet on Friday formally approved previously announced participation by 250 Italian military forces and 139 land vehicles in NATO’s enhanced Forward Presence in Latvia, as well as air policing by some 12 aircraft currently deployed in Romania and patrols by an intelligence-gathering aircraft and a refueling aircraft as part of NATO’s shoring up of its eastern flank allies in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The government also approved deployment of 235 military forces aboard two or three naval vessels, as well as an aircraft as part of surveillance and intelligence-gathering in the eastern Mediterranean and the Black Sea.

Also getting the government’s formal OK was the mobilization of 1,350 military personnel, involving 77 land vehicles and two naval vessels – with the second one to be deployed in the second half of the year -- as well as five aircraft as part of the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force.

Approval was granted for that force to be increased to as many as 1,970 military personnel. The same Cabinet session also granted authorization to provide at no cost non-lethal military equipment to Ukraine, including protective devices for soldiers and de-mining equipment

___

BRUSSELS — Latvia’s foreign minister says the European Union has agreed to freeze the assets of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov along with other sanctions over the invasion of Ukraine.

The move indicates that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

Foreign Minister Edgard Rinkevics announced the EU decision Friday in a tweet.

He said another package of sanctions is to be prepared by the EU.

___

PARIS — The leader of the Belarus opposition in exile says the European Union should slap tougher sanctions on Belarus for its role in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Sviatlana Tiskhanouskaya says Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko, a close ally of Russia, has turned her country into “an aggressor” in Ukraine.

She told The Associated Press on Friday that Belarus has become “an aircraft carrier” for the Russian military, carrying troops to Ukraine, re-fueling its war machine and housing soldiers of the invading force.

The United States, the EU, Britain and Canada last year imposed sanctions on Belarusian officials, businesses and several sectors of the economy and the financial system following a brutal crackdown on Lukashenko’s opponents. They were protesting his fraudulent re-election for a sixth term.

French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday called the Belarus government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine and said it will also be targeted with sanctions.

___

WASHINGTON — Russian state broadcaster RT says it was subjected to “massive” denial-of-service attacks after the online collective Anonymous pledged to carry out cyberattacks in support of Ukraine, which is being invaded by Russian forces.

RT said in a statement that the attacks on its websites came from about 100 million devices, mostly based in the U.S. But the broadcaster said it was resolving the issues and its website appeared to be functioning normally Friday.

Anonymous announced a day earlier on Twitter that it is “officially in cyber war against the Russian government” and noted later that the Russian Ministry of Defense website was down.

But it is difficult to attribute a cyberattack to Anonymous or even confirm that someone is a member of a collective that is open to anyone who claims to use hacking for a particular cause.

___

GIBRALTAR — Punitive measures against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine have spread to a tiny speck of territory on Spain’s southern tip, with Gibraltar’s government taking steps against Russia Today television.

Gibraltar on Friday announced it was suspending the Russian state broadcaster for spreading “disinformation.” It also revoked a visa waiver program for Russian citizens.

The office for Chief Minister Fabian Picardo described Russia Today as a “mouthpiece for the Kremlin” that “will become a dangerous source of disinformation that Gibraltar cannot accept on its networks.”

___

LONDON — Britain’s Ministry of Defense says the bulk of Russian forces advancing on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv are more than 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the center of the city.

The ministry said it continues to monitor “sporadic clashes’’ between Russian and Ukrainian forces in the northern suburbs of the capital.

The intelligence update, delivered via Twitter, also said that armored units were forced to open a new route toward Kyiv after failing to capture Chernihiv, a city northeast of the capital near the Belarusian border.

___

BRUSSELS — Europe’s foremost human rights organization has suspended Russia because of its invasion of Ukraine, though it remains a member.

The 47-nation Council of Europe announced Friday that Russia was suspended with “immediate effect” from the Committee of Ministers and the parliamentary assembly “as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed attack on Ukraine.”

The Strasbourg-based organization said Russia remained a member and continued to be bound to the relevant human rights conventions.

“Suspension is not a final measure but a temporary one, leaving channels of communication open,” a statement said.

___

VIENNA — The International Atomic Energy Agency says the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant reported higher-than-usual radiation levels after being taken over by Russian forces invading Ukraine.

But it said Friday that current radiation levels do not pose a threat to the public.

Ukraine’s regulatory authority previously said that increased radiation levels may be due to military vehicles stirring up soil that remains contaminated from the accident in 1986, still known as the worst nuclear disaster in history.

But the measures are “within the operational range measured in the Exclusion Zone since it was established,” according to the IAEA.

The Chernobyl Exclusion Zone is a 2,600-square-kilometer (1,000-square-mile) area of forest lying between the Belarus-Ukraine border and the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.

Russian forces took control over the site Thursday after a fierce battle with Ukrainian national guards protecting the plant.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says prospects for possible peace talks between Russia and Ukraine look uncertain due to apparent differences over a venue.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin has agreed to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials in Minsk, Belarus, where President Alexander Lukashenko runs a pro-Russian government.

That agreement came in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s offer earlier in the day to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Peskov told reporters that after the parties discussed Minsk as a possible venue, Ukrainian officials changed course and said they were unwilling to travel to Minsk and would prefer to meet in NATO member Poland. They then halted further communication, Peskov said.

Putin has claimed that the western refusal to heed Russia's demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order an invasion of the neighboring country.

___

PRAGUE -- The Czech Republic’s transport minister says his country has banned all Russian airlines from Czech airports, in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Martin Kupka said Friday the ban covers all regular flights between Prague and Moscow and Prague and St. Petersburg, as well as charter flights.

Russian planes will also be banned from landing at the western Czech spa town of Karlovy Vary, a popular destination for Russian tourists. The measure becomes affective at midnight.

Additionally, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala said his country will stop issuing visas for Russian citizens and will urge other European Union countries to do the same.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania -- Major retail chains in Lithuania started to remove Russian and Belarusian products from shelves, a move joined by online shops and widely applauded by the public as a protest against Moscow’s decision to invade Ukraine.

Maxima LT, the largest chain in the Baltic nations, said Friday the Russian goods it sells are mainly alcohol, dried products and candy, amounting to millions of euros (dollars) in sales.

Other retailers like drug stores and home suppliers made similar announcements. The Lithuanian postal service said it will not be distributing any more Russian periodicals.

International companies such as IKEA are facing pressure to remove Russian-made goods from sale in the small Baltic country, which fears Russian aggression.

___

MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin has hailed his troops for their courage as they press their offensive across Ukraine and bear down on Kyiv.

Speaking during Friday’s meeting of his Security Council, Putin claimed that most Ukrainian military units are reluctant to engage Russian forces.

He said the units offering resistance are mostly volunteer battalions made up of right-wing Ukrainian nationalists.

He offered no evidence for his claims, which could not be independently verified.

Echoing an earlier Russian military statement, Putin accused Ukrainian forces of deploying heavy weapons in urban areas in several big cities, including Kyiv and Kharkiv, to use civilians as shields.

The Russian president urged the Ukrainian military to end their resistance and turn on their leaders.

___

WARSAW, Poland - European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is in Warsaw for urgent talks with NATO’s nine eastern flank members on how to enhance the region’s security, following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The participants were also due to remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, hosting the talks between the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine, in his opening speech said that “demons of a great war, unseen since 1945” have returned to Europe.

NATO’s eastern flank members fear Moscow could also target them.

___

FORT STEWART, Ga. — The U.S. Army says 3,800 soldiers from Fort Stewart, Georgia, are among additional forces deploying to Europe following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Troops from the Army post southwest of Savannah, Georgia, “will deploy to reassure NATO allies, deter further aggression against NATO member states and train with host-nation forces,” Fort Stewart commanders said in a statement late Thursday.

Fort Stewart is home to the Army’s 3rd Infantry Division, which saw multiple combat deployments during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Most of the 3rd Infantry soldiers heading to Europe are assigned to the division’s 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team.

“The Raider Brigade is trained and equipped to deter aggression and to reassure and defend our allies,” Col. Pete Moon, the 1st Brigade’s commander, said in prepared statement.

The Georgia-based soldiers appear to be among 7,000 additional U.S. forces deploying to Germany to bolster NATO following the invasion of Ukraine. President Joe Biden ordered the deployments Thursday.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told Chinese President Xi Jinping he’s ready to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials.

The Kremlin said in its readout of Friday’s call that Xi underlined that he “views the Russian leadership’s action in the crisis situation with respect.”

In a reference to new Western sanctions against Russia over its invasion in Ukraine, the Kremlin noted that Putin and Xi agreed “it’s inadmissible to use illegitimate sanctions for achieving selfish goals of certain countries.”

Chinese state TV reported that Xi emphasized that China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations.”

___

NEW DELHI — Dozens of parents, relatives and friends of Indian students stranded in Ukraine held a demonstration near the Russian Embassy in New Delhi to demand the students' immediate evacuation.

Police barricaded the roads leading to the embassy on Friday and asked the protesters to meet Indian Foreign Ministry officials to discuss the repatriation of nearly 16,000 Indians, including students.

Some of the demonstrators held video conferencing calls with some of those stuck in metro trains and bomb shelters in Kyiv.

``We are running low on food and water in a crowded bunker,” one of the callers in Ukraine said.

Indian Embassy officials are now traveling to border areas of Ukraine touching Poland, Romania Slovakia and Hungary to facilitate the exit of Indian nationals so that they can be evacuated to India, said foreign ministy official Harsh Vardhan Shringla.

___

BRUSSELS — Germany’s foreign minister said Friday that the European Union will take in all people fleeing Ukraine due to the current conflict.

“We need to do everything to immediately take in the people who are now fleeing bombs, fleeing tanks, that’s also what we’ve been preparing for in recent weeks,” Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock told reporters in Brussels.

“We tried everything so this day wouldn’t come,” she said. “And it came because the Russian president chose it, opted for war and against human lives.”

“That’s why we will take in all of the people who are fleeing now,” Baerbock said. “We will bring the people from Ukraine to safety.”

___

BUCHAREST, Romania — Moldova’s national naval agency says a ship in “neutral waters” of the Black Sea has been hit by a missile, leaving two crew members seriously injured.

The Naval Agency said in a statement that the source of the missile that hit the Moldova-flagged Millennial Spirit on Friday is unknown.

“A fire broke out onboard the ship; the equipment and lifeboats were destroyed,” the agency said in a statement. “The ship’s crew left the ship equipped only with life jackets.”

The agency said that the company that operates the tanker is a Ukrainian legal entity and the crew members are Russian citizens.

Rescue operations were carried out by Ukrainian authorities, the Moldovan agency said.

___

LONDON — An expert in international trade says he thinks world leaders are reluctant to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions because it is the “nuclear option” of sanctions.

Disconnecting Russia from SWIFT to try to force President Vladimir Putin to end his invasion of Ukraine would have major economic costs for western countries, said Hosuk Lee-Makiyama, director of the European Centre for International Political Economy.

Lee-Makiyama told the BBC that if Russia were cut off for foreign payments for its gas and oi,l it would quickly start expropriating the 300 billion euros EU investors have plowed into the country.

“It’s a nuclear option that it’s going to basically exterminate yourself and your enemy,” he said.

World leaders, who have so far ruled out military intervention in Ukraine, have few good options for deterring Putin because he knows they fear a direct confrontation with Russia, Lee-Makiyama said.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russia is ready to send a delegation to Belarus for talks with Ukrainian officials.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin is ready to send the delegation in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's offer to discuss a non-aligned status for Ukraine.

That indicates Zelenskyy would be willing to negotiate dropping his country’s bid to join NATO, as Russia has demanded.

Before the invasion, the West had rejected the demand. Putin claimed the refusal to discuss keeping Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order a military action in Ukraine to “demilitarize” it.

___

BANGKOK — Myanmar’s ruling military council offered its support Friday for Russia’s attack on Ukraine, while the shadow government leading opposition to army rule condemned Moscow’s action.

A statement by the spokesman for Myanmar’s military government said Russia acted correctly to perpetuate its “sovereignty.”

A text message to Myanmar journalists from Maj. Gen. Zaw Min Tun also said the invasion demonstrated Russia’s position as a “world power” helping to keep global relations in balance.

Myanmar’s military rulers face armed domestic opposition, and like Russia’s leaders now, are the target of strong sanctions from Western governments seeking a return to democratic rule.

Myanmar’s National Unity Government, established by lawmakers prevented from taking their seats when the army seized power in February last year, deplored Moscow’s action.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania — Lithuania's Radio and Television Commission has temporarily suspended the operation of six Russian-language TV channels for their alleged incitement to war and propaganda.

The six TV channels were taken off the air Friday

Planeta RTR, Rossijya 24, Belarus 24, NTV Mir, RTR Planeta and Rossiya 24 were suspended for five years, and PBK and TVCI for three years, commission Vice Chairman Ricardas Slapsys told the Baltic News Service.

Lithuania, the most southern of the three Baltic nations, borders Russia’s Kaliningrad region to the southwest, Belarus to the east, Latvia to the north and Poland to the south.

Latvia banned several Russian television channels had their right to broadcast in Latvia suspended Thursday for several years.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has taken control of an airport just outside Kyiv, as Kremlin forces bear down on the Ukrainian capital.

The claim could not be independently verified.

Taking possession of the airport in Hostomel, which has a long runway allowing the landing of heavy-lift transport planes, would mean Russia can airlift troops directly to Kyiv’s outskirts.

Hostomel is just 7 kilometers (4 miles) northwest of the city.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that the Russian airborne forces used 200 helicopters to land in Hostomel and killed over 200 troops belonging to Ukraine's special forces.

Konashenkov claimed that Russian troops suffered no casualties. That contradicts Ukrainian claims that Russian troops sustained heavy casualties in the fighting there.

___

BERLIN — Germany’s Defense Ministry has confirmed media reports that it is deploying additional military assets to NATO’s eastern flank.

German weekly Der Spiegel reported that the deployments included 150 soldiers and about a dozen Boxer armored fighting vehicles, two ships and anti-missile systems.

Ministry spokesman Christian Thiels declined to say Friday exactly how many soldiers were being deployed. But he confirmed that a navy corvette would leave Saturday for patrols in the Baltic while a frigate will be deployed in the Mediterranean, both under NATO command.

Germany is also assessing whether to deploy Patriot anti-missile systems to an eastern European NATO country, Thiels said.

Decisions on deploying further troops could be expected soon, he added.

___

BEIJING — Chinese state TV says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, that Moscow is willing to negotiate with Ukraine, even as Moscow's forces invade its neighbor.

The report Friday followed a Kremlin announcement that Putin’s government was considering an offer by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to negotiate non-aligned status for his country.

Putin said Moscow “is willing to conduct high-level negotiations with the Ukrainian side,” China Central Television reported on its website.

It gave no indication whether Putin said he was responding to Zelenskyy’s offer or gave any details of what the two sides might negotiate.

Russia complains that the United States and its allies ignored Moscow’s “legitimate security concerns” by expanding the NATO military alliance eastward, closer to Russia’s borders.

Xi said China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations,” CCTV said.

___

ANKARA, Turkey — Turkey’s foreign minister says officials are still assessing a request by Ukraine for Turkey to close to Russian shipping the straits at the entrance of the Black Sea.

Mevlut Cavusoglu warned, however, that under a 1936 convention Ankara may not be able to deny total access to the Russian vessels.

Ukraine on Thursday formally asked Turkey to close the Turkish Straits to Russian warships in line with the Montreux Convention which allows Turkey to restrict the passage of belligerent countries’ warships during times of war. The convention stipulates however, that warships belonging to Black Sea coastal countries can return to their bases.

“If there is a demand for the ships of the warring countries to return to their bases, then (passage) must be allowed,” Cavusoglu was quoted as telling Hurriyet newspaper in an interview.

The minister said Turkish experts were assessing if the current situation amounted to "a state of war.”

___

BERLIN — Germany’s president is appealing to Russian President Vladimir Putin to “stop the madness of this war now.”

President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in Berlin on Friday said that “we don’t want enmity with the Russian people, quite the contrary, but this wrongdoing cannot go without a clear answer.”

Steinmeier, whose post is largely ceremonial but holds moral authority, said that Germany will do its part in deterring Putin from using force against its NATO allies.

The president, who served twice as Germany’s foreign minister, said that Putin “should not underestimate the strength of democracies” and Germans shouldn’t either.

He said it’s good that people are going out to demonstrate, adding: “The Russian president should not believe for a second that people in Germany and Europe simply accept this brutal violence.”

___

VATICAN CITY — Pope Francis went to the Russian embassy in Rome on Friday to personally express his concern about the war in Ukraine, in an extraordinary papal gesture that has no recent precedent.

Popes usually receive ambassadors and heads of state in the Vatican. For Francis to travel a short distance to the Russian embassy outside the Vatican walls was a sign of his strength of feeling about Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine.

Vatican officials said they knew of no such previous papal initiative.

Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni confirmed the pontiff wanted “clearly to express his concern about the war.” Pope Francis was there for just over a half-hour, Bruni said.

Francis has called for dialogue to end the conflict and has urged the faithful to set next Wednesday as a day of fasting and prayer for peace in Ukraine.

But he has refrained from publicly calling out Russia, presumably for fear of antagonizing the Russian Orthodox Church, with which he is trying to build stronger ties.

___

GENEVA — The U.N. human rights office says it is receiving increasing reports of civilian casualties in Ukraine in the wake of Russia’s military invasion.

Spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani of the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights says its staffers have so far verified at least 127 civilian casualties. They include 25 people killed and 102 injured, mostly from shelling and airstrikes.

She cautioned Friday that the numbers are “very likely to be an underestimate.”

Shamdasani also said the rights office was “disturbed by the multiple arbitrary arrests” of demonstrators in Russia who on Thursday protested against the conflict.

“We understand more than 1,800 protesters were arrested,” she said, before adding that it was unclear how many might have been released already.

Meanwhile, spokeswoman Shabia Mantoo of the U.N. refugee agency, UNHCR, said its latest update had that more than 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes in Ukraine. She said the agency’s planning figures anticipated that “up to 4 million people may flee to other countries if the situation escalates.”

___

LONDON — Latvia’s defense minister is criticizing European nations for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network and refusing to provide weapons to help Ukraine defend itself.

Artis Pabriks’ comments came after the U.S. and European Union stopped short of blocking Russia’s access to the SWIFT payments system when they announced a new round of sanctions late Thursday.

Pabriks also chided fellow EU nations that have refused to provide “lethal aid” to Ukraine, saying only the U.K., Greece, Poland and the Baltic states had done so.

In an interview with the BBC on Friday, Pabriks suggested that many European leaders don’t want to take these steps because they would cause economic hardship for their own countries.

“If you are really not ready yourself to spill blood, at least spill money now,’’ he said. “Do it now, because if you lose Ukraine all European geopolitics will change. … There will be much more pressure on Poland, much more pressure on the Baltics.’’

The Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia fear they could be the Kremlin’s next target.

___

DAMASCUS, Syria — Syrian President Bashar Assad is praising Russia’s military incursion into Ukraine and denouncing what he calls western “hysteria” surrounding it.

Assad spoke by phone Friday with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

“What is happening today is a correction of history and a restoration of balance which was lost in the world after the breakup of the Soviet Union,” Assad said, according to state-run news agency SANA.

He said confronting NATO expansionism is Russia’s right.

Russia is a main backer of Assad’s government and its military intervention in 2015 in the country’s civil war helped tip the balance of power in his favor.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says it will analyze the Ukrainian president’s offer to discuss a non-aligned status for his country, as a Russian military invasion pushes closer to Kyiv.

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he was ready to hold talks on the issue.

Asked about Zelenskyy’s offer, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Friday described it as “a move in a positive direction.”

He said in a conference call with reporters that “we paid attention to that, and now we need to analyze it.”

But Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Zelenskyy “is simply lying” when he offers to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Lavrov said at a briefing that Zelenskyy “missed the opportunity” to discuss a neutral status for Ukraine when Russian President Vladimir Putin proposed it.

Putin says the West left him no option but to invade when it rejected Moscow’s demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO.

___

BRUSSELS — A senior European Union official says the 27-nation bloc intends to slap further sanctions on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine.

EU Council president Charles Michel tweeted Friday: “Second wave of sanctions with massive and severe consequences politically agreed last night. Further package under urgent preparation.”

Michel announced the move after a call with Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

Michel said Kyiv “is under continued attack by Russian forces” and called on Russia to immediately stop the violence.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary has extended temporary legal protection to Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion, as countries in eastern Europe prepare for the arrival of refugees at their borders.

Hungary, which borders Ukraine to the west, has in the past taken a firm stance against all forms of immigration. It has controversially refused to accept refugees and asylum seekers from the Middle East, Africa and Asia.

But in a decree published late Thursday, Hungary’s government announced that all Ukrainian citizens arriving from Ukraine, and all third-country nationals legally residing there, would be entitled to protection.

The section applying to third-country nationals makes it possible for non-Ukrainians — for example, Belarussian refugees living in Ukraine — to receive protection in the European Union.

Prime Minister Viktor Orban has said that Hungary will play no part in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, but that it would accept refugees arriving at its borders.

___

LONDON — British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has expressed his solidarity with Ukraine in telephone call with the country’s leader.

Johnson’s Downing Street office said Friday that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy offered an update on Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes.

“The prime minister assured President Zelenskyy that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing,’’ Johnson’s office said in a statement. “He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russia’s campaign of violence and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.’’

___

BERLIN — The German government says it has suspended the granting of export credit and investment guarantees for business with Russia.

The Economy Ministry said Friday that the granting of new export credit guarantees and investment guarantees for Russia was suspended on Thursday.

The so-called Hermes credit export guarantees protect German companies from losses when exports aren’t paid for. Investment guarantees are granted by the German government to protect direct investments by German companies from political risk in the countries where they are made.

The Economy Ministry said that new export credit guarantees to the tune of 1.49 billion euros ($1.67 billion) were granted last year for business with Russia. New investment guarantees came in at a fraction of that amount, at 3.75 million euros ($4.2 million).

___

WARSAW, Poland — Poland’s Border Guard says that some 29,000 people were cleared to enter through the country’s land border with neighboring Ukraine on Thursday, the day Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began.

Before that, there were some 12,000 average daily entries from Ukraine into European Union and NATO member Poland, through land, sea and airport checkpoints, according to Border Guard statistics.

Poland has lifted the requirement of COVID-19 quarantine or vaccination certificates for refugees from Ukraine. A number of reception centers with camp beds, soup kitchens and medical care have been organized in locations close to the border with Ukraine.

___

BEIJING — China is holding back from labeling Russia’s attack on Ukraine an invasion.

At the same time, it is upholding the sanctity of territorial sovereignty, in a nod to its own insistence that Taiwan is part of China.

“The sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries should be respected and maintained,” China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Wang Wenbin said Friday.

“At the same time, we also see that the issue of Ukraine has its own complex and special historical merits, and we understand Russia’s legitimate concerns on security issues,” he added.

Wang did not answer questions about whether China would recognize the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics, in Ukrainian territory claimed by Russia, as independent states.

___

MOSCOW — Russia’s civil aviation authority has banned U.K. flights to and over Russia in retaliation against the British government’s ban on Aeroflot flights.

Rosaviatsiya said that all flights by the U.K. carriers to Russia as well as transit flights are banned starting Friday.

It said the measure was taken in response to the “unfriendly decisions” by the British authorities who banned flights to the U.K. by the Russian flag carrier Aeroflot as part of sanctions over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has destroyed 118 Ukrainian military assets since the beginning of its assault on its neighbor and as it pushes into the outskirts of Kyiv.

The claim could not be independently verified and was not confirmed by Ukraine amid a flurry of claims and counterclaims by each side.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that among the targets were 11 Ukrainian air bases, 13 command facilities, 36 air defense radars, 14 air defense missile systems, 5 warplanes, 18 tanks and warships.

However, U.K. Defense Secretary Ben Wallace rejected Russian claims of success on the first day of its invasion of Ukraine, saying it had “failed to deliver” on its day one objectives.

Wallace told Sky News that the Western assessment is that Russia had failed to take its major objectives and is behind on its timetable for advance.

“They’ve lost over 450 personnel,’’ he said.

___

BERLIN — Former German Chancellor Angela Merkel has condemned Russia’s attack on Ukraine, calling it “a deep cut in European history after the end of the Cold War.”

Germany’s dpa news agency quoted Merkel saying Friday that there was “no justification for this blatant attack of international law. I condemn it in the sharpest possible manner.”

Merkel, who grew up in East Germany and speaks Russian, was heavily engaged in negotiations with Russian President Vladimir Putin throughout her 16 years in office, which ended in December.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s nuclear energy regulatory agency says that higher than usual gamma radiation levels have been detected in the area near the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, after it was seized by the Russian military.

The State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate said Friday that higher gamma radiation levels have been detected in the Chernobyl zone, but didn’t provide details of the increase.

It attributed the rise to a “disturbance of the topsoil due to the movement of a large amount of heavy military equipment through the exclusion zone and the release of contaminated radioactive dust into the air.”

Ukrainian authorities said that Russia took the plant and its surrounding exclusion zone after a fierce battle Thursday.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Russian airborne troops were protecting the plant to prevent any possible “provocations.” He insisted that radiation levels in the area have remained normal.

The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said it was told by Ukraine of the takeover, adding that there had been “no casualties or destruction at the industrial site.”

The 1986 disaster occurred when a nuclear reactor at the plant 130 kilometers (80 miles) north of Kyiv exploded, sending a radioactive cloud across Europe. The damaged reactor was later covered by a protective shell to prevent leaks.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan warned “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards, Khan said in a statement Friday.

Khan adds that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Kyiv mayor Vitaly Klitschko said at least three people were injured when a rocket hit a multi-story apartment building in Ukraine's capital on Friday, starting a fire.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that the Russian military's claim it is not targeting civilian areas is “a lie.” He said that military and civilian areas in Ukraine are both being hit by Russian attacks.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began early Thursday with a series of missile strikes, many on key government and military installations, quickly followed by a three-pronged ground assault. Ukrainian and U.S. officials said Russian forces were attacking from the east toward Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city; from the southern region of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014; and from Belarus to the north.

___

PARIS — French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday that France and its European allies have decided to “inflict very severe blows on Moscow,” further sanctioning individuals and targeting finance, energy and other sectors. The legal texts for the sanctions will be finalized and submitted for approval to EU foreign ministers later Friday.

Macron also said the EU has decided on economic aid for Ukraine in the amount of 1.5 billion euros ($1.68 billion).

The French president also called the Belorussian government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine, and said it will also be targeted.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — As Russian troops continued pressing their offensive Friday, intense fighting also raged in the country’s east.

Russian troops entered the city of Sumy near the border with Russia that sits on a highway leading to Kyiv from the east. The regional governor, Dmytro Zhivitsky, said Ukrainian forces fought Russian troops in the city overnight, but other Russian convoys kept rolling west toward the Ukrainian capital.

“Military vehicles from Sumy are moving toward Kyiv,” Zhivitsky said. “Much equipment has passed through and is heading directly to the west.”

Zhivitsky added that another northeastern city, Konotop, was also sieged. He urged residents of the region to fight the Russian forces.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan issued a statement Friday on Twitter while on a visit to Bangladesh, where he is investigating crimes against Myanmar’s Rohingya minority.

Khan said he alerted “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards," Khan added.

He said that “any person who commits such crimes, including by ordering, inciting or contributing in another manner to the commission of these crimes may be liable to prosecution before the Court.”

Khan added that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

Follow AP’s coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: With Zelenskyy and a 2nd Russian plane reportedly shot down. With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220225ei2p00mau


CE Noticias Financieras English
Day three: Find out what's happening in Ukraine after Russia's attack
1488 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
13:33 | Russia closes airspace to aircraft linked to Bulgaria, Poland and the Czech Republic

Russia announced Saturday the closure of its airspace to aircraft linked to Bulgaria, Poland and the Czech Republic, following a similar decision taken by those Central and Eastern European countries against Russian airlines.

"Following unfriendly decisions by the air authorities of Bulgaria, Poland and the Czech Republic, as of 03:00 p.m. Moscow time on February 26, 2022" Russia closes its airspace to "air carriers of those countries and/or those registered in them," Russian air regulator Rosaviatsia said in a statement.

12:54 | Kiev tightens curfew and punishes those who violate it

The mayor of Ukraine's capital announced Saturday a tightening of the curfew imposed after the Russian invasion and warned that anyone on the street between 05:00 p.m. and 08:00 p.m. is going to be considered an enemy.

"All civilians who are on the street during curfew are going to be considered as members of enemy sabotage and reconnaissance groups," Vitali Klitschko said in a message on Telegram.

12:17 | UK warns that Russian forces are 30 kilometers from the center of Kiev.

Russian forces have continued their advance on Kiev and most of their forces are now about 30 kilometers from the city center, according to the UK Ministry of Defense.

Russia does not have control of the airspace over Ukraine, "which greatly reduces the effectiveness of the Russian Air Force," the ministry detailed on Twitter. "Ukraine's Armed Forces continue to offer firm resistance throughout the country. Russian casualties are likely to be numerous and higher than anticipated or acknowledged by the Kremlin," it added.

12:10 | Poland refuses to play with Russia in the World Cup qualifiers for Qatar

The president of the Polish Football Federation (PZPN), Cezary Kulesza, announced on Saturday that Poland will not play with Russia in the playoff play-off for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar due to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

"This is the only right decision. We are in talks with the federations of Sweden and Czech Republic to present a common position to FIFA," Kulesza wrote on Twitter.

12:04 | Zelensky says Ukraine still controls the capital Kiev.

Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelensky said Saturday that he "thwarted" Russia's plan, on the third day of the invasion against his country, in a video in which he called on Russians to pressure Vladimir Putin to stop the war.

"We have stood our ground and successfully repelled the enemies' attacks," he said. However, "fighting continues in numerous cities and regions of the country, but it is our army that controls Kiev and key localities around the capital," he said. The leader also urged Germany and Hungary to support a motion to exclude Russia from the SWIFT international financial transactions system.

11:56 | Netherlands to send 200 anti-aircraft missiles to Ukraine

The Dutch government announced Saturday that it will send 200 Stinger-type surface-to-air missiles to Ukraine "as soon as possible," in response to a request from Kiev for the Netherlands to supply military items to the country in a reinforcement of its defense against Russia's troops.

The Stinger missiles are 1.5 meters long and weigh more than 16 kilograms, but have a speed of 2,400 kilometers per hour and can be used on targets within a radius of up to 5 kilometers.

11:44 | Poland warns that 100,000 Ukrainians have arrived on its territory

Some 100,000 Ukrainians crossed into Poland since the start of the Russian attack, Polish Deputy Interior Minister Pawel Szefernaker announced Saturday.

"Since the launch of the war operations in Ukraine and until today 100,000 people crossed from Ukraine into Poland along the border," Szefernaker told reporters at the Medyka border post in southeastern Poland.

10:52 | Nearly 200 Ukrainians have been killed in Russian attacks

The Ukrainian health minister said Saturday that 198 civilians have been killed in the Russian attacks, including three children. Some 1,000 have also been wounded since the start of the Russian invasion on Thursday.

"Unfortunately, according to operational data, 198 people were killed by the invaders, including three children, and 1,115 were wounded, including 33 children," Minister Viktor Liashko said on Facebook.

10:37 | Russian regulator orders media to avoid using the word "invasion"

Roskomnadzor, Russia's communications watchdog, on Saturday ordered the country's media to remove from their content any reference to civilians killed in the conflict in Ukraine and vetoed the terms "invasion," "offensive" and "declaration of war."

"We stress that only official Russian sources have current and reliable information," Roskomnadzor said in a statement, at a time when Moscow is calling the intervention in Ukraine a "special operation" aimed at "maintaining peace."

08:24 | Russia shells more than 800 military targets in Ukraine

The Russian Armed Forces destroyed early Saturday morning 821 Ukrainian military targets with cruise missiles, the military said in its morning war report.

Among the destroyed targets were "14 military airfields, 19 checkpoints and communications posts, 24 S-300 and Osa anti-aircraft missile systems and 48 radar stations." Russia also shot down seven Ukrainian aircraft, seven helicopters and nine drones, and destroyed eight gunboats.

08:15 | Zelensky says allies send weapons to Ukraine

Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelensky assured Saturday that his "allies" are sending weapons to help it help Ukraine fight Russia's invasion.

"Weapons and equipment from our allies are on their way to Ukraine - the anti-war coalition is working!" he wrote on his Twitter account.

07:45 | Russia uses cruise missiles against Ukrainian military infrastructures.

The Russian military attacked Ukrainian military infrastructures with naval and airborne cruise missiles, the Russian Defense Ministry said Saturday, on the third day of invasion of its neighbor.

"In the night, the armed forces of the Russian Federation launched a bombardment with long-range precision weapons using naval and airborne cruise missiles against Ukrainian military infrastructures," ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said in televised remarks.

07:28 | Zelensky: "We will defend our country."

Zelensky on Saturday appealed to his citizens not to lay down their arms and defend the capital Kiev, where the army is fighting Russian forces two days after the start of the invasion.

"I am here. We will not lay down our arms and we will defend our country," President Zelensky declared in a video posted on Facebook after a night of Russian attacks on the capital.

07:13 | Facebook bans Russian state media from making money on networks

Facebook on Friday restricted the activity of Russian state media on its platform, which will not be able to advertise or make money from their activities, in reaction to the invasion of Ukraine.

"We are banning Russian state media from running ads or monetizing on our platform anywhere in the world," Nathaniel Gleicher, the social network's director of security policy, said on Twitter.

07:07 | Ukrainian army says it is holding off Russian attack in Kiev

Ukrainian troops continue to defend the streets of Kiev on Saturday in the face of advancing Russian troops trying to take control of the Ukrainian capital, two days after the start of the invasion launched by President Vladimir Putin.

"In Kiev, violent fighting continues. The Ukrainian army contains Russian saboteurs," Ukraine's special communications service said on its Telegram account, while calling on citizens to go to shelters.

06:43 | U.S. disburses military aid to Ukraine

U.S. President Joe Biden on Friday approved the disbursement of up to $350 million in new military aid to Ukraine in the midst of Russia's invasion, the White House announced.

The announcement comes after the U.S. president held a telephone conversation Friday with his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymir Zelensky to discuss military aid and sanctions issues.

05:31 | Australia sanctions Putin over Ukraine invasion

The Australian government on Saturday announced a new round of sanctions aimed directly at Russian President Vladimir Putin over his decision to invade Ukraine.

"It is an exceptional measure to sanction leaders, but the situation is exceptional," said Foreign Minister Marise Payne. This is the third round of sanctions imposed by Australia against Russian politicians, military and oligarchs, in addition to several banks and a ban on investment in the separatist regions of Donetsk and Lugansk.

05:06 | U.S. offers protection to Zelensky

The U.S. government is prepared to help Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky escape from Kiev to avoid capture or assassination by Russian forces, but he has so far refused to leave the capital, sources told The Washington Post on Friday.

"According to our information, I am the enemy's number one target. My family the second. They want to destroy Ukraine politically by destroying the head of state," Zelensky himself said in an address to the nation.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220226ei2q004y0


Putin's order for nuclear forces aggressive rhetoric - Lipavsky
424 字
2022 年 2 月 27 日 18:01 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds Defence Minister's comments in paras 3-4.

Prague, Feb 27 (CTK) - The order of Russian President Vladimir Putin to put nuclear forces on high alert is aggressive rhetoric and a very dangerous behaviour, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) told reporters after a meeting of his office's crisis staff today.

There is no information about the Czech Republic facing an imminent danger in this respect, he added.

Defence Minister Jana Cernochova (Civic Democrats, ODS) called Putin's statement an unprecedented threat today. The European Union and NATO are taking recommendations accordingly, she noted.

"We cannot ignore this," she said.

NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg and U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Linda Thomas-Greenfield also doomed Putin's order as dangerous rhetoric and unacceptable escalation of the ongoing war in Ukraine. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Putin was resorting to a pattern he used in the weeks before launching the invasion of Ukraine, “which is to manufacture threats that don’t exist in order to justify further aggression."

"This statement by Vladimir Putin is aggressive rhetoric. This is a very dangerous behaviour," Lipavsky said.

He is of the view that Russia has unilaterally and groundlessly attacked Ukraine, and on top of that, it is threatening Europe with nuclear weapons now.

"I consider this fully unacceptable. At the same time, we do not have any information about our country facing any imminent danger," Lipavsky added.

In harmony with the the United States and Britain, the Czech Republic is ready to impose harder financial and economic sanction against Russia, Lipavsky noted.

The EU countries' heads of diplomacy are to debate this possibility online at 18:00.

The Czech Republic will further proceed in unison with its allies. "In harmony with the USA, the UK and other partners. Along with them, we are prepared, and we did so in the past already, to impose hard sanctions against Russia," Lipavsky said.

The meeting of the EU foreign ministers was convoked to confirm a new sanction package, e.g. cutting off Russia from the SWIFT payment system, which is crucial for international financial transactions.

"At the same time, I will keep presenting the Czech stance. Clear, resolute and transparent EU steps towards the Russian Federation," Lipavsky said.

The Czech Republic can show the direction to its allies to a certain extent, for instance, by closing its airspace to the airlines from Russia and tackling the diplomatic presence in Ukraine, he added.

hol/dr/vok

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220227ei2r0000a


News
What sanctions does Russia face? Here's a list by country
Chelsey Cox; Ella Lee
1012 字
2022 年 2 月 27 日
USA Today Online
USATONL
英文
Copyright © 2022 USA Today Online. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved.
Global leaders responded to Russia's invasion of its neighbor Ukraine with sanctions aimed at crippling Moscow and President Vladimir Putin.

The sanctions range from bans on banking and investments to asset freezes against Russian leaders, oligarchs and their families, as well as denied access to airports and airspace. Russia's access to the SWIFT international payment system, crucial to the national and world economy, has been reduced. Some nations support the unprecedented action of removing Russia from SWIFT altogether.

What have governments done to hinder Russia from escalating violence against Ukraine? Here's a rundown.

Related: From soccer to vodka, here are some sanctions, bans and boycotts placed on Russia

United States

The Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control imposed restrictions on Russia’s two largest banks – Public Joint Stock Co. Sberbank of Russia (Sberbank) and VTB Bank Public Joint Stock Co. (VTB) – and almost 90 financial institution subsidiaries around the world Thursday. Sanctions were imposed against Russian elites and their families, along with prohibitions regarding new debt and equity of major Russian state-owned enterprises and large privately owned financial institutions.

The Treasury Department, along with allies, targeted nearly 80% of banking assets in Russia, barring the country from the global financial system and potentially affecting Russia’s economy for years.

The White House said Friday that the administration is preparing individual sanctions on Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, likely to include travel bans. On Saturday, the U.S. government and allies moved to block certain Russian banks’ access to SWIFT. Putin and Lavrov are banned from accessing any assets within reach of U.S. officials, and no one in the USA is permitted to do business with them.

Biden hits Russia's yacht-riding rich with sanctions: Will that blunt Putin's Ukraine invasion?

European Union

European Union leaders vowed Friday to freeze Putin’s assets, and foreign leaders unveiled additional sanctions Friday targeting Russian elites. The list of individuals sanctioned grew Sunday.

The EU agreed Sunday to close airspace to Russian airlines and ban some pro-Kremlin media outlets.

United Kingdom

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson introduced a 10-point sanctions package against Russia on Thursday. It includes an asset freeze against the country’s two largest banks and blocks major Russian companies from raising finance in Britain.

Russian national airline Aeroflot was banned from flying in U.K. airspace or landing in the country’s airports. U.K. Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said Friday the ban would extend to all Russian private jets.

Switzerland

The nation that has maintained neutrality for hundreds of years on Feb. 28 announced it was joining in the EU's sanctions on Russia, including asset freezes against key individuals. Switzerland also closed its airspace to Russian flights.

Canada

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced Thursday that Canada would impose "new and severe" sanctions on 62 individuals and entities the country deemed responsible for Russia's attack on Ukraine.

According to a news release, those sanctions include:

Restrictions on 58 Russian individuals and entities, including banks, financial elites and their families.

Sanctions on members of the Russian Security Council.

Restrictions on four Ukrainian people "for their collaboration with Russia to destabilize Ukraine."

Restrictions on exports to Russia by way of halting export permit applications and canceling valid export permits, excluding "critical medical supply chains."

Canada's first sanctions were initiated Feb. 22, when the country said it would prevent Canadians from engaging in purchases of Russian sovereign debt and financial dealings with rebel-controlled Ukrainian territories Luhansk and Donetsk, Reuters reported. The government said it would sanction members of the Russian parliament who voted to recognize those territories as independent and two Russian state-backed banks.

Canada supports cutting some Russian banks from the SWIFT financial network, The Wall Street Journal reported.

What are sanctions? What you need to know about the crisis in Ukraine

Japan

Japan said Saturday it would cut off some Russian banks from the SWIFT financial network, alongside the United States and the EU, The Wall Street Journal reported. It will also sanction Russian officials. Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said he would freeze the assets of Putin and other Russian government officials, according to the Journal.

On Monday, Kishida said Japan will also freeze assets of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko and other Belarusian individuals and organizations, while restricting exports, because of the country’s “evident involvement in the invasion (of Ukraine)," AP reported.

Those sanctions compound with ones Kishida announced Friday, including a halt on exporting military-use goods, Reuters reported.

Czech Republic

The Czech Republic banned Russian airlines Friday from flying to its country and is mulling additional sanctions, Reuters reported. Prague plans to quicken its exit from two international banks set up in the Soviet era as the Finance Ministry analyzes Russian companies' access to Czech public funds, Al-Jazeera reported.

Taiwan

Premier Su Tseng-chang said Friday the nation would join “democratic countries” in sanctioning Russia, Al-Jazeera reported. She did not specify what those sanctions would be but said the country would “harshly scrutinize” exports to Russia and “coordinate” with allies for further actions.

Australia

Prime Minister Scott Morrison introduced a first wave of sanctions Wednesday, imposing travel bans and financial consequences on eight members of Russia’s Security Council. Parliament implemented investment restrictions on several Russian banks.

The government moved Saturday to directly sanction Putin, members of Russia's parliament and some oligarchs.

New Zealand

Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said Thursday that her country's lack of an autonomous sanctions law wouldn't stop it from joining global condemnation of Russia, The Wall Street Journal reported.

New Zealand will implement travel bans on Russian government officials and other affiliated parties, ban exports to Russia's military and stop consultations between the Russian and New Zealand Foreign Ministries, according to The Wall Street Journal.

Contributing: The Associated Press

This article originally appeared on USA TODAY: What sanctions does Russia face? Here's a list by country

USA Today Information Network

文件 USATONL020220227ei2r0010b


Football
Polish FA slam 'unacceptable' FIFA decision as Aston Villa's Matty Cash awaits update
By, John Townley
421 字
2022 年 2 月 28 日 09:31 GMT
birminghammail.co.uk
EVEMONL
英文
© 2022 Reach Plc
The world game's governing body have stopped short of kicking Russia out of the World Cup

The Polish FA have announced they will not play any fixture against a Russian side after FIFA stopped short of kicking the country out of World Cup qualifying.

Aston Villa[https://www.google.com/urlsa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwjehfWjiqL2AhWPa8AKHQyiA6QQFnoECAwQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.birminghammail.co.uk%2Fall-about%2Faston-villa-fc&usg=AOvVaw1AtEU2HaQzBCCf67WEfSB6] defender Matty Cash[https://www.google.com/urlsa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwje_8GmiqL2AhW8QEEAHU9KB9MQFnoECA0QAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.birminghammail.co.uk%2Fall-about%2Fmatty-cash&usg=AOvVaw0FhUOS7Bapn31Y4Zy3YIKW] would have likely played for Poland against Russia in a World Cup play-off game in March, with the winners to face Sweden or Czech Republic for a place at Qatar 2022.

But following the invasion by Vladimir Putin’s forces on Ukraine, Poland, Sweden and the Czechs have all confirmed they will refuse to play against Russia.

It led to FIFA announcing that Russia must play 'home' matches in neutral countries and under the banner of the Football Union of Russia, rather than imposing an even stricter sanction.

"Buzzing With An Away Win" -Ashley Preece's Verdict On Villa Beating Brighton

The world game’s governing body has also ruled that no Russian flag or national anthem can be used at matches.

But their stance isn't stringent enough for many football federations across the globe.

Polish FA president Cezary Kulesza tweeted: “Today’s FIFA decision is totally unacceptable. We are not interested in participating in this game of appearances.

“Our stance remains intact: Polish National Team will NOT PLAY with Russia, no matter what the name of the team is.”

Swedish FA president Karl-Erik Nilsson told Fotbollskanalen: “It is clear that we are not satisfied with this.

“Our opinion is not different today and the situation has not changed in Ukraine just because we have received the message from FIFA, so we have no other opinion today.

“We also want to talk to Poland and the Czech Republic so that we can give back to FIFA what we think, but we had expected a sharper stance from FIFA. We would have done so.

The Czech FA had also made clear in a statement earlier in the day that “it’s not possible to play against the Russian national team in the current situation, not even on the neutral venue”.

The English FA have also confirmed England won’t play against Russia in any international fixtures for the 'foreseeable future'.

READ MORE: Anwar El Ghazi speaks out on Aston Villa future as Everton loanee makes Steven Gerrard claim[https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/anwar-el-ghazi-speaks-out-23235085]

READ MORE: Graham Potter makes honest Yves Bissouma admission after failed Aston Villa transfer bid[https://www.birminghammail.co.uk/sport/football/football-news/graham-potter-makes-honest-yves-23235123]

Reach Plc

文件 EVEMONL020220228ei2s0015r


Sport
‘Unacceptable’ Russia call torn to shreds
AFP
672 字
2022 年 2 月 28 日 06:49 GMT
news.com.au
NLNEWW
英文
© News Pty Limited. No redistribution is permitted.
Russia’s future in the World Cup teetered on a knife-edge after FIFA plans to allow them to play on neutral territory were dismissed as “unacceptable” by rivals, plunging the qualifying process for football’s showpiece event into chaos.

Governing body FIFA warned that they were considering the ultimate sanction against Russia as punishment for their bloody invasion of Ukraine.

However, after three days of silence, they stopped short and ordered Russia to play home internationals at neutral venues where their national flag and anthem would be banned.

Watch Chelsea v Liverpool in the Carabao Cup Final Live with beIN SPORTS on Kayo – Mon 28th Feb 3:30AM. New to Kayo? Try 14 Days Free >

Russian teams would be known as the Football Union of Russia. FIFA said dialogue with other sports organisations to determine additional measures “including potential exclusion from competitions” would continue.

However, within minutes of the announcement, the Polish FA insisted they would not play Russia in a scheduled World Cup playoff, regardless of the venue.

“Today’s FIFA decision is totally unacceptable,” tweeted Polish FA president Cezary Kulesza.

“We are not interested in participating in this game of appearances. Our stance remains intact: Polish National Team will NOT PLAY with Russia, no matter what the name of the team is.”

Poland are due to play in Moscow on March 24 with the winners to host either the Czech Republic or Sweden five days later.

The draw for the World Cup finals, to be staged in Qatar in November and December, is on April 1.

Sweden and the Czech Republic followed suit.

“We have previously made it known that we do not want to face Russia under these circumstances (following the invasion) and this remains the case until further notice,” said Swedish FA president Karl-Erik Nilsson.

He added he was “displeased” with FIFA’s decision.

The Czech FA added: “There will be no change in the Czech national team’s standpoint.”

In response, FIFA said in a statement that it had “taken good note of the positions expressed via social media by the Polish Football Association, the Football Association of the Czech Republic and the Swedish Football Association.”

“FIFA will remain in close contact to seek to find appropriate and acceptable solutions together,” it said.

French Football Federation president Noel Le Graet led calls on Sunday for Russia to be kicked out of the World Cup.

“The world of sport, and especially football, cannot remain neutral. I certainly would not oppose the expulsion of Russia,” Le Graet told Le Parisien newspaper.

France are the World Cup holders after winning the 2018 tournament which was hosted by Russia.

The English FA said their national teams would not play any games against Russia “out of solidarity with Ukraine and to wholeheartedly condemn the atrocities being committed by the Russian leadership”.

The Welsh FA said they too would join a boycott as it “stands in solidarity with Ukraine and feels an extreme amount of sadness and shock to the recent developments in the country”.

European governing body UEFA on Friday stripped the Champions League final from Saint Petersburg’s Gazprom Arena on May 28 and switched it to the Stade de France in Paris.

At Wembley on Sunday, Chelsea skipper Cesar Azpilicueta and Liverpool captain Jordan Henderson carried flowers in Ukraine’s yellow and blue colours before kick-off in the League Cup final.

Both teams stood for a minute’s applause, while a scoreboard message in yellow and blue blazed “Football Stands Together”, while fans were seen with Ukraine flags.

One banner in blue and yellow read “You’ll never walk alone” in reference to Liverpool’s terrace anthem.

Chelsea released a 24-word statement on their website on the weekend, but omitted any reference to Russia or its president, Vladimir Putin.

“The situation in Ukraine is horrific and devastating,” the statement said.

“Chelsea FC’s thoughts are with everyone in Ukraine. Everyone at the club is praying for peace.”

— AFP

Nationwide News Pty Ltd.

文件 NLNEWW0020220228ei2s0035x


CIA: Czech News Digest - Economy
634 字
2022 年 3 月 1 日
CIA - Daily News
CZPRDI
英文
© 2022, Ceska informacni agentura s.r.o. Specialist in briefing and Hotline News Services Tel: +420-2-6278651, Fax:+420-2-6278717, E-Mail: redakce@pointa.cz
(CIANEWS) - he absolute amount of the state debt reached the level of CZK 2,465.7bn at the end of 2021 due to the deficit management of the state budget. In relative terms to GDP, it increased from 36.0 % to 40.4 %. The Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic (MF) informed about it. Expenditures to service the state debt amounted to CZK 42.2bn, which corresponds to a y/y increase of CZK 2.1bn. The gross issue of koruna medium-term and long-term government bonds on the primary and secondary markets amounted to CZK 572.7bn with an average yield of 1.61 % per year and an average maturity of 8.8 years.

As of February 24, 2022, the state export insurance company EGAP stopped insuring the export of Czech companies to the Russian Federation and Belarus. At the same time the current security situation does not allow the insurance of exports to Ukraine. According to its statement, EGAP is capital-equipped and ready to cover possible damages of Czech exporters' business cases insured in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine. The company also said that the insurance to Ukraine will resume as soon as possible. EGAP's exposure rate in Russia is approximately CZK 11bn. Within Ukraine, it is CZK 700m.

Russian and Ukrainian entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic own a total of 24,518 companies. Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) analyst Petra Štěpánová said that Ukrainians are more active in the domestic market, controlling 12,581 companies with a registered capital of CZK 2.4bn. Russians control 11,937 companies with a registered capital of CZK 8.1bn. According to D&B data, entrepreneurs from Russia and Ukraine most often control companies with annual revenues not exceeding CZK 1m. In the case of companies with Russian owners, it is 92 % of companies, with Ukrainian owners 84 %. Most companies owned by Ukrainians or Russians are based in Prague.

The Financial Market Guarantee Scheme (GSFT) received on February 28, 2022 a notification from the Czech National Bank of Sberbank CZ's inability to meet its obligations to beneficiaries under legal and contractual conditions. The expected amount of compensation payments is approximately CZK 28.5bn. GSFT will now pay out three types of deposit compensation from the Deposit Insurance Fund, namely basic, institutional and enhanced.

The average interest rate on new loans to non-financial corporations (excluding overdrafts, revolving loans and credit cards) increased to 5.37 % in January 2022. The rate on loans of up to CZK 7.5m rose to 5.27 %. It increased to 4.89 % for loans in the CZK 7.5–30m range and to 5.45 % for loans over CZK 30m. The rate on overdrafts, revolving loans and credit card loans rose to 5.74 %. Of this, it increased to 5.91 % for overdrafts. This follows from data from the Czech National Bank (ČNB) Czech National Bank (ČNB).

Czech exports through direct trade with Russia are not endangered. As part of the presentation of the Export Index (IE), Raiffeisenbank and the Association of Exporters informed that Russia's share of total exports from the Czech Republic fell by 1 pp to 2 % in 2021 since the Crimean annex. The vice-president of the association, Otto Daněk, said that dependence on imports of iron ore, of which 82 % comes from Ukraine and 12 % from Russia, can also play an important role in addition to commodity transport. The bank's chief economist Helena Horská added that the temporary drop in exports due to the war is probably inevitable. However, according to her, the still strong influx of orders and the search for alternative suppliers to Russian or Belarusian ones will help Czech exports and the entire economy to overcome the initial war and sanction shock.

Ceska Informacni Agentura SRO

文件 CZPRDI0020220301ei3100002


Russia facing sports isolation over invasion of Ukraine
By GRAHAM DUNBAR
AP Sports Writer
1098 字
2022 年 3 月 1 日 06:24 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
GENEVA (AP) — International sports bodies moved to further isolate Russia on Monday for its invasion of Ukraine and pushed Moscow closer to becoming a pariah on the playing field.

The International Olympic Committee urged sports bodies to exclude Russian athletes and officials from international events, including soccer's World Cup.

The IOC said it was needed to “protect the integrity of global sports competitions and for the safety of all the participants.”

The decision opened the way for FIFA, the governing body of soccer, to exclude Russia from the World Cup ahead of qualifying playoff on March 24. Poland already has refused to play the scheduled game against Russia.

It was unclear how the IOC’s request will affect Russian hockey players in the NHL and tennis players, including top-ranked Daniil Medvedev, in Grand Slam, ATP and WTA tournaments outside the authority of the International Tennis Federation.

World Rugby's executive committee banned Russia and Belarus from all international rugby and cross-border club rugby activities, saying it condemned “Russia’s aggressive invasion of Ukraine and the facilitation of this action by Belarus.”

FIFA was in talks with European soccer body UEFA on the details of suspending Russia's national and club teams, people with knowledge of the discussions told The Associated Press. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private discussions before FIFA and UEFA decision-makers can ratify the ban later Monday.

With a direct impact on Russia playing World Cup qualifiers next month, FIFA already said Sunday it was talking to the IOC about excluding the country from competitions “should the situation not be improving rapidly.”

The IOC also went directly after President Vladimir Putin, who turned the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics into a personal project. Putin's golden Olympic Order, which was awarded in 2001, has been withdrawn, the IOC said in a statement.[https://olympics.com/ioc/news/ioc-eb-recommends-no-participation-of-russian-and-belarusian-athletes-and-officials]

The Olympic body's call also applied to athletes and official from Belarus, which has abetted Russia's invasion by allowing its territory to be used to station troops and launch military attacks.

The IOC said it acted “with a heavy heart,” but noted that the impact of war on Ukrainian sports and athletes who cannot now take part in competitions outweighed the potential damage done to athletes from Russia and Belarus.

It was not a total blanket ban by the IOC, which also did not specifically suspend the national Olympic committees of Russia and Belarus.

Where exclusion was “not possible on short notice for organizational or legal reasons,” then teams from Russia and Belarus should compete as neutral athletes with no national flag, anthem or symbols, including at the upcoming Winter Paralympics in Beijing.

Russian Olympic committee leader Stanislav Pozdnyakov said in a statement “there is only one comment to make -- we categorically disagree,” adding it would help national federations to challenge “discriminatory rulings.”

Sports bodies across Europe already had moved against Russia on Monday by refusing to host or play against teams from the country.

Finland wants the Russian hockey team banned from the men’s world championships it will host in May, the Swiss soccer federation said its women’s team will not play Russia in July at the European Championship, and German soccer club Schalke said it had decided to end its longstanding partnership with Russian state-owned energy giant Gazprom.

Over the weekend, FIFA declined to ban Russia from the World Cup. Instead, it said the country's national team will have to compete under the name of its federation, the “Football Union of Russia” as punishment. Besides Poland, potential opponents Sweden and the Czech Republic have said they would refuse to take the field against Russia.

“The Swedish Football Association is disappointed with FIFA’s decision but is determined to continue to work together with other federations to cancel Russia’s matches in the upcoming World Cup qualifiers,” the body said Monday, citing the “illegal and deeply unjust invasion of Ukraine.”

The World Cup is scheduled to begin on Nov. 21 in Qatar.

In European club soccer, Russian team Spartak Moscow is still scheduled to play next week in the Europa League against German club Leipzig. UEFA allowed Spartak to take its place in the round of 16 draw on Friday, one day after Putin ordered the invasion to start.

UEFA called a meeting of its executive committee for later Monday and is expected to exclude Russian teams from its competitions based on the IOC announcement. The FIFA Bureau was set to only require the six regional confederation presidents to confirm the decision in writing.

The moves are not unprecedented. Following United Nations sanctions in 1992, FIFA and UEFA expelled Yugoslavia from its competitions when war broke out in the Balkans.

Besides Schalke’s effort to drop Gazprom as a partner, UEFA also is expected to see if it can nullify sponsorship deals with the company. Gazprom sponsors both the Champions League and the European Championship.

FIFA had tried to compromise Sunday by suggesting Russia play at neutral venues without its flag and anthem and under the Football Union of Russia name.

That aligns with sanctions imposed by the Court of Arbitration for Sport in December 2020 to punish Russia for state-backed doping and cover-ups of cheating, and applied at last year’s Tokyo Olympics and this year’s Winter Games in Beijing.

If Russia plays Poland as scheduled on March 24 and wins, the team would then face either Sweden or the Czech Republic on March 29.

Polish soccer federation president Cezary Kulesza said Sunday it was “totally unacceptable” that FIFA had not immediately expelled Russia from World Cup qualifying and said Poland is “not interested in participating in this game of appearances.”

Another future opponent, Albania, also said Sunday it would not play against Russia in any sports. Russia and Albania are scheduled to meet twice in June in the UEFA Nations League soccer tournament.

In hockey, the sport’s governing body has come under pressure from Finland and Switzerland to ban Russia and Belarus, both due to play at the world championships in May in Helsinki and Tampere.

Finnish Hockey Association chairman Harri Nummela said in a statement Monday it had talks with the Zurich-based IIHF to exclude the two countries from the sport internationally. ___

AP Global Soccer Writer Rob Harris in London contributed.

___

More AP soccer: https://apnews.com/hub/soccer[https://apnews.com/hub/soccer] and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports[https://twitter.com/AP_Sports]

Eds: UPDATES: Updates story sent earlier to add World Rugby sanction. With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220228ei2s009st


Czech Republic: War in Ukraine to have short-term impact on Czech economy - CNB's Nidetzky
336 字
2022 年 3 月 1 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Main means of effect is through a weaker national currency

Nidetzky singles out blocking assets of Russian central bank as biggest economic sanction

The war in Ukraine will have a short-term impact on the Czech economy, CNB vice governor Tomas Nidetzky told the public TV broadcaster. The main way this impact will arrive is through a weaker national currency, as the Czech crown has already the overall instability and uncertainty at present. As a result, import price pressure will remain strong. Nidetzky didn't elaborate what the CNB intends to do about it, but we suppose that it is too early to tell, as no one can predict at this time how long this conflict is going to continue. We remind that CNB staff are in preparation for an update to their winter forecast, which will reflect new realities.

Nidetzky pointed out that at present, the strongest economic sanction against Russia was blocking the assets of Russia's central bank. It is the measure that is hurting the Russian economy the most, as Russian authorities now have limited resources to push back the depreciation of the national currency, as well as service debt. Nidetzky pointed out that the reason why Russian financial institutions are not completely cut off from SWIFT is that there would be no way to pay for Russian energy supplies. Given that Russia remains a major energy supplier to Europe, there aren't a lot of other options.

The key take here is that Nidetzky considers current effects as temporary. It is the messaging we have seen coming from the CNB so far, though it could easily change if circumstances do. Yet, it appears that for the time being, the CNB board doesn't really consider tightening at a substantial pace. We do believe recent events are likely to reflect on how long interest rates remain high, as the odds are inflation is going to persist.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220301ei3100011


Czech Republic: VCHD Cargo sees revenues rise to over CZK 1bn in 2021
M-Brain
134 字
2022 年 3 月 2 日
Esmerk Eastern European News
ESMKEU
英文
Copyright 2022. M-Brain
Hospodárské noviny, 02 Mar 2022, online:- Czech family-run road haulier VCHD Cargo has seen its revenues rise to over CZK 1bn (EUR 39.65mn USD 45.82mn) in 2021. The company carried out over 38,400 shipments to over 4,800 destinations in Europe during the year. Domestically, the firm grew by 17%, while in Germany its revenues grew by nearly 60% on year to CZK 97mn in 2021, after the acquisition of Volker Logistik. The company employs tens of drivers from Ukraine, most of which return to the conflict-stricken country, and several more from Russia and Belarus where they expect their work visa will not be renewed as part of the sanction imposed on both countries.

M-Brain Insight Oy

文件 ESMKEU0020220303ei320000j


CE Noticias Financieras English
Peque Schwartzman against Russia's expulsion from Davis Cup: "Tennis players are not to blame".
500 字
2022 年 3 月 3 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Argentine tennis player Diego Schwartzman expressed his opposition to the sanction imposed by the International Tennis Federation (ITF) on Russia, which excludes it from team sports and prevents the current champions from participating in the Davis Cup and the Billie Jean King Cup.

"I don't agree with the ITF's decision to remove the players, who clearly expressed their opposition to the war", said El Peque in a chat with the media in the mixed zone before his participation in the series against Czech Republic for the qualification to the World Group and clarified: "I would agree if they were in favor of the current situation, but at least the Russian players who play in the Davis Cup expressed themselves publicly. They have nothing to do with it", said El Peque in the previous of the Davis Cup match between Argentina and Czech Republic.

In the same space, Schwartzman was distressed by the situation that the world is going through at the moment, after the Russian attacks on Ukrainian soil: "It's a disaster what is happening. Hopefully it will be over as soon as possible. Let there be a ceasefire and let it end. A lot of people are dying who have nothing to do with it. The conflicts that governments or leaders of countries have end up affecting entire countries," he said.

In recent days, Russia has been sidelined from most leagues and federations in virtually every sport. Following an IOC recommendation, FIFA was the first to speak out and removed the soccer team of the country that invaded Ukraine from the playoffs for Qatar 2022 and from international competitions. Athletics, basketball, rugby and tennis itself then joined in.

The ITF was no exception to these measures that leave out the world's elite sport. "The ITF board has announced today the immediate suspension of the ITF memberships of the Russian Tennis Federation (RTF) and the Belarus Tennis Federation (BTF) and their participation in international team competitions until further notice," was the statement issued by the International Tennis Federation.

Thus, the Davis Cup and the Billie Jean King Cup will be without their two great champions, who will not be able to compete throughout 2022 and, at least, until the end of the war conflict that is currently being suffered in Ukraine. It is worth clarifying that the ITF allows Russian tennis players to participate in the WTA and ATP circuits, but as individuals, without using their flag.

Who will take Russia's places in the Davis Cup? It was reported that in the next few weeks it will be defined who will take the place left by the champions, who entered the final stage of the tournament for having won the title. In addition, Belarus (the other sanctioned team) will lose its series against Mexico, so the Central American team will move on to the next round.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220303ei330068h


CE Noticias Financieras English
Argentina returns to Lawn Tennis for Davis Cup: everything you need to know about the series vs. Czech Republic
1241 字
2022 年 3 月 4 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
A Buenos Aires Lawn Tennis that promises to be at full capacity will host from this Friday the Davis Cup series between Argentina and Czech Republic for the Qualifiers 2022. A match that will have more than one special spice. Because it will mark the beginning of Guillermo Coria's cycle as Argentine captain and the debut in the competition of Sebastián Báez, the great appearance of the national tennis last year. Because it will allow the local public to enjoy again Diego Schwartzman, the best Argentine singles player of the moment, and Horacio Zeballos, one of the best doubles players of the circuit, who will team up with Maximo Gonzalez

. And because it will be an important challenge for the national team, which wants to return to the Finals of the most important tournament by countries in the world.The Argentines will face a Czech team without their great star (Jiri Vesely

, 74th in the world and last week defeated Novak Djokovic in the quarterfinals in Dubai), but with a young and talented team that has nothing to lose and could complicate things. Coria, former world number three, knows it."No series is accessible. The Czechs are having very good results on cement and have adapted very well to clay. We are well prepared. Not relaxed, but confident. I think tennis lovers are going to see very good matches," commented the Magician, who already had a first experience leading the team, when he shared the captaincy with Gastón Gaudio and Guillermo Cañas

in the World Group playoff clash against Colombia in 2018 in San Juan."I am living special days. Feeling things I haven't felt for 20 years, enjoying everything in a different way. The nerves and butterflies in the stomach are still there, but they are different," added the captain.

"On the bench I'm going to be at full strength. I'm going to have to put something in my pockets to stay seated. But always supporting. I told the guys that if they're hot and want to unload on me, f*** me. Because I was like that, I needed at some points in the game to take it out on someone I trusted. So I'm willing to do anything to support them, as long as it's the best for them and it's always with respect", said the player with a laugh.

The action will start this Friday at noon with the clash between Baez, 21, and Jiri Lehecka, 94th and number one of the visitors. Then, Schwartzman, 14th, will face Tomas Machac, 131st. On Saturday at 11 a.m., the doubles match will be played between Zeballos (world number five in that specialty) and Gonzalez (24th) and Zdenek Kolar and Vit Kopriva. Then, the last singles: Schwartzman-Lehecka and Báez-Machac. All matches will be broadcasted on TyC Sports

.Baez, who will play his first set, is in a great moment, after closing a great South American clay court tour with a final at the ATP of Santiago de Chile

and climbing to the 62nd step of the ranking, his best historical position.His opponent, 20 years old, made his Davis Cup debut in last year's Finals and in mid-February he reached the semis in Rotterdam, on cement.

El Peque is also confident after having achieved great results in slow court tournaments in South America: he was semifinalist in Córdoba and finalist in Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro.

The player from Buenos Aires will lead the team as he did last September in the 4-1 win against Belarus in the BALTC, which qualified Argentina to play this weekend's Qualifiers. On that occasion, the opponent was also inferior on paper, but Schwartzman surprisingly lost to Daniil Ostapenkov

, an 18-year-old junior with no ATP ranking, in a first match that came back to his memory in the last few days."I didn't expect it, neither I nor anyone else. But beyond the blow, the next day I was able to beat a similar opponent and give the fourth point and the win to the team. That's tennis, you have to make the duel as quickly as possible," he recalled. "I hope this weekend will be good. I have to be realistic, it can happen that the rivals beat you. But you have to be prepared for that and I know that if I play well, the chances are there. I come from a very good level tour and I still feel the adrenaline and tension of the last weeks, which is good."

"On paper we are favorites. But in this tournament, many times the ranking is just a number . We have to go out and play as if we were facing Nadal, with the knife between our teeth to the fullest," commented Zeballos. "With Machi I feel very comfortable, we know each other's virtues, flaws and moments of tension, so that makes it much easier."

Gonzalez commented, "These weeks are unique in the year, they are very enjoyable. Especially with the public, which always gives you extra energy. We are preparing very well. I think we are going to get to Saturday very well".

The winner of the series will get into the Finals, an instance that our country played only once, in 2019, when the new format of the tournament was released. That year, with Gaudio as captain, it lost in the quarterfinals to Spain and could not ensure its presence in the next edition, which was later cancelled due to the pandemic.

A defeat in March 2020 against Colombia in Bogota sentenced him to play Belarus to enter the 2022 Qualifiers. And this weekend they will be looking for a win that will put them back among the best teams in the world. A good challenge for a series with many special spices not to be missed.

The other duels of the 2022 QualifiersIt is notonly at the Buenos Aires Lawn Tennis that there will be Davis Cup action this weekend. Eleven other matches will be played in different parts of the world, which will also qualify the winners to the final stage of the tournament. France will host Ecuador in Pau; Spain (without Rafael Nadal), Romania in Marbella; Belgium will visit Finland in Espoo; the United States will face Colombia in Reno; the Netherlands will play at home in The Hague against Canada, which will be missing its best players; Brazil will host Germany, led by Alexander Zverev, in Rio de Janeiro; Italy, led by Jannik Sinner, will play in Bratislava against Slovakia; Sweden, in Helsingborg against Japan; Australia, in Sydney against Hungary; Norway, with Casper Ruud in its ranks, against Kazakhstan in Oslo; and South Korea will host Austria

in Seoul.The winners will go to the Finals, to be played in September (round robin) and November (quarterfinals, semis and final) in venues to be confirmed. Croatia, runner-up in the last edition, and guests Serbia and Great Britain are already in that stage. Russia, reigning champion, had also secured its place, but lost it due to the sanction imposed by the ITF for the invasion of Ukraine by that country and prohibits it from playing in international team competitions, such as the Davis Cup. See

also

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220304ei34004k2


CIA: Rubriky Reuters - Reuters - Finance - Monetary Policy and Regulation
1376 字
2022 年 3 月 4 日
CIA - Weekly Industry Profiles
CIAINP
英文
© 2022, Ceska informacni agentura s.r.o. Specialist in briefing and Hotline News Services Tel: +420-2-6278651, Fax:+420-2-6278717, E-Mail: redakce@pointa.cz
The Czech National Bank (ČNB) Czech National Bank (ČNB) has taken steps to revoke Sberbank CZ's license to operate as a bank. This was due to the deterioration of the bank's liquidity situation in connection with the outflow of deposits following the escalation of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. In connection with this, the ČNB issued a preliminary measure preventing the bank from handling assets and liabilities, including granting new loans and accepting deposits. According to the executive director Renáta Kadlecová, the financial market guarantee system is ready to start paying compensation for insured deposits in accordance with the law, up to EUR 100,000 per client. If the bank is part of an international financial group based in the EU, the ČNB cooperates with the Single Resolution Board (SRB) Single Resolution Board (SRB).(ČIA)

Despite the ongoing events in Ukraine, the Slovak banking sector provides all financial services in full. The volume of banks' exposure to companies in Ukraine and Russia is minimal and does not endanger their stability or clients. The National Bank of Slovakia (NBS) added that Slovak banks have a low level of problem loans and high coverage.(ČIA)

The average interest rate for mortgage loans with a rate fixed for five years and an LTV ratio of up to 80% offered by the largest banks is getting closer to 5%. This information was provided by Gepard Finance, adding that shorter fixed-rate periods had already broken the 5% rate. Fixed-rate periods of up to ten years may be a few tenths of a percentage point lower, but, according to Gepard Finance, this does not mean that clients should prefer them now, as, in terms of ten years, the rate around 4.6% is still relatively high.(ČIA)

Mortgage rates of all banks in February 2022 exceeded 4 % and are rather close to 5 %. The minimum currently achievable rate is 4.19 % for a loan with a 10-year fixation. The average mortgage offer rate increased by 0.2 pp m/m. This follows from Golem Finance data. The GOFI 70 stock index, which monitors mortgage bid rates, rose to 4.60 %. The increase in ČNB rates and the current tense geopolitical situation in Ukraine have not significantly affected the interbank rates so far.(ČIA)

In 2021, a total of 6,836 counterfeit or altered banknotes and coins of various currencies and denominations were seized in the Czech Republic. Their number increased by 5,447 y/y, mainly as a result of a police operation in which a large number of counterfeit euro banknotes were seized. The Czech National Bank (ČNB) Czech National Bank (ČNB) informed about it, stating that there were 1,394 counterfeit or altered Czech banknotes and coins, up by 392. Their value almost doubled to CZK 2.6m. The volume of currency in circulation at the end of 2021 was CZK 731bn. The ČNB offers instructions for checking banknote security features, for example, in the Czech Money mobile application.(ČIA)

As at January 31, 2022, banks in the Czech Republic approved 3,155 applications for loans worth CZK 14.14bn to the non-financial corporations under the COVID II state guarantee program. This follows from data from the Czech National Bank (ČNB) Czech National Bank (ČNB). Within the COVID PRAHA program, there were 302 applications with a total value of CZK 1.76bn. Those interested in support from the COVID III program sent 11,670 applications. Banks have so far approved 7,582 worth CZK 47.81 bn. The total number of submitted applications in the COVID EGAP program reached 182. Of these, 137 in the amount of CZK 17.85bn were approved.(ČIA)

Inflation in the Czech Republic is forecast to average 3.0% on an annual basis. This stems from the Czech National Bank's (CNB) February survey of analysts. They generally expect inflation to peak in Q1 2022, when it is likely to surpass the 10% threshold. Economists believe it will be crucial how much companies will reflect rising energy and material costs in output prices. Within the three-year outlook, economists expect consumer prices to rise by 2.2%. In addition, GDP growth is expected to be 3.9% in 2022. Within the monetary policy outlook, most respondents believe the central bank will raise rates by another 0.25pp in March 2022.(ČIA)

The Czech National Bank (CNB) Czech National Bank (CNB) draws the attention of all financial institutions to the increased need for effective and consistent fulfillment of obligations arising from restrictive measures in force in the Czech Republic. In particular, it draws attention to the new EU sanctions regulations in connection with the escalation of the conflict in Ukraine. The CNB also calls on financial institutions to consider the effectiveness of their systems for so-called sanction screening and not to rely solely on the lists issued to ensure the consistent application of current restrictive measures.(ČIA)

The balance sheet total of the Czech banking sector reached CZK 9.41 trillion at the end of January 2022. The dominant item on the asset side of the balance sheet is loans provided to residents, their volume amounted to CZK 6.67 trillion. Residents' deposits, which form the most important item of the banking sector's liabilities, amounted to CZK 5.99 trillion. The data were published by the Czech National Bank (CNB) Czech National Bank (CNB). The volume of loans provided to households was CZK 2.06 trillion and increased by CZK 11 billion month-on-month. Loans to non-financial corporations remained at CZK 1.19 trillion.(ČIA)

The annual growth rate of M3 in January 2022 was 6.5%. This represents a month-on-month decrease of 0.6 pp. The Czech National Bank (CNB) Czech National Bank (CNB) reported that, due to financial transactions, the M3 monetary aggregate increased by CZK 133.8 billion month on month (by CZK 351.7 billion year on year) to CZK 5736.6 billion.(ČIA)

The average interest rate on new loans to non-financial corporations (excluding overdrafts, revolving loans and credit cards) increased to 5.37 % in January 2022. The rate on loans of up to CZK 7.5m rose to 5.27 %. It increased to 4.89 % for loans in the CZK 7.5–30m range and to 5.45 % for loans over CZK 30m. The rate on overdrafts, revolving loans and credit card loans rose to 5.74 %. Of this, it increased to 5.91 % for overdrafts. This follows from data from the Czech National Bank (ČNB) Czech National Bank (ČNB).(ČIA)

Either we exclude Russia from SWIFT, or in a few days we will observe the total occupation of Ukraine by Russia and will express our deepest condemnation of this occupation. We must therefore make a choice and I am in favour of the first option, President Miloš Zeman said in his speech at the B9 Summit, adding that sanctions or blacklists alone are not enough because Russia is used to them.(ČIA)

The average interest rate on non-purpose loans fell 0.65pp to 6.10% in January 2022. This is according to the Broker Consulting Index (BC) of consumer loans. The index recorded the same value in January 2021. Analyst Michaela Pudilová noted that the continued increase in base interest rates by the Czech National Bank suggests that the interest rate on consumer loans will also go up slightly in 2022. However, she does not expect mortgage loans to see such a significant increase in the coming months.(ČIA)

The Czech National Bank (CNB) Czech National Bank (CNB) has levied a penalty of CZK 80,000 on GLOBIT CZ. The central bank stated that the company provided payment services without the relevant authorisation.(ČIA)

The Czech National Bank (CNB) Czech National Bank (CNB) levied CZK 100,000 penalty upon DSC plus for exceeding the authorisation to operate as a small-scale payment service provider. The central bank stated that in the period from August to December 2021, the monthly average of the amounts of payment transactions made by the company in the Czech Republic over the last 12 months exceeded the legal limit of EUR 3m.(ČIA)

Ceska Informacni Agentura SRO

文件 CIAINP0020220304ei340000a


news
Russians Abroad: Blamed for a Regime They Sought to Escape
James Beardsworth
825 字
2022 年 3 月 4 日
The Moscow Times
MOSTIM
英文
© Copyright 2022. The Moscow Times. All rights reserved.
Russians Abroad: Blamed for a Regime They Sought to Escape

"Everyone from post-Soviet states feels vulnerable right now."

When Russian Andrei Kroo left his home in Ceske Budejovice last week, a city in the south of Czech Republic populated by a small Russian diaspora, he found the words “Here are Russians - KGB” scrawled onto the front of his home.

“Of course, I was outraged by this, but I can understand it. When Russia is waging war in Europe, every reasonable person should protest, but of course only an idiot would protest in this way,” Kroo told The Moscow Times.

Since Vladimir Putin ordered Russian troops over the Ukrainian border last week, in what is widely considered to be an illegal and full-scale invasion, Russian and Russian-speaking diasporas living abroad have seen an uptick in anti-Russian sentiment.

An outpouring of emotion by the international community, who have watched Ukrainains flee their home country in waves, with an estimated 1 million refugees pouring into Eastern Europe in the last week, has left many feeling a bitter contempt towards Russia.

Many Russians though feel that this contempt is unfairly directed at Russian citizens, many who do not condone the actions of their government.

“It's very upsetting what is happening in Ukraine, but of course it's all about politics but some people decide to take it out on a peaceful person,” one Russian-speaking Uzbek told The Moscow Times, after being likened to Putin by a shopkeeper in London who overheard her speaking Russian.

“I immigrated because murderers and thieves siezed power in Russia,” said Kroo, a property developer originally from Omsk who fled the country over 20 years ago. “We have to oppose the actions of Putin and his criminal entourage.”

Yet many Russians living abroad are now being held responsible for a regime that they wanted to escape.

Russian food stores in Germany and the Czech Republic reported[https://zpravy.aktualne.cz/domaci/mluvis-rusky-takze-jsi-putin/r~868371069a0f11ecab010cc47ab5f122/] cases of vandalism, classrooms in both Australia and the U.K. have been forced to put in measures to safeguard[https://inews.co.uk/news/education/russian-pupils-uk-private-schools-ukraine-invasion-1484927] Russian and Ukrainian students, and outside a cafe in Portugal a sign appeared with the words written[https://www.exler.ru/blog/russkiye-ne-obsluzhivayutsya.htm] “Russians will not be served.”

“That’s the thing, we all are scared,” Natalia Khetagurova, a Russian from Vladikavkaz who now lives in London, told The Moscow Times.

Not only are Russians fearing a spike in anti-Russian sentiment, but as Western-sanctions in retaliation to Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine become more far-reaching, Khetagurova fears that Russians living in the West may be next to feel the wrath of the West’s crackdown on Russia.

“I feel like at any moment I can be asked to pack my suitcases and told to get out of the country,” she said.

Sanctions originally aimed at Russian financial institutions are also aimed at Russia’s cultural and sporting spheres, triggering a trend of shutting out Russian culture and art by European institutions in the West in an attempt to show solidarity with Ukraine.

Forthcoming performances across Europe by the Russian State Ballet Company of Siberia were canceled. Critics have called for the ousting of the popular children’s cartoon show Masha and the Bear stating it is part[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/childrens-show-is-propaganda-for-putin-say-critics-j9wxcvslm] of Russia’s “propaganda machine.” Glasgow[https://www.thenational.scot/news/19969135.gff22-festival-clarifies-choice-pull-russian-films/] and Stockholm[https://www.hollywoodreporter.com/movies/movie-news/stockholm-festival-bans-russian-films-ukraine-oleh-sentsov-1235101000/] film festivals have pulled Russian movies from this year’s programs.

“These are secondary effects of the international isolation that Putin pushed Russia into,” said political-risk analyst Dionis Cenusa, who focuses on sanctions and security. “This damages not only diplomatic, political or economic ties, but also Russian soft power represented by its culture and language,” Cenusa told The Moscow Times.

Russian officials have repeatedly slammed the mounting sanctions against Russia, with Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov admitting Wednesday he was surprised by the West’s decision to sanction cultural figures.

“We were ready for sanctions, but we did not expect that they would affect athletes, intellectuals, actors, and media figures,” Lavrov said[https://lenta.ru/news/2022/03/02/lavov_ne_ozhidali/].

“There is a line beyond which economic sanctions to press Putin to end this awful war bleed into cultural sanctions with a high likelihood of stoking unnecessary anti-Russian sentiment,” a Twitter user wrote[https://twitter.com/DKThomp] in response to The Cat Federation banning Russian cats from its shows[https://www.themoscowtimes.com/2022/03/03/russian-cats-banned-from-international-shows-over-russias-actions-in-ukraine-a76739].

For Russians living abroad, opinions about the crackdown of Russian culture are divided. For Kroo, it is necessary to draw a line between state and non-state linked personnel.

“It’s necessary to isolate cultural figures who openly support the Kremlin's policy,” Kroo said.

Yet for Khetagurova, any measure taken that may put pressure on Russians to voice discontent at home and bring a stop to the war should be taken, no matter how tough it is to take.

“It’s extremely sad, but if there is no other way to let our government know that what they are doing is wrong, then we have to deal with it.”

TMT LLC

文件 MOSTIM0020220304ei340008e


The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has said Russia is "likely" ramping up claims...
10778 字
2022 年 3 月 8 日 21:53 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Ministry of Defence (MoD) has said Russia is "likely" ramping up claims Ukraine is developing nuclear or biological weapons as "retrospective justification" for its invasion.

"Since the end of February there has been a notable intensification of Russian accusations that Ukraine is developing nuclear or biological weapons," a MoD statement said.

"These narratives are long standing but are currently likely being amplified as part of retrospective justification for Russia's invasion of Ukraine."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he would update MPs on Wednesday on the support being offered by the UK to the Ukrainian forces.

He told Sky News: "We started off, obviously, with 2,000 Nlaws - light anti-tank weapons.

"We've changed and increased both the Nlaws and others, and I will make a statement tomorrow, I think, in Parliament to give the details.

"Britain is stepping up and doing that, we are supporting the co-ordination of delivery throughout Ukraine."

The UK was "in a good place to make sure they get better defence and more defence".

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he would support Poland whether or not it decided to donate MiG-29 fighter jets to Ukraine.

The US has urged Poland to supply the Soviet-era planes, offering to provide replacement US jets instead.

Mr Wallace told Sky News: "Poland will understand that the choices it makes will not only directly help Ukraine, which is a good thing, but also may bring them into direct line of fire from countries such as Russia or Belarus.

"They will have to calibrate that. That's a really big responsibility on the shoulders of the President of Poland and, indeed, defence minister.

"So, it's not for me to second-guess their choice. But it is for me as a fellow Nato member to say I will stand by Poland."

Ben Wallace said the Ministry of Defence would help the Home Office process visa applications from Ukrainians fleeing the war zone.

On Monday night, the Home Office said 300 visas had been issued from a total of 17,700 family scheme applications which have been started, 8,900 of which have been submitted.

The Defence Secretary told Sky News: "The question really relies on how many checks we do once people reach a safe space.

"So, no-one is stopping those people getting across their borders into a safe space.

"The first and foremost duty for all of us is to make sure that people get to safety.

"Once they've got to safety, making sure we just check their identity before they come to this country, it is incredibly important that we do that.

"It shouldn't take time. And I've offered, I will be offering, to the Home Office assistance from the MoD in the same way we did in Op Pitting (the evacuation of Afghanistan) to increase the processing time to help those people."

Ben Wallace acknowledged the processing of visa applications could be speeded up.

The Defence Secretary told Sky News: "I know the Home Secretary is determined to speed that up."

He added: "This is fast moving. The first duty is for the Government to help people get to safety ... the next responsibility is to make sure we process them as quickly as possible.

"Of course, we can do that quicker, we are leaning into that, the Home Secretary is determined to do that quicker, I will give her all the support I can."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Vladimir Putin's forces were "getting more desperate" and "we are seeing the Russians just double down on brutality".

He told BBC Breakfast: "Russia has still not been making its advances, it's day 13. That northern column that we have often talked about is still pretty much stuck, I mean really stuck, so that's not advancing.

"Russian casualty rates are continuing and what we have seen is - yes - a number of the cities have been effectively encircled, but when Russian forces try to enter they are either repelled or they only manage to take a small part of the cities, suffering very large casualties.

"So, Russia is not getting its way at all, despite overwhelming forces.

"It is getting more desperate, which is why we see huge amounts of indiscriminate shelling."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace acknowledged "we need to do more" to address the situation in Calais.

Hundreds of Ukrainians at Calais have been told they need to travel back to Paris or Brussels to apply for a visa where they face a lengthy wait, the BBC reported.

"It's difficult for those people - why wouldn't it be - to go all the way back to Paris," he told BBC Breakfast.

"We need to upscale it, I know that the Home Secretary has already doubled, or trebled in some cases, more people in different processing centres.

"We can do more, we will do more."

He insisted the Government's compassion was "huge" and would result in hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians coming to the UK.

"It's not the case that we are only allowing 300 people in, it is the case that the system has not been quick enough, which is what we're going to address."

A former Centrica boss has said the issue surrounding the supply of oil and gas from Russia is about price more than volume.

Iain Conn told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme: "We are very dependent as a region on Russian oil and gas. Russia is the second largest producer of natural gas, and the third largest producer of crude oil, and Europe takes approximately half of the exports of both of those from Russia.

"Just to put that in context, the world uses 4,000 billion cubic metres of gas a year, Europe uses 500 of those, and of that the UK uses 78.

"Now, the UK does not import much Russian gas directly, it's about six per cent of our imports. However, what we do import from Europe comes from Norway, Belgium and the Netherlands, and we can only import this gas because enough gas is coming into eastern Europe from Russia.

"Russia currently supplies 150 billion cubic metres a year of Europe's total imports, so we are very dependent on both Russia and oil and gas as a region, less so in the UK.

"This is, therefore, for the UK about price, because we are inextricably linked to the prices of these commodities in Europe."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will address MPs at Westminster later on Tuesday.

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace told the BBC: "I have been very privileged to meet the President of Ukraine on a number of occasions.

"He is young, he is modern, his values are what President Putin hates, and that is why President Putin is so determined to try to snuff out the values of Ukraine.

"Well, we are not going to let that happen."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said the carnage in Ukraine could spell the end for Vladimir Putin's rule in Russia.

"This will be Putin's end, this country, and so it should be because of, not only their spirit and the moral component that they have on their side - the Ukrainians - but also because it will be an impossible task to occupy such a people and a country."

Asked how the war will end, he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Either when the Russian forces are so stuck and defeated that the Russian armed forces effectively turn in on itself and the generals get blamed and then it grinds to a halt, or Russia imposes its total will, which it is already trying to do by trying to break the people of Ukraine.

"Putin won't break the people of Ukraine but... he is doing everything he can to break the country's infrastructure and their supply lines for food."

But he added: "The cost to Putin is not just in the invasion, it's going to be in the decades of occupation, which I don't think he will be able to sustain."

Vladimir Putin is a "spent force" in the world, Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that the Russian president "seems to have no limit to the humanitarian grief and murder he can inflict on a country".

"Whatever we think about President Putin, he is done. He is a spent force in the world. No-one will be taking his phone calls in the long term," the Cabinet minister said.

"He has exhausted his army, he is responsible for thousands of Russian soldiers being killed, responsible for innocent people being killed, civilians being killed in Ukraine.

"He is reducing his economy to zero, because the international community has decided that is absolutely unacceptable, what he's done.

"So he is a spent force in the world and I don't know whether he thinks that's a clever thing to be, but that diminishes his own country in the world and he has to take responsibility for that."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he will provide Priti Patel with "as many people as she likes" to assist with processing visas.

Asked why a pop-up centre cannot be established in Calais today, he said: "I'm not the Home Secretary, that's why not.

"The responsibility for the processing of our borders is the responsibility of the Home Secretary."

He told ITV's Good Morning Britain: "What I can do - and I know the Home Secretary is determined to do - is, as the Ministry of Defence did in Afghanistan, I can lean in to provide her with as many people as she likes, as many people as she needs to do the processing."

He said they would be MoD officials rather than troops, because armed forces cannot be deployed to France without permission from Paris.

Oil giant Shell has apologised for buying a shipment of Russian oil last week at knock-down prices as it promised to slowly end its involvement in all Russian oil, gas and petroleum.

"We are acutely aware that our decision last week to purchase a cargo of Russian crude oil to be refined into products like petrol and diesel - despite being made with security of supplies at the forefront of our thinking - was not the right one and we are sorry," said chief executive Ben van Beurden.

The business said it will immediately stop all spot purchases of Russian crude oil and will shut its service stations, aviation fuel and lubricants operations in Russia.

Withdrawal from other associations with Russia will happen "in a phased manner, aligned with new government guidance", the company said.

The announcement follows the withdrawal of several major international companies from Russia following its unprovoked full invasion of Ukraine.

A man has appeared in court in Dublin after a large lorry crashed into the gates of the Russian embassy on Monday.

Desmond Wisley, aged 49 and with an address at Tully, Ballinamore, Leitrim, was charged with dangerous driving and criminal damage.

Mr Wisley, who runs an ecclesiastical supplies company, appeared at Tallaght District Court in south Dublin on Tuesday morning.

He was released on bail.

A new "pop-up" visa application site for Ukrainian refugees will be set up in Lille, the Foreign Secretary has said after the Government's resettlement policy was called "cruel and chaotic".

At Foreign Office Questions, Labour MP Diane Abbott (Hackney North and Stoke Newington) said: "Will the Foreign Secretary speak to her colleague the Home Secretary about the cruel and chaotic way that desperate Ukrainian refugees are being treated by her department?

"It cannot be right that there is no visa application centre in Calais and Ukrainian refugees who travel thousands of miles to Calais are being redirected to either Paris or Brussels. Does the Foreign Secretary agree that this brings the UK into disrepute?"

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss replied: "The Home Office have placed staff in Poland and Hungary to help people, they have also ... the Home Secretary has announced a new pop-up application site in Lille.

"I can tell her that the Home Office has set up a surgery for MPs in Portcullis House which I am sure she will be very welcome to take any cases she has to."

(Corrected repetition, removing part of quote in par three, repeats for those needing)

Speaking to reporters outside court on Tuesday, Desmond Wisley thanked Irish police for the "professionalism, courtesy, kindness" they displayed since his arrest.

He said: "It shows us how democracy should work."

He spoke of a need to "keep the pressure on (Vladimir) Putin, to stop the war in Ukraine and especially the murder of innocent children".

He also spoke about the Russian Ambassador to Ireland, Yury Filatov.

"If he is going to continue spreading lies about the war and not tell Putin that enough is enough and to stop the war for the sake of the children, then I ask the Irish Government to expel the ambassador and his staff back to Russia."

Justice Secretary Dominic Raab will be "travelling to the Hague" to help an international effort to gather evidence for Vladimir Putin's war crimes in Ukraine, the Foreign Secretary has said.

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy said: "The world watched Putin's premeditated stalking of Ukraine. We saw the lies, the false diplomacy and the manufactured grievances, and then we witnessed the destructive invasion of a sovereign state.

"This was a crime of aggression. The creation of a special tribunal will help the global community hold Vladimir Putin and his cronies personally responsible for this war, and it will complement the International Criminal Court's investigation.

"Ukraine's foreign minister backs it, several of our allies and partners back it, leading lawyers back it. Will the Foreign Secretary now do the same?"

The Foreign Secretary replied: "I completely agree with him that we are seeing horrific crimes taking place in Ukraine which are the responsibility of President Putin. That is why the United Kingdom have worked with our allies to put a case to the ICC.

"There were 38 states, which is the biggest-ever group referral to the ICC. I think that is the right route to tackle the war crimes which we consider could have taken place or are taking place in Ukraine, and what we want to do is work with countries to collect the evidence.

"The Justice Secretary will be travelling to the Hague to work on that specific issue."

The UK's sanctions have had a larger "overall financial impact" than those of other countries, despite having targeted fewer oligarchs directly, the Foreign Secretary has said.

Labour MP Matt Western (Warwick and Leamington) told the Commons: "Targeted sanctions are critical if we are to avoid significant collateral economic damage. However, despite what the Government may claim, the facts speak for themselves."

Reading from a printout of a pie chart, he added: "According to Castellum AI, the total Russian sanctions imposed by countries since 2014 is as follows: US - 1,200; Canada - 900; Switzerland 800; the EU- 766; the UK - just 271. This isn't leadership is it? Why is the Government so slow?"

Liz Truss replied: "We have led on cutting Russia off from Swift, we have led on closing our airspace and closing our ports.

"If we look at the total financial impact - because the aim here is to debilitate the Russian economy - the sanctions that we have put on banks, defence, aviation and oligarchs add up to £364 billion, for the US they add up to £340 billion and for the EU they add up to £124 billion.

"We have to look at the overall financial impact and it is much higher for the UK than for our allies, but of course we encourage them all to do more, we need to work together."

Boris Johnson told ministers that the Government would be "as generous as we could" to Ukrainian refugees.

The Prime Minister made the comments at Tuesday's Cabinet meeting, where Home Secretary Priti Patel updated her colleagues on the "extra resources" being put in to address the crisis.

A No 10 spokesman said: "The Prime Minister paid tribute to the Ukrainian people for their heroic continued resistance to Putin's unprovoked and illegitimate attack on the country.

"The Prime Minister said in the face of this brave resistance it was clear that (Vladimir) Putin miscalculated and was now increasing his level of violence, with evidence of indiscriminate attacks on civilians."

Mr Johnson "said he would do all that he could to support the country and this includes continuing to provide Ukraine armed forces with defensive lethal aid and equipment", while the UK was also the "largest humanitarian donor".

"The Prime Minister said that we would be as generous as we could in our support to Ukraine refugees and the Home Secretary set out the extra resources we're putting in place into processing visas for those Ukrainians who have been forced to flee," the spokesman said.

A new Cabinet committee will be set up to co-ordinated work on the response to the situation in Ukraine, chaired by Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster Steve Barclay.

There will be an "economic cost for British people from these sanctions", Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has warned.

Conservative Mark Harper (Forest of Dean) asked: "If President Putin is to understand that we're serious then he also needs to know that we're going to be able to sustain that package of sanctions over a considerable period of time, and he's only going to believe that if we're honest with the public that it isn't just going to be a cost to Russia, but it's also going to have a significant economic cost here, and that we have to make the argument that it's necessary to pay it, to keep us safe and secure in the future, and I urge the Foreign Secretary to do so."

Ms Truss replied: "Of course, there will be an economic cost for British people from these sanctions, in terms of their energy bills and their cost of living, but that cost is nothing compared to the cost to the people of Ukraine of this horrific barbarism they're facing.

"It is also not compared to the cost of allowing Putin to succeed because what we know is if Putin does not lose in Ukraine, then this will not be the limit of his ambitions. He has already been clear that he wants to see a greater Russia, that could encompass countries like Moldova and the Baltic states.

"It is vitally important that we throw everything at sanctions, we help as much as we can with defensive weaponry into Ukraine because this is a battle that Putin needs to lose."

A new visa processing centre in France will be set up "in the coming days", Downing Street said.

The centre will be established in Lille, rather than at Calais where hundreds of Ukrainians have gathered seeking permission to come to the UK.

A No 10 spokesman said the centre was "en route to Calais" and "the Home Office are working quickly to set it up and we expect it to be set up in the coming days".

Asked why it was not being set up in Calais, where Ukrainians had already gathered, the spokesman said: "We obviously want to make sure that we can provide the appropriate level of support that those who are seeking to enter the UK require.

"Obviously the Home Office and Border Force are best placed to make a call on where that would be best based to help support those people who are making their way through France."

Asked what Ukrainians already in Calais should do, the spokesman said the new application centre would be set up shortly, "there is a helpline in place" and "facilities and staff in neighbouring countries to Ukraine".

Labour shadow Foreign Office minister Catherine West criticised the Government's efforts to offer refuge to Ukrainians, calling it a "shameful lack of humanity" and a "stain" on otherwise commendable efforts to address the crisis.

Speaking in the Commons, she said Poland has offered refuge to around a million refugees, Ireland several hundred thousand "but here in the UK barely a hundred being able to find refuge".

She said: "This is a shameful lack of humanity in the face of the greatest humanitarian catastrophe in Europe since World War Two.

"Does the Secretary of State agree this paltry effort to offer refuge is a stain on our otherwise commendable effort to the crisis in Ukraine and will she urgently work with Home Secretary, shake up the Home Office, and get this sorted?"

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "The Home Office have opened new centres for people to be able to put their applications in.

"They are running a 24/7 helpline, they do have the surgery for MPs in Portcullis House. And I would also point the honourable lady to the fact that we are the largest donor of humanitarian aid, £220 million.

"We want to help people also settle in region. Many people coming from Ukraine want to settle locally and we are also helping in that effort by sending our humanitarian teams to the region."

SNP foreign affairs spokesman Alyn Smith argued the "rhetoric is simply not matched by the reality" on Russian sanctions.

He said: "There is mounting frustration on these benches at the lack of progress and the lack of ambition in the UK's sanctions regime. The rhetoric is simply not matched by the reality. The reality is that the EU has gone further and faster on these sanctions matters.

"Can I urge the Foreign Secretary to work more closely with the EU, particularly in the due diligence on individual sanctions, and replicate the EU's sanctions in order to actually complement the EU's efforts and have a much more comprehensive sanctions regime."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss replied: "What (he) says simply isn't the case. What we are seeking to do here is debilitate the Russian economy, we have targeted and sanctioned £364 billion of assets, the EU have targeted £124 billion of assets.

"Yes, there are specific issues over individuals which we are addressing through the emergency legislation that went through the House and will be in place next week, and we will be able to sanction all the individuals that he is referring to, but it is simply not true to say that the UK has not led on this, we have led on it.

"We led on Swift, we led on banning ships from British ports ... we led on closing airspace to Russian planes and it simply isn't true what he's saying."

SNP international development spokesperson Chris Law MP criticised the Government's response to Ukrainians seeking to come to the UK, saying the Home Secretary should either change the policies or resign.

Speaking in the Commons, Mr Law said: "On International Women's Day, Europe is leading and united in welcoming over two million refugees, almost all of which are women and children, fleeing the bloody and murderous war by Putin against Ukraine and its citizens.

"Yet, pitifully, the UK stands at only 300 visas. Shamefully, this morning we learned in the Daily Telegraph that while Ireland has waived visas and expects to welcome 100,000 refugees, the UK Government has expressed fears that this will create a drug route to the UK."

He said: "Does the Foreign Secretary realise that the Home Office's continued xenophobic and inhumane immigration policy must be for her and her office a complete humiliation as it undermines the support for Ukraine's people, and will she now call on her colleague the Home Secretary either to reverse this policy or to resign?"

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "We've opened up two new routes. The Home Secretary has opened up a family route, she has opened up a sponsored humanitarian route, and we're also doing huge support in the region. We are working very closely with the Ukrainian Government as well as local governments like the Polish."

Britain must be willing to pay the price necessary to maintain peace in Europe, a Foreign Office minister has said amid calls to boost defence spending.

Conservative MP Julian Lewis, who chairs the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament, said the most important thing members of the G7 who are also members of Nato can do to secure European security is "to raise their defence budgets to levels that we used to spend when faced with this sort of confrontational approach from Russia".

James Cleverly, in his reply, said the UK has "consistently met our 2% of GDP target for Nato expenditure" and welcomed the German government's "bold" move to increase their defence spending.

He added in the Commons: "This situation in Ukraine is a reminder that peace comes at a price and we have to be willing to pay that price to maintain the peace."

SNP MP Stephen Flynn (Aberdeen South) said: "It's reported today that the UK Government regards Ukrainian refugees entering Ireland as a security threat; women and bairns fleeing Putin's bombs a security threat.

"When is this Government going to cut the hyperbole, cut the bureaucracy and get these poor souls sanctuary in this country?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster told MPs the the Government "will not take chances with the security of this country and our people".

Responding to an urgent question by Conservative MP Sir Geoffrey Clifton-Brown (The Cotswolds) on how the Home Office can speed up the urgent refugee applications coming from those leaving Ukraine, Mr Foster said: "This Government has brought forward a generous humanitarian offer to those Ukrainians who wants to come to the UK to escape this conflict.

"Last week, the Home Secretary announced a new Ukraine Family Scheme for those with family ties to the UK and we are extending the scheme further to include aunts, uncles, nephews, nieces, cousins and in-laws."

Mr Foster reminded the House that "a crucial part of the application process is providing biometrics so we can be sure applications are who they say they are".

He added: "Sadly, we are already seeing people presenting at Calais with false documents claiming to be Ukrainian.

"With incidents like Salisbury still in our minds, the Government will not take chances with the security of this country and our people. Our friends in the United States, Canada and Australia are rightly taking the same approach."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss was heckled by opposition MPs after suggesting officials were responsible for loan guarantees to a Russian coal company.

Labour MP Jessica Morden (Newport East) told the former international trade secretary: "The Financial Times reported today that UK taxpayers may be forced to foot a £43 million bill for loans taken out by Russia's biggest coal company and underwritten by the Government's export agency.

"Can I ask the Foreign Secretary if she knows who the international trade secretary was at the time that the deal was agreed with one of Russia's richest oligarchs and whether the minister in question personally authorised the agreement?"

Ms Truss replied: "I know from my time at trade that those agreements tend to be signed off by officials."

In response to a written parliamentary question from Labour's Emily Thornberry, trade minister Mike Freer said earlier this month: "UK Export Finance's remaining exposure from the underwriting of credit for buyers located in the Russian Federation between 2014/15 and 2020/21 as at January 31 2022 (the latest date for which complete figures are available) was £49,970,667."

The Government faced scrutiny over when a new visa processing centre for Ukrainians in Lille would be ready as Labour called on it to "do our historic bit" for refugees fleeing the war-torn country.

Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper said: "Two million refugees have left Ukraine. Other countries are supporting hundreds and thousands of people. The Home Office is currently issuing just around 250 family scheme visas a day.

"Most want to stay close to home but some want to come here to join family or friends, and we should be helping them, instead most people are still being held up by our Home Office bureaucracy or being turned away."

Ms Cooper said that there are "600 people in Calais right now who have been turned back".

She added: "Yesterday the Home Secretary told the House twice that a visa centre en route to Calais has now been set up but it still doesn't exist.

"The Foreign Secretary just said it might be in Lille - nearly 72 miles from Calais, the Home Office said this morning that no decision had been taken. Well, which is it? Has it? Where is it? Can people get there yet?"

She also asked: "Will the Government urgently set up emergency visa centres at all major travel points, do security checks on the spot and then issue emergency visas for Ukrainians, for families, but not just families, so they can come here and the UK can do our historic bit to help refugees fleeing war in Europe as we have done before?"

The Home Office is looking to establish a presence in Lille and, potentially, to provide transport from Calais to Lille, Home Office minister Kevin Foster has said.

Mr Foster said: "We are looking to establish a presence in Lille and also potentially to look at transport as well options from Calais to Lille.

"There are issues with providing specific application points at the port, but we are looking at how we can do it and we expect that to be set up within the next 24 hours."

The Home Office minister's comments come as Tory MP Sir Geoffrey Clifton-Brown told the Commons: "I understand we require a process to securely check applications that are made, not only for security reasons, but also so that we can provide provide the support in this country.

"However, we surely could speed the process up. We need efficiency but also humanity when it when processing applications of refugees from Ukraine, and we should warmly welcome those refugees to this country."

Home Office minister Kevin Foster told the Commons more than 500 visas have been issued.

He said: "The (Ukraine Family) Scheme went live last Friday and has already seen over 10,000 applications submitted, of which over 500 visas have been issued with more being issued as we speak.

"We've also announced we're setting up a new humanitarian sponsorship visa and we're working at pace with our colleagues in the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities to set this up alongside, we'll also work with the devolved administrations."

Responding to Yvette Cooper, Home Office minister Kevin Foster told the Commons that the Government was alert to people "presenting themselves at Calais pretending to be Ukrainian".

Mr Foster said: "In terms of the point about setting up a facility in northern France, the answer on this was in the comments I have just made, in terms of Lille and in terms of setting it up in the next 24 hours."

He later added: "This is a complex scenario. We have seen, as I have touched on already in the statement, people presenting themselves at Calais port pretending to be Ukrainian.

"Now we have seen some opposite saying that is not an issue, but I think we only need to look at some of the statements coming out of the Kremlin to see which countries are very much in the cross-hairs of Mr Putin's Russia and regime, and also we have to look back a short period ago to see the impact on this country, in this country, of attacks by those pretending they had come here to look at a cathedral spire."

Conservative Sir Roger Gale (North Thanet) queried the Home Secretary's earlier remarks.

He said: "I'm sorry that the Home Secretary is not here today to answer. In response to my question yesterday, the Home Secretary said 'I have already made it clear in terms of the visa application centre that has now been set up en route to Calais that we have staff in Calais'.

"That was untrue and under any normal administration that in itself would be a resignation (issue). There is no visa centre at Lille yet, in spite of the fact that the Foreign Secretary earlier this morning said that there was.

"A week ago, the Home Secretary announced a humanitarian sponsorship visa, there is yet no humanitarian sponsorship visa. It's time the Home Office granted a visa waiver and allowed children and all of those adults with Ukrainian passports to come into the country now."

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "I understand the Home Secretary clarified her remarks yesterday. There is a reason why we believe it is right that key security checks are done before people arrive here in the UK."

Conservative former Cabinet minister Dame Andrea Leadsom said she agrees with concerns about the speed of processing visas, but said it is "shocking to hear the opposition jeering at the prospect of the Government trying to protect UK people".

She told the Commons: "I think it's fantastic the breadth of support that the UK Government is offering to Ukraine, as recognised by Ukrainians.

"I also think it is shocking to hear the opposition jeering at the prospect of the Government trying to protect UK people from further such attacks as took place in Salisbury.

"Nevertheless, I do agree with colleagues who have a concern about the speed of processing of these visas."

Conservative former minister Damian Green said he does not understand why biometric checks cannot be done once people arrive in the UK.

He asked if the minister could give "some indication whether it will be weeks or months before the humanitarian sponsorship route is open".

He said: "I take his point about security and the need for biometric checks. I don't understand why those biometric checks can't be done in this country when we have got people safe and sound."

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "Those who are applying to this are actually in safe countries as we speak.

"There's no requirement for people ... to stay in Ukraine to make an application, in fact there is no need at all if they can safely make their way across the border to one of the safe and democratic countries next door that we are supporting to provide support to those that are crossing the border."

He said: "He would know from his own experience a range of reasons, if we bring people into the country to perform checks, certainly we don't want to go down paths of things like using immigration detention powers or things like that whilst certain checks are undertaken, which we do not believe would be appropriate at all."

The minister said elsewhere during the debate that "it should come as no surprise that those countries that are least popular with the Putin regime, ourselves, the United States, Canada, Australia, are taking similar approaches" to the issue.

Conservative former immigration minister Mark Harper has told MPs the Government needs to "grip the pace of this".

He told the Commons: "As a former immigration minister, I am very sympathetic to the need to do appropriate security checks but I do have to say to the minister, as somebody who has gone out publicly to defend the Government on this issue, we do need to grip the pace of this and it will require ministers to take decisions to move things along quickly.

"So, can I say to him, on the humanitarian sponsorship route, the Home Secretary announced it a week ago. I heard what my right honourable friend said about weeks or months, I was thinking more days.

"I would expect the minister speaking on behalf of the Government to be at that dispatch box by Thursday to set this out. We have got to start working at the pace that these events require. So, can I ask him to give that commitment for an update on Thursday for the humanitarian sponsorship?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "Certainly, the Government will be happy to update members on what's happening on Thursday, whether that's through a dear colleague or other appropriate forum.

"But certainly our intention is not that this is going ... certainly not going to take months, and certainly it's more in the weeks before we start welcoming people into the UK.

"But this will be one of the most, as I say, an unlimited offer that reflects the generosity and people wish to make, but I appreciate we now need to get on and get it launched."

SNP home affairs spokesman Stuart McDonald said: "It is time to stop messing about with the broken bureaucracy, it's time to scrap it altogether, no more visas required. That is how we quickly fulfil our obligations to the people of Ukraine."

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "There are people presenting with false documents, there are people making claims that are not true."

Conservative former immigration minister Caroline Nokes said: "Snails also move at pace, there is no date set yet for a humanitarian sponsorship visa and, as a result, those people coming forward with generous offers are advising their Ukrainian friends to apply for visitors visas, but what of those who do not have passports, what of those children who are completely undocumented, when (he) says he is moving at pace it needs to be a great deal faster."

Labour chair of the Home Affairs Committee Dame Diana Johnson called for clarity on the humanitarian visa, asking: "Is this under consideration by the Home Office, as it's quite clear there is a lot of support for a humanitarian visa to be granted?"

Mr Foster replied: "We've got the process in place as it stands for those who have relatives, we are extending that to well beyond the normal relatives and dependants that we look at, and the wider sponsorship route will give many other opportunities for people to come to the UK."

Labour MP Clive Efford described a visa centre in Poland in "complete chaos" and said the situation was "unacceptable".

The MP for Eltham told the Commons: "One visa centre in Poland has closed its doors.

"It's no longer allowing walk-in appointments. It's 81 degrees outside, there's an 81-year-old woman outside and women and children.

"There's plenty of room inside but they won't open the doors. This is complete chaos and unacceptable. What's the minister going to do about it?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "I'm happy to look at the particular example cited, but we are surging staff and resource.

"We are conscious of the position there, about how we can increase capacity, ensure we can get as many people in as possible."

Conservative former minister Dr Andrew Murrison asked the Government why the Republic of Ireland has admitted already more than 2,000 refugees from Ukraine but the UK has "come nowhere even close to that".

Speaking in the Commons, the MP for South West Wiltshire said: "Salisbury borders my constituency, I fully accept the need for security checks, particularly on adult males.

"But the fact remains that the Republic of Ireland, with which we share a common travel area, has a population of five million, but has committed to 100,000 refugees from Ukraine, has admitted already over 2,000.

"This country, population 67 million, has come nowhere even close to that. Why not?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "First I'd say that if you look at what we're doing, we estimate about 100,000 people potentially eligible for the family route and we have an unlimited position in relation to the sponsorship route, which could well see us exceed quite significantly the numbers offered by the Republic of Ireland."

The UK needs to "deliver a generous scheme" for Ukrainian refugees with first steps in place by Wednesday, a Conservative former minister has said.

Conservative MP Steve Brine (Winchester) said: "So much about this doesn't feel right. My constituents know what they see. All of this is far too robotic and, to take up the point made on the other side, there is very little Christian compassion being shown at the moment.

"Surely we are past the UK saying we are going to have a generous scheme? It is time to deliver a generous scheme.

"The family scheme is too slow, the humanitarian sponsorship route which I raised in the Commons yesterday with the Secretary of State is still in design over at the Department of Communities, and I don't want the minister to say that is another department. He is the minister at the box.

"At the very least, can we have a very simple online gateway up and running tomorrow where constituents who want to help can at least register their interest? There is so much compassion and want to help, and people are not able to do so."

Home Office minister Kevin Foster said many councils "are already offering to take registrations, details and offers of help as part of the process of preparing for the launch of the humanitarian sponsorship route", adding: "Certainly it is something that I am encouraging my own constituents to do and I know he will be encouraging his own to think of what offers that they can make."

Former de facto deputy prime minister Damian Green said it is taking "too long" to set up the Ukrainian refugee schemes and called for the Home Office to redeploy people to visa application centres to speed up the process.

He questioned why the humanitarian sponsorship scheme was still not open, despite ministers announcing it last week, and criticised the "sheer confusion" involved with the Ukraine Family Scheme after it was suggested refugees would have to go to Lille rather than Calais to apply.

Speaking to BBC Radio 4's World At One programme, the Conservative MP said: "I think the underlying problem is that what the Home Office is trying to do, and this is the Home Office as an institution, is try to tweak the existing immigration system rather than recognise that this is a unique situation.

"(There is) war in Europe - that has not been seen for decades - and actually it requires a more radical response."

The former Home Office minister added: "If the problem is that there aren't enough people at visa application centres, then get more people in those visa application centres.

"If that means they have to be taken off other duties, then so be it."

Conservative MP Alec Shelbrooke (Elmet and Rothwell) told the Home Office to "get a grip" on processing visa applications for Ukrainian refugees.

He told the Commons: "I'm proud of my constituents who are coming forward to offer as much help as possible, I'm proud of the Prime Minister in the way he's leading the world, but the Home Office is cutting off their legs and it is simply not good enough.

"Does the Home Office recognise that this is a war of the likes that has not been seen for 80 years in Europe? We don't want to stand in this House and listen to plans and processes, we want dates, we want action and the Home Office must react far more quickly than it's doing and get to the point of hubs of people, get them processed and get them in.

"This is a disgrace. When the minister leaves the despatch box I ask him to go back to the Home Office and tell them to get a grip."

Siobhan Baillie, Conservative MP for Stroud, said: "Stroud people want to understand what the chuff is going on."

Conservative MP Julian Sturdy said his York Outer constituents are ready and willing to offer help, adding: "The only barrier to their support seems to be Home Office bureaucracy.

"Now is not the time for box ticking and red tape, now is the time to do everything we can; no more excuses, we have to move the process forward, we have to speed it up."

The Government was called on to condemn reports of Ukrainian people from BAME backgrounds being turned away after fleeing to the borders with the war-torn nation's neighbours.

Labour MP for Bradford East Imran Hussain told MPs: "I am deeply concerned about reports that there are refugees from a BAME background who are being stopped at the Ukrainian border and turned away.

"Does the minister agree that these reports are despicable and can he tell me what the Government is doing to ensure the safe passage of all refugees fleeing from this horrific conflict?"

Home Office minister Kevin Foster replied: "Certainly it would be concerning if people are being turned away - but obviously we don't control the Ukrainian border, he will appreciate.

"Obviously there is Ukrainian law in relation to men aged 18 to 60 who are required to stay in Ukraine in terms of military service including dual nationals, which again is a decision taken by Ukraine.

"But, certainly, we would be clear that race and ethnicity should not play any part in terms of the decision at the border in allowing people to leave and enter into the safe and democratic countries next door, and then potentially enter into the UK via our schemes."

Boris Johnson said Vladimir Putin was intent on creating a new "Russian sphere of influence" controlled from Moscow.

At a meeting with the leaders of the Visegrad group of countries - the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland - the Prime Minister said: "When I first had the pleasures of going to your wonderful countries decades ago, all of them were behind what was then called an Iron Curtain and under the Russian sphere of influence.

"What we now see today is an assault on another free, democratic, independent European country with the intention of trying to create, again, a Russian sphere of influence, a new Yalta, a new zone of control from Moscow."

At the Lancaster House meeting in London, Mr Johnson said the countries were working together "diplomatically, politically, by means of our economic strength" and with defensive military support "to help our Ukrainian friends in their hour of desperation and need".

French President Emmanuel Macron tweeted to say he and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz had discussed the Ukraine war with Chinese leader Xi Jinping.

Mr Macron tweeted: "The German Chancellor and I spoke to the Chinese President this morning about the tragic consequences of the war in Ukraine. President Xi supported our action towards reaching a ceasefire and ensuring the people have access to humanitarian aid."

Boris Johnson said the UK stands "ready to increase its military support to Poland, should they require it", during a meeting with the country's prime minister on Tuesday afternoon.

Mr Johnson told Mateusz Morawiecki that the UK stands in solidarity with Poland, and thanked him for "the Poles' kindness to the Ukrainian people at such a horrendous time", a Downing Street spokesperson said.

The UK Prime Minister is said to have added that "Ukrainians were suffering because of President (Vladimir) Putin's barbaric actions, and the West needed to continue to impose debilitating sanctions".

"The leaders agreed that the UK and Poland should continue work together on ensuring defensive aid reached Ukraine, and the Prime Minister said the UK stood ready to increase its military support to Poland, should they require it," the spokesperson said.

"The leaders agreed that they would continue to stay in close touch in the coming days and weeks, and will work at pace to build even deeper strategic ties."

The UK is expected to join the US in announcing a ban on Russian oil imports.

US President Joe Biden is set to make his announcement shortly, following pleas from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to cut off the imports to starve Vladimir Putin of revenue.

UK Government sources indicated an announcement from Westminster was due at around 4pm.

Former government minister Richard Harrington has been appointed as the Minister for Refugees, Downing Street has said.

Mr Harrington, who stood down as a MP at the 2019 general election, will be made a life peer sitting in the House of Lords.

Boris Johnson has said the move to ban Russian oil and gas will punish Vladimir Putin's regime but will be introduced in a way that "won't affect" UK businesses.

Speaking to broadcasters, the Prime Minister said: "The UK is less exposed (than European allies) but clearly we do have diesel that comes from Russia and we can't move overnight.

"But we can certainly do it and we can do it in a way that doesn't disrupt supply, that ensures we have substitute supplies on stream in an orderly way and in a timetable that won't affect UK business, won't affect UK manufacturing, road haulage or other parts of our industry but will punish the regime of Vladimir Putin."

Boris Johnson said it is "clear" the Russian invasion is not going according to Vladimir Putin's timetable.

He said the UK is doing "everything that we can to help" Ukraine, and "the best thing really is for Putin to understand that his aggression is not paying off".

"I believe that he has gravely miscalculated," he told reporters.

"It's clear that the Russian operation, the Russian invasion is not going according to the timetable that he set out.

"And I think it would be not just in the interests of humanity and the world, but in the interests of Putin as well if he were now to withdraw and desist."

Boris Johnson has accepted that the move to phase out Russian oil and gas by the end of the year will not hit Vladimir Putin's regime immediately as Ukraine remains under assault.

Asked by broadcasters, the Prime Minister said: "Yes, but what it will do is add to the pressure we're already seeing on Russia and don't forget that the economic impact of the sanctions that the UK has led has been extreme.

"The Russian stock market hasn't opened for almost a week, the rouble has tanked and the noose is tightening."

Boris Johnson has said there will be a "Marshall Plan" to rebuild Ukraine.

Speaking to broadcasters after holding meetings with the leaders of V4 nations, the Prime Minister said: "There was agreement also on the need to show the people of Ukraine now that whatever happens once a free, sovereign, independent Ukraine is protected and restored, we will rebuild and we will have a Marshall Plan to rebuild Ukraine."

Britain is prepared to accept "many, many thousands" of refugees fleeing the war in Ukraine, Boris Johnson has said.

In a pooled clip for broadcasters, the Prime Minister said the numbers could run into the hundreds of thousands.

"People in this country are incredibly generous towards people fleeing persecution or war zones. Believe me, we are going to be very, very, generous again," he said.

"We don't have a border with Ukraine. Plainly many EU countries do. Many refugees want to stay in the region because they want to go back to their country.

"But what we will do, what we are already doing is setting out a huge and very generous programme to allow many, many thousands - it could be hundreds of thousands - to come to our country.

"I know that is what the UK people would want."

Boris Johnson has said the move to phase out Russian oil and gas is an important "first step".

Speaking to broadcasters, the Prime Minister said: "What we're doing is making the first step and it's something I think is an important thing to do.

"If you think back to where we were even a few days ago, I don't think people would've been talking about moving away from dependence on Russian oil and gas because these are very, very big dependencies that European countries have."

Asked about the UK's refusal to introduce a no-fly zone over Ukraine, Boris Johnson said: "I want to be able to help as much as I can, but I have got to tell you that I think (Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky) is a great statesman and understands the position very well.

"Of course, he's doing everything he can to protect his country, and the UK is doing everything that we can to help."

Boris Johnson has defended the need for border checks on refugees fleeing to Britain from Ukraine.

The Prime Minister said: "I think it is important that when you do have people coming to your country, maybe coming from a war zone where their previous history is unclear, what they have been up to, it is important to have checks.

"That is one thing we are able to do. I think having some sort of check, some sort of control is an important feature of the way we do things. I think it is valuable.

"It doesn't mean we aren't going to be massively, massively generous. But I think to have a system of simply uncontrolled immigration isn't right."

MPs gave a standing ovation to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky as he addressed the Commons.

Mr Zelensky appeared via a live video link from Ukraine.

Ukraine's ambassador to the UK Vadym Prystaiko was sat in the gallery.

The BBC is to resume English language reporting from Russia tonight.

The corporation had suspended the work of all its news journalists and support staff in the country after authorities passed legislation cracking down on foreign outlets.

On Tuesday, a BBC spokesman said: "We have considered the implications of the new legislation alongside the urgent need to report from inside Russia.

"After careful deliberation we have decided to resume English language reporting from Russia this evening (Tuesday 8 March), after it was temporarily suspended at the end of last week.

"We will tell this crucial part of the story independently and impartially, adhering to the BBC's strict editorial standards. The safety of our staff in Russia remains our number one priority."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky gave an address to a full House of Commons.

Members of the House of Lords also filled the upper galleries of the chamber to watch the speech alongside MPs.

Screens were installed in the Commons in preparation for the address in the same place that they were installed during the virtual parliament held during the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.

Addressing the House of Commons via video link, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said "we do not want to lose what we have, what is ours, our country Ukraine".

According to the English language translation on Parliament TV, Mr Zelensky said: "Mr Speaker, all the Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing all the people of the United Kingdom and all the people from the country with a big history.

"I am addressing you as a citizen, as a president, of also a big country, with a dream and big effort.

"I would like to tell you about the 13 days of war, the war that we didn't start and we didn't want. However we have to conduct this war, we do not want to lose what we have, what is ours, our country Ukraine."

Concluding his speech to the Commons, Volodymyr Zelensky thanked Boris Johnson by name and called on the UK for more support.

Speaking through a translator provided by Parliament TV, he said: "We are looking for your help, for the help of Western counties.

"We are thankful for this help and I am grateful to you Boris.

"Please increase the pressure of sanctions against this country (Russia) and please recognise this country as a terrorist country.

"Please make sure sure that our Ukrainian skies are safe.

"Please make sure that you do what needs to be done and what is stipulated by the greatness of your country.

"Glory to Ukraine and glory to the United Kingdom."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson, responding to the speech made by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, told the House of Commons: "Never before in all our centuries of our parliamentary democracy has the House listened to such an address.

"In a great European capital now within range of Russian guns President Volodymyr Zelensky is standing firm for democracy and for freedom."

President Volodymyr Zelensky told MPs: "Just the same way you once didn't want to lose your country when the Nazis started to fight your country and you had to fight for Britain.

"Thirteen days of this struggle ... at 4 o clock in the morning we were attacked by cruise missiles. Everybody woke up and people with children..."

He added: "We have been fighting for our country, with our army."

He went on: "Russian forces demanded that we lay down arms, we need to continue fighting."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said "over 50 children have been killed".

According to the English language translation on Parliament TV, Mr Zelensky added: "These are the children that could have lived but these people have taken them away from us.

"Ukraine were not looking to have this war. The Ukraine have not been looking to become big but they have become big over the days of this war. We are the country that are saving people despite having to fight one of the biggest armies in the world. We have to fight the helicopters, rockets."

He added: "The question for us now is to be or not to be. Oh no, this Shakespearean question. For 13 days this question could have been asked but now I can give you a definitive answer. It's definitely yes, to be.

"And I would like to remind you the words that the United Kingdom have already heard, which are important again. We will not give up and we will not lose."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson said of Volodymyr Zelensky: "In his righteous defence I believe he has moved the hearts of everybody in this House.

"At this moment ordinary Ukrainians are defending their homes and their families against a brutal assault and they are, by their actions, inspiring millions by their courage and their devotion."

Mr Johnson said "one of the proudest boasts in the free world" is "I am Ukrainian" - which he said in Ukrainian.

He said: "This is a moment to put our political differences aside and I know I speak for the whole House when I say that Britain and our allies are determined to press on with supplying our Ukrainian friends with the weapons they need to defend their homeland as they deserve, to press on with tightening the economic vice around Vladimir Putin and we will stop importing Russian oil."

Mr Johnson went on: "And we will employ every method that we can - diplomatic, humanitarian and economic - until Vladimir Putin has failed in this disastrous venture and Ukraine is free once more."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer told the Commons: "Every one of us has been moved by the bravery, the resolve, and the leadership of President (Volodymyr) Zelensky.

"Invading troops march through his streets, shells rain down on his people, and assassins seek his life. No-one would have blamed him for fleeing but instead, he has stayed in Kyiv to lead the Ukrainian people and to fight.

"He has reminded us that our freedom and our democracy are invaluable. He has prompted a world into action, where too often we have let Putin have his way. He has inspired the Ukrainian nation to resist and frustrated the Russian war machine.

"He has shown his strength and we must show him, and the Ukrainian people, our commitment and support.

"Labour stands for the unity at home and abroad that will isolate the Putin regime. Labour stands for the toughest sanctions that will cripple the Russian state. Labour stands for providing Ukraine with the arms it needs to fight off their invaders.

"Labour stands with President Zelensky, with Ukraine, with democracy. Slava Ukraini."

SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford told the Commons: "President (Volodymyr) Zelensky, we salute you. We stand with the people of Ukraine on the basis of the act of aggression, on the act of war of Putin.

"We must do all that we can to send support to Ukraine, to send the weapons that they need to defend themselves, to make sure that we sanction the regime in Moscow, that we deliver the clearest message to President Putin - that this will end in failure for him, that he will face justice at the international court.

"We must stand in this House, throughout these islands, throughout the western world in defence of democracy, in defence of sovereignty.

"Peace, justice and the sovereignty of Ukraine must prevail."

Mr Blackford said those who need sanctuary must find a "welcoming hand" in the UK.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss tweeted: "Thank you (Volodymyr Zelensky) for addressing (the House of Commons) live from Ukraine.

"Your bravery has inspired the world. The UK stands with you and Ukraine. We are doing all we can to support Ukraine in its fight for freedom and democracy."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky echoed British war leader Sir Winston Churchill in his address to the House of Commons.

According to the English language translation on Parliament TV, Mr Zelensky said: "We will fight until the end, at sea, in the air. We will continue fighting for our land, whatever the cost."

The Ukrainian president added: "We will fight in the forest, in the fields, on the shores, in the streets."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his Czech counterpart Petr Fiala agreed to work with European allies to ensure Russia can "no longer control energy supplies".

Following their Lancaster House meeting, a Downing Street spokeswoman said: "The leaders agreed that Russia's invasion in Ukraine was unacceptable, barbaric and devastating to the Ukrainian and Russian people.

"Both leaders agreed on the need for the West to wean itself off Russian oil and gas, and said they would work with allies across Europe to ensure Russia could no longer control energy supplies.

"The two nations agreed to further cooperation on cyber resilience, and to continue to strengthen the close ties between the UK and Czech Republic."

Transport Secretary Grant Shapps has said he has made it a criminal offence for any Russian planes to enter UK airspace.

In a tweet, he said: "I have made it a criminal offence for any Russian aircraft to enter UK airspace and now HMG can detain these jets.

"We will suffocate (Vladimir) Putin's cronies' ability to continue living as normal while thousands of innocent people die."

Coca-Cola has announced that it is suspending its business in Russia.

In a statement on its website, the drinks giant said on Tuesday: "The Coca-Cola Company announced today that it is suspending its business in Russia.

"Our hearts are with the people who are enduring unconscionable effects from these tragic events in Ukraine.

"We will continue to monitor and assess the situation as circumstances evolve."

Starbucks has also announced that it is "suspending all business activity in Russia".

The company said that its partner, Alshaya Group, which operates at least 100 cafes in Russia, will "provide support to nearly 2,000 partners in Russia who depend on Starbucks for their livelihood".

Starbucks chief executive Kevin Johnson said in a statement posted to the website on Tuesday that the company condemns "the horrific attacks on Ukraine by Russia and our hearts go out to all those affected".

He said: "We continue to watch the tragic events unfold and, today, we have decided to suspend all business activity in Russia, including shipment of all Starbucks products.

"Our licensed partner has agreed to immediately pause store operations and will provide support to the nearly 2,000 partners in Russia who depend on Starbucks for their livelihood.

"Through this dynamic situation, we will continue to make decisions that are true to our mission and values and communicate with transparency."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220308ei38000xd


Fiala thinking of more sanctions against Russia
387 字
2022 年 3 月 10 日 15:02 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, March 10 (CTK) - It is vital to think of whether the sanctions against Russia may be still pushed forward, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala (Civic Democratic Party, ODS) told journalists before leaving for the informal meeting of EU leaders in France today.

Fiala mentioned the SWIFT international payment system or blockade of Russian ships.

He said it was important to think of whether there were ways with which Russia might circumvent the punishment.

On Wednesday, EU countries decided to impose further sanctions over the Russian aggression in Ukraine.

Newly 160 Russian politicians and oligarchs will be on the sanction list. The EU will also widen the expulsion from the SWIFT to Belarusian banks.

Fiala said so far, hard and painful sanctions had been passed against Russia.

"Nevertheless, we have not met the target that Russia should suspend its military campaign. The fourth package of sanctions is prepared, but this does not mean that we cannot think of some more sanctions, going beyond this framework," he added.

The Czech Republic will be among the countries insisting on the hardest possible response to the Russian aggression. It is also important to keep supporting Ukraine, in the form of humanitarian aid, military equipment and materiel, Fiala said.

EU leaders will be discussing the document that is to declare the road towards granting Ukraine the status of EU candidate.

"On behalf of the Czech Republic, I would like to say that we support the step. Ukraine has shown not only that it wants to be among EU countries, but also with its brave fighting, it undoubtedly deserves this," Fiala said.

At the end of February, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy presented the application to join the EU.

Fiala said it should be confirmed in the conclusion from the summit that any EU member country has the freedom to choose its own energy mix.

"From the Czech Republic's viewpoint, we consider this vital," he added.

It is also necessary to let a reference to the vital importance of transatlantic link be in the conclusion.

"The cooperation of Europe with the USA within NATO, which does not run counter to the enhancement of defence capabilities of European countries and increase in defence spending. By contrast, this is compatible and necessary," Fiala said.

pvr/dr/rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220310ei3a0000l


Russian oligarchs should not have access to EU subsidies - Bartos
367 字
2022 年 3 月 11 日 13:44 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, March 11 (CTK) - Czech Regional Development Minister Ivan Bartos (Pirates) has asked the European Commission to include in the next package of sanctions against Russia a European resolution that will not allow Russian and Belarusian oligarchs to receive EU subsidies and contracts, his ministry said in a press release today.

The oligarchs get subsidies and public contracts through their companies even in the Czech Republic, Bartos said.

"It is absolutely out of question for public finances to keep flowing to Russian and Belarusian oligarchs who sympathize or even cooperate with the criminal regimes of their countries," he said.

The Regional Development Ministry also discusses the issue on the national level, with the Finance Ministry.

In his letter to European Commissioner for the Internal Market Thierry Breton, Bartos asked about the practical applying of the sanctions on the national level. It is not clear whether the sanctions concern only new contracts or also the ones that have already been signed.

He also proposed to put a broader circle of persons with problematic ties on the sanction list. He noted that many persons who are on the U.S. or British sanction lists are not on the EU list.

Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) said in Czech Television on Sunday that the Czech government is going to introduce its special measures aside from the EU sanctions, including the seizing of property of Russian oligarchs who have real estate in Czechia. But when CTK asked the Foreign Ministry on Monday, it said it focuses primarily on the EU sanction regime now.

On Wednesday, the Finance Ministry said the Financial Analytical Office (FAU) deals with finances of people and entities that are in the EU sanction lists. Finance Minister Zbynek Stanjura (Civic Democrats, ODS) said previously that the office had instruments to block movable and immovable property and finances of sanctioned persons.

The server Denik N[https://denikn.cz/834390/cesko-naslo-prvni-majetky-ruskych-poslancu-zjistili-jsme-o-koho-jde-a-jaky-tu-meli-byznys/] wrote on Thursday that at least two Russian Duma members from the sanction list have links to Czechia where they previously did business. It said the FAU deals with the bank accounts of Igor Ananskikh and the wife of Lev Kovpak.

kva/dr/rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220311ei3b0000e


Live: Leaders Of Poland, Czech Republic And Slovenia Will Visit Kyiv Tuesday
Forbes Staff Reports, Forbes Staff
44773 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日
Forbes.com
FBCOM
英文
© 2022 Forbes LLC
Follow real-time updates on Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Firefighters work in an apartment building damaged by shelling in Kyiv, Ukraine.ASSOCIATED PRESS[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/623045218fd514ec1a3fbdd5/960x0.jpg?cropX1=0&cropX2=1667&cropY1=86&cropY2=1023]

March 15, 2022 9:30 AM EST

Chelsea Requests FA Cup Match To Be Played Behind Closed Doors After Abramovich Sanctions Affect Ticket Sales

Chelsea F.C. have asked for its FA Cup match against Middlesbrough F.C. on Saturday to be played behind closed doors “for matters of sporting integrity” as the team is no longer allowed to sell away game tickets due to the sanctions imposed on the team’s owner, Roman Abramovich[https://www.forbes.com/profile/roman-abramovich/].

The team said in a statement[https://www.chelseafc.com/en/news/2022/03/15/middlesbrough-ticket-update?utm_source=tw&utm_medium=orgsoc&utm_campaign=none] some fans were able to purchase a “limited amount of tickets” before the deadline for ticket sales ended, and that discussions about extending the deadline with the U.K.’s Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation failed to yield “appropriate amendments.” Chelsea said it was important for the match to continue, but noted playing behind closed doors would be “the fairest way of proceeding in the current circumstances.”

The U.K. imposed sanctions[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/uk-sanctions-roman-abramovich-and-six-other-russian-oligarchs-freezes-assets-including-chelsea-fc/?sh=52d1cdea4bbd] on Abramovich and several other Russian oligarchs last week, which froze his assets, including Chelsea F.C. and its sale. The British government created a special license[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_QXtt6dc8CiKhnagOFaRKT8-Ijkld2E0nVmRoy92IL8/edit?usp=sharing] to allow Chelsea to continue playing games and engage in other soccer-related activities despite the sanctions against its owner.

— Anna Kaplan

March 15, 2022 9:03 AM EST

Ukraine’s Second-Richest Man Calls On West To Increase Military Aid

Ukrainian billionaire Victor Pinchuk called for the West to step up its aid to Ukraine in an op-ed[https://www.wsj.com/articles/ukraine-needs-beat-putin-kyiv-russia-weapons-antitank-missiles-plane-jet-drones-refugees-civilian-deaths-bombing-shelling-war-nato-11647275205?mod=hp_opin_pos_5#cxrecs_s] published in the Wall Street Journal Monday, specifically asking for additional military support. Pinchuk wrote: “If you want to save us, Ukraine needs planes, antiaircraft and antitank missiles, armed drones and other weapons of war. So I beg our friends in the West: Please give Ukraine the planes and other weapons it needs—now.”

Pinchuk is the second-wealthiest man in Ukraine, according to Forbes’ real-time billionaire tracker[https://www.forbes.com/real-time-billionaires/#32189a683d78], and is worth an estimated $1.9 billion. Pinchuk primarily built his fortune through founding steel producer Interpipe and has strong Western ties, hosting a lunch at the World Economic Forum at Davos annually. Last week, Ukraine’s wealthiest man Rinat Akhmetov, told[https://www.forbes.com/sites/luisakroll/2022/03/10/ukraines-richest-man-rinat-akhmetov-says-hes-doing-everything-he-can-to-help-his-country/?sh=3507ead66841] Forbes Ukraine he “will do everything” and “spare no expense” in supporting Ukraine in its war efforts.

—Derek Saul

March 15, 2022 6:40 AM EST

Nearly 89,000 Brits Offer Homes To Ukrainian Refugees

Around 89,000 people in the U.K. have signed[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/15/homes-for-ukraine-website-crashes-refugees] up to host refugees fleeing Ukraine within hours of the government launching its “ Homes for Ukraine[https://homesforukraine.campaign.gov.uk/] ” scheme. The website for registering interest in housing a refugee reportedly crashed due to the surge in interest.

The scheme offers U.K. residents £350 ($467) a month to provide space for Ukrainian refugees in their homes. Refugees arriving will be able to live and work in the U.K. for up to three years and will have access to local services including schools, healthcare and social benefits.

The government says there is “no limit” to the number of people it will welcome, though the scheme requires individuals to name the refugee they wish to sponsor. Lisa Nandy, the shadow communities secretary in the opposing Labour party, branded[https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2022/mar/14/labour-calls-uks-homes-for-ukraine-plan-a-diy-asylum-scheme] the operation a “DIY asylum scheme” over the requirement.

— Robert Hart

March 15, 2022 6:34 AM EST

Kyiv Mayor Announces One And Half Day Curfew As Russia Steps Up Shelling Of City

Vitali Klitschko, the mayor of Kyiv, announced a 35-hour long curfew in the Ukrainian capital on Tuesday, as the city faces increased bombardment by the Russian military.

The curfew will go into effect at 8 p.m. local time on Tuesday and remain in place till 7 a.m. Thursday morning.

While the curfew is in effect, citizens will be prohibited from moving inside the city without a special pass unless they are asked to go into a bomb shelter.

In an impassioned plea on Telegram Klitschko, the former heavyweight boxer, urged the residents of Kyiv to be prepared to defend the city. “Men of Kiev! Come back! We need to protect our city and our future!”

— Siladitya Ray

March 15, 2022 5:22 AM EST

West Made A ‘Terrible Mistake’ Letting Putin Annex Crimea, Says U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson

The West made a “terrible mistake” by letting Russian President Vladimir Putin “get away” with invading Ukraine and annexing Crimea in 2014, wrote[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/politics/2022/03/14/cannot-go-like-west-must-end-dependence-vladimir-putin/] the U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson in the Telegraph newspaper Monday. He added the West “intensified” economic ties with Russia afterwards and took “more Russian gas than ever before,” leaving it dependent on the “goodwill of Putin” and more exposed to fluctuations in global gas and oil price.

Johnson said the West must break its “addiction” to Russian hydrocarbons, which has “emboldened” Putin to invade Ukraine and subject the world to “continuous blackmail.” Johnson acknowledged that it will be “painful” for the world to give up Russia’s vast fossil fuel reserves but said it is the “only way to force Putin to cease his aggression.”

The U.K. has pledged to phase out Russian oil imports by 2023 and the U.S. has banned Russian oil and gas. The European Union, which imports[https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-60664799] a significant amount of fuel from Russia, has vowed to end its use of Russian hydrocarbons as soon as possible. Green, renewable energy sources “are the quickest and cheapest route to greater energy independence,” Johnson said. “They are invulnerable to Putin’s manipulations.”

— Robert Hart

March 15, 2022 5:20 AM EST

Leaders of Poland, Czech Republic And Slovenia Will Visit Kyiv Later Today

The leaders of three counties, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia, will travel to Kyiv to meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, in a bold diplomatic move announced[https://www.gov.pl/web/primeminister/prime-ministers-visit-to-kyiv] by the Polish government on Tuesday.

The visit scheduled to later in the day and would be the first high level visit by foreign leaders to Kyiv since the start of Russia’s invasion.

Poland’s Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša will be visiting the Ukrainian capital as representatives of the European Council.

“The purpose of the visit is to confirm the unequivocal support of the entire European Union for the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine. The aim of this visit is also to present a broad package of support for Ukraine and Ukrainians.” -Polish Prime Minister’s Office

— Siladitya Ray

March 15, 2022 4:29 AM EST

At Least Two People Killed In Kyiv After Early Morning Strikes Hit Residential Buildings

At least two people were killed in Kyiv after residential buildings in Kyiv were hit by multiple strikes early on Tuesday morning, Ukraine’s state emergency services said[https://www.facebook.com/MNS.GOV.UA/posts/332970388870857].

In Kyiv’s western district of Sviatoshynskyi, a nine-story apartment building and a 16-story residential building were hit by shelling sometime after 5 a.m. local time. The nine story building only suffered minor damage with fires being quickly put out. But two people in the larger building were killed by the strike while 35 others were rescued.

At around 6 a.m., a 10-story apartment building in the city’s central Podilskyi District was also struck by shelling, causing a fire on the first five floors. A two-floor private home in Osokorky district in the southern part of the city was also hit by shelling.

— Siladitya Ray

March 15, 2022 2:32 AM EST

War Could Be Over By May As Russia Runs Out Of Resources, Ukrainian Officials Claim

The war could end by early May when the Russian military runs out of necessary resources to continue its invasion of Ukraine, Oleksiy Arestovich, adviser to the Ukrainian president’s chief of staff, claimed on Monday.

According to[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/war-could-be-over-by-may-says-ukrainian-presidential-adviser-2022-03-15/] Reuters, Arestovich said an end date depends on the resources the Kremlin puts into the invasion, adding: “I think that no later than in May, early May, we should have a peace agreement, maybe much earlier, we will see, I am talking about the latest possible dates.”

Arestovich, who has not directly been involved in peace talks, said either a peace deal would be worked out within a week or two—with Russia withdrawing its troops, or there will be attempts to bring in Syrian fighters for “round two” who will also be ground down, followed by an agreement by mid or late April. Another possibility could see conscripts with little training sent to fight, he added.

The basis of Arestovich’s claims remain unclear but questions about Russia’s ability to support a long drawn out campaign has been questioned by some experts.

— Siladitya Ray

March 15, 2022 2:19 AM EST

Russia May Stage Sham Referendum In Kherson, U.K. Defense Ministry Says

The occupying Russian forces may stage a false “referendum” in the city of Kherson in an attempt to legitimize the region as a “breakaway republic” similar to Crimea, Donetsk and Luhansk, the U.K. defense ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1503613213006565377] on Tuesday.

This push comes amid protests by the region’s residents on Monday, who the Russian forces tried to disperse by firing warning shots. Multiple protests have also taken place in other Russian occupied regions including Melitopol and Berdyansk, the report adds.

The update warns that Russia may engage in further attempts to subvert Ukrainian democracy as it attempts to “consolidate political control of Ukraine.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 11:45 PM EST

Reports Of Multiple Loud Explosions In Central Kyiv

Several loud explosions were heard in downtown Kyiv early on Tuesday morning, according to the New York Times. Multiple flashes of lights were seen across the city while other spoke of their beds and windows being rattled.

It is unclear what parts of the city have been hit by the attack.

In the past few days, Russia has stepped up shelling of major urban centers across Ukraine as its ground invasion appears to have been bogged down by logistical challenges and fierce Ukrainian resistance.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 9:30 PM EST

Zelensky Thanks Russians Protesting Invasion—Including TV Staffer Who Held Antiwar Sign

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky thanked Russian citizens who have protested their country’s invasion of Ukraine in a speech late Monday night.

“I am grateful to those Russians who do not stop trying to convey the truth,” Zelensky said, according to a translation by CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-14-22/index.html].

Zelensky specifically thanked Marina Ovysannikova, an editor at state television network Russia Channel One who held up a sign during a news broadcast Monday that read, “NO WAR. Stop the war. Do not believe propaganda they tell you lies here.”

Russia has sought to control how its invasion of Ukraine is covered in local news. Some of the country’s only independent news outlets have shut down, and a law passed earlier this month[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-introduce-jail-terms-spreading-fake-information-about-army-2022-03-04/] threatens prison terms of up to 15 years for spreading military information the Russian government deems to be “fake.” Some residents of cities like Moscow and St. Petersburg have protested the war, but OVD-info—an independent human rights group— estimates[https://ovdinfo.org/] Russian authorities have detained nearly 15,000 people at antiwar demonstrations since the invasion began.

March 14, 2022 8:29 PM EST

Satellite Images Show Fires And Destroyed Buildings Across Mariupol

Satellite photos taken Monday by space technology company Maxar show hospitals and residential buildings either destroyed or on fire in the southeastern Ukrainian city of Mariupol, which has been besieged by Russian forces for several days.

Russian troops are north and east of Mariupol, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Monday, and the city has faced frequent attacks from the air[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/14/europe/mariupol-pregnant-woman-baby-death-intl/index.html]. Ukrainian officials estimate[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-14-22/h_3db1542de366d188c4e7979e7b5ecc95] more than 2,500 people have died in Mariupol since the siege began, though independent third parties have yet to verify those figures.

—Mason Bissada

March 14, 2022 7:07 PM EST

Russia Reportedly Requested Surface-To-Air Missiles, Drones From China—US Has ‘Deep Concerns’

Following Sunday’s reports[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/13/us/politics/russia-china-ukraine.html] that Russia requested military and economic assistance from China, the Financial Times on Monday detailed[https://www.ft.com/content/52ea7aab-f8d1-46b6-9d66-18545c5ef9b9] the types of weapons Russia requested. Unnamed officials said Russia requested surface-to-air missiles, drones, armored vehicles, intelligence-related equipment and vehicles for logistics support—and that China had signaled its willingness to provide the equipment, according to the report.

The news follows U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan’s Monday meeting with China’s top diplomat, Yang Jiechi, in Rome. The meeting lasted seven hours and covered a wide range of topics, including China’s relationship with Russia, according to a senior U.S. administration official. The official said the U.S. has “deep concerns about China's alignment with Russia at this time,” and that Sullivan expressed these concerns to Jiechi, along with the “consequences of certain actions.”

Sullivan told[https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2022/03/13/sullivan-on-china.cnn] CNN Sunday there would be consequences if China elects to defy U.S. and NATO sanctions and supply Russia with military and economic support, though he would not say whether the U.S. would go as far as to sanction China.

—Mason Bissada

March 14, 2022 5:06 PM EST

Airbnb Says Over 21,500 New Hosts Signed Up To Host Ukrainian Refugees

An Airbnb representative told Forbes Monday that over 21,500 new Airbnb.org hosts have signed up to host refugees fleeing Ukraine. Roughly 14,000 hosts are in Europe and 4,000 are in the U.S. The company said over $36.7 million has been raised to support Ukranians.

The announcement comes about two weeks after the rental company pledged[https://www.forbes.com/sites/suzannerowankelleher/2022/03/02/airbnb-european-hosts-ukraine/?sh=61e2002f706e] free short-term housing for up to 100,000 displaced refugees.

Over 2.8 million refugees have fled Ukraine since February 24, according to the United Nations.

— Marisa Dellatto

March 14, 2022 4:39 PM EST

Protestor Interrupts Russian State TV News Broadcast

A protestor interrupted a popular nightly Russian state newscast Monday by holding a sign that said, in part, "Russians against war."

The protester, which multiple media outlets identified as Russian Channel One editor Marina Ovysannikova, also shouted “Stop the war! No to war!” for the approximately five seconds she was in on air, according to the Guardian[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/14/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-talks-resume-blockade-black-sea-coast-zelenskiy-putin-live?page=with:block-622fa1b48f080ca367919061#block-622fa1b48f080ca367919061].

In addition to the statement "Russians against war," which was written in English, her sign also read: "NO WAR. Stop the war. Do not believe propaganda they tell you lies here" in Russian, according to a CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-14-22/index.html] translation.

A message[https://t.me/vottaktv/13498] was posted to Ovysannikova's Telegram page following the incident where she says she was "ashamed" to work at Channel One, which spreads "Kremlin propaganda," according to a translation from independent Russian media outlet Meduza[https://meduza.io/en/short/2022/03/14/russian-state-tv-editor-interrupts-live-news-broadcast-with-anti-war-message].

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/nexta_tv/status/1503457922747088902&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 14, 2022 3:54 PM EST

U.S.: Russia Stalled Outside Kyiv And Kharkiv

Russian forces remain about 9.3 miles northwest of Kyiv and are as close as 12.4 miles to the east, as Russia’s advance on the capital city remains stalled, a senior U.S. defense official said.

The Russian military also hasn’t made progress on the ground toward Ukraine’s second-largest city, Kharkiv. A contingent of military vehicles have begun driving southeast of Kharkiv, which the U.S. official framed as a possible attempt to link up with forces in southern Ukraine—where several cities are surrounded or controlled by Russia—and cut off the country’s east.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/03/14/russian-forces-stalled-outside-kyiv-us-says/?sh=6ace61fb6864].

— Joe Walsh

March 14, 2022 3:28 PM EST

Fox News Reporter Injured Near Kyiv

Fox News correspondent Benjamin Hall was injured and hospitalized Monday while reporting outside Kyiv, Fox News anchor John Roberts announced on air Monday afternoon, citing an internal message from Fox News CEO Suzanne Scott.

A "minimal level of details" is available at the moment, Roberts said.

News of Hall's hospitalization comes a day after the State Department confirmed American freelance journalist Brent Renaud[https://www.axios.com/american-journalist-killed-ukraine-624299bb-42aa-4b88-a0ff-2605c7e571fb.html] was killed in Ukraine.

"The safety of our entire team of journalists in Ukraine and the surrounding regions is our top priority," Roberts said.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/oliverdarcy/status/1503445004605394944&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 14, 2022 2:30 PM EST

Ukraine Will Fall Into ‘Deep Recession’: IMF

The International Monetary Fund said it expects Ukraine to enter a “deep recession” due to Russia’s invasion of the country, in a report[https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/CR/Issues/2022/03/10/Ukraine-Request-for-Purchase-under-the-Rapid-Financing-Instrument-and-Cancellation-of-Stand-514148] released Monday. The IMF said Ukraine’s GDP will fall this year 10% “at a minimum” and Ukraine’s real GDP may eventually contract by as much as 35%, based on analysis using data from other recently wartorn countries.

The report was prepared March 7 ahead of the IMF’s approval[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/imf-approves-14-bln-emergency-funding-ukraine-2022-03-09/] of $1.4 billion in financing to Ukraine. The $1.4 billion loan is the most the IMF can directly give to Ukraine in funding and the IMF is in the process of making a trust fund for Ukraine that other countries can donate to, Reuters reported[https://www.reuters.com/world/imf-says-working-bilateral-donor-trust-fund-ukraine-2022-03-14/] Monday, citing an anonymous IMF official.

-Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 12:59 PM EST

White House Is Considering Biden Trip To Europe

The White House is discussing a visit to Europe for President Joe Biden amid Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, several[https://www.cnn.com/2021/10/28/politics/biden-europe-trip/index.html] outlets[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-14/white-house-discussing-plans-for-biden-trip-to-europe?utm_campaign=socialflow-organic&utm_source=twitter&cmpid%3D=socialflow-twitter-politics&utm_content=politics&utm_medium=social] reported Monday. No destinations are finalized, but NBC News[https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/white-house-considering-possible-biden-trip-europe-rcna19923] and CBS News[https://www.cbsnews.com/news/russia-ukraine-biden-europe-travel-possible/] reported Brussels, the headquarters of NATO and the European Union, is under consideration as a destination. Timing for the trip isn’t finalized, but discussions are for the visit to happen in the “coming weeks,” according to CBS News and NBC News. Biden last traveled[https://www.cnn.com/2021/10/22/politics/biden-g20-rome-pope-francis-cop26-summit/index.html] to Europe in October and November, attending the COP26 Climate Summit in Glasgow and the G20 summit in Rome.

Vice President Kamala Harris and Secretary of State Antony Blinken made separate Ukraine-related diplomatic trips to Europe earlier this month. Blinken briefly stepped[https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/blinken-hears-harrowing-tales-refugees-fleeing-ukraine-rcna18857] on Ukrainian soil during his visit to several countries, while Harris visited Poland and Romania.

—Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 11:47 AM EST

Civilian Death Toll In Ukraine Surpasses 600, According To Official U.N. Count

More than 600 civilians have been killed in Ukraine since Russia invaded last month, according to a Monday update[https://ukraine.un.org/sites/default/files/2022-03/Ukraine%20-%20civilian%20casualty%20update%20as%20of%2024.00%2013%20March%202022%20ENG.pdf] from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR). The U.N. said 636 civilians have been killed thus far—40 more deaths than its Sunday estimate—and another 1,125 have been injured. The U.N. noted it believes the true death toll is much higher and it is working to verify casualty figures reported by the Ukrainian government in several cities.

—Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 11:17 AM EST

Zelensky Will Address Congress

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will deliver a virtual address to both chambers of Congress Wednesday at 9 a.m. EST, according[https://twitter.com/sahilkapur/status/1503367275990200323?s=20&t=E-aHc3fHcV5cmteep0w4mQ] to a joint letter from Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY). The U.S. intends to “​​convey [congressional] support to the people of Ukraine as they bravely defend democracy” during the speech, Pelosi and Schumer said in the letter. Zelensky conducted[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/05/politics/ukraine-russia-zelensky-us-lawmakers/index.html] a Zoom meeting with some members of the House and Senate March 5, and the British Parliament gave[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/08/zelensky-uk-parliament-address-war-ukraine/] Zelensky a standing ovation last Tuesday during a video address.

—Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 10:44 AM EST

Fourth Round Of Ceasefire Talks Break Monday Without Agreement But Will Resume Tuesday, Ukraine Says

The Russian and Ukrainian delegations conducting their fourth round of ceasefire talks took a "technical pause" until Tuesday for sides to independently deliberate, tweeted[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1503369315978027015?s=20&t=Uqg_rVOTG2cgjENqrWvFYw] Mykhailo Podolyak, an advisor to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky involved in the negotiations.

Podolyak said the negotiation will resume Tuesday after conducting “additional work in the working subgroups and clarification of individual definitions.”

Monday’s meeting was conducted virtually, unlike prior talks which were held in-person in Belarus and Turkey. Podolyak and Leonid Slutsky, a Russian delegate in the talks, each expressed optimism Sunday some sort of agreement could be reached this week.

—Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 9:40 AM EST

Zelensky Calls For Savings Security, Lower Taxes Amid War

In his Monday video address, Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelensky called for lower taxes for Ukrainian businesses and for the guarantee of "security of assets and savings" of Ukrainians, according[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/sogodni-dobrovolcyami-ye-vsi-hto-vidchuvaye-vilnij-poklik-do-73557] to an English translation of the speech provided by the Ukrainian government.

The Ukrainian government is working on these new measures intended to provide stability to small and medium business and everyday citizens, Zelensky said, adding there will be an official announcement within days.

Zelensky has rarely discussed day-to-day Ukrainian economic policy since the war began last month, but his shift to economic matters began Sunday when he pressed[https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2022/03/13/zelensky-presses-companies-microsoft-sap-and-oracle-to-punish-russia-more/?sh=4cfb9e241ffe] technology companies Microsoft, Oracle and SAP to ramp up their measures to punish Russia in a tweet.

In the speech, Zelensky confirmed the fourth round of talks between Russia and Ukraine were ongoing, and said Ukraine will give an update on the “difficult negotiations” later Monday.

—Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 8:21 AM EST

Pfizer Says It Will Donate Russian Profits To Ukrainian Causes

Pfizer will donate all profits from its Russia subsidiary to humanitarian efforts supporting Ukraine but continue to sell medicines in Russia, the company announced[https://www.pfizer.com/news/press-release/press-release-detail/pfizer-updates-company-position-russia] Monday. Additionally, Pfizer said it will phase out clinical trials in Russia and pull out of partnerships with Russian manufacturers.

Read more here.[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/14/pfizer-will-donate-all-russian-profits-to-ukrainian-relief-efforts/?sh=43addeed4a4f]

—Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 7:00 AM EST

1.3 Million Children Among 2.8 Million Refugees Who Have Fled Ukraine

Nearly 1.35 million children have been forced to flee Ukraine since Russia’s invasion of the country last month, a UNICEF spokesperson told Forbes on Monday.

“Obviously as numbers come in from the weekend this number will only increase. We also believe more than 1 million children are displaced within the country,” Joe English, UNICEF spokesperson said in an emailed statement.

In total, more than 2.8 million refugees[https://data2.unhcr.org/en/situations/ukraine] have fled Ukraine since the start of the invasion, including 1.7 million people who have entered neighboring Poland.

— Robert Hart

March 14, 2022 6:30 AM EST

Fourth Round Of Talks Between Russia And Ukraine Begin

A fourth round of talks between Ukraine and Russia have begun[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1503312641896370178], according to the lead Ukrainian negotiator Mikhail Podolyak.

Monday’s talks are being held virtually, unlike all previous talks which were held in Belarus and Turkey.

On Twitter, Podolyak outlined[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1503287133964054530] Ukraine’s expectations which included a ceasefire and an immediate withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine’s territory.

Podolyak added that the ongoing discussions were “hard” and the reason for this was the contrast between Ukraine’s culture of free speech and consensus versus Russia’s ultimatum driven approach.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 5:58 AM EST

90 Children Have Been Killed, More Than 100 Wounded Since Russian Invasion, Ukrainian Prosecutor General Says

Ninety children have been killed[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukrainian-general-prosecutors-office-says-90-children-have-been-killed-ukraine-2022-03-14/] and more than 100 wounded in Ukraine since Russia’s invasion of the country last month, Ukrainian general prosecutor’s office revealed on Monday.

“The highest number of victims are in the Kyiv, Kharkiv, Donetsk, Chernihiv, Sumy, Kherson, Mykolayiv and Zhytomyr regions,” the official added.

As of last week, an estimated[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/08/more-than-2-million-refugees-flee-ukraine---half-of-them-are-children/?sh=6dbe321a7f39] 1 million child refugees had fled the conflict in Ukraine.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 5:25 AM EST

Pregnant Woman And Baby Killed By Russian Strike On Mariupol Hospital

A pregnant woman and baby died following a Russian attack on the maternity hospital Mariupol last week, the Associated Press reported[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-health-europe-c0f2f859296f9f02be24fc9edfca1085] on Monday.

Images[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-health-europe-c0f2f859296f9f02be24fc9edfca1085/gallery/0c824c429f0f4bfbb1c5cea372219a22] of the heavily pregnant woman being carried off in a stretcher by emergency worker were widely published after the Russian strike on the hospital that has been denounced by many, including Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, as a war crime.

AP reported that the woman was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital and doctors said her said her pelvis had been crushed and her hip detached. The baby was delivered following a cesarean section but showed “no signs of life” and the mother was declared dead after doctors tried to resuscitate her.

Another woman, Marianna Podgurska, who was also photographed rushing out of the hospital after it was bombed, gave birth[https://www.thedailybeast.com/marianna-podgurska-beauty-blogger-who-was-smeared-as-crisis-actor-in-ukraine-hospital-bombing-gives-birth?ref=author] to a baby girl later. Podgurska, a beauty vlogger, was the subject of a baseless conspiracy theory pushed by Russian officials who claimed that she was a “crisis actor.” This has since been debunked.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 3:24 AM EST

WHO Outlines Plans To Deliver Medical Supplies To Ukraine, Condemns Attacks On Health Care

The World Health Organization on Monday said it was coordinating the delivery of critical medical equipment and drugs to Ukraine as its healthcare system grapples with supply shortages.

In a statement[https://www.euro.who.int/en/media-centre/sections/press-releases/2022/who-is-working-day-and-night-to-keep-medical-supply-chains-open-and-preserve-ukraines-health-system], the WHO said that a total of 18 million people have been affected by the Russian invasion, including 6.7 million who have been internally displaced and 3 million refugees who have left the country.

The global agency has set up a hub in neighboring Poland to support operations into Ukraine and stepped up surveillance of possible disease outbreaks in the country. The relief mission is being carried out in coordination with Ukraine’s health ministry.

“The coming days and weeks will see a constant flow of medical supplies, as part of an effort to ensure people’s access to essential drugs and medical care.”— WHO Statement

The WHO also condemned attacks on medical facilities inside Ukraine, saying: “Every single attack deprives people of life-saving services. Attacks on health care are violations of international humanitarian law and human rights.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 2:53 AM EST

Two People Killed, Three Injured After Building Outside Kyiv Is Struck By Shelling

Two people were killed and three others were injured after a residential building outside Kyiv was struck by Russian shelling, Ukraine’s state emergency services said[https://www.facebook.com/MNS.GOV.UA/posts/332362435598319] on Facebook.

“As of 07:40, the bodies of 2 people were found in a nine-storey residential building, 3 people were hospitalized, 9 people were treated on the spot,” the agency said, adding that a nine-storey building had caught fire due to Russia shelling early on Monday morning.

Emergency workers managed to rescue 15 people from the blaze, while 63 other were evacuated from the building.

Over the weekend, Russia stepped up its bombardment of several major cities across Ukraine as it makes a fresh push to overrun the capital city.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 2:42 AM EST

Australia Sanctions 33 Russian Oligarchs Including Roman Abramovich

The Australian government on Monday issued[https://www.foreignminister.gov.au/minister/marise-payne/media-release/australia-joins-uk-and-us-sanctioning-key-russian-oligarchs] fresh sanctions against 33 Russian oligarchs including billionaire Roman Abramovich, whose assets were frozen by the U.K. government last week.

Other key targets of Russia’s sanctions included Gazprom CEO Alexey Miller and Bank Rossiya chairperson Dmitri Lebedev. The fresh sanctions mirror similar actions undertaken by the U.S., U.K., Canada and the European Union.

“We will continue to coordinate closely with our partners to impose a high cost on Russia for its actions,” Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said in a statement announcing the sanctions.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 2:24 AM EST

Chechen Leader Kadyrov Claims He's Joined Russian Troops Near Kyiv

Ramzan Kadyrov, the autocratic leader of Russia’s Chechnya region, claims[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/13/world/ukraine-russia-war/chechen-strongman-claims-he-has-joined-russian-troops-outside-kyiv] he has joined Russian forces near Kyiv. In a video shared on Telegram, Kadyrov is seen speaking with members of the Chechen militia who are fighting alongside Russian troops in Ukraine.

Kadyrov claims the video was shot near Hostomel airfield near Kyiv and said: “The other day we were about 20km from you Kyiv Nazis and now we are even closer.” He called on Ukrainian forces to surrender “or you will be finished.” The Chechen strongman’s claims, however, have not been verified.

Kadyrov’s militiamen have been accused of serious human rights abuses in the Chechnya region of Russia.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 1:36 AM EST

Russian Billionaire Melnichenko Calls For The End Of War

Russian billionaire Andrei Melnichenko called the war in Ukraine a tragedy and urged for it to be stopped, warning that it will lead to a global food crisis.

The coal and fertilizer magnate told[https://www.reuters.com/world/exclusive-ukraine-war-must-end-russias-fertiliser-coal-king-says-2022-03-14/] Reuters on Monday that the “events in Ukraine are truly tragic,” and there was an urgent need for peace. The billionaire, however, stopped short of urging Putin or the Russian government to end hostilities.

Melnichenko, who’s mother is Ukrainian, said: “As a Russian by nationality, a Belarusian by birth, and a Ukrainian by blood, I feel great pain and disbelief witnessing brotherly peoples fighting and dying.”

The coal and fertilizer tycoon is among several Russian oligarchs who have been targeted by Western sanctions. Last week, Melnichenko’s yacht was seized[https://www.forbes.com/sites/giacomotognini/2022/03/12/italian-police-freeze-russian-billionaire-andrey-melnichenkos-sailing-yacht-a/?sh=41e6e57b3946] by Italian authorities owing to EU sanctions.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 12:11 AM EST

Melitopol's Russian Installed Mayor Faces Treason Investigation

The Ukrainian prosecutor general has initiated a treason investigation into Galina Danilchenko, who was recently installed as the mayor of the Russian-occupied city of Melitopol. Danilchenko took over the role after the city’s elected mayor Ivan Fedorov was allegedly abducted by Russian forces last week.

The treason investigation into Danilchenko comes after members of the Melitopol City Council called for criminal proceedings against her for “the high crime of treason, for attempting to set up an occupying government in Melitopol,” CNN reports.

In a televised address on Sunday, Danilchenko said that “Russian TV channels” would begin broadcasting in the occupied region, claiming there was “a great deficit of trustworthy information being circulated.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 13, 2022 9:47 PM EST

Chinese Embassy Spokesperson Denies Reports Russia Asked Them For Military Aid

Liu Pengyu, a spokesperson for China’s embassy in Washington, told[https://www.reuters.com/world/white-house-adviser-discuss-russias-war-ukraine-with-chinas-top-diplomat-source-2022-03-13/] Reuters Sunday he’d “never heard of” Russia requesting military and economic aid from China following reports of such requests from the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/13/us/politics/russia-china-ukraine.html] and Financial Times[https://www.ft.com/content/30850470-8c8c-4b53-aa39-01497064a7b7], who spoke with unnamed U.S. officials.

Pengyu told Reuters China finds the current situation in Ukraine “disconcerting,” and supports a “peaceful settlement of the crisis.”

Liu added, "utmost efforts should be made to support Russia and Ukraine in carrying forward negotiations despite the difficult situation to produce a peaceful outcome."

The reports from the New York Times and Financial Times did not outline China’s response to the alleged requests, nor include specifics as to the type of military aid Russia might have requested.

U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan is set to meet with Chinese foreign policy official Yang Jiechi in Rome Monday to discuss China’s relationship with Russia. Sullivan told[https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2022/03/13/sullivan-on-china.cnn] CNN Sunday China would face consequences if it aided Russia financially, as heavy sanctions by the U.S. and NATO allies have decimated Russia’s economy. Sullivan would not confirm whether the U.S. would go as far as to sanction China as punishment for aiding Russia.

—Mason Bissada

March 13, 2022 7:43 PM EST

WHO, U.N. Agencies Demand End To Attacks On Health Care Services, Workers In Ukraine

The World Health Organization, the U.N. Population Fund and UNICEF called for the halt of all attacks on health care systems in Ukraine, the three organizations said in a joint statement[https://www.who.int/news/item/13-03-2022-stop-attacks-on-health-care-in-ukraine] Sunday.

"To attack the most vulnerable – babies, children, pregnant women, and those already suffering from illness and disease, and health workers risking their own lives to save lives – is an act of unconscionable cruelty,” the organizations wrote.

The organizations also called for an immediate ceasefire to allow for humanitarian assistance and a peaceful end to the war.

The release pointed to the WHO’s Surveillance System for Attacks on Health Care, which found at least 12 people have died and at least 34 have been injured as a result of attacks in which health care facilities in Ukraine were damaged or destroyed.

On Thursday, Russian airstrikes and shelling leveled[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/photos-russian-airstrikes-demolish-maternity-hospital-and-houses-in-mariupol/?sh=71624dfa4eb5] multiple civilian buildings in the south eastern Ukrainian port city of Mariupol, including a maternity hospital, killing at least three people including one child, according[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-ap-news-alert-europe-38f781a1977432b5d660cbc578eb5c07] to Mariupol’s city council via the Associated Press.

—Mason Bissada

March 13, 2022 6:34 PM EST

Russia Threatens Western Companies It Could Arrest Leaders For Criticism, Report Says

Russian prosecutors have threatened to arrest corporate leaders of Western companies in Russia if they criticize the government, the Wall Street Journal reported[https://www.wsj.com/articles/russian-prosecutors-warn-western-companies-of-arrests-asset-seizures-11647206193] Sunday based on unnamed sources. Prosecutors also threatened to seize the assets of companies that pull out of Russia, as dozens have in recent weeks following the country’s invasion of Ukraine.

Russian President Vladimir Putin last week advocated for a law that would nationalize assets of foreign companies across several sectors that have pulled out Russia, the report said.

The report comes the same day that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called on American companies Microsoft, Oracle and SAP to “stop supporting your products in Russia, stop the war!” Zelensky deemed the companies’ efforts “‘half’ decisions.” Read more about Zelensky’s comments here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2022/03/13/zelensky-presses-companies-microsoft-sap-and-oracle-to-punish-russia-more/?sh=4dc524941ffe].

Find a running list of companies that have distanced themselves from Russia since it began its invasion of Ukraine here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/11/youtube-disney-goldman-sachs-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=2fef1635662d].

—Mason Bissada

March 13, 2022 5:55 PM EST

Russia Reportedly Asks China For Military Aid For Ukraine Invasion

Russia has requested military equipment from China to use in its invasion of Ukraine, unnamed U.S. officials told[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/13/us/politics/russia-china-ukraine.html] the New York Times Sunday, which reported that Russia also requested financial support from China as heavy sanctions continue to tank Russia’s economy.

The report comes a day before White House National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan is set to meet[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/13/politics/jake-sullivan-meeting-chinese-counterpart-ukraine/index.html] with Chinese foreign policy official Yang Jiechi in Rome to discuss China’s relationship with Russia. “We have communicated to Beijing that we will not stand by and allow any country to compensate Russia for its losses from the economic sanctions,” Sullivan said[https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2022/03/13/sullivan-on-china.cnn] to CNN Sunday, adding there would be consequences if China backed Russia financially, though he would not outright say if the U.S. would sanction China.

Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi said at a press conference Monday the country’s relationship with Russia “is valued for its independence,” and that the Chinese government aims to keep the relationship “free from interference or discord sown by third parties,” according[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/07/china-upholds-its-relationship-with-russia-says-negotiations-needed-to-solve-ukraine-conflict.html] to CNBC.

Sullivan also confirmed that the U.S. believes China knew that Russia “was planning something” before the invasion, though it’s unclear what exactly China knew. “The Times report suggests many U.S. officials believe it unlikely China will attempt to convince Putin to shift his stance on Ukraine, despite the Biden administration’s hopes for such an attempt.

—Mason Bissada

March 13, 2022 3:53 PM EST

Tulsi Gabbard Spreads Russian-Backed Biological Labs Conspiracy

Former presidential candidate and congress member Tulsi Gabbard shared unsubstantiated claims Sunday about the U.S. backing biological laboratories in Ukraine, propping up potentially dangerous, false Russian propaganda about the U.S. developing bioweapons in Ukraine.

Read more on Gabbard’s comments and the popular but unfounded conspiracy here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2022/03/13/tulsi-gabbard-latest-to-push-russian-backed-conspiracy-about-us-backed-biological-labs-in-ukraine/?sh=536c61e95522].

March 13, 2022 11:44 AM EST

Russia, Ukraine Say Some Sort Of Agreement Can Come In ‘Days’—But U.S. Warns Putin Still Out For Destruction

Members of Russia and Ukraine’s negotiating delegations independently said Sunday they see progress on negotiations and an agreement could come as soon as this week.

Mykhailo Podolyak, an advisor to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, said in a video posted[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1502982017667026945?s=20&t=3Lm3aEGkxLcWIJZSXz60fA] to his Twitter and translated[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russian-delegate-says-talks-with-ukraine-may-soon-produce-draft-agreements-2022-03-13/] to Reuters, "I think that we will achieve some results literally in a matter of days,” clarifying Ukraine doesn’t plan to “concede” on any major issues. Russian and Ukrainian delegations plan to conduct their fourth round of negotiations early this week, the Kyiv Independent reported[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1502990336725078025], citing Podolyak.

Leonid Slutsky, the chairman of the Russian Duma's committee on international affairs, said[https://tass.com/politics/1421439] he sees “considerable progress” in negotiations according to Russian news agency TASS and “this progress may develop into a common stance within days and some documents to be signed.”

U.S. Deputy Sec. of State Wendy R. Sherman said[https://video.foxnews.com/v/6300527397001#sp=show-clips] on Fox News Sunday she sees progress in discussions, but warned she believes Russian President Vladimir Putin intends to continue the Russian invasion. Sherman said, “We are seeing some signs of a willingness to have real, serious negotiations, but…so far, it appears that Vladimir Putin is intent on destroying Ukraine.”

—Derek Saul

March 13, 2022 10:22 AM EST

American Journalist Killed In Ukraine

American journalist Brent Renaud was killed Sunday in Irpin, a small city outside of Kyiv, according[https://twitter.com/ChristopherJM/status/1502998026863919105] to a social media post reportedly from the Kyiv regional police chief and later acknowledged by the New York Times, where Renaud’ had contributed through the years.

Cliff Levy, a Times deputy managing editor, said in a Sunday morning tweet[https://twitter.com/cliffordlevy/status/1502994874068762629?s=21] the Times is “deeply saddened” to hear about Renaud’s death, calling him a “ talented photographer and filmmaker.”

Renaud was a Peabody Award-winning filmmaker, producing humanitarian documentaries across several continents alongside his brother, Craig Renaud. The Times said[https://twitter.com/cliffordlevy/status/1502994874068762629/photo/1] he last worked for the publication in 2015, though used a Times press badge in his Ukraine coverage.

Jane Ferguson, a contributor to PBS and the New Yorker, said[https://twitter.com/janeferguson5/status/1503000669153808387?s=21] a Ukrainian police officer told her at the site where Renaud was killed: “Tell America, tell the world, what they did to a journalist,” indicating Russian forces killed Renaud.

U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said[https://twitter.com/katierogers/status/1502994156511191042?s=20&t=hFGPfzHFzeAUozRV0yv6dw] on CBS’ Face The Nation the news was “shocking and horrifying,” and the U.S. “will be responding accordingly.”

—Derek Saul

March 13, 2022 8:51 AM EST

Key developments: Ukraine Alleges Another Mayor Abduction, Pope Calls Russian Tactics 'Barbaric'

Russian forces kidnapped the mayor of Dniprorudne, a small city in southern Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraine’s minister of foreign affairs, said in a Sunday tweet[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1502945209159761923]. Ukrainian authorities alleged Russian forces kidnapped Ivan Fedorov, the mayor of Melitopol, earlier this week.

Josep Borrell, the European Union’s high representative for foreign affairs, said the EU “strongly condemns” alleged abduction in Dniprorudne in a Sunday tweet[https://twitter.com/JosepBorrellF/status/1502968243371270144?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet], writing, “It is yet another attack on democratic institutions in #Ukraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukraine?src=hashtag_click] and an attempt to establish illegitimate alternative government structures in a sovereign country.”

Here are additional updates from Sunday morning:

* Almost 125,000 Ukrainians have evacuated via humanitarian corridors, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/nearly-125000-people-evacuated-via-humanitarian-corridors-ukraine-says-president-2022-03-13/] Sunday, and a convoy of humanitarian supplies is about 50 miles from Mariupol, a besieged city of about 400,000 that’s received widespread international attention for unsafe conditions for civilians.

* Pope Francis called[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-13-22/index.html] Russia’s targeting of civilians “barbaric” during a Sunday morning address in Vatican City, adding, "All that is needed is to stop the unacceptable armed aggression before it reduces cities to cemeteries."

* Polish President Andrzej Duda said it would be a “game changer” for NATO if Russia used chemical weapons in Ukraine during a Sunday interview[https://twitter.com/BBCPolitics/status/1502939673123078144?s=20&t=c0XbVeD55NkngAitzzoDQQ] with the BBC, coming shortly after NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg warned[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/nato-chief-says-russia-may-use-chemical-weapons-german-paper-2022-03-13/] Russia may soon resort to chemical weapons.

—Derek Saul

March 13, 2022 7:30 AM EST

Death Toll From Russian Missile Strike Near Lviv Rises To 35

The death toll from Russia’s air strikes on a military training center on the outskirts of Lviv—near the Polish border—rose to 35, the Lviv regional administration announced on Sunday.

An additional 134 people were injured in the strike and are now hospitalized, the authorities added, noting that the early morning strikes were carried out warplanes flying over the Azov and Black Sea.

In a statement[https://www.facebook.com/maks.kozytskyy/posts/4888495511187084] on Facebook, the regional governor of Lviv Maksym Kozytskyy said “Once again I stress and appeal to all governments of NATO countries: NATO, close the sky over Ukraine! Close the sky over Ukraine or provide us military planes! Now that the shelling is approaching the borders of NATO countries, is that crucial moment!”

— Siladitya Ray

March 13, 2022 6:47 AM EST

U.K. Gov't Urges Companies To Inflict 'Maximum Economic Pain' On Putin's Regime

The U.K.’s Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak, issued a warning[https://twitter.com/RishiSunak/status/1502942902187659272] to companies on Sunday “to think very carefully” about any investments that would aid Vladimir Putin’s regime, as London looked step up economic sanctions against Moscow.

Sunak said he was clear that there is no case for new investment in Russia and welcomed commitments made by companies to divest away from Russian assets.

“I welcome the consensus on the need to inflict maximum economic pain on Putin and his regime.” Sunak added.

— Siladitya Ray

March 13, 2022 5:35 AM EST

Nine Dead, 57 Injured After Russian Missile Strike Near Lviv

Nine people were killed by a barrage of Russian missiles which struck the Yavoriv military training ground near the western Ukrainian city of Lviv on Sunday, regional authorities said[https://www.facebook.com/maks.kozytskyy/posts/4888291591207476].

An additional 57 people were injured in the strike and are now hospitalized, the authorities added, noting that not all casualties were military personnel.

The strike took place a few dozen kilometers near the Polish border with more than 30 missiles being fired, according to the authorities. They added that the region’s air defense systems managed to intercept some of the projectiles but were overwhelmed by the sheer number Russian missiles.

Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov tweeted:

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=cfc0fb0733504c77aa4a6ac07caaffc7&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/oleksiireznikov/status/1502911608242196482&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D8804248494c144f5b4765c41f66c6ed5]

— Siladitya Ray

March 13, 2022 4:48 AM EST

Russian Forces Trying To 'Envelop' Ukrainian Soldiers In The East, U.K. Defense Ministry Says

Russian forces are attempting to “envelop” Ukrainian soldiers in the eastern part of the country as they advance both from Kharkiv in the north and Mariupol in the south, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1502900346703814657] on Sunday.

The report notes that Russia’s southern advance from Crimea is now looking to drive west towards Odessa, circumventing Mykolaiv where they have faced stiff resistance.

The update claims that Russia is “paying a high price” for each of its advance.

— Siladitya Ray

March 13, 2022 12:46 AM EST

Russian Forces Fire Missiles At Lviv In Western Ukraine

Russian forces fired as many as eight missiles at a military base in western Ukraine on Sunday, regional governor of Lviv said[https://www.facebook.com/maks.kozytskyy/posts/4887940117909290] on Facebook.

The missiles reportedly[https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-13-22/h_fdbfd051bea0b2089482e60467d72a1d] struck the International Peacekeeping and Security Center (IPSC), a large military base that trains soldiers—primarily for peacekeeping missions.

The strikes come after several news outlets reported air raid sirens and explosion on the outskirts of the city of Lviv earlier. The city which is close to the Polish border has emerged a refuge for people fleeing fighting in the eastern half of the country and an important transit point for supplies entering the country.

The western city had largely been left untouched by the invading Russian forces so far. However, Sunday’s attack indicates that Russia may be expanding its offensive.

— Siladitya Ray

March 12, 2022 11:00 PM EST

Russia Installs New Mayor In Melitopol After Abduction Of Previous One

The Russian military has installed a new mayor in the occupied Ukrainian city of Melitopol on Saturday after the alleged abduction of the city’s mayor Ivan Fedorov earlier in the week.

The newly installed mayor, Galina Danilchenko, issued a video statement stating that her main task is to lead the city to adjust to “a new reality.” However, she has immediately been denounced[https://twitter.com/NeilMacFarquhar/status/1502804264372125707] as a “traitor” by regional officials.

Danilchenko, reportedly a former member of the city council, claimed in her televised announcement that there were people still in Melitopol who would try to destabilise “the situation and provoke a reaction of bad behaviour.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 12, 2022 6:29 PM EST

Ukraine Says Russia Seeking To Take Permanent Control Of Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant

Ukraine believes Russia is taking steps to seize “full and permanent” control of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, where around 400 Russian soldiers are present, the International Atomic Energy Agency said in a statement[https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/pressreleases/update-19-iaea-director-general-statement-on-situation-in-ukraine] Saturday, adding that Russian authorities denied the accusation.

Energoatom, Ukraine’s state-run nuclear energy company, told the IAEA that Russia plans to hand over the management of Europe’s largest nuclear power plant, which its troops seized last week, to Russia’s state-run company Rosatom, the statement said.

Rosatom Director General Alexei Likhachev denied to the IAEA that it had any plans to take over management of the power plant but admitted Russian experts were at the plant to provide “consultative assistance,” the statement said.

Energoatom said Saturday morning that one of the 11 Rosatom officials who arrived at the plant Friday claimed the plant belonged to Russia, CNN reported[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-12-22/h_58411049df7971c8fd14eaee4aa4f910].

Russian military forces captured the plant March 4, which has six reactors, and Energoatom has said its employees have since been working at “gunpoint,” CNN reported[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-12-22/h_58411049df7971c8fd14eaee4aa4f910].

Two of the four high voltage offsite power lines have been damaged but a functioning power line can provide the power the plant needs, the IAEAsaid.

– Lisa Kim

March 12, 2022 5:12 PM EST

Around 13,000 Ukrainians Evacuated From Cities Saturday, Deputy Prime Minister Says

Around 13,000 people evacuated embattled Ukrainian cities through humanitarian corridors on Saturday, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said, according to Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/some-13000-ukrainians-evacuated-cities-saturday-deputy-pm-says-2022-03-12/].

Russian troops prevented anyone from leaving the besieged city of Mariupol, she said, refuting accusations by Moscow that Ukrainian forces were keeping people in the city. Mariupol is in a dire humanitarian situation, with Doctors Without Borders warning that residents have not had drinking water for weeks, food is running out and patients are dying from a lack of medicine, CNN reported[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-12-22/h_f0005e75a91eef9e59307f9f91dbbd9d]. Russian attacks had killed more than 1,500 civilians in Mariupol as of Friday, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said in a tweet[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1502357027934416897?s=20&t=lHGWWLn1v4RMyXdkFMB8jw].

— Lisa Kim

March 12, 2022 2:40 PM EST

Moscow Stock Exchange To Stay Closed For Third Week

The Russian Central Bank said the Moscow Stock Exchange will remain closed next week through March 18, marking the third week in a row that trading will be halted on the country’s main stock market. The central bank said foreign exchange transactions will be allowed to resume Monday morning.

The Moscow Exchange hasn’t opened since February 25, one day after the Russian invasion[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/02/23/russia-orders-special-military-operation-in-ukraine/] into Ukraine began, and days before several Western countries imposed[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/02/26/us-and-allies-to-remove-some-russian-banks-from-swift-sanction-central-bank/] harsh economic sanctions on Russia’s economy. Shares of Russian companies listed on overseas exchanges have plummeted since the invasion began.

— Anna Kaplan

March 12, 2022 1:03 PM EST

Ukrainian Civilian Casualties Rise Over 1,500, U.N. Says

Russia’s invasion into Ukraine has caused 1,581 casualties since the war began, the United Nations said[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28273&LangID=E] Saturday, though the organization believes the actual figures are “considerably higher.” The U.N.’s Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights said 579 civilians had been killed, including 42 children, and 1,002 had been injured.

The U.N. office said most of the casualties had been caused by “explosive weapons with a wide impact area,” including shelling and missile strikes. The organization cited delayed information from areas with intense fighting and reports pending corroboration as reasons why its figures may be an underestimate. It noted reports from the Prosecutor General’s Office of Ukraine, which alleged[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1502574444493127687?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] 79 children had been killed, and allegations of hundreds of casualties in the cities of Izium, Mariupol and Volnovakha. The figures released Saturday do not include casualty statistics from those areas.

— Anna Kaplan

March 12, 2022 12:00 PM EST

White House Authorizes Another $200 Million In Military Aid For Ukraine

President Joe Biden authorized[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/12/memorandum-on-the-delegation-of-authority-under-section-506a1-of-the-foreign-assistance-act-of-1961/] a $200 million aid package for Ukraine on Saturday that will provide defense articles and services, and military education and training. In a memo[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/12/memorandum-on-the-delegation-of-authority-under-section-506a1-of-the-foreign-assistance-act-of-1961/] released by the White House, Biden delegated Secretary of State Antony Blinken to direct the funds to Ukraine as part of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, which allows[https://www.dsca.mil/sites/default/files/drawdown_handbook_2004b.pdf] a president to authorize a drawdown, or the “disposition of United States property or services,” to a foreign nation during an emergency.

White House officials told reporters the new aid includes more man-portable Stinger anti-aircraft missile systems and Javelin anti-tank missiles.

Earlier in the day, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said that Russia could attack shipments of military aid for Ukraine, describing them as “ legitimate targets[https://www.politico.com/news/2022/03/12/russia-warns-u-s-over-arms-shipments-to-ukraine-00016820].”

This is the fourth drawdown package from the U.S. to Ukraine in the past year, and a senior U.S. defense official told reporters last week Biden’s last drawdown[https://www.state.gov/additional-military-assistance-for-ukraine/] of $350 million constituted “the largest presidential drawdown package in history.” Another senior U.S. defense official told reporters on Wednesday the U.S. is very close to delivering the $350 million aid package, and expected for it to be completely closed out “in the coming days.”

Congress also passed a $1.5 trillion spending bill[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/10/senate-passes-15-trillion-spending-bill-with-14-billion-for-ukraine-aid-heres-whats-in-it/?sh=1af1676eb713] earlier this week, which appropriated $13.6 billion in emergency aid to Ukraine to help displaced refugees, provide military assistance and for any macroeconomic needs, according[https://appropriations.house.gov/sites/democrats.appropriations.house.gov/files/Ukraine%20Fact%20Sheet.pdf] to the House Committee on Appropriations.

— Anna Kaplan

March 12, 2022 10:10 AM EST

Ukraine Reveals Winning Design For ‘Russian Warship, Go F—k Yourself’ Stamp

The Ukrainian postal service announced[https://www.ukrposhta.ua/en/news/57585-obrano-eskiz-dlja-poshtovoi-marki-russkij-voennyj-korabl-idi-nauj] the winning design of its “Russian Warship, Go F–k Yourself” stamp contest Saturday to commemorate the soldiers who reportedly cursed[https://www.politico.eu/article/go-fuck-yourself-ukraine-soldiers-snake-island-russia-war-ship-killed/] at invading Russian troops on Snake Island when they were asked to surrender. Ukraine’s First Deputy Foreign Minister Emine Dzheppar shared the design in a tweet[https://twitter.com/EmineDzheppar/status/1502545496614789126], and said the postal service will soon publish the stamp.

Ukrposhta, the country’s postal service, offered up 20 designs for a public vote[https://www.facebook.com/ukrposhta/posts/4970728059640475]. The winner was made by Boris Groh, a Ukrainian who was forced to move from his home in Crimea after Russia’s annexation of it in 2014, according to Ukrposhta[https://www.ukrposhta.ua/en/news/57585-obrano-eskiz-dlja-poshtovoi-marki-russkij-voennyj-korabl-idi-nauj].

The stamp commemorates one of the most inspiring acts of defiance in the war so far by outgunned Ukrainians. In the early days of the invasion, a Russian warship hailed a small force of 13 Ukrainian border guards on Snake Island, which is about 186 miles west of Crimea, and told them to surrender. They reportedly[https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/02/25/snake-island-russian-warship-ukraine/] responded, “Russian warship, go f–k yourself.”

All 13 were initially thought to have been killed, leading Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to announce[https://twitter.com/washingtonpost/status/1497187425071865870] he would posthumously award them with the Hero of Ukraine award. However, the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine later wrote in a Facebook post[https://www.facebook.com/DPSUkraine/] it has a “strong belief” they may still be alive.

— Anna Kaplan

March 12, 2022 9:30 AM EST

Ukraine Is Inflicting ‘Biggest Blow’ To Russian Army In Decades, Zelensky Claims

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky claimed Saturday in a speech[https://president.gov.ua/en/news/chas-buti-efektivnimi-v-rutinnih-spravah-i-viddavati-vse-neo-73509] that Ukrainian forces had battered 31 Russian battalion tactical groups out of action in what he called the “biggest blow” to the Russian Army in decades. Zelensky said Russia had lost more than 360 tanks, 1,205 armored vehicles, about 60 planes and more than 80 helicopters. Forbes could not independently verify these claims.

Zelensky added during a separate news conference that between 500 and 600 Russian soldiers had surrendered to Ukrainian forces Friday, and that about 1,300 Ukrainian troops have been killed since the invasion began, according to multiple[https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/ukraine-russia-war-troops-deaths-zelensky-b2034504.html] news outlets[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1502660753396019204?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]. Zelensky said during his speech Russia is recruiting reservists, conscripts and mercenaries to replenish its forces. He also called on Russia to “ensure silence” on more than 15 humanitarian corridors Ukraine has tried to establish for civilians to receive water, food and medicine.

Zelensky lauded a group of about 2,000 protesters who demonstrated against the Russian occupation of the city of Melitopol, and to demand the release of the city’s mayor, Ivan Fedorov. Multiple media outlets reported[https://en.interfax.com.ua/news/general/811615.html] Russia took Fedorov into custody on Friday, and CNN reports[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-11-22/h_722529676279d7b0f3933d94b6cbbca4] he could face terrorism charges from the government of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic, a Russian-backed separatist state in east Ukraine. The New York Times reports[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/12/world/ukraine-russia-war/russia-meets-public-resistance-in-cities-and-towns-it-seized] the size of the protests were in the hundreds, and that Russian forces moved quickly to shut them down.

— Anna Kaplan

March 12, 2022 9:09 AM EST

Premier League Disqualifies Roman Abramovich As Director Of Chelsea FC

Roman Abramovich has been disqualified to serve as a director of British soccer team Chelsea FC due to government sanctions imposed[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/uk-sanctions-roman-abramovich-and-six-other-russian-oligarchs-freezes-assets-including-chelsea-fc/?sh=3121ec924bbd] on the billionaire earlier this week, the Premier League said in a statement[https://www.premierleague.com/news/2527612?sf254422036=1] on Saturday. The Premier League’s board said the decision does not impact the club’s “ability to train and play its fixtures.”

His disqualification comes days after the U.K. government sanctioned[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/uk-sanctions-roman-abramovich-and-six-other-russian-oligarchs-freezes-assets-including-chelsea-fc/?sh=3121ec924bbd] Abramovich and several other Russian oligarchs over their ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Abramovich has previously denied[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/24/roman-abramovich-linked-to-russian-state-and-corrupt-activity-mp-says] reports he has links to the Kremlin. The U.K. established a special license[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_QXtt6dc8CiKhnagOFaRKT8-Ijkld2E0nVmRoy92IL8/edit?usp=sharing] to allow Chelsea to continue to play games and engage in other soccer-related activities amid the sanctions.

A disqualified director cannot own a club, and must put it up for sale, according to Premier League rules, however, Abramovich already announced[https://www.forbes.com/sites/annakaplan/2022/03/02/russian-billionaire-roman-abramovich-to-sell-chelsea-fcdonate-proceeds-to-help-victims-in-ukraine/] last week he intended to sell the club. The billionaire, who’s net worth[https://www.forbes.com/profile/roman-abramovich/?sh=4b20f3fb134a] is about $7.8 billion, bought the club for about $190 million in 2003. Chelsea is now valued at more than $3 billion, according to Forbes estimates[https://www.forbes.com/sites/mikeozanian/2021/04/12/the-worlds-most-valuable-soccer-teams-barcelona-on-top-at-48-billion/].

— Anna Kaplan

March 12, 2022 12:24 AM EST

Italian Police Reportedly Seize Sanctioned Russian Billionaire Melnichenko’s Yacht

Italy’s financial police have seized a 469-foot superyacht[https://www.forbes.com/sites/giacomotognini/2022/03/01/biden-and-allies-are-coming-for-russian-billionaires-yachts-forbes-tracked-down-36-heres-where-to-find-them/?sh=40c739f24624] that belongs to Russian industrial magnate Andrey Melnichenko, CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-11-22/h_00e0e700ba49d1d0cd1dd5996179ff1a] reported late Friday. The sailing yacht is known as “SY A,” and it’s worth about $578 million, according to CNN, which cited a police statement.

The yacht was reportedly seized in Trieste, a port city on the Adriatic Sea.

Forbes estimates[https://www.forbes.com/profile/andrey-melnichenko/?sh=51a5f7b53086] Melnichenko’s net worth at $11.6 billion, partly due to his majority stakes in coal company SUEK and fertilizer company Eurochem. The European Union sanctioned[https://www.forbes.com/sites/carlieporterfield/2022/03/09/eu-targets-four-more-russian-billionaires-in-latest-wave-of-sanctions/?sh=77a3a5451427] him earlier this week, in the latest round of asset freezes against well-connected Russian elites following the invasion of Ukraine. A spokesperson for Melnichenko called the sanctions unjustified in a statement to Forbes[https://www.forbes.com/sites/giacomotognini/2022/03/01/tracker-in-depth-look-at-20-russian-billionaires-hit-by-sanctions/?sh=3b674fc33ce7], arguing he “has no relation to the tragic events in Ukraine” and “has no political affiliations.”

In addition to “SY A,” Melnichenko owns another[https://www.forbes.com/sites/giacomotognini/2022/03/01/biden-and-allies-are-coming-for-russian-billionaires-yachts-forbes-tracked-down-36-heres-where-to-find-them/?sh=40c739f24624] 390-foot yacht called “A.” He also owns several properties[https://www.forbes.com/sites/giacomotognini/2022/03/05/a-guide-to-all-the-outrageous-mansions-and-estates-owned-by-sanctioned-russian-billionaires/?sh=4eb73dcb2e0f] in Western countries, including a mansion in Monaco, a villa in the French town of Cap d’Antibes, homes in Italy and Switzerland and a penthouse condo in Manhattan, Forbes reported.

— Joe Walsh

March 11, 2022 10:20 PM EST

Zelensky Compares Russian Forces To ‘ISIS Terrorists’

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky lashed out at Russia in a late-night speech[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/sogodni-kozhen-zdobuvaye-ukrayini-slavu-na-svoyemu-misci-zve-73501] after the mayor of Melitopol was reportedly taken into custody, calling the move a “crime against democracy” and arguing Russia’s behavior “will be equated with the actions of ISIS terrorists.”

The mayor of Melitopol—a southern Ukrainian city occupied by Russian forces[https://www.wsj.com/articles/occupied-ukrainian-towns-want-russian-troops-to-go-home-11646662450] —was detained by armed men, and an official for the pro-Russian separatist government in eastern Ukraine’s Luhansk region suggested he could face terrorism charges, CNN reported earlier Friday[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-11-22/h_722529676279d7b0f3933d94b6cbbca4]. The Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs denounced the move[https://www.facebook.com/UkraineMFA/posts/335670685270070] as an “abduction” and a “war crime under the Geneva Convention.”

— Joe Walsh

March 11, 2022 8:56 PM EST

Zelensky Says Over 7,000 People Fled 4 Cities Friday—Down From A Day Earlier

Some 7,144 Ukrainian civilians escaped from four cities—Enerhodar, Hostomel, Bucha and Kozarovychi—on Friday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in a late-night speech[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/sogodni-kozhen-zdobuvaye-ukrayini-slavu-na-svoyemu-misci-zve-73501]. It’s a steep decrease[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/derzhava-robit-use-shob-dopomogti-mariupolyu-zvernennya-prez-73485] from the nearly 40,000 evacuees from seven cities reported by Zelensky a day earlier, as Ukrainian officials seek to create evacuation routes in cities besieged by Russian forces.

Zelensky said “these are 7,144 reasons to try to organize evacuation for Ukrainians from the besieged cities tomorrow and the day after tomorrow,” according to a translation from his office.

Ukrainian and Russian negotiators have sought to set up[https://www.cbsnews.com/news/ukraine-russia-ceasefire-opening-several-civilian-evacuation-corridors/] temporary, localized ceasefires that would allow residents of some cities to flee via “humanitarian corridors.” However, Ukraine has accused Russia of repeatedly[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-promises-silence-ukrainians-flee-battered-cities-2022-03-09/] violating[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-blame-each-other-mariupol-evacuation-fails-again-2022-03-06/] ceasefire agreements, and the Ukrainian government has rebuffed Russia’s proposal[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/07/russia-humanitarian-corridors-ukraine-war-mariupol-kyiv] to set up evacuation corridors that lead to Russia or Belarus[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/ukraine-rejects-russia-cease-fire-humanitarian-corridors-putin-belarus-rcna18936].

Zelensky also accused Russia of blocking[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/sogodni-kozhen-zdobuvaye-ukrayini-slavu-na-svoyemu-misci-zve-73501] aid to the southeastern port city of Mariupol, which has run low on basic supplies[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/11/ukraine-russia-war-mariupol-evacuation] amid a siege and frequent shelling[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/09/world/europe/ukraine-mariupol-siege.html] by Russian forces. He said the government will attempt to deliver food, water and medicine again Saturday.

— Joe Walsh

March 11, 2022 6:42 PM EST

In Photos: Artillery Fire And Burning Homes Visible Outside Kyiv

Russian and Ukrainian forces are engaged in heavy fighting[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/08/ukraine-russia-irpin-war/] near an airport northwest of Kyiv, and satellite images taken Friday morning by Maxar Technologies show artillery firing and destruction less than 20 miles from the center of Ukraine’s capital.

Some Russian military units could be as close as nine miles from central Kyiv, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Thursday. The fighting spotted in Maxar’s images is somewhat further away: The artillery battalion was photographed in the town of Ozera, which is just north of Antonov airport and about 18 miles northwest of Kyiv. The company spotted a set of homes on fire almost five miles southeast of the artillery units, though the units’ targets are unclear.

— Joe Walsh

March 11, 2022 5:35 PM EST

Deutsche Bank ‘Winding Down’ Business In Russia

Deutsche Bank is currently “winding down” its presence in Russia and will not do any new business in the country, it announced[https://www.db.com/news/detail/20220311-statement-on-russia?language_id=1] Friday, making it the latest bank to distance itself from Russia.

In a statement, Deutsche Bank cited “legal and regulatory obligations” for its exit from Russia. The German financial institution said Wednesday it has scaled back its presence in Russia since 2014, and its gross loan exposure[https://www.db.com/news/detail/20220309-deutsche-bank-reports-very-limited-russia-exposure?language_id=1] to the country stood at around $1.5 billion, with net exposure reduced to $650 million after accounting for guarantees and collateral.

Deutsche Bank initially declined to leave the Russian market after the invasion of Ukraine, with CFO James von Moltke telling CNBC[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/10/deutsche-bank-says-not-practical-to-exit-russia-business.html] on Thursday the bank has a duty to continue serving its clients in Russia and leaving the country wouldn’t be “practical.” The decision drew criticism from Bill Browder, a former investor in Russia and staunch regime critic[https://www.wsj.com/articles/financier-bill-browder-plays-the-long-game-to-expose-russian-money-laundering-11561647331] who told Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/business/deutsche-bank-ceo-gets-20-pay-rise-2021-2022-03-11/] earlier Friday the move was “completely at odds with the international business community.”

JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs announced earlier this week they will wind down their presence in Russia, joining a growing list of Western companies that have sought to exit the Russian market, likely due to a combination of public pressure and sanctions. Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/11/youtube-disney-goldman-sachs-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=393c84a0662d].

— Joe Walsh

March 11, 2022 5:19 PM EST

U.S. Sanctions Billionaire Viktor Vekselberg And Russian Lawmakers

The Treasury Department announced[https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0650] a new round of sanctions Friday targeting Russian elites, including billionaire Viktor Vekselberg[https://www.forbes.com/profile/viktor-vekselberg/?sh=2dec594f30b1].

The U.S. sanctioned three members of Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov's immediate family, along with the management board of VTB Bank, Russia's second-largest financial institution. Twelve members of the Russian State Duma who signed a letter urging Russian President Vladimir Putin to recognize two pro-Kremlin breakaway states in eastern Ukraine as independent were also sanctioned.

All of those sanctioned Friday will be blocked from accessing any property they may own in the U.S., among related penalties.

As part of the actions against Vekselberg, whose fortune Forbes estimates at $6 billion, Treasury blocked an Airbus A319 jet registered in Aruba and his Cook Islands-flagged yacht, which the government believes are worth a total of $180 million.

“Treasury continues to hold Russian officials to account for enabling Putin’s unjustified and unprovoked war,” Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said in a statement. “Today’s actions also further isolates the severely damaged Russian economy by prohibiting trade in products that are key to the economic and financial interests of all Russian elites.”

— Nicholas Reimann

March 11, 2022 3:33 PM EST

Melitopol Mayor Taken Into Custody--Could Reportedly Face Terrorism Charges From Russia-Backed Separatists

The mayor of Russian-occupied Melitopol in southern Ukraine was taken into custody Friday, according to multiple[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-11-22/h_722529676279d7b0f3933d94b6cbbca4] reports[https://en.interfax.com.ua/news/general/811615.html], in what's believed to be the first case of a Ukrainian official being detained since the Russian invasion began.

Fedorov could now face terrorism charges from the government of the Luhansk People's Republic, a Russian-backed breakaway state in eastern Ukraine, according to CNN.

A statement posted on the Luhansk prosecutor's website accused Fedorov of financing terrorist operations and being a member of a far-right Ukrainian nationalist group, the news outlet reported.

It's not apparent that Fedorov has any connection to nationalist groups, but Russian President Vladimir Putin falsely claimed the Ukrainian government was being run by neo-Nazis to justify an invasion.

The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry in a Facebook post[https://www.facebook.com/UkraineMFA/posts/335670685270070] Friday said Fedorov was the victim of an “abduction,” which it called a “war crime under the Geneva Conventions.”

— Nicholas Reimann

March 11, 2022 2:39 PM EST

Facebook Will Only Allow Calls For Violence Against Russians In Ukraine—Not Nearby Countries

A spokesman for Facebook parent company Meta said Friday the platform's temporary move to allow posts calling for violence against Russians will only apply "in Ukraine itself."

A Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/exclusive-facebook-instagram-temporarily-allow-calls-violence-against-russians-2022-03-10/] report Thursday about the change drew widespread attention, and claimed Facebook would allow users based in multiple countries to call for violence.

Facebook's community standards[https://www.facebook.com/communitystandards/violence_criminal_behavior] ban posts that call for violence, but Meta spokesman Nick Clegg said in a statement the platform would allow Ukrainians to express "their resistance and fury at the invading military forces," but not against Russian civilians.

Clegg did not address Reuters' reporting that calls for the death of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko would be allowed.

"We have no quarrel with the Russian people," Clegg said. "We will not tolerate Russophobia or any kind of discrimination, harassment or violence towards Russians on our platform."

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/nickclegg/status/1502349805221126144&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 11, 2022 1:54 PM EST

YouTube Blocks Access To Russian-Backed Channels Worldwide

YouTube announced Friday afternoon it would immediately start the process of blocking access to Russian-funded channels globally, expanding on a ban that covered Europe.

The video platform tweeted[https://twitter.com/YouTubeInsider/status/1502335085122666500?s=20&t=Y1r626MhUh3F5-MULUPTOw] it was making the move in line with community guidelines that prohibit "content denying, minimizing or trivializing well-documented violent events."

Russia has repeatedly spread disinformation about Ukraine leading up to its invasion of the country two weeks ago and has continued doing so throughout the conflict, notably making the false claim[https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2022/03/russia-struggles-to-get-its-story-straight-on-horrific-bombing-of-maternity-hospital] a maternity hospital it bombed on Wednesday was a military target and questioning whether images of wounded women were legitimate.

The move from YouTube comes after it banned all ads in Russia, saying it aims to suspend "all of the ways to monetize on our platform in Russia.”

Read more about companies cutting ties with Russia: JPMorgan, Disney, Goldman Sachs—Here Are The Companies Cutting Ties With Russia Over Ukraine Invasion[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/10/goldman-sachs-amazon-3m-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=148f589067de]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 11, 2022 1:18 PM EST

Russia Struggles With Improper Planning Two Weeks Into Invasion, U.S. Says; No Signs Belarus Joining Fight

With Russian forces continuing to struggle to meet their objectives in Ukraine two weeks after their invasion began, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Friday that Russia did not properly plan supplies and resources for the scale of the operation.

Here are additional updates on the situation from the senior defense official:

* Russian forces have not moved closer to Kyiv since Thursday, though rear elements have been moved closer to the front of the advance, and portions of a 40-mile-long military convoy[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/11/europe/kyiv-russian-convoy-intl/index.html] are moving off-road and into the tree line, which the U.S. believes is to better protect the vehicles from Ukrainian forces.

* After reports of air strikes in western Ukraine for the first time since the invasion began, the official said “long range” Russian missiles struck two airfields in Lutsk and Ivano-Frankivsk.

* Chernihiv, a city north of Kyiv, is now isolated by Russian troops, which are “right outside,” according to the official.

* Russia has fired nearly 810 missiles since the invasion began, with about half coming from inside Ukraine, and the other half coming from Russia and Belarus.

* Both Ukraine and Russia have about 90% of their combat power available, though the official noted Russia has an advantage in “sheer numbers.”

* The official said 80% of Ukraine’s fixed-wing aircraft are intact, but they are making limited numbers of sorties, with Ukraine effectively defending against Russian air attacks with surface-to-air missiles.

* The U.S. has seen no substantive indications that Belarusian troops have joined the Russian offensive.

* The U.S. is aware of recruiting efforts from Syria[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/11/putin-approves-russian-use-of-middle-east-fighters-against-ukraine], but has not seen evidence or indications of any arrivals from outside countries.

— Anna Kaplan

March 11, 2022 10:27 AM EST

U.S. Bans Russian Diamonds, Alcohol And Seafood — And Will Move To Revoke Russia's Trade Status

President Joe Biden called for the U.S., along with its G7 and European allies, to revoke Russia’s “most-favored nation” trade status Friday morning, as they look to raise the economic pression on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. Stripping Russia of this status, which requires action from Congress, would allow the U.S. and other countries to impose higher tariffs on some Russian imports.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) told[https://twitter.com/mkraju/status/1502313929069973504?s=20&t=J60PDqI4wRWfAEw-QVkn9g] reporters the House will move to revoke Russia’s trade status next week, adding she hopes it will receive “a strong, bipartisan vote.” Canada was the first major U.S. ally to strip[https://www.cbc.ca/player/play/2008998979598] Russia of most-favored nation status last week.

The U.S. is also banning imports of Russian alcohol, seafood and diamonds, Biden said. The U.S. imported about $4.6 billion in seafood from Russia last year, according to federal trade data[https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/foss/f?p=215:2:20485990429576::NO], leading some national food marketers to oppose[https://www.adn.com/business-economy/2022/02/28/ban-on-us-purchases-of-russian-seafood-opposed-by-some-national-food-marketers/] a potential ban earlier this month. And while Russia is known for its vodka, U.S. imports of Russian vodka have declined by 79% since 2011, and it only accounts for 1.3% of vodka imports, according[https://news.yahoo.com/russian-vodka-only-1-3-205201759.html] to the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States.

— Anna Kaplan

March 11, 2022 9:17 AM EST

Russia Opens Criminal Inquiry Into Meta, Moves To Block All Services

Russia launched a criminal investigation into Facebook’s parent company Meta on Friday, and applied in court to label the company as an “extremist organization” after the company confirmed reports[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/exclusive-facebook-instagram-temporarily-allow-calls-violence-against-russians-2022-03-10/] it had eased its political speech policy.

A Meta spokesperson confirmed to multiple[https://www.reuters.com/world/kremlin-says-meta-would-have-cease-work-russia-if-reuters-report-is-true-2022-03-11/] media outlets[https://www.theverge.com/2022/3/10/22970705/russia-ukraine-moderation-facebook-instagram-hate-speech-violence-policy] the company would allow users to post messages such as “death to the Russian invaders,” though it would not allow posts calling for violence against Russian civilians. Reuters reports[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/exclusive-facebook-instagram-temporarily-allow-calls-violence-against-russians-2022-03-10/] internal Meta emails showed the company was also temporarily allowing posts that called for violence against Russian President Vladimir Putin and Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko.

The Russian State Prosecutor’s Office said[https://www.reuters.com/world/kremlin-says-meta-would-have-cease-work-russia-if-reuters-report-is-true-2022-03-11/] Meta’s actions are “aimed at inciting hatred and enmity towards the citizens of the Russian Federation,” and Russia’s State Duma IT Committee first deputy head said all Meta services “will soon be blocked” in the country, Russian news agency Interfax reports[https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/76431/].

— Anna Kaplan

March 11, 2022 7:00 AM EST

UN Has ‘Credible Reports’ Of Russian Forces Using Cluster Bombs In Ukraine

The United Nations human rights office said[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28262&LangID=E] on Friday it has received “credible reports” of Russian forces deploying cluster munitions in populated areas in Ukraine.

Cluster munitions are a class of weapon that break apart in the air and scatter a large number of smaller weapons across a wide area. While not prohibited—neither Russia nor Ukraine are party to the treaty banning them—their use in civilian areas can constitute a war crime. Human rights[https://www.hrw.org/news/2022/03/04/ukraine-cluster-munitions-launched-kharkiv-neighborhoods] groups[https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/news/2022/02/ukraine-cluster-munitions-kill-child-and-two-other-civilians-taking-shelter-at-a-preschool/], watchdogs and journalists[https://www.bellingcat.com/news/rest-of-world/2022/03/11/these-are-the-cluster-munitions-documented-by-ukrainian-civilians/] have repeatedly alleged[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/10/what-cluster-bombs-ukraine-war-how-much-damage/] their indiscriminate use by Russian forces since the start of the war.

"Due to their wide area effects, the use of cluster munitions in populated areas is incompatible with the international humanitarian law principles governing the conduct of hostilities," UN spokesperson Liz Throssell said. Targeting civilians, area bombardment and “other forms of indiscriminate attacks” are banned under international law and “may amount to war crimes,” Throssell said.

Throssell told Forbes the organization is “in the process of corroborating” the reports.

— Robert Hart

March 11, 2022 6:35 AM EST

Putin Calls On Foreign Volunteers To Fight In Ukraine

Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday said Russia would recruit foreign “volunteers” to fight in Ukraine, according[https://www.ft.com/content/e4778432-ec5f-4bad-a7f3-6c8cdb7143d9] to multiple[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/putin-says-volunteers-welcome-help-fight-against-ukrainian-forces-2022-03-11/] news[https://www.politico.eu/article/live-blog-ukraine-invasion-putin-donetsk-luhansk/#1287962] reports[https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-60705486] of him speaking[https://t.me/tass_agency/118221] at a Russian security council meeting. Putin said those wishing to fight “of their own accord, not for money,” should be allowed to do so and greenlit their deployment alongside Russian-backed forces in Ukraine’s breakaway Donbas region.

Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said there were 16,000 volunteers from the Middle East willing to fight alongside the Russian-backed rebels and proposed sending captured Western military equipment to forces in the region. Putin supported the decision. Russia has already been reported[https://www.wsj.com/articles/russia-recruiting-syrians-for-urban-combat-in-ukraine-u-s-officials-say-11646606234] to be hiring Syrian fighters familiar with urban conflict to help Moscow take and hold Ukrainian cities and Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said Russia already has a “large number of paid mercenaries” on the ground, according to the Financial Times.[https://www.ft.com/content/ea9dd3fd-2257-4543-9cdb-ba5de7a005f8]

Ukraine has been encouraging volunteers from around the world to come and help defend the country as part of an International Legion. Some 20,000 have reportedly expressed interest[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/09/criminal-charges-revoked-passports-heres-why-some-countries-are-pushing-back-against-ukraines-call-for-volunteer-soldiers/?sh=4b16a5b7a031], according to Ukrainian officials.

— Robert Hart

March 11, 2022 5:38 AM EST

Property Tycoon Nick Candy ‘Still Pursuing’ Chelsea Bid After Abramovich Sanctions

Sanctions against billionaire Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich have not deterred one bidder for the famous London club.

In a statement to Forbes, a spokesperson for property tycoon and Chelsea fan Nick Candy confirmed that he is "still pursuing his bid for Chelsea in light of yesterday’s news."

"We are examining the details of yesterday’s announcement and we are still interested in making a bid. Clearly this is a time of great uncertainty for all Chelsea fans. In our view, no one is the owner of a football club – you are the custodian of it for the fans and the community," the statement read.

Nick Candy, who likely does not himself have the financial muscle to fund Chelsea’s spending at its current level, confirmed this week that he is working with a consortium and was "actively exploring" a potential bid for Chelsea Football Club. A life-long fan who watched games at the club’s home of Stamford Bridge from the age of four, Candy’s bid pivots on slotting a new world-class stadium into London’s most exclusive postcode. "The club deserves a world class stadium and infrastructure,” the statement said, adding Candy’s "unique expertise and background in real estate would be a hugely valuable asset to delivering this vision.”

Following the announcement of U.K. sanctions against Abramovich[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/uk-sanctions-roman-abramovich-and-six-other-russian-oligarchs-freezes-assets-including-chelsea-fc/?sh=20c9551b4bbd] on Thursday, a source at the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport confirmed that the sale of Chelsea was now prohibited. However, the source added that U.K. lawmakers are very much “open to the sale of the club” and would consider it if Chelsea were to apply for a license to allow that sale to happen. Following the sanctions, Abramovich would receive none of the proceeds of a deal. Last week, he turned over stewardship (not ownership) of the club to the trustees of Chelsea’s charitable foundation.

Read more: Hurry Up And Wait: U.K. Sanctions Leave Roman Abramovich And A Growing List Of Chelsea Suitors In Limbo[https://www.forbes.com/sites/justinbirnbaum/2022/03/10/hurry-up-and-wait-uk-sanctions-leave-roman-abramovich-and-a-growing-list-of-chelsea-suitors-in-limbo/]

— David Dawkins

March 11, 2022 5:27 AM EST

2.5 Million Refugees Flee Ukraine — UN

Almost 2.5 million people have now fled Ukraine since the start of Russia’s invasion, the latest figures from the UN’s refugee agency show[https://data2.unhcr.org/en/situations/ukraine].

The majority of refugees have fled into neighboring Poland and the UN estimates some 4 million people could leave the country as the war continues.

On Thursday, President Zelensky said 100,000 residents had left Ukrainian cities through humanitarian corridors, but that routes were blocked[https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-10-22/h_edd0eccd8aeac6c077a0bd67c78fcfda] out of the southeastern city of Mariupol, where Russian’s bombed a maternity hospital this week, killing three.

—Isabel Togoh

March 11, 2022 3:32 AM EST

Biden, EU And G7 Will Reportedly Call For Russia To Have Trading Privileges Removed

President Biden, the EU and G7 nations will reportedly call for Russia to be removed from a key system Friday that prevents trading partners from discriminating against one another, Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/markets/europe/us-steps-up-pressure-russia-over-ukraine-invasion-2022-03-11/], Bloomberg[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-11/biden-set-to-call-for-end-of-russia-s-preferred-trade-status] and the Associated Press[https://apnews.com/] report.

Under the “ most favored nation[https://www.wto.org/english/thewto_e/whatis_e/tif_e/fact2_e.htm] ” principle set up by the World Trade Organization, countries are prevented from giving special privileges to one country over others, ensuring equal treatment between members.

A removal of that status would further punish Russia economically by allowing countries to slap higher tariffs on Russian goods. It follows Western nations and allies continuing to sanction[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/uk-sanctions-roman-abramovich-and-six-other-russian-oligarchs-freezes-assets-including-chelsea-fc/?sh=5b9ba0f24bbd] Russian oligarchs and financial institutions, the U.S. banning the import[https://www.forbes.com/sites/sergeiklebnikov/2022/03/08/heres-how-bidens-historic-ban-on-russian-oil-will-hit-the-economy/?sh=45a5271659d3] of Russian gas and oil, and multinational firms[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/10/goldman-sachs-amazon-3m-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=3e3ade3167de] either pausing business in Russia or completely pulling out over its invasion of Ukraine.

—Isabel Togoh

March 11, 2022 1:30 AM EST

U.K.: Russia Could Launch ‘Renewed Offensive Activity’ Against Kyiv

The Russian military’s progress in Ukraine has been “limited,” the U.K. Ministry of Defense said in a Friday morning intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ], but Russia is probably “seeking to reset and re-posture its forces for renewed offensive activity in the coming days”—including a likely push toward Kyiv.

Western officials[https://www.defense.gov/News/Transcripts/Transcript/Article/2960227/senior-defense-official-holds-a-background-briefing-march-8-2022/] believe[https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/defence-secretary-statement-to-the-house-of-commons-on-ukraine-9-march-2022] Russia is aiming to encircle Kyiv. A group of Russian forces moved three miles closer to the city in a 24-hour period ending Thursday afternoon, and some units are now about nine miles northwest of the city center, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters. Troops are also approaching Kyiv from the east, and remain about 25 miles away.

However, Russia’s progress toward Kyiv—a city of about 3 million people—has been slow and halting so far, partly due to pervasive logistical snags and stiff Ukrainian resistance, according to U.S. and U.K. assessments.

“It remains highly unlikely that Russia has successfully achieved the objectives outlined in its pre-invasion plan,” the Ministry of Defense said[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ].

— Joe Walsh

March 10, 2022 11:30 PM EST

Biden Will Reportedly Push To End Normal Trade Relations With Russia

President Joe Biden will announce a plan Friday to revoke permanent normal trade relations with Russia, making it easier to impose additional tariffs on Russian goods, several[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-biden-business-european-union-europe-d86084ccec8d2ef338ed5a0432c34a1b] news[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/10/world/ukraine-russia-war?name=styln-russia-ukraine®ion=TOP_BANNER&block=storyline_menu_recirc&action=click&pgtype=LegacyCollection&variant=1_BlueLink&is_new=false] outlets[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/10/politics/russia-trade-status-us-g7-eu-biden/index.html] reported[https://www.wsj.com/articles/biden-to-call-for-revoking-normal-trade-relations-with-russia-11646971099], citing unnamed sources.

The measure will require action from Congress, but both Democratic and Republican lawmakers have backed[https://gop-waysandmeans.house.gov/brady-smith-introduce-bipartisan-bicameral-house-bill-responding-to-russias-invasion-of-ukraine/] the[https://gop-waysandmeans.house.gov/brady-smith-introduce-bipartisan-bicameral-house-bill-responding-to-russias-invasion-of-ukraine/] idea[https://www.finance.senate.gov/chairmans-news/wyden-introduces-no-most-favored-nation-trading-with-russia-act-in-response-to-putins-unprovoked-invasion-of-ukraine] in recent days.

The European Union and the G7—a group of wealthy countries that includes the U.S.—are reportedly expected to unveil similar moves.

Since Russia invaded Ukraine two weeks ago, the United States and its allies have unveiled several rounds of penalties aimed at choking Russia’s economy. The Biden Administration has sanctioned Russia’s central bank[https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0612] and the country’s two largest banks[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/02/24/biden-announces-new-sanctions-on-russian-banks-and-tech-imports-following-ukraine-invasion/], banned Russian oil and gas imports[https://www.forbes.com/sites/sergeiklebnikov/2022/03/08/heres-how-bidens-historic-ban-on-russian-oil-will-hit-the-economy/?sh=197941a9659d] and imposed sanctions on several[https://www.forbes.com/sites/annakaplan/2022/03/03/us-sanctions-7-russian-oligarchs-and-kremlin-press-secretary-peskov/?sh=695a4a716b6e] Russian oligarchs and politicians.

Forbes has reached out to the White House for comment.

— Joe Walsh

March 10, 2022 10:38 PM EST

Senate Passes $13.6 Billion In Aid For Ukraine

The U.S. Senate passed a $1.5 trillion spending package that includes $13.6 billion in emergency aid for Ukraine late Thursday. The bill passed the House on Wednesday and is now headed to the desk of President Joe Biden, who is expected to sign it.

The bill will fund normal government operations until late September, staving off a government shutdown set to begin Friday. The Ukraine-related portion includes[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/09/politics/ukraine-aid-spending-bill-congress/index.html] military and economic aid[https://appropriations.house.gov/sites/democrats.appropriations.house.gov/files/Ukraine%20Fact%20Sheet.pdf] for Ukraine as it fights back against Russian troops, as well as assistance to neighboring countries that have accepted millions of refugees and additional funding for the Pentagon, which has deployed extra troops to nearby NATO member states.

The bill passed the Senate 68-31, with 18 Republicans joining every Democrat to vote in favor, and it passed the House by similar bipartisan margins.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/10/senate-passes-15-trillion-spending-bill-with-14-billion-for-ukraine-aid-heres-whats-in-it/?sh=5256257cb713].

March 10, 2022 10:02 PM EST

Biden Administration Warns Of ‘Economic Pain’ If Russia Seizes Assets From Companies That Leave

White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki castigated Russian officials on Thursday for suggesting they may try to seize the assets of multinational corporations that have abandoned the Russian market in recent weeks, warning the move could further isolate the country’s economy.

Russian President Vladimir Putin said Thursday this government will seek “legal solutions” to the corporate exodus, including imposing “external management” and then “transfer[ring] these enterprises to those who want to work,” according to CNN[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/10/business/russia-nationalization-western-companies/index.html] and the Financial Times[https://www.ft.com/content/0284a4e6-c005-46e7-992a-9e1bdd5ad0d5]. Under one proposal[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/03/10/ftse-100-index-markets-live-news-oil-price-sanctions/] reportedly[https://www.ft.com/content/0284a4e6-c005-46e7-992a-9e1bdd5ad0d5] floated[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/10/russia-plans-to-seize-assets-of-western-companies-exiting-country] by the economic ministry, departing firms whose foreign ownership exceeds 25% could be temporarily[https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2022/03/10/russia-nationalize-foreign-business-ukraine/] placed under local management.

In a series of tweets[https://twitter.com/PressSec/status/1502099524147453953?s=20&t=Rdxd80dw5KGRikyWVsttyA] Thursday evening, Psaki said any move to seize assets “will ultimately result in even more economic pain for Russia” by signaling to other foreign enterprises that the country “is not a safe place to invest and do business.” Russia could also face stiff legal blowback, Psaki warned.

Since Russia invaded Ukraine, dozens of Western companies[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/10/goldman-sachs-amazon-3m-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=ef5347767dea] like JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and BP have announced plans to suspend business in Russia or exit joint ventures in the country. The moves come amid public outcry[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/03/10/from-mars-to-uniqlo-these-major-companies-are-continuing-to-do-business-in-russia/?sh=642796b93983] and hefty sanctions that make it difficult to do business[https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2022/03/08/1084280072/how-sanctions-are-pinning-down-the-russian-economy] in Russia. Psaki said any voluntary moves to leave the Russian market are “ultimately up to companies,” but the Biden Administration “welcome[s] the decisions.”

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/presssec/status/1502099530577289220&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

— Joe Walsh

March 10, 2022 8:47 PM EST

Large Russian Convoy Disperses Outside Kyiv

A large convoy of Russian military vehicles last seen northwest of Ukraine’s capital of Kyiv has “largely dispersed” into surrounding areas, according to satellite images taken by Maxar Technologies Thursday morning.

The convoy was last spotted near Antonov airport, which is about 17 miles northwest of central Kyiv. Its vehicles have been redeployed: Some military vehicles have moved through towns near the airport—an area that has seen heavy fighting in recent days—and some units entered forests a few miles north, according to Maxar.

Maxar spotted a 40-mile-long Russian convoy that ended at Antonov airport last week. The convoy, which included armored vehicles[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60596629] and artillery, was stalled for days due to heavy Ukrainian resistance and logistical issues[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60596629], a senior U.S. defense official told reporters last week. Maxar did not specify whether the stalled 40-mile convoy is the same column that appeared to be dispersed in Thursday’s images.

Russia’s advance toward Kyiv has been slower than expected, amid intense fighting from Ukrainian forces. Some Russian troops are now just over nine miles northwest from Kyiv, a senior U.S. defense official said Thursday.

Images taken by Maxar on Thursday also showed property damage near Kyiv and in the northern city of Chernihiv, which is now surrounded by Russian forces[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/10/world/europe/chernihiv-russia-troops.html], according to local and U.S. officials.

Residential buildings are heavily damaged in Borodyanka, about 30 miles northwest of Kyiv, in satellite images taken Thursday.Satellite image ©2022 Maxar Technologies[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/622aacccfbf6e9b70fe6e781/960x0.jpg?fit=scale]

Cars line up near a destroyed bridge, amid evacuation efforts in the Kyiv suburb of Irpin.Satellite image ©2022 Maxar Technologies[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/622aad73cf993507646f32c9/960x0.jpg?fit=scale]

A shopping center in the northern city of Chernihiv was heavily damaged as Russian troops encircled the city.Satellite image ©2022 Maxar Technologies[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/622aadb14f4a696b6c7a7528/960x0.jpg?fit=scale]

March 10, 2022 7:34 PM EST

Senators Urge Biden To Reconsider Nixing Transfer Of Polish Jets To Ukraine

The vast majority of the Republican Senate caucus urged the Biden administration Thursday to reverse its opposition to supplying Ukraine with Soviet-era warplanes from Poland—a proposition the Pentagon said[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/03/09/pentagon-opposes-sending-mig-29-fighter-jets-to-ukraine/?sh=3abdf8284483] would’ve been too “high risk” without providing much aid to Ukrainian forces.

In a letter[https://www.ernst.senate.gov/public/_cache/files/27f1a32f-aa03-460b-a6da-05fd93b251a0/EEAC805CD285FCBD6B3AE1C0ED6869A0.2022-03-10-final-ernst-ukraine-letter-to-biden.pdf] addressed to the president, 42 Republican senators called on the administration to “work with Poland and our NATO allies to expedite the transfer of urgently-needed airpower, air defense systems, and other combat and support capabilities,” pointing to Russia’s attacks on Ukrainian civilians and commending the Biden Administration for the aid it has sent to Ukraine.

Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said Wednesday the U.S. would not take up Poland on its public offer to fly dozens of its MiG-29 fighters to a German air base used by U.S. forces, from which it proposed the U.S. could transport them to Ukraine, stating that supplying the planes to Ukraine was a decision for the Polish government. Kirby also said the Pentagon did not think it made sense to give the planes to Ukraine at all, stating it“is not likely to significantly change the effectiveness of the Ukrainian air force relative to Russian capabilities,” and it “may be mistaken as escalatory” by Russia.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky requested[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/05/us/politics/zelensky-congress-no-fly-zone.html] warplanes in a Zoom meeting with members of the U.S. Congress last weekend, in addition to the imposition of a no-fly zone—an ask the Biden Administration has said[https://www.state.gov/secretary-antony-j-blinken-on-nbc-meet-the-press-with-chuck-todd/] is a non-starter as it would put the U.S. in direct conflict with Russia.

The Pentagon is considering facilitating the transfer to Ukraine of mid- and high-altitude Russian-made anti-aircraft systems[https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-allies-look-at-sending-soviet-era-air-defense-systems-to-ukraine-11646933998] that would give the Ukrainians a powerful complement to the portable Stinger anti-aircraft missiles that the U.S. has provided.

—Mason Bissada

March 10, 2022 6:28 PM EST

Ukraine Claims Civilian Deaths Outnumber Troop Deaths—And About 280 Schools Were Damaged

Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov said Thursday Russian forces have killed more Ukrainian civilians than military personnel since they first invaded two weeks ago. The claim has not been independently verified, and Reznikov didn’t list the number of military or civilian deaths in his Thursday evening Facebook post[https://www.facebook.com/100063790800238/videos/501003601588184/?__so__=watchlist&__rv__=video_home_www_playlist_video_listhttps%3A%2F%2Ft.me%2FSerhiyShkarlet%2F717].

“The Kremlin is bombing schools and hospitals, including maternity hospitals. Moscow does not protect anyone. It destroys,” Reznikov said of the death tolls. Ukrainian officials said at least 17 people were wounded Wednesday after airstrikes and shelling destroyed a maternity hospital[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/photos-russian-airstrikes-demolish-maternity-hospital-and-houses-in-mariupol/?sh=42bd7b644eb5] and other civilian buildings in the besieged port city of Mariupol.

The Ukrainian Ministry of Education and Science also said[https://www.facebook.com/UAMON/posts/295194329387053?__cft__[0]=AZUaIRSDXk6pR7utRJOVCDUS-CuAjd3hLTUmBeBhimv8gKBlg86WxxV4O3ZDEIuG_yJJY5SG9RXXrMa-jaWcusPeNHQ1nb9A5neRUkhvidHeksVoav2k7WtPtI3aEOk8ASn3Bi9CnLcsjERVksvrIUJy&__tn__=%2CO%2CP-R] in a Thursday Facebook post more than 280 educational institutions have been damaged or destroyed by bombing and shelling. The ministry linked a website[https://saveschools.in.ua/] showing nine schools had been destroyed and 277 had been damaged, citing news outlets and videos of damaged buildings.

Since the war began, both Russian and Ukrainian officials have made claims about civilian and military fatality counts that haven’t been independently verified by third parties.

The United Nations has verified[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28233&LangID=E] 549 civilian deaths during Russia’s invasion, including 41 children, though it said Thursday the actual death toll could be “considerably higher.” The UN pointed to “heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and missile and air strikes” as reasons for many of the deaths. Nearly 1,000 more civilians have been injured, the UN said.

—Mason Bissada

March 10, 2022 4:55 PM EST

Russian Forces Move 3 Miles Closer To Kyiv, U.S. Says

Some Russian units have moved about three miles closer to Kyiv in the last 24 hours, a senior U.S. defense official said Thursday, as Russian troops approach the capital city from multiple angles and appear to be aiming to encircle it—but their advance is facing heavy resistance.

Some of the Russian forces that moved forward—an advance the senior defense official cast as relatively modest—could be less than 10 miles northwest of central Kyiv, and are largely “in the vicinity of” an airport in the town of Hostomel. Irpin and other towns near the airport have faced[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/09/world/europe/ukraine-family-perebyinis-kyiv.html#:~:text=They%20didn't%20make%20it,trying%20to%20evacuate%20to%20Kyiv.] heavy fighting[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/08/ukraine-russia-irpin-war/] in recent days, and the U.K. Ministry of Defense accused Russia[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500981170280050688?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet] of intentionally targeting evacuation routes in the area earlier this week, leading to multiple civilian deaths[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/06/world/europe/ukraine-irpin-civilian-death.html] in Irpin.

Russia is also approaching Kyiv from the east, along two parallel lines that are as close as 25 miles from the capital, according to the U.S. defense official. And Russian forces have “isolated” Chernihiv, a city of almost 300,000 people that lies about 80 miles northeast of Kyiv, though that contingent hasn’t moved past Chernihiv.

Russia has aimed to encircle Ukrainian cities like Chernihiv in the north and Mariupol in the south, but surrounding Kyiv—a sprawling city of around 3 million—could be a more difficult task, especially as Ukrainian forces continue to put up stiff resistance. The senior U.S. defense official said it’s tough to predict how long it will take Russia to encircle Kyiv, but an unnamed American official told NBC News on Thursday[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/live-blog/ukraine-russia-war-live-updates-top-diplomats-meet-talks-kyiv-n1291419] it could take one or two weeks, and seizing control of Kyiv would likely take four weeks or more.

“Kyiv is being well-defended, and the Ukrainians are putting a lot of energy … into protecting their capital city,” the senior defense official told reporters Thursday.

— Joe Walsh

March 10, 2022 4:45 PM EST

U.S. Ambassador Says Russia Committing 'War Crimes' In Ukraine

U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield told BBC Newshour Thursday that Russia is committing "war crimes" in Ukraine, becoming the highest ranking American official to accuse Russia of doing so.

"I still see images of women being rolled out of a hospital, pregnant, bleeding, people screaming, children crying. It is just unconscionable," Thomas-Greenfield said.

The White House has criticized Russian attacks as "atrocities" but has been careful about alleging war crimes, with Press Secretary Jen Psaki saying[https://twitter.com/kelliemeyernews/status/1501986278752980995?s=21] Thursday the Biden Administration was waiting for a "legal assessment" before making any war crimes claim.

Read more about these accusations here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicholasreimann/2022/03/10/us-ambassador-says-russia-committing-war-crimes-in-ukraine/?sh=26f516535382].

—Mason Bissada

March 10, 2022 4:26 PM EST

European Leaders Rule Out Ukraine’s Hopes Of ‘Fast-Tracking’ Its EU Membership

Western European leaders said at a European Union summit Thursday they won’t grant Ukraine’s request to let the country swiftly join the EU[https://www.forbes.com/sites/alisondurkee/2022/02/28/will-ukraine-join-the-eu-after-zelensky-signs-membership-application-heres-what-could-come-next/?sh=5410f4d368c7] by creating a “fast-track” procedure, instead requiring it to go through the normal years-long membership process. “Can we open today a procedure of accession with a country at war? I don’t think so,” French President Emmanuel Macron said, according to the Associated Press[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-business-france-europe-bd12fb7b215140a200d1c87a6fce01a3], while Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte stressed[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/10/western-europe-leaders-rebuff-ukraine-fast-track-eu-membership-appeal] “there is no fast-track procedure to become a member of the EU.”

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky signed Ukraine’s application to join the EU on February 28 after Russia’s invasion and called for Ukraine’s “immediate accession under a new special procedure.” Speeding up the process had been viewed as a long shot, but had gained steam with a number of leaders in Eastern European countries, including the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia. EU leadership has been supportive of Ukraine eventually joining the bloc, but without a quicker procedure the process will likely stretch on for years; Croatia, the last country admitted, joined[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-02-28/ukraine-wants-eu-membership-but-accession-usually-takes-years?sref=LfZwdw4Z] the EU in 2013 after a 10-year process.

— Alison Durkee

March 10, 2022 2:47 PM EST

At Least 549 Civilians Dead From Russian Invasion — UN Says Actual Figures ‘Considerably Higher’

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has killed 549 civilians, including 41 children, according[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28233&LangID=E] to the United Nations, though the organization noted it believes the actual figures are “considerably higher.” The UN’s Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights said an additional 957 people, 52 of whom are children, have been injured since the invasion began two weeks ago.

The UN blamed many casualties on “heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and missile and air strikes,” in a statement. The UN acknowledged there are allegations of hundreds of civilian casualties in the towns of Volnovakha, Mariupol and Izium, and said its figures released Thursday do not include casualty statistics from those areas.

— Anna Kaplan

March 10, 2022 12:16 PM EST

Twitter Takes Down Russian Embassy's Tweets About Pregnant Ukraine Hospital Victim

Twitter took down posts from the Russian Embassy in the United Kingdom’s official account on Thursday, in a rare disciplinary action by the social media platform against a government account. The embassy’s tweets included unsupported accusations that a widely circulated photograph of a pregnant woman wounded in an attack on a maternity hospital was faked. A Twitter spokesperson told Forbes the removal was due to a violations of its policies “related to the denial of violent events.”

Read more on Twitter’s removal here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2022/03/10/twitter-deletes-russian-embassys-posts-calling-an-apparent-pregnant-ukraine-hospital-victim-a-crisis-actor/?sh=565f85f83c2b].

—Derek Saul

March 10, 2022 10:00 AM EST

Goldman Sachs Becomes First Major Wall Street Bank To Announce Russia Exit

Goldman Sachs is[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/10/goldman-sachs-amazon-3m-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=23a1dd4a67de] “winding down its business in Russia in compliance with regulatory and licensing requirements,” a spokeswoman for the investment bank told Forbes Thursday. Goldman Sachs joins dozens of other major American companies in exiting Russian business dealings, but is the first major U.S. bank to announce such plans.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/10/goldman-sachs-amazon-3m-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=23a1dd4a67de].

—Derek Saul

March 10, 2022 9:36 AM EST

Zelensky Says More Than 60,000 Ukrainians Evacuated Wednesday

More than 60,000 Ukrainians evacuated cities under attack by Russian forces Wednesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/zavdyaki-nashim-zahisnikam-ukrayinci-ne-stali-rabami-j-nikol-73477#:~:text=Despite%20everything%2C%20updated%20information%20was,the%20evacuation%20in%20the%20morning] during a Thursday speech. Zelensky mentioned several cities under siege, the largest of which is Mariupol in southeastern Ukraine, but didn’t specify how many evacuees came from each city. The Red Cross estimated[https://www.icrc.org/en/document/ukraine-safe-passage-civilians-mariupol-halted-second-day-icrc-calls-parties-agree-specific] Sunday 200,000 people seek evacuation in Mariupol alone.

Efforts to evacuate Ukrainian civilians from dangerous areas have repeatedly failed over the last week, and Ukraine has blamed[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/3/8/ukraine-accuses-russia-shelling-mariupol-evacuation-corridor] Russian shelling for breaking ceasefire agreements in humanitarian corridors. Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraine’s foreign minister, said[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukraine-accuses-russia-genocide-after-bombing-childrens-hospital-2022-03-10/] Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov declined to guarantee safe passage for fleeing civilians during their Thursday meeting.

—Derek Saul

March 10, 2022 8:57 AM EST

Half Of Kyiv Residents Have Evacuated, Mayor Says

About half of Kyiv’s residents have fled since Russia began its invasion of Ukraine last month, Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko said on Ukrainian television Thursday, according to multiple[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-boris-johnson-business-europe-united-nations-bf2bcfb3a499d688e3075f2d4cf54989?utm_source=Twitter&utm_medium=AP&utm_campaign=SocialFlow] outlets[https://twitter.com/AFP/status/1501904249088880640]. "According to the latest data, every second citizen of Kyiv has left the city,” Klitschko said, according[https://en.interfax.com.ua/news/general/810826.html?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=%5Btwitter%5D&utm_campaign=%5Brogue_corq%5D] to the Ukraine branch of the Interfax news agency, estimating two million people remain in the Kyiv metropolitan area.

Klitschko’s estimates come as Russian forces slowly[https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/95-putins-forces-intact-plan-surround-kyiv-pentagon/story?id=83317142] close in Kyiv and amid a wider refugee crisis in the country. More than two million Ukrainians have left Ukraine since the beginning of the war, according[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/08/ukraine-refugees-2-million-russia/] to the United Nations, a majority of whom have fled to Poland. It’s unclear how many people fleeing Kyiv have left the country or moved within Ukraine.

—Derek Saul

March 10, 2022 7:49 AM EST

Vice President Harris Underscores U.S. Commitment To NATO In Poland Visit

The United States is “prepared to defend every inch of NATO territory” and is firmly committed to the alliance and its eastern flank, Vice President Kamala Harris said at a press conference with the President of Poland in Warsaw on Friday. The two Patriot missile systems the U.S. promised to the country have now been delivered, Harris said, also noting the Biden administration’s decision to send an additional 4,700 troops to Poland.

Harris praised the people of Poland for their “generosity and kindness” towards more than 1.4 million Ukrainian refugees fleeing to the country. The U.S. will send an additional $50 million in aid through the United Nations food program to assist refugees in the region, Harris said.

— Robert Hart

March 10, 2022 6:05 AM EST

Meeting Between Putin And Zelensky Possible: Russian Foreign Minister

A meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky may be possible, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said following his meeting with his counterpart from Kyiv, Dmytro Kuleba.

“I hope that this will become necessary at some point. But preparatory work needs to take place for this,” Lavrov said in a press conference following his meeting.

Responding to a reporter, Lavrov said Russia was not planning to attack other countries. “We didn’t attack Ukraine, either,” repeating Moscow’s claims that it was carrying out a “special military operation.”

When asked about the Russian strike on a maternity hospital—condemned by Ukrainian officials as a war crime—Lavrov claimed without evidence that the building was being used by Ukrainian nationalist militias.

— Siladitya Ray

March 10, 2022 5:49 AM EST

Russia Has No Ceasefire Plans, But Ukraine Will Not Surrender: Ukrainian Foreign Minister

Thursday’s meeting between Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Turkey ended with no progress made on a possible ceasefire.

In a press conference following the meeting, Kuleba said Russia had no plans to establish a ceasefire and was instead seeking a surrender from Ukraine. “This is not what they're going to get. Ukraine is strong, Ukraine is fighting.”

Kuleba said that Ukraine has ensured the failure of Russia’s initial invasion plans and was now seeking a diplomatic resolution to the conflict. “But we will not surrender.” The Ukrainian minister added he spent most the time during the meeting trying to address humanitarian issues, seeking a humanitarian corridor in the port city of Mariupol where a maternity hospital was hit by Russian strikes on Wednesday.

According to Kuleba, Lavrov told him he did not have the authority to agree this measure, but would take the proposal back to the Kremlin. The Ukrainian minister then added: “Lavrov has a different impression of what foreign ministers do in a crisis.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 10, 2022 5:14 AM EST

Billionaire Roman Abramovich Among 7 Russian Oligarchs Sanctioned By The U.K.

The U.K. government on Thursday sanctioned Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich, freezing all his assets including the English Premier League soccer club Chelsea, as part of a broader sanctions effort that targets assets owned by several Russian oligarchs with close ties to Vladimir Putin’s regime.

Read more: U.K. Sanctions Roman Abramovich And Six Other Russian Oligarchs, Freezes Assets Including Chelsea F.C.[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/uk-sanctions-roman-abramovich-and-six-other-russian-oligarchs-freezes-assets-including-chelsea-fc/?sh=67db93f64bbd]

— Siladitya Ray

March 10, 2022 2:51 AM EST

Russian And Ukrainian Foreign Ministers Begin Talks In Turkey

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba arrived[https://twitter.com/MFA_Ukraine/status/1501816573966880768] in Antalya, Turkey on Thursday morning for a meeting with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov.

The ongoing discussion is the highest level meeting between the two sides since Russia began its invasion of Ukraine more than 2 weeks ago.

Turkish president Recep Erdogan on Wednesday said: “We are working to stop this crisis transforming into a tragedy. I hope the meeting between the ministers will open the way to a permanent ceasefire.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 10, 2022 1:48 AM EST

'Notable' Drop In Russian Air Activity Due To Effectiveness Of Ukrainian Air Defenses: U.K. Defense Ministry

There has been a “notable decrease” in Russian air activity over Ukraine in the past few days, owing to the unexpected effectiveness of Ukraine’s air defense forces, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1501801441941405697/photo/1] on the situation in Ukraine on Thursday.

The large Russian column north west of Kyiv has made very little progress in the past week and continues to suffer losses at the hands of the Ukrainian forces, the statement said.

The update also noted that Russia has deployed conscripts, despite previous assurances by Putin that he will not do so. This has also been acknowledged[https://ria.ru/20220309/spetsoperatsiya-1777325478.html] by the Russian defense ministry which added that a “number” of conscripts had been captured by Ukrainian forces.

The intel update adds that Russia may be forced to draw from across the Russian Armed Forces and “other sources” to replace losses in Ukraine.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 11:56 PM EST

House Passes Bipartisan Bill Banning Russian Energy Imports

The House on Wednesday passed a bipartisan bill that will ban Russian energy imports—after its final passage in the Senate—building on an executive order signed by President Joe Biden Tuesday.

The Suspending Energy Imports from Russia passed 414 to 17, with 194 Republicans joining 220 Democrats in support, setting up a final vote in the Senate as soon as Thursday.

The 17-page bill will suspend the import of Russian oil and energy products into the U.S. beginning 45 days after the legislation is enacted but give Biden the authority to waive the ban for any products necessary for the "national interest of the United States.”

Read More Here: House Passes Russian Oil Ban Building On Biden's Executive Order After Ukraine Invasion[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/09/house-passes-russian-oil-ban-building-on-bidens-executive-order-after-ukraine-invasion/?sh=428ac074617a]

— Jonathan Ponciano

March 9, 2022 11:51 PM EST

Between 5,000 and 6,000 Russian Troops Have Been Killed So Far, According To U.S. Estimates

Between 5,000 and 6,000 Russian troops have been killed during the first two weeks of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, a U.S. official told various news outlets. That number is significantly higher than the Pentagon’s previous estimate of between 2,000 to 4,000 deaths shared[https://www.deccanherald.com/international/world-news-politics/pentagon-estimates-2000-to-4000-russian-soldiers-killed-in-ukraine-1089394.html] earlier this week.

According to[https://www.cbsnews.com/news/ukraine-russia-death-toll-invasion/] CBS News, the official noted that while accurate casualty numbers are difficult to determine, Russia has suffered “very, very significant casualties,” comparable to some battles from World War II.

While there are no estimates from the number of wounded Russian soldiers, CBS notes that they are generally around three times as many killed, putting that estimate between 15,000 to 18,000.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 10:31 PM EST

House Passes $13.6 Billion In Aid For Ukraine

The U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday approved $13.6 Billion in aid for Ukraine as part of a $1.5 trillion omnibus spending bill.

According to the House Committee on Appropriations the aid package includes $4 billion to help displace refugees, $6.5 billion for military assistance and $1.8 billion for any macroeconomic needs.

Read more here: House Passes $1.5 Trillion Spending Bill With $14 Billion For Ukraine Aid—Here's What's In It[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/09/house-passes-15-trillion-spending-bill-with-14-billion-for-ukraine-aid-but-no-covid-relief/?sh=2fba04286cfb]

— Jonathan Ponciano

March 9, 2022 9:17 PM EST

IMF Approves $1.4 Billion Disbursement To Ukraine

The International Monetary Fund has approved $1.4 billion in emergency financing for Ukraine, the international lender announced[https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2022/03/09/pr2269-ukriane-imf-executive-board-approves-usd-billion-in-emergency-financing-support-to-ukraine] Wednesday.

“The war in Ukraine is resulting in tragic loss of life and human suffering,” the IMF said in its release[https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2022/03/09/pr2269-ukriane-imf-executive-board-approves-usd-billion-in-emergency-financing-support-to-ukraine]. “While the outlook is subject to extraordinary uncertainty, the economic consequences are already very serious.”

The IMF said it will disburse the loan using its Rapid Financing Instrument, an emergency assistance policy designed to quickly provide funds during a conflict or natural disaster.

The IMF’s emergency funding follows a $723 million support package for Ukraine approved[https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2022/03/07/world-bank-mobilizes-an-emergency-financing-package-of-over-700-million-for-ukraine] Monday by the World Bank. The bank said another $3 billion package would be sent “in the coming months” for Ukraine and its neighbors, which are receiving millions of refugees.

U.S. lawmakers said it aims to pass a $13.6 billion package that includes military and humanitarian aid for Ukraine, unnamed members of Congress and aides told[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/08/world/ukraine-russia-war/lawmakers-close-in-on-agreement-to-provide-nearly-14-billion-in-military-and-humanitarian-aid-for-ukraine] the New York Times Tuesday. The aid is expected to be passed in a larger government spending package that Congress must approve by Friday in order to avoid a government shutdown, following last month’s approval of a short-term spending bill.

March 9, 2022 9:09 PM EST

‘He Sees That We Are Strong’: Zelensky Thinks Putin Will Eventually End Hostilities In Ukraine

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told[https://www.vice.com/en/article/xgdm37/volodymyr-zelenskyy-interview-ukraine-russia] Vice News on Wednesday he believes Russian President Vladimir Putin will eventually “stop the war” and “begin to speak,” as Ukrainian forces continue to push back against invading Russian troops.

“I think he sees that we are strong,” Zelensky said in an in-person interview with Vice. “He will [cease fighting]. We need some time.”

Zelensky added that he does not trust Putin: “I only trust my family,” he said.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba are expected to meet[https://twitter.com/MevlutCavusoglu/status/1500798954379919362?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet] in Turkey on Thursday. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whose top diplomat has hosted several calls between the two parties since the invasion began, said[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/09/world/europe/ukraine-russia-cease-fire-talks.html] the meeting could “crack the door open to a permanent cease-fire.” Russian and Ukrainian negotiators have met for several rounds of talks[https://www.axios.com/russia-ukraine-invasion-day-12-555ad039-6426-4ae9-ac8d-8e9a3a5a6f69.html] to discuss temporary local ceasefires to allow civilians to evacuate from besieged cities.

Russia has said one of its demands for a permanent ceasefire is that Ukraine remain neutral and not join NATO—a desire Zelensky said[https://abcnews.go.com/US/video/zelenskyy-interview-david-muir-reporting-abc-news-exclusive-83309456] he has “cooled down” on recently because “NATO is not prepared to accept Ukraine,” according to a translation of an ABC News interview.

Russia has bombarded Ukrainian cities in recent weeks, but its ground forces have struggled to make extensive progress in the country’s north. Western officials say the invasion’s slower-than-expected pace is partly due to stiff resistance from Ukrainians.

March 9, 2022 7:38 PM EST

Russia ‘Likely’ Deploying Private Mercenaries In Ukraine, U.K. Says

The British Ministry of Defense said[https://twitter.com/defencehq/status/1501701763921059845?s=21] in an intelligence update Wednesday Russia is “likely deploying” private military companies as part of its invasion of Ukraine.

Mercenaries were reportedly deployed in Ukraine weeks before Russia began its invasion, unnamed security officials told Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/exclusive-russian-mercenaries-with-spy-links-increasing-presence-ukraine-western-2022-02-14/] last month. The U.S. had warned of Russia using private contractors to stage “false flag” operations in Ukraine to justify its eventual invasion.

Mercenaries from the Wagner Group—a secretive Russian contracting organization—appeared to enter regions of eastern Ukraine controlled by pro-Russian separatists, the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/23/world/europe/russian-ukraine-mercenaries.html] reported hours before the invasion started two weeks ago. A senior U.S. defense official told reporters last week there are indications the Wagner Group is present in Ukraine, but it’s unclear how many of their staff are participating in the war.

Private military contractors such as the Wagner Group have been accused of committing human rights violations in several countries, including the Central African Republic and Syria[https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20211213-eu-imposes-sanctions-on-russian-mercenary-group-wagner-over-human-rights-abuses]. Last year, the United Nations raised concerns[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=27717&LangID=E] the group—operating as security and military personnel in the Central African Republic—committed crimes such as arbitrary detention, torture, disappearances and summary execution, along with reports of rape and sexual violence. Russia has denied ties to the Wagner Group[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-58009514].

—Mason Bissada

March 9, 2022 6:08 PM EST

White House Warns Russia Could Use Chemical Weapons In Ukraine

White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki tweeted Wednesday the world should "be on the lookout" for Russia possibly using chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine, after the Kremlin accused the U.S. of backing a bioweapons program for the Ukrainian government.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/presssec/status/1501676240180322311&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova claimed without offering any proof Wednesday that Russia had amassed evidence of a U.S.-backed chemical weapons program in Ukraine, which Psaki called "preposterous."

Psaki said Russia might be setting the stage for a false flag operation to use its own chemical weapons in Ukraine, noting Russia has "long maintained a biological weapons program in violation of international law" and backs the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, which has used chemical weapons in the Syrian civil war.

"Russia has a track record of accusing the West of the very violations that Russia itself is perpetrating," Psaki tweeted. "This is all an obvious ploy by Russia to try to try to justify its further premeditated, unprovoked, and unjustified attack on Ukraine."

Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said Wednesday there currently isn’t any intelligence indicating that Russia has brought chemical or biological weapons into Ukraine, but he warned “it is … a piece of the Russian playbook to blame others for that which you are about to do.”

Russian President Vladimir Putin justified the invasion of Ukraine by falsely claiming ethnic Russians were facing a genocide in the Donbas region and inconceivably accusing Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who is Jewish, of heading a neo-Nazi government.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 5:44 PM EST

U.S. Doesn’t Support Giving More Fighter Jets To Ukraine

Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby pushed back Wednesday against proposals to supply Ukraine’s air force with Soviet-made MiG-29 fighter jets, rebuffing Ukraine’s request for planes and Poland’s offer to make the jets available.

Kirby said extra fighter jets are unlikely to significantly tip the sales in Ukraine’s favor, especially since Ukraine’s air force still has some planes in working condition. He also warned Russia may perceive a transfer of warplanes to Ukraine as an escalation.

“At this time, we believe the provision of additional fighter aircraft provides little increased capabilities at high risk,” Kirby told reporters Wednesday.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/03/09/pentagon-opposes-sending-mig-29-fighter-jets-to-ukraine/?sh=9e8148b44831].

— Joe Walsh

March 9, 2022 4:35 PM EST

Zelensky Brushes Off Putin's Nuclear Threats As A 'Bluff'

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he does not take Russian President Vladmir Putin's move to put nuclear forces on high alert seriously, telling a German news outlet escalating the conflict into nuclear war would amount to Putin's "suicide."

In an interview published Wednesday by German newspaper Die Zeit[https://www.zeit.de/politik/ausland/2022-03/wolodymyr-selenskyj-ukraine-russia-war-interview-english/seite-2?utm_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cnn.com%2F], Zelensky said Putin is only floating the nuclear threat because "nothing else is working" in Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"It’s one thing to be a murderer. It’s another to commit suicide," Zelensky said. "Every use of nuclear weapons means the end for all sides, not just for the person using them."

Putin on February 27 said he was placing the country's nuclear deterrence forces on high alert, an action U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Linda Thomas-Greenfield called[https://www.cbsnews.com/news/ukraine-russia-putin-nuclear-linda-thomas-greenfield-united-nations-face-the-nation/] "totally unacceptable." Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov[https://www.reuters.com/world/russias-lavrov-says-third-world-war-would-be-nuclear-destructive-ria-2022-03-02/] followed Putin's move last week by warning that a potential third world war would certainly be a nuclear conflict.

Many Western officials, including President Joe Biden, also appear to be unfazed by Putin's move. Biden on February 28 said[https://www.reuters.com/world/us/biden-says-americans-should-not-worry-about-nuclear-war-2022-02-28/] Americans did not need to worry about nuclear war over Putin's threat.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 3:13 PM EST

Satellite Images Show Toll Of Russian Bombing In Mariupol

The satellite company Maxar released images of the bombarded southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol, which has come under heavy shelling from Russians.

Ukraine has accused Russia of committing war crimes by targeting civilians in the city, with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky tweeting[https://twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1501579520633102349?s=20&t=a8AIoq3C4BfqFbXlPEe2xQ] a video Wednesday appearing to show an attack on a maternity hospital.

Capturing the port city is considered key for the Russians since it would connect Russian-controlled Crimea to the Donbas region.

It was confirmed Wednesday Russia has used thermobaric weapons in Ukraine, which is illegal for targeting civilian structures. It’s unclear if those weapons have played a part in the widespread damage across Mariupol. Read more here.[https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicholasreimann/2022/03/09/russia-has-used-thermobaric-weapons-in-ukraine-uk-says/?sh=4015d77cffb7]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 1:43 PM EST

At Least 18 Attacks On Health Facilities Confirmed In Ukraine, WHO Says

World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Wednesday there have been at least 18 attacks on hospitals, ambulances and health workers in Ukraine since the Russian invasion began.

Tedros said at a news conference the WHO is aware of 10 deaths and 16 injuries resulting from the attacks.

The WHO has delivered 81 metric tons of health supplies to Ukraine and is aiming to generate pipelines to funnel supplies to health care facilities, Tedros said.

Ukrainian authorities said Wednesday that a Russian strike had devastated a maternity hospital in Mariupol, with President Vladimir Zelensky tweeting[https://twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1501579520633102349?s=20&t=iAnP34R5rE5VAOkWoVo2qg] a video said to be of the damage. The number of casualties has not yet been announced.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 1:42 PM EST

EU Sanctions 4 More Russian Billionaires

The European Union announced a new round of sanctions Wednesday against 146 Russian lawmakers and 14 business leaders, which include at least four billionaires.

Andrey Melnichenko[https://www.forbes.com/profile/andrey-melnichenko/?sh=118dff363086], whose net worth Forbes has estimated at $16.2 billion, was among those hit with sanctions, which includes asset freezes and a travel ban.

Andrei Guriev[https://www.forbes.com/profile/andrei-guriev-family/?sh=6ac53a757404], who has a net worth of $4.9 billion, along with Dmitry Pumpians[https://www.forbes.com/profile/dmitry-pumpyansky/?sh=43c02f9b69a1] and Vadim Moshkovich[https://www.forbes.com/profile/vadim-moshkovich/?sh=52ef31225448], who are both worth an estimated $1.2 billion, were also sanctioned.

Read more here.[https://www.forbes.com/sites/carlieporterfield/2022/03/09/eu-targets-four-more-russian-billionaires-in-latest-wave-of-sanctions/?sh=2e2ba68b5142]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 1:12 PM EST

U.K. To Supply Ukraine With Air Defense Systems

The United Kingdom will begin sending air defense systems to Ukraine in response to Russia's bombardment of the country, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said at a briefing Wednesday alongside U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken. She didn’t specify the weaponry it will provide.

Truss reiterated that the U.K. has no plans to set up the "no-fly zone" Ukrainian officials have requested. Western leaders have repeatedly denied the request over concerns shooting down Russian planes could escalate the conflict into a world war.

"The best way to help protect the skies is through anti-air weaponry, which the U.K. is now going to be supplying to Ukraine," Truss said.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 1:06 PM EST

Russia May Be Dropping ‘Dumb Bombs’ In Ukraine As Patriot Missile Batteries Reach Poland, U.S. Says

The U.S. has seen indications Russia is using “dumb bombs,” or unguided munitions that have limited ability to hit precise targets, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Wednesday. Military experts told[https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/03/01/ukraine-invasion-russia-missiles-siege/] the Washington Post last week Russia may be experiencing a shortage of specific weapons, including guided munitions, as Russian forces appeared to begin their attack in Ukraine with guided missiles, but began firing weapons that can be difficult to aim precisely days after the invasion began.

The senior U.S. defense official also confirmed the two Patriot missile batteries the Pentagon said it would send to Poland on Tuesday have been delivered, and that “they are manned.” The U.S. European Command said in a statement[https://twitter.com/DanLamothe/status/1501390081776664580?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] the repositioning of the Patriot batteries would “proactively” counter “any potential threat” to the U.S. and its allies in NATO territory.

Polish officials signed[https://www.reuters.com/article/us-raytheon-poland-patriot/poland-signs-4-75-billion-deal-for-u-s-patriot-missile-system-facing-russia-idUSKBN1H417S] an agreement in 2018 to receive the batteries, which were due to be delivered by the end of this year. Poland also hosts one of the two Aegis Ashore[https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/2849023/aegis-ashore-in-poland-on-target-for-2022/#:~:text=The%20Aegis%20Ashore%20%22Deckhouse%22%20command,by%20the%20end%20of%202022.] missile defenses in Europe, which Russian officials have expressed concerns[https://foreignpolicy.com/2022/01/12/putin-russia-us-missile-defense-nato-ukraine/] about, fearing the U.S. could use the defensive batteries to fire offensive attacks. U.S. officials offered to allow Moscow to inspect the facility last month in an effort to ease tensions, USNI reports[https://news.usni.org/2022/02/02/u-s-offered-russians-aegis-ashore-inspections-to-ease-ukraine-tensions-more-american-troops-headed-to-europe].

Here are additional updates from the 14th day of Russia’s invasion, according to the senior defense official:

* The official said the U.S. sees “increasing damage to civilian infrastructure and civilian casualties” in Ukraine.

* Russian forces appear to be “just outside of the city” in Kharkiv, and have moved about 12 miles closer since Tuesday, though there is still “heavy fighting.”

* In Mykolaiv, Russian troops have advanced from the north and are about 9 miles outside of the city.

* There has been “no real ground progress to speak to” in Kyiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol.

* The U.S. is very close to delivering the $350 million aid package approved[https://www.reuters.com/world/biden-approves-350-million-military-aid-ukraine-2022-02-26/] by President Joe Biden at the end of February, and the official expects it will be completely closed out “in the coming days.”

* Russia has launched more than 710 missiles since the invasion began, with the majority coming from Russia and inside Ukraine.

* The airspace remains contested over Ukraine, and Russia has not reached air superiority.

— Anna Kaplan

March 9, 2022 12:14 PM EST

Retired Military Leaders Call For Supplying Ukraine With Air Defense Systems

A group of retired senior military leaders from the United States and Europe have penned a letter[https://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/21399038/an-open-letter-to-the-leaders-of-democratic-governments-of-the-world.pdf] obtained by CNN that calls for transferring Russian-made air defense systems to Ukraine to thwart Russia's continued bombardment of the country.

The military leaders proposed that countries with similar mid- and high-altitude air defense systems to Ukrainian ones that have been destroyed should transfer them to the besieged nation, saying the world has a "moral duty and humanitarian obligation" to limit the damage Russia is inflicting.

The retired generals and admirals framed the move as an alternative to creating a "no-fly zone" over Ukraine. NATO and U.S. officials have dismissed Ukraine’s entreaties to establish one, arguing that shooting down Russian planes could spark a full-blown world war.

"We cannot stand idly by and wish them well as Russia prosecutes an unrestricted campaign of destruction on the Ukrainian government, its infrastructure, and its people," the letter said.

Signatories include retired U.S. Air Force Gen. Phillip M. Breedlove, who served as supreme allied commander Europe; Sir Richard Shireff, a former U.K. general who served as deputy supreme allied commander Europe; and retired generals from Germany, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 11:24 AM EST

Mariupol Maternity Hospital Destroyed By Russian Strike, Ukraine Says

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky tweeted[https://twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1501579520633102349?s=20&t=iAnP34R5rE5VAOkWoVo2qg] a video Wednesday of an alleged Russian strike on a maternity hospital in the besieged southeastern city of Mariupol. Zelensky said the “direct strike” caused an unknown number of casualties, including children. The video and attack have yet to be independently verified. The Mariupol city council first shared news and videos of the attack on its Telegram account[http://drive.google.com/drive/my-drive], appearing to show the hospital in complete ruins.

The alleged attack would be a violation[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-promises-silence-ukrainians-flee-battered-cities-2022-03-09/] of a ceasefire agreement to enable civilians to evacuate Mariupol and several other Ukrainian cities. Evacuation attempts in Mariupol and elsewhere have repeatedly failed since Saturday amid[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/08/ukraine-war-civilians-sumy-irpin-refugees-russia] allegations of shelling from Russian forces. The Red Cross estimates[https://www.icrc.org/en/document/ukraine-safe-passage-civilians-mariupol-halted-second-day-icrc-calls-parties-agree-specific] 200,000 civilians are seeking to flee the city of 400,000, and residents have been without electricity, running water and heat since March 2, according[https://www.hrw.org/news/2022/03/07/ukraine-mariupol-residents-trapped-russian-assault#] to Human Rights Watch.

—Derek Saul

March 9, 2022 10:19 AM EST

Russia Defense Ministry Admits Conscript Soldiers Are Fighting In Ukraine A Day After Putin Said They Weren’t

Russian conscript soldiers are fighting in Ukraine, Russian Defense Ministry spokesperson Igor Konashenkov said[https://ria.ru/20220309/spetsoperatsiya-1777325478.html] in a statement shared by Russian state media Tuesday. The admission comes shortly after Russian President Vladimir Putin promised conscripts would not participate in the invasion, saying[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/putin-says-will-not-use-conscript-soldiers-ukraine-2022-03-07/] in a televised Wednesday address, "I emphasize that conscript soldiers are not participating in hostilities and will not participate in them.”

Konashenkov claimed[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/09/world/ukraine-russia-war] Russia still has “comprehensive measures” in place to keep conscripts—who are completing their mandatory military service—out of battle, but admitted “a number” of conscripts and other soldiers have been captured.

—Derek Saul

March 9, 2022 9:20 AM EST

Chernobyl Power Outage Poses No ‘Critical’ Safety Risk, International Nuclear Watchdog Says

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said[https://twitter.com/iaeaorg/status/1501545852715905029?s=20&t=fUkqZJZHc1Rnr0Mvdaz09w] Wednesday morning a power outage at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant presents “no critical impact on safety” shortly after Ukraine’s government said a radioactive leak appeared imminent. Even without electricity, the IAEA said[https://twitter.com/iaeaorg/status/1501545852715905029?s=20&t=fUkqZJZHc1Rnr0Mvdaz09w] Chernobyl’s cooling mechanism are sufficient to effectively cool spent nuclear fuel and thus block the release of nuclear discharge.

Earlier Wednesday, Ukraine’s state security communications service reported[https://twitter.com/dsszzi/status/1501518949703426051?s=20&t=OMzdjJRlho9wSg6-sSZvRw] Russian forces damaged a power line to Chernobyl, claiming the plant will not be able to prevent the release of radioactive substances without electricity. Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraine’s minister of foreign affairs, warned[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1501531432031858690?s=20&t=Mm-liQydgLgJnv_5fGz_JA] “radiation leaks [are] imminent” and the power loss “puts entire Europe in danger.” Russia captured[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/chernobyl-power-plant-captured-by-russian-forces-ukrainian-official-2022-02-24/] Chernobyl on the first day of its invasion of Ukraine, and the IAEA has[https://news.un.org/en/story/2022/03/1113382] previously expressed concern in Russia’s targeting of Ukraine’s four nuclear power plants in the war.

—Derek Saul

March 9, 2022 8:25 AM EST

U.K. Reportedly Impounds Private Jet Linked To Russian Oligarch

A private jet has been impounded in England over its suspected ties to Eugene Shvidler, a Russian oil billionaire, according[https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2022/mar/09/uk-seizes-private-jet-with-suspected-links-to-russia-hampshire-sanctions] to multiple[https://news.sky.com/story/ukraine-war-private-jet-impounded-at-hampshire-airport-over-suspected-link-to-russian-oligarch-eugene-shvidler-12561559] news reports[https://www.reuters.com/world/uk/britain-announces-new-aviation-sanctions-against-russia-2022-03-09/]. The jet, a Bombardier Global 6500,

was reportedly grounded on the orders of British Transport Secretary Grant Shapps using new aviation sanctions[https://twitter.com/grantshapps/status/1501310674911342594?s=20&t=cS9JR1pgkq0cpNS1qYwo_Q] that came into force Tuesday night. The restrictions prohibit Russian aircraft from landing in the U.K. as well as any owned or chartered by those on the sanctions list.

While the jet is registered to a Luxembourg company, ownership of private planes can involve third parties and be hard to trace precisely. The plane will stay impounded while investigators examine its ownership in more detail.

— Robert Hart

March 9, 2022 7:47 AM EST

Power Outage At Chernobyl Threatens Radioactive Leak, Ukraine Warns

Radioactive materials could be released from Ukraine’s Chernobyl nuclear power plant after a power line to the station was cut, the Ukrainian government said[https://twitter.com/dsszzi/status/1501518949703426051?s=20&t=8zUgGC2fYiOXqYYRRxKLwA] Wednesday. The power plant relies on electricity to cool spent nuclear fuel, which can release radioactive substances if allowed to overheat. All personnel at Chernobyl will receive a “dangerous dose of radiation” if this happens, the government warned, and wind could carry a radioactive cloud to other parts of Ukraine, Belarus, Russia and across Europe.

Nuclear power plants typically have backup sources of power, though it is unclear whether these are operational after fighting around the plant.

The Chernobyl plant, the site of the world’s worst accidental nuclear disaster, is under Russian control and officials say they do not know what levels of radiation there are at the plant. On Tuesday, the UN’s atomic energy agency said it was no longer receiving monitoring data from Chernobyl.

— Robert Hart

March 9, 2022 6:56 AM EST

U.S. Is Waging Economic War Against Russia, Says Kremlin Spokesperson

Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov on Wednesday accused the U.S. of waging an economic war against Russia.

"The US, undoubtedly, declared an economic war against Russia and they are waging this war. Yes, de facto this is exactly what it is," Peskov told[https://tass.com/politics/1419037] the state-backed news agency TASS.

The Kremlin official said Moscow will do “what in the best way corresponds to our interests,” without elaborating any possible retaliatory sanctions.

Earlier on Wednesday, a Russian foreign ministry official said[https://www.reuters.com/world/russia-warns-west-our-sanctions-will-hurt-you-2022-03-09/] that Moscow was working on a set of counter sanctions that will be “swift, thoughtful and sensitive for those it addresses.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 6:26 AM EST

EU Agrees To A New Set Of Sanctions Targeting Kremlin Officials, Russian Oligarchs

The European Union has agreed[https://twitter.com/Europe2022FR/status/1501481397269241859] to a new set of sanctions aimed at Kremlin officials and Russian oligarchs.

France, which currently hold the rotating presidency of the European council, announced[https://whichholdstherotatingpresidencyoftheeuropeancouncil/] the measures which include the expulsion of three Belarusian banks from the SWIFT remittance system and sanctions targeting the Russian maritime sector.

The EU’s top diplomat Josep Borrell told the European parliament that the sanctions which will target “around 100 people responsible at different levels of (the Russian) government.”

These additional sanctions will be formally approved by leaders of the bloc's 27 member states later this week.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 5:14 AM EST

U.S. Lawmakers Reach Deal For $13.6 Billion Aid Package For Ukraine

U.S. lawmakers early on Wednesday agreed to a bipartisan deal to provide $13.6 in aid to Ukraine and other European allies, the Associated Press reported[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-biden-covid-health-business-fa702b0f9efa4805b622739d302bc4cf].

Last week President Joe Biden had requested $10 billion to provide military, humanitarian and economic aid to Ukraine. But strong bipartisan support for the package allowed it to grow to $13.6 billion.

More than $4 billion of the aid package will be allotted to help Ukraine and its Eastern European neighbours cope with the influx over 2 million refugees and other internally displaced civilians who have been forced to flee the fighting zones. Another $6.7 billion will be used to fund the deployment of U.S. troops and equipment to the region and transfer of military weapons to Ukraine.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 2:45 AM EST

Kamala Harris Will Arrive In Poland Amid Disagreements Over Fighter Jets To Ukraine

U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris will begin her three-day trip to Poland and Romania on Wednesday amid an unexpected diplomatic disagreement between the NATO allies over providing fighter jets to Ukraine.

Earlier on Tuesday, Poland offered its Soviet-era MiG-29 jets to the U.S. “free-of-cost” to hand over to the Ukrainian military, which had put out several pleas for it. This idea—which would also have involved sending U.S.-made jets as replacement to the Polish Air Force—was quickly rejected by the Pentagon as “not tenable.”

Regardless of the differences over sending fighter jets to Ukraine, Poland remains critical to NATO’s efforts to aid Ukraine as it fights against the Russian invasion.

While announcing the trip last week, the White House said[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/04/statement-by-deputy-press-secretary-sabrina-singh-on-vice-president-harriss-travel-to-poland-and-romania-2/], Harris will discuss “security, economic, and humanitarian assistance” to Ukraine with the leaders of Poland and Romania.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 2:06 AM EST

Ukrainian Air Defenses Enjoying 'Considerable Success' Against Russian Warplanes: U.K. Defense Ministry

Ukrainian air defense systems “appear to have enjoyed considerable success” against Russia’s modern fighter jets, preventing them from gaining air superiority, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1501438467103989762] on the situation in Ukraine on Wednesday.

This echoes what U.S. intelligence officials have said[https://twitter.com/DanLamothe/status/1501281167210856449] about the air space above which they believe continues to remain contested.

The report states that fighting in Kyiv’s north-west region is ongoing but Russian forces have failed to make any significant breakthroughs.

Russian forces, however, have managed to encircle the cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Sumy and Mariupol which continue to face heavy bombardment, the update adds.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 1:21 AM EST

Evacuation Of Civilians From Sumy Will Continue On Wednesday

Evacuation of civilians from the city of Sumy in north-east Ukraine will continue on Wednesday, according to the region’s governor Dmytro Zhyvytsky.

Reuters reports[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/evacuation-ukraines-sumy-continue-weds-regional-governor-2022-03-09/] that around 5,000 people were evacuated from the city on Tuesday after Russia and Ukraine agreed to a brief ceasefire to allow a humanitarian corridor. Additionally, around 1,000 cars were also able to leave the city.

The corridor connecting Sumy to Poltava in central Ukraine was the only corridor where a ceasefire remained in place on Tuesday and both sides accused each other of violating it in Kharkiv, Mariupol and Chernihiv.

Zhyvytsky also added that a residential block in Sumy was bombed overnight, with one bomb killing 22 civilians.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 12:27 AM EST

IAEA Warns Of 'Increasingly Urgent' Need To Rotate Staff At Chernobyl, Says

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), citing Ukrainian officials, said[https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/pressreleases/update-15-iaea-director-general-statement-on-situation-in-ukraine] on Tuesday that it was becoming “increasingly urgent” to rotate some of the 210 technical personnel and guards at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant who have been working there since Russian forces took control of the site two weeks ago.

Ukrainian authorities informed the IAEA that the staff at Chernobyl had access to food, water, and medicine “to a limited extent,” but their condition was worsening.

The agency’s director general “indicated” that the IAEA has stopped receiving data transmissions from monitoring systems installed at the Chernobyl plant. The agency added that it was “looking into the status” of similar monitoring systems installed in other sites in Ukraine.

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 11:55 PM EST

U.S. Sends Two Patriot Missile Batteries To Poland

Washington is sending two Patriot missile batteries to Poland as a “defensive deployment” to counter “any potential threat” to the U.S. and its NATO allies, the Pentagon said[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/08/world/ukraine-russia-war/the-us-is-sending-patriot-anti-missile-systems-to-poland] on Tuesday night.

The statement stressed that the move was a defensive measure—previously used to protect U.S. troops in the Middle East—and it “will in no way support any offensive operations.”

The Washington Post reports[https://twitter.com/DanLamothe/status/1501389447996358657] that the batteries include both the Patriot surface-to-air missile system and powerful radars which can track incoming aerial threats like jets or missiles.

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 9:17 PM EST

Fitch Downgrades Russia’s Credit Rating Amid Fears Of ‘Imminent’ Sovereign Default

Credit agency Fitch Ratings lowered[https://www.fitchratings.com/research/sovereigns/fitch-downgrades-russia-to-c-08-03-2022] Russia’s sovereign rating from a ‘B’ to a ‘C’ Tuesday, warning a default on its debt is “imminent” as Russia faces harsh sanctions and trade restrictions following its invasion of Ukraine.

Fitch and the other two major U.S. credit rating agencies—Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poors—downgraded Russia to junk status within a week of the invasion, and have further downgraded the country in recent days. Moody’s lowered[https://www.moodys.com/research/Moodys-downgrades-Russias-ratings-to-Ca-from-B3-the-outlook--PR_463675] its rating of Russia to a ‘Ca’ on Sunday, and S&P lowered[https://www.reuters.com/markets/deals/sp-drags-russias-rating-deeper-into-junk-territory-2022-03-03/] its rating to ‘CCC-minus’ last week.

In a press release Tuesday, Fitch cited a recent decision[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-05/putin-seeks-to-avert-defaults-with-ruble-payments-to-creditors] by Russia to let the government and companies pay foreign creditors in rubles. The firm also warned that sanctions on Russia—including new limits on the country’s crucial oil export industry—“increase the probability of a policy response by Russia that includes at least selective non-payment of its sovereign debt obligations.”

March 8, 2022 7:08 PM EST

U.S. Rejects Poland’s Offer To Hand Over MiG-29s To Aid Ukraine

The Pentagon on Tuesday rejected Poland’s offer to transfer dozens of aging Soviet-made MiG-29 fighter jets to the United States, which could then hand the planes off to Ukraine.

Earlier Tuesday, Poland proposed sending its MiG-29s—a model also flown by the Ukrainian air force—to the U.S.-run Ramstein Air Base in Germany “immediately and free of charge,” with the U.S. giving used fighter jets to Poland in return. The proposal came as NATO members looked for a way to give warplanes to Ukraine to aid in its fight against invading Russian troops.

But Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said hours later “we do not believe Poland’s proposal is a tenable one.” Kirby warned that sending planes from a base in Germany to contested Ukrainian airspace “raises serious concerns for the entire NATO alliance.”

Some U.S. officials told NBC News[https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/proposed-plan-sending-fighter-jets-ukraine-hits-logistical-snag-rcna19083] on Monday the prospect of transferring planes from Poland to Ukraine—with the U.S. military backfilling Poland’s supply—raised logistical challenges, and Russia may interpret the move as NATO’s entry into the war.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/03/08/poland-offers-to-give-mig-29-fighter-jets-to-us-to-aid-ukraine-but-pentagon-calls-the-idea-untenable/?sh=8b4e005696e6].

— Joe Walsh

March 8, 2022 6:59 PM EST

Congress Crafting $13.6 Billion Ukrainian Aid Package As Shutdown Looms

U.S. lawmakers are coming close to agreement on a $13.6 billion package of military and humanitarian aid for Ukraine, unnamed lawmakers and aides told[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/08/world/ukraine-russia-war/lawmakers-close-in-on-agreement-to-provide-nearly-14-billion-in-military-and-humanitarian-aid-for-ukraine] the New York Times Tuesday. The figure is $3.6 billion more than the $10 billion package House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said[https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/3622] Congress planned on passing this week, following the White House’s request[https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/COVID-and-Ukraine-Supplemental-Funding-Request-Pelosi.pdf] for Ukrainian aid and Pentagon funding.

The Times says the aid will be a part of a larger government spending package that will need to be approved by both the House and Senate by Friday in order to avoid a government shutdown, following last month’s approval of a short-term spending bill.

On Monday, the World Bank approved[https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2022/03/07/world-bank-mobilizes-an-emergency-financing-package-of-over-700-million-for-ukraine] a $723 million support package for Ukraine, and said another $3 billion package would be sent “in the coming months” for Ukraine and its neighbors, which are receiving millions of refugees.

—Mason Bissada

March 8, 2022 6:17 PM EST

McDonald’s, Starbucks, Coca-Cola: More Companies Exit Russian Market

PepsiCo and Coca-Cola announced Tuesday they will suspend business in Russia, and McDonald’s and Starbucks are temporarily shuttering Russian stores, as a growing list of American consumer brands leave Russia amid the invasion of Ukraine.

McDonald’s said it will continue to pay[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/03/08/mcdonalds-shuts-800-restaurants-in-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=2ca2582a4dd1] its Russia-based employees after closing 847 stores, and Starbucks[https://stories.starbucks.com/press/2022/letter-to-partners-from-kevin-johnson-on-ukraine/] says the licensee that runs its Russian shops will “provide support” to employees despite the closures. Yum! Brands—the parent company of KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut—also announced[https://www.yum.com/wps/portal/yumbrands/Yumbrands/news/press-releases/yum+brands+pausing+investment+and+development+in+russia+redirecting+profit+to+humanitarian+efforts] Tuesday it has “suspended all investment and restaurant development in Russia,” though it didn’t specify whether existing stores will remain open, noting that the vast majority of its 1,000 Russia-based KFCs and 50 Pizza Huts are run by independent operators.

Read more about the corporate exodus from Russia here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/08/shell-adidas-swatch-group-heres-the-list-of-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-invasion/].

— Joe Walsh

March 8, 2022 5:03 PM EST

U.S. Threatens To Cut Off Chinese Companies If They Defy Russian Sanctions

The U.S. threatened to cut off supplies of vital semiconductors, microchips, and other American-made technology essential to Chinese companies if they continue to supply Russia with equipment, according to an interview in the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/08/technology/chinese-companies-russia-semiconductors.html] Tuesday. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo told the Times that the Chinese state-owned Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC) and any other Chinese company that supplies equipment to Russia in defiance of U.S. sanctions could be cut off from U.S.-made supplies, which would "essentially shut" down those companies.

Under recently issued sanctions[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/24/fact-sheet-joined-by-allies-and-partners-the-united-states-imposes-devastating-costs-on-russia/] and export controls, companies like SMIC are not allowed to sell products that use American technology (even if the companies themselves are not American) to Russia. The White House said last week these restrictions were put in place to “choke off Russia’s import of technological goods critical to a diversified economy and Putin’s ability to project power.”

“We could essentially shut SMIC down because we prevent them from using our equipment and our software,” Raimondo told the Times.

Prior to Russia’s invasion, China had maintained close ties with its neighbor. Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi said at a press conference Monday, “The China-Russia relationship is valued for its independence,” adding his country aimed to keep ties “free from interference or discord sown by third parties,” according[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/07/china-upholds-its-relationship-with-russia-says-negotiations-needed-to-solve-ukraine-conflict.html] to CNBC.

—Mason Bissada

March 8, 2022 4:59 PM EST

Roughly Four In Five Americans Support Ban On Russian Oil, Poll Shows

On the same day President Joe Biden announced a decision Tuesday to ban the import of Russian oil and natural gas as further punishment for Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, a Wall Street Journal poll[https://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/russia-ukraine-latest-news-2022-03-08/card/wsj-poll-79-of-americans-back-ban-on-russian-oil-even-if-energy-prices-rise-niT9f6YRH5wRWe4pbhNv] found 79% of surveyed Americans support the ban and just 13% oppose it—despite the uptick in prices at the pump.

The poll pulled from 529 registered voters over the last four days. Left-leaning voters were more in favor of the move, with 88% of surveyed Democrats saying they favored the ban compared to 77% of surveyed Republicans and 72% of surveyed voters who said they would support the re-election of Donald Trump.

Gas prices in the U.S. surpassed their all-time highest average price Tuesday, reaching $4.17 a gallon and exceeding costs last seen during the 2008 recession. Read more about why Americans will “feel the pain” of these high costs for a while here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/08/gas-prices-surge-to-record-high-ahead-of-russian-oil-ban-americans-will-feel-the-pain-for-a-while/?sh=7898ff27339b].

—Mason Bissada

March 8, 2022 2:55 PM EST

Poland Offers MiG-29 Fighter Jets To Assist Ukraine

Poland is ready to transfer more than two dozen Soviet-era MiG-29 fighter jets to a U.S. air base in Germany “immediately and free of charge,” allowing the planes to be made available to Ukraine, the Polish government announced Tuesday. The offer comes as Ukrainian officials urge NATO countries like Poland to send fighter jets to aid in its war against Russia.

The Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs asked the United States to give used jets to Poland in return. American officials have reportedly[https://www.wsj.com/articles/ukrainian-president-asks-congress-to-help-secure-russian-made-jet-fighters-11646511532?mod=djemalertNEWS] discussed[https://www.politico.com/news/2022/03/05/white-house-deal-fighter-jets-ukraine-00014424] sending the country F-16 fighter jets, as the Polish air force replaces its aging Soviet-made planes with U.S.-made F-16s.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/03/08/poland-agrees-to-hand-over-mig-29-fighter-jets-to-aid-ukraine/?sh=3a2933934d59].

— Joe Walsh

March 8, 2022 1:35 PM EST

Russia Advances On Kyiv From New Direction — But ‘Stiff’ Ukrainian Resistance Slows Progress

A new column of Russian forces is advancing on Kyiv from the east as bombardment of the capital city continues, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Tuesday, though Ukrainian resistance efforts are still slowing down Russian troops, particularly in northern Ukraine. The eastern advance toward Kyiv supports the U.S. assessment that Russia aims to encircle the city, according to the official.

Here are additional updates from the senior defense official:

* Russian troops are advancing on Kyiv from three sides, with a new force from the east about 37 miles outside of Kyiv.

* One contingent of Russian forces headed for Kyiv from the north is “stuck” in Chernihiv and “can’t get past it,” according to the official.

* The key port city of Mariupol is now isolated from Ukraine, and has been disconnected from the power grid since March 2, but “stiff” Ukrainian resistance has kept Russian forces from taking control of the city.

* Bombardment and shelling of Mykolaiv, a city near the Black Sea, has increased from yesterday, but Russian forces have not taken control of the city.

* Russian shelling damaged a major gas pipeline in eastern Ukraine—24 gas distribution centers were switched off and about 1 million consumers are without gas in the Donetsk and Zaporizhzhia regions.

* Nearly 100% of Russian forces assembled for the invasion have been sent into Ukraine, and about 95% of the combat power assembled is still “intact.”

* Nearly 670 missiles have been launched since the invasion began, with the majority coming from Russia and inside Ukraine.

* Most of Ukraine is under threat from Russian surface to air missiles, but Russia has not achieved air superiority, and Ukraine can still fly aircraft and conduct viable and effective missile defense.

* The U.S. cannot confirm that Russian Maj. Gen. Vitaly Gerasimov had been killed following a Ukrainian government claim that he died in a battle near Kharkiv.

— Anna Kaplan

March 8, 2022 11:34 AM EST

Biden Announces U.S. Ban On Russian Energy

President Joe Biden said[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=riIbml4OyOY] Tuesday the U.S. will ban all imports of Russian energy, including oil and natural gas, in the latest step by the White House to cut off Russia economically for invading Ukraine. Biden said the move will target “the main artery of Russian economy” — energy products accounted for roughly 50% of Russia’s $489.8 billion in exports in 2021.

Russian crude accounted for 3% of U.S. oil imports in 2021, according to the trade group American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers[https://www.afpm.org/newsroom/blog/oil-and-petroleum-imports-russia-explained].

Biden said the U.S. is working with European countries, which are heavy importers of Russian oil and gas, on a long-term strategy to reduce their reliance.

The U.K. will also stop importing Russian oil through a gradual phaseout over the course of 2022, Kwasi Kwarteng, the British secretary of state for business, energy and industrial strategy, announced[https://twitter.com/KwasiKwarteng/status/1501229850454937600?s=20&t=5zC55e0c6y8iyWUwdr6N5g] in a tweet.

—Derek Saul

March 8, 2022 11:15 AM EST

Market Reaction To Oil Bans: Gas Prices Skyrocket, Stocks Continue Dip

Average gas prices reached[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/08/gas-prices-surge-to-record-high-ahead-of-russian-oil-ban-americans-will-feel-the-pain-for-a-while/?sh=43f36073339b] a record high of $4.17 per gallon Tuesday, a 55-cent increase from last week, as reports of the United States and United Kingdom’s impending Russian oil bans surfaced. Patrick De Haan, head of petroleum analysis at fuel savings company GasBuddy, predicted average gas prices may soon near $4.50 in a statement.

Stocks dipped slightly in early Tuesday trading, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite all falling between 0.3% and 0.7%, building off of significant Monday losses. Edward Moya, senior market analyst at Oanda, predicted “ultimately the economy will fall into a recession at some point over the next 24 months” due to Russia’s war on Ukraine.

Read more here:

Gas Prices Surge To Record High Ahead Of Russian Oil Ban—Americans Will 'Feel The Pain' For A While[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/08/gas-prices-surge-to-record-high-ahead-of-russian-oil-ban-americans-will-feel-the-pain-for-a-while/?sh=43f36073339b]

Stocks Weigh Historic U.S. Ban On Russian Energy, Oil Nears $130 Per Barrel[https://www.forbes.com/sites/sergeiklebnikov/2022/03/08/stocks-weigh-historic-us-ban-on-russian-energy-oil-nears-130-per-barrel/?sh=3cf34ff16663]

—Derek Saul

March 8, 2022 10:50 AM EST

U.K. Will Ban Russian Oil Imports

The United Kingdom will ban Russian oil imports, according to Politico[https://www.politico.eu/why-go-pro/?redirect_to=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.politico.eu%2Foauth%2Fauthorize%2F%3Fclient_id%3DznQGlYseabkN6WX9uDEbFfROVnDhBF1a3SRoQjC0%26redirect_uri%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fapi.politico.eu%252Foauth%252Fcallback%26response_type%3Dcode%26timestamp%3D16467531640059526] and Bloomberg[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-08/u-k-to-phase-out-russian-oil-imports-in-latest-sanctions-move], with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson expected to announce the move Tuesday, according to Politico. Both outlets report the embargo will be gradual and take place over the course of several months—and the ban does not include Russian gas.

The United States will soon announce a blanket ban on all Russian energy imports, numerous outlets reported Tuesday morning. The European Union released[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_1511] a plan Tuesday to cut EU demand for Russian gas by two-thirds by the end of 2022 and make the EU energy “independent from Russian fossil fuels well before 2030,” but isn’t expected to announce a ban on Russian oil due to opposition from several member countries, most notably Germany.

—Derek Saul

March 8, 2022 10:17 AM EST

U.N.'s Official Civilian Death Toll In Ukraine Nears 500

The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) updated its civilian casualty total from the war in Ukraine to 474 deaths and 861 more injuries in a Tuesday statement[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28233&LangID=E], increasing its death total estimate by 68 since Monday. The OHCHR stipulated the real tally is likely much higher. The statement noted, “Most of the civilian casualties recorded were caused by the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and missile and air strikes.” There have been numerous[https://www.hrw.org/news/2022/03/08/ukraine-russian-assault-kills-fleeing-civilians] reports[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/06/world/europe/ukraine-irpin-civilian-death.html] about Russian shelling targeting Ukraine’s civilian population and infrastructure, including hospitals and schools.

—Derek Saul

March 8, 2022 9:00 AM EST

U.S. Expected To Announce Ban On Russian Oil Imports

The U.S. will soon announce a ban on Russian energy imports, several[https://twitter.com/ZekeJMiller/status/1501189806457593857] news[https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-planning-to-ban-russian-oil-imports-11646746787?mod=breakingnews] outlets[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-08/biden-set-to-ban-u-s-imports-of-russian-oil-as-soon-as-today?srnd=premium] reported Tuesday morning, citing anonymous sources. The move will ban Russian coal, natural gas and oil imports, according to CNN[https://twitter.com/jimsciutto/status/1501192139715325956] and CBS News[https://twitter.com/weijia/status/1501192599482388484].

President Joe Biden is expected to formally announce the ban Tuesday at 10:45 a.m. EST, according[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-08/biden-set-to-ban-u-s-imports-of-russian-oil-as-soon-as-today?srnd=premium] to the New York Times. The White House did not immediately respond to Forbes’ request for comment.

The prices of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) and Brent Crude both spiked Tuesday morning in response to the reports: Brent jumped 4.4% to $128.64 and WTI spiked 3.9% to $123.98 as of 9:15 a.m EST.

Russia accounted[https://www.forbes.com/sites/kenroberts/2022/03/05/percent-of-us-oil-imports-from-russia-highest-in-decades---at-35/?sh=3de3800faae8] for 3.5% of U.S. oil imports and 21% of its gasoline imports in 2021. U.S. gas prices hit their highest-ever[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/08/shell-pledges-to-stop-buying-russian-oil-and-gas/?sh=25893328368d] price Tuesday, according to AAA data.

A bipartisan group of Congressmen sitting on finance committees said[https://www.forbes.com/sites/masonbissada/2022/03/07/bipartisan-congressional-leaders-back-russian-oil-ban-suspending-trade-relations/?sh=6fc2cfd647ea] Monday they agreed to legislation banning Russian energy imports. The U.S.’ European allies are not expected to announce similar bans Tuesday, Bloomberg reports[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-08/biden-set-to-ban-u-s-imports-of-russian-oil-as-soon-as-today?srnd=premium], after several European leaders cast doubt on the feasibility of a ban Monday given Europe’s stronger reliance on Russian energy.

—Derek Saul

March 8, 2022 7:01 AM EST

Shell Says It Will Stop Buying Russian Oil And Gas, Shuts Russian Service Stations

Shell has pledged to stop buying Russian oil and gas and will immediately stop buying Russian crude oil, the company announced[https://www.shell.com/media/news-and-media-releases/2022/shell-announces-intent-to-withdraw-from-russian-oil-and-gas.html] on Tuesday, as the firm’s boss apologized for purchasing discounted crude oil from Russia last week amid the ongoing invasion of Ukraine.

Read more here: Shell Pledges To Stop Buying Russian Oil And Gas[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/08/shell-pledges-to-stop-buying-russian-oil-and-gas/?sh=548eb8c3368d]

– Robert Hart

March 8, 2022 6:34 AM EST

The U.S. Wants To Send Soviet-Era MiG 29 Jets To Help Ukraine—Here's Why That May Be Difficult

A proposal to send Soviet-built fighter jets to Ukraine has found support among several U.S. lawmakers following “desperate” pleas[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-volodymyr-zelenskyy-kyiv-business-europe-a0f619604ad19c50484e6a41eb02880c] by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky over the past few days[https://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/russia-ukraine-latest-news-2022-03-07/card/zelensky-asks-americans-for-help-fighter-jets-in-abc-interview-i5Yhmrr0nvczRj4FtxxB]. But such a plan faces multiple logistical and geopolitical hurdles that may be difficult to overcome.

On Sunday U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has given a ‘greenlight’ to a proposal that involves Poland sending its MiG-29s to Ukraine in exchange for new American F-16 jets. However, the response from Poland has been guarded—after an initial outright rejection[https://www.wsj.com/articles/ukrainian-president-asks-congress-to-help-secure-russian-made-jet-fighters-11646511532] —as the logistics of such a move may prove to be too challenging.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/08/the-us-wants-to-arrange-soviet-era-fighters-for-ukraine-heres-why-that-may-be-difficult/?sh=4308b1367281].

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 6:16 AM EST

London Metal Exchange Halts Trading Of Nickel As Price Soars To $100,000 A Tonne

The London Metal Exchange (LME) on Tuesday suspended[https://www.lme.com/api/sitecore/MemberNoticesSearchApi/Download?id=9be362b4-fa9e-41d5-b6a0-c4f1e7892e4c] trading of Nickel following an “unprecedented” 70% jump in its price to a record $100,000 a tonne.

Announcing the suspension, the exchange attributed the sharp increase to the “evolving situation in Russia and Ukraine,” forcing the LME to halt trading on “orderly market grounds.”

The massive surge in the price of Nickel—a key component in stainless steel and rechargeable batteries—comes as Washington mulls more severe sanctions against Russia, including a ban on all energy imports from the country. Russia is one of the world’s top producers[https://pubs.usgs.gov/periodicals/mcs2021/mcs2021-nickel.pdf] of Nickel which traders fear may be included in the import ban.

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 4:54 AM EST

Humanitarian Corridor Created In Sumy, Ukraine Deputy Prime Minister Says

A humanitarian corridor was created in the city of Sumy, northeast Ukraine, Tuesday, allowing civilians safe passage from Russian attacks into other parts of the country, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said[https://www.instagram.com/p/Ca1ZFK5j8UN/].

Russia and Ukraine agreed to the move, Reuters reports[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/humanitarian-corridor-set-allow-civilians-out-ukraines-sumy-deputy-pm-2022-03-08/], citing Vereshchuk. It comes after Ukraine rejected Russia’s proposal of humanitarian corridors into Russia and Belarus on Monday.

A planned 5-hour ceasefire in Mariupol that would allow civilians to seek safe passage on Saturday failed after Russian forces continued firing[https://www.theguardian.com/global/video/2022/mar/05/russia-fails-to-observe-ceasefire-in-mariupol-and-volnovakha-say-ukrainian-officials-video], Ukrainian officials said at the weekend.

Hundreds of international students, including from India and Nigeria, are also stuck[https://eu.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2022/03/05/ukraine-refugees-sumy-students/9382600002/] in Sumy and have told of running out[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/08/sumy-international-students-in-ukrainian-city-tell-of-desperation] of food and water.

Read more here: Humanitarian Corridors: What You Need To Know As Refugees Seek Safe Passage To Leave Ukraine[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/07/humanitarian-corridors-what-you-need-to-know-as-refugees-seek-safe-passage-to-leave-ukraine/]

– Isabel Togoh

March 8, 2022 3:45 AM EST

At Least 1.2 Million Refugees From Ukraine Have Crossed Into Poland

At least 1.2 million refugees from Ukraine have entered Poland since the Russian invasion of their country began last month, the Polish Border Guard said[https://twitter.com/Straz_Graniczna/status/1501091352221732865] on Tuesday.

Some 141,500 refugees passed through the Polish border on Monday, the guard added. The number of Ukrainian refugees pouring into Poland may continue to rise as fighting in Ukraine continues to intensify.

As of Monday, more than 1.7 million refugees had left Ukraine, according to the United Nations. Besides Poland refugees have also streamed into Hungary, Slovakia, Moldova, Romania and Russia.

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 2:46 AM EST

Venezuelan Leader Says He's Ready To Step Up Oil Production After 'Cordial' Meeting With U.S. Officials

Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro on Monday indicated his willingness to increase his country’s oil production if the import of Russian oil is cut off, in a surprising move by the Russian ally.

According to the New York Times Maduro said that Venezuela has the capacity to produce more than 3 million barrels of crude oil per day “if necessary for the stability of the world.” The comments come after he engaged in what he called a “respectful, cordial, very diplomatic” meeting with U.S. officials over the weekend.

Venezuela’s oil industry is currently under heavy American sanctions and Maduro’s regime has close ties with Putin and Russia. However, Washington is now reportedly trying to court Maduro to help address rapidly rising crude oil prices by easing some of these sanctions.

The move is facing some resistance from U.S. lawmakers, including Bob Menendez[https://www.foreign.senate.gov/press/chair/release/chairman-menendez-statement-on-biden-administration-talks-with-the-maduro-regime] (D-N.J.) and Marco Rubio[https://twitter.com/marcorubio/status/1501038220712325122] (R-Fla.) who warn against propping up the Venezuelan strongman.

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 2:16 AM EST

U.S. Embassy Says Situation In Ukraine Remains Unpredictable

The U.S. Embassy in Ukraine on Tuesday stated[https://twitter.com/USEmbassyKyiv/status/1501056375614586881] that the security situation in Ukraine continues to remain “unpredictable” and warned Americans trying to flee the country to not cross into either Russia or Belarus.

The embassy noted that “conditions at each border can change very quickly and wait times can increase without warning.”

The advisory[https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/ea/information-for-us-citizens-in-Ukraine.html] issued by the State Department warns Americans escaping Ukraine against traveling into Belarus due to “arbitrary enforcement of laws, the risk of detention.” U.S. citizens have also been advised against entering Russia as they may face “potential harassment...by Russian government security officials.”

Escaping U.S. citizens have been advised to go to Poland, Romania, Hungary, Slovakia and Moldova. The advisory however, urges them to avoid the pro-Russian separatist enclave of Transnistria in eastern Moldova.

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 1:30 AM EST

Ukraine claims a Russian General Was Killed During Combat In Kharkiv

The Ukrainian military on Tuesday claimed that its forces have killed a Russian general near the besieged eastern city of Kharkiv.

The Ukrainian defense ministry identified him as Major General Vitaly Gerasimov, the first deputy commander of Russia's 41st army, claiming that he previously fought with Russian forces in Syria, Chechnya and Crimea.

If the claim is accurate, Gerasimov may be the second senior Russian commander to be killed in combat in Ukraine. Major General Andrei Sukhovetsky was killed by Ukrainian forces late last month, following the invasion.

While Sukhovetsky’s death has been acknowledged[https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/andrei-sukhovetsky-russian-general-killed-b2029363.html] by Russian officials, they has been no official statement on Gerasimov.

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 11:28 PM EST

Proposal To Send Polish MiG-29 Fighters To Ukraine Reportedly Hits Roadblock

A proposal to send Poland’s Soviet-built fighter jets to Ukraine has hit a logistical roadblock, according to[https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/proposed-plan-sending-fighter-jets-ukraine-hits-logistical-snag-rcna19083] an NBC News report with the Biden administration now reviewing the plan’s feasibility.

The proposed idea involves Poland sending its old but still operational Russian-made MiG-29 jets to Poland and in return the U.S. would replace them with American F-16 planes.

However, such a plan may be difficult to implement soon, NBC reports, noting that such major weapon transfers take time and the U.S. does not have a surplus of F-16s.

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 9:59 PM EST

U.K. Says Russia Is Targeting Civilians Evacuating Kyiv Suburb

The Russian military “continues to directly target” evacuation routes in the town of Irpin, killing multiple civilians who tried to flee the Kyiv suburb, the U.K. Ministry of Defense said in a tweet late Monday evening[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500981170280050688?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet]. The report follows days of heavy[https://www.france24.com/en/live-news/20220307-hand-to-hand-combat-street-battles-rage-on-kyiv-s-edge] fighting[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/07/ukraine-kyiv-russia-advance/] between Ukrainian and Russian forces near Irpin, forcing residents to attempt to leave the town[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/kyiv-digs-battle-fighting-flares-areas-nearby-2022-03-06/] while Russia[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/06/russian-forces-shelling-irpin/] launched[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/06/world/europe/ukraine-irpin-civilian-death.html] shells at[https://www.rferl.org/a/russia-ukraine-irpin-civilians-shelled/31739089.html] a route[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/06/europe/ukraine-russia-invasion-sunday-intl-hnk/index.html] used by evacuating civilians Sunday.

The U.K. also said Ukrainian resistance “endures” near Irpin and in the nearby towns of Bucha, Hostomel and Vorzel. The fighting has left Irpin—a town of about 60,000[https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-03-04/ukraine-irpin-evacuation-kyiv] people less than 15 miles outside Kyiv—without water or electricity for days, according to the Ministry of Defense.

Ukrainian and Russian officials have discussed establishing temporary, local ceasefires to allow residents of some cities to evacuate. Negotiations have been frayed, partly because Russian officials wants civilians to flee via “humanitarian corridors” into Russia and Belarus, an idea the Ukrainian government has cast as a propaganda effort[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/ukraine-rejects-russia-cease-fire-humanitarian-corridors-putin-belarus-rcna18936]. Ukraine is also wary of trusting the Russian military to abide by the terms of any local ceasefires, presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak told CNN last week.

— Joe Walsh

March 7, 2022 9:29 PM EST

World Bank Approves $723 Million Support Package For Ukraine

The World Bank’s board of directors approved a $723 million support package[https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2022/03/07/world-bank-mobilizes-an-emergency-financing-package-of-over-700-million-for-ukraine] to aid Ukraine following Russia’s invasion, the institution announced Monday. The package brings together loans, loan guarantees, grants and parallel financing from several countries, and the World Bank says it will help pay for “critical services” in Ukraine like hospital wages and social programs.

The World Bank says it is preparing another $3 billion package for Ukraine “in the coming months,” in addition to aid for surrounding countries that are receiving millions of Ukrainian refugees.

The World Bank has committed nearly $14 billion[https://www.worldbank.org/en/country/ukraine/overview#2] to Ukraine since the country first joined the organization in 1992, which was shortly after the fall of the Soviet Union.

U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) announced[https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/3622] Sunday night Congress is aiming to approve $10 billion in support for Ukraine, a sum initially requested by the White House[https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/COVID-and-Ukraine-Supplemental-Funding-Request-Pelosi.pdf] to pay for military and humanitarian assistance as well as extra Pentagon spending. It adds to over $650 million[https://www.forbes.com/sites/annakaplan/2022/02/25/live-us-will-sanction-putin-for-russian-invasion-of-ukraine/?sh=78d19ecc1d2c] in security aid and $50 million in humanitarian aid already sent to Ukraine by the United States over the last year.

Ukraine Infrastructure Minister Oleksander Kubrakov said Monday in a televised address Russia’s invasion had already destroyed $10 billion worth of the country’s infrastructure, and it will take years to fix the damage inflicted on many of Ukraine’s cities by Russian shelling, according[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukrainian-minister-puts-war-damage-infrastructure-about-10-billion-2022-03-07/] to Reuters.

—Mason Bissada

March 7, 2022 8:51 PM EST

Shelling Damages Nuclear Research Facility In Kharkiv

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) reported[https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/pressreleases/update-14-iaea-director-general-statement-on-situation-in-ukraine] Monday a nuclear research facility in Ukraine’s second-largest city of Kharkiv was damaged by shelling, though radiation levels at the site did not increase, according to Ukraine’s nuclear regulator. This facility—which IAEA said produces “radioisotopes for medical and industrial applications”—did not have a large inventory of radioactive material, so there is little risk of disaster, IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi said in a statement.

However, the IAEA says it remains concerned about the state of Ukraine’s four nuclear power plants[https://news.un.org/en/story/2022/03/1113382] amid Russia’s invasion. The Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant, the country’s largest, is now under Russia’s control after Russian forces seized it last week, starting a fire at a nearby training facility in the process—an act the U.S. embassy in Kyiv deemed[https://twitter.com/USEmbassyKyiv/status/1499708231903547394?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1499708231903547394%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cbsnews.com%2Flive-updates%2Frussia-ukraine-power-plant-fire-war-news-latest-vladimir-putin-invasion%2F] a war crime. The plant was not damaged during the fire, but U.S. officials said[https://www.reuters.com/world/china/un-security-council-hold-emergency-meeting-after-russian-attack-nuclear-plant-2022-03-04/] the attack could’ve easily led to a nuclear disaster. The IAEA said Monday it is not possible to get medicine or spare parts to the Zaporizhzhya plant, adding to earlier concerns that staff are overworked and outside communication has largely been cut off. Grossi noted all of these factors pose safety risks.

—Mason Bissada

March 7, 2022 6:32 PM EST

‘I’m Not Hiding’: Zelensky Appears In Office For First Time Since Invasion Began

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky posted a video[https://www.facebook.com/zelenskiy.official/posts/3026120197638336?__cft__[0]=AZUCUZwH1pXjhdPvOKe59ldMJjx_3mLfxP9QgRDI5Rmw8Kh-0JWv-BKnXTrGW2qcjtsN3_Jj0MyBMVYJizK3H6OmHDPi97A2rZBHCUNIEFGqpp0s1WCFXi-gwl7BNtXy5ucbgmE0l1HB4NGhzYw9X0la&__tn__=%2CO%2CP-R] of himself in his office in Kyiv late Monday night, the first time Zelensky has appeared in the aboveground space since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began almost two weeks ago, CNN and The Guardian noted.

“I stay in Kyiv. On Bankhova Street. I’m not hiding. And I'm not afraid of anyone,” Zelensky said in the video, according to a translation[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/kozhen-den-sprotivu-stvoryuye-dlya-ukrayini-krashi-umovi-na-73417] released by his office that referenced the presidential administration building’s location on Bankhova Street in central Kyiv.

Zelensky has posted several video messages to social media in recent weeks, but aside from a pair of[https://mobile.twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1497450853380280320] defiant videos[https://www.facebook.com/zelenskiy.official/posts/3018618901721799?__cft__[0]=AZWo4s8NQhVcO7sCFN7-aAUn8Op76fl-Pw5eH5AtssRGzlBePf9TipuZW1O02dftp2Wb1hTSoYCSFKMOsxPkhR33otEYhhcz6y74VG1LoYoNMQRgOdacBvxEt1tAjNOvn3QFJZdX0eydIqX6HVeNbN0m&__tn__=%2CO%2CP-R] recorded on the streets of Kyiv, many of Zelensky’s public appearances have appeared to take place in a[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/01/europe/volodymyr-zelensky-ukraine-cnn-interview-intl/index.html] bunker[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/02/opinion/ukraine-russia-war-zelensky.html] in an undisclosed location[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/05/us/politics/russia-ukraine-succession-zelensky.html] in Ukraine’s capital.

Zelensky has declined U.S. offers to evacuate him from Ukraine’s capital city as Russian ground troops loom just miles away, at one point telling American officials he needs “ammunition, not a ride,” the Associated Press[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-volodymyr-zelenskyy-kyiv-poland-europe-c270027c825e009ed66988bb98a3476e] reported. Still, Zelensky has acknowledged threats to his safety, as Western officials warn Russia is likely angling to oust[https://www.state.gov/secretary-antony-j-blinken-with-james-landale-of-the-bbc/] the Ukrainian government. He called[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/02/25/russia-ukraine-president-zelensky-family-target/] himself[https://www.wsj.com/articles/once-a-comic-ukrainian-president-transforms-into-wartime-leader-11645794378] “target number one” for Russia shortly after the invasion began, and he reportedly told[https://www.axios.com/zelensky-eu-leaders-last-time-you-see-me-alive-3447dbc0-620d-4ccc-afad-082e81d7a29f.html] European Union officials during a call last week it could be the last time they see him alive.

— Joe Walsh

March 7, 2022 5:36 PM EST

Russia Claims To Offer Ceasefire For 5 Ukrainian Cities

Russian state media claims a temporary ceasefire could start Tuesday to allow evacuations from five of Ukraine's biggest and hardest-hit cities.

The ceasefire would start at 2 a.m. Eastern time Tuesday morning in the cities of Kyiv, Kharkiv, Mariupol, Chernihiv and Sumy, Russian outlets Interfax and TASS reported Monday, citing the Russian government. As part of the arrangement, Russian officials are reportedly requiring[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-07-22/h_8f05450550521508b6a64cec1d4dff3a] Ukraine to agree to let residents flee via "humanitarian corridors" into Russian and Belarusian territory, which Ukrainian officials have derided as[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/ukraine-rejects-russia-cease-fire-humanitarian-corridors-putin-belarus-rcna18936] "propaganda corridors."

Ukraine did not appear to immediately respond to the ceasefire offer, and it's unclear what other terms Russia might be demanding. Ukrainian officials reportedly have until 7 p.m. Eastern time Monday to accept the offer.

The two sides last week agreed in principle to set up humanitarian corridors, giving survivors of besieged cities a chance of fleeing to safety, but Ukrainian officials have questioned Russia's proposals so far. Ukraine rebuffed a similar offer[https://www.reuters.com/markets/asia/top-wrap-1-ukrainians-trapped-besieged-city-fighting-blocks-evacuation-efforts-2022-03-07/] to set up “humanitarian corridors” in four cities—including Kyiv—earlier Monday, and an attempted ceasefire to evacuate the cities of Mariupol and Volnovakha on Saturday collapsed within hours.

Ukrainian presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak said Monday talks with Russian officials yielded "small positive" progress in improving the logistics of humanitarian corridors.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 7, 2022 3:55 PM EST

White House Says 'No Decision' Yet On Russian Oil Ban

White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Monday President Joe Biden has not made a decision yet about whether to ban the import of Russian oil.

"Those discussions are ongoing internally and also with our counterparts and partners in Europe and around the world," Psaki said at a press briefing.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/abcpolitics/status/1500923423207436289&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who said[https://thehill.com/homenews/house/597098-house-working-on-bill-to-ban-russian-oil-imports] last week she supported a ban, wrote in a letter to colleagues last night that Congress should explore banning the import of Russian oil. A bipartisan group of lawmakers unveiled the framework of an agreement Monday to “ban the import of energy products from Russia and to suspend normal trade relations with both Russia and Belarus."

Psaki said any decision Biden makes will come with the rapidly spiking price of gas across the U.S. in mind. The average price for a gallon of gasoline in the U.S. has soared more than 49 cents in the past seven days, according to GasBuddy, surpassing the period after Hurricane Katrina as the quickest weekly rise in history.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/gasbuddyguy/status/1500910754207199234&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 7, 2022 3:17 PM EST

Ukraine President Zelensky Will Address U.K. Parliament

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will deliver a speech to the U.K. House of Commons at 12 p.m. Eastern time on Tuesday, according to a statement from House Speaker Lindsay Hoyle.

The address will take place through a video link, which will mark the first time an address has been given to the chamber via video, according to the statement. There will be no questions-and-answers session following Zelensky's speech.

"Every parliamentarian wants to hear directly from the president, who will be speaking to us live from Ukraine, so this is an important opportunity for the House," Hoyle said.

Western countries like the U.K. have faced growing calls to put further sanctions on Russia, such as a ban on the import of Russian oil, though Prime Minister Boris Johnson expressed caution[https://www.theguardian.com/business/live/2022/mar/07/markets-slide-surging-oil-price-stagflation-ftse-russia-sanctions-business-live] when pressed on the issue Monday. Zelensky has also called on NATO members to enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine, reportedly pushing the idea[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/05/politics/ukraine-russia-zelensky-us-lawmakers/index.html] during a call with U.S. lawmakers on Saturday, but NATO has ruled out a no-fly zone and warned any attempt to force Russian planes out of Ukraine’s airspace could spark a broader conflict.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 7, 2022 1:35 PM EST

Third Round Of Ukraine-Russia Talks Ends With 'Small Positive' Progress On Humanitarian Corridors

Ukrainian presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak said Monday talks with Russian officials yielded "small positive" progress in improving the logistics of humanitarian corridors allowing survivors of besieged cities the chance to flee to safety.

The two sides agreed in principle to allow for humanitarian corridors at an earlier round of talks, but Ukrainian officials have slammed the agreement as a sham so far after Russian officials proposed corridors[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/ukraine-rejects-russia-cease-fire-humanitarian-corridors-putin-belarus-rcna18936] that would lead into Russia and Belarus, a Russian ally.

"Intensive consultations have continued on the basic political block of the regulations, along with a ceasefire and security guarantees," Podolyak said.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/podolyak_m/status/1500891711450583041&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

It's not immediately clear if another round of talks is planned.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 7, 2022 1:04 PM EST

Ukraine Claims It Has Suffered $10 Billion In Damage So Far

Ukraine Infrastructure Minister Oleksander Kubrakov said Monday the Russian invasion has already inflicted around $10 billion in damage to the nation's infrastructure, as shelling continues around the country while Russian troops advance on larger cities.

In a televised address, Kubrakov estimated it would take a year to repair most of the structures damaged so far, with "the most difficult ones" taking two years to fix, according to a Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukrainian-minister-puts-war-damage-infrastructure-about-10-billion-2022-03-07/] translation.

Kubrakov also used his speech to urge Russian troops to allow civilians to safely leave cities, accusing Russia of "doing all it can" to prevent humanitarian corridors, according to the Guardian[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/07/ukraine-news-russia-war-latest-news-vladimir-putin-zelenskiy-kyiv-russian-invasion-civilian-attacks-irpin-ceasefire-live-updates?page=with:block-622640978f087f6d099f2ca3#block-622640978f087f6d099f2ca3].

About 40,000 people were evacuated from Kharkiv on Sunday, Kubrakov said.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 7, 2022 12:00 PM EST

UK, Germany Push Back On Russian Oil Ban

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson expressed hesitation on a ban of Russian oil Monday, a day after Secretary of State Antony Blinken said[https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2022/03/06/us-in-active-discussions-to-ban-russian-oil-blinken-says/?sh=44089d903545] the U.S. is in “very active discussions with our European partners” on a ban.

Scholz said[https://www.theguardian.com/business/live/2022/mar/07/markets-slide-surging-oil-price-stagflation-ftse-russia-sanctions-business-live?filterKeyEvents=false&page=with:block-622609a08f087f6d099f28cc#block-622609a08f087f6d099f28cc] in a Monday statement[https://www.cbsnews.com/newyork/live-updates/russia-ukraine-news-war-vladimir-putin-nato-fighter-jets/] he opposes a blanket ban, saying Russian oil is of “essential importance” and Germany will “continue the activities of business enterprises in the area of energy supply with Russia.” The European Union hasn’t publicly weighed in on a ban, and Bloomberg reports[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-07/eu-is-divided-over-russian-oil-sanctions-as-calls-for-ban-grow] its members are split on the decision.

Johnson similarly noted the logistical challenges of a ban, saying[https://www.theguardian.com/business/live/2022/mar/07/markets-slide-surging-oil-price-stagflation-ftse-russia-sanctions-business-live], "You can’t simply close down use of oil and gas overnight, even from Russia." However, Johnson was less resolute on ruling out a ban, saying it remains[https://www.reuters.com/world/all-options-table-uk-pm-says-when-asked-about-russian-oil-ban-2022-03-07/] “on the table.”

Russia accounts for about 40%[https://www.wsj.com/articles/europe-fears-it-could-be-too-late-to-shake-off-russian-gas-addiction-11646476200#:~:text=The%20European%20Union%20gets%20around,has%20grown%20in%20recent%20years.] of the EU gas supply and about 4%[https://www.gov.uk/government/news/russia-ukraine-and-uk-energy-factsheet#:~:text=There%20are%20no%20gas%20pipelines,UK%20gas%20supply%20in%202021.] of the UK’s. Brent crude briefly hit a 14-year high of $139.13 early Monday, but quickly fell, trading at $123.08 at 12 ET Monday.

— Derek Saul

March 7, 2022 10:32 AM EST

UN Says More Than 1,200 Civilian Casualties So Far

* Since Russia invaded Ukraine February 24, 406 civilians have died and 801 more were injured, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) said in a Monday statement[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28179&LangID=E].

* The OHCHR “believes that the real figures are considerably higher,” as reports of further casualties await confirmation.

* The OHCHR said 27 children have died in the war so far.

* Civilian casualties were most densely concentrated in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of eastern Ukraine, with 93 civilians dead and 435 more injured.

* Ukraine has yet to release an official civilian death total, but the OHCHR noted it is working to verify reports from the Ukraine government of hundreds of additional civilian casualties in separate incidents Sunday and Monday.

— Derek Saul

March 7, 2022 9:16 AM EST

Photos: Scenes Of Evacuation Near Kyiv

The struggle to safely evacuate civilians from fighting in Ukraine has drawn significant international attention, and a Russian plan to open a humanitarian corridor for fleeing Ukrainians only to Russia and Belarus was dismissed[https://www.reuters.com/markets/asia/top-wrap-1-ukrainians-trapped-besieged-city-fighting-blocks-evacuation-efforts-2022-03-07/] by Ukraine Monday as an “immoral stunt.”

Irpin, a small city less than 15 miles outside of Kyiv, became symbolic of the crisis as thousands of residents flee from advancing Russian forces by crossing[https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-03-06/ukrainians-cross-under-destroyed-bridge-irpin/100886922] under a demolished bridge. Russian shelling killed at least four civilians in Irpin Sunday.

Here are photos Monday from Irpin:

— Derek Saul

People cross an improvised path under a destroyed bridge while fleeing the town of Irpin close to Kyiv, Ukraine, Monday, March 7, 2022. ASSOCIATED PRESS[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/62260cc32452cb46ae4fa271/960x0.jpg?fit=scale]

Residents of Irpin flee heavy fighting via a destroyed bridge as Russian forces entered the city on March 07, 2022 in Irpin, Ukraine. Getty Images[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/6226106a8afe3c3be7dcafb9/960x0.jpg?fit=scale]

A woman in a wheelchair is evacuated from Irpin via a destroyed bridge as Russian forces entered the city on March 07, 2022 in Irpin, Ukraine. Getty Images[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/622610e6c5d7389ee0beb604/960x0.jpg?fit=scale]

March 7, 2022 9:00 AM EST

Russia Issues Demands Of Ukraine—The Same Ones From Before Invasion

Kremlin Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov told[https://www.reuters.com/world/kremlin-says-russian-military-action-will-stop-moment-if-ukraine-meets-2022-03-07/] Reuters Monday it will stop its war in Ukraine “in a moment” should Ukraine meet its lengthy set of demands, which includes recognizing the Russian-backed Donetsk and Luhansk rebel states in eastern Ukraine as independent, the Crimean peninsula seized by Russia in 2014 as Russian territory, and amending its constitution to commit to neutrality, promising never to join a group such as NATO.

The demands Peskov outlined Monday match hose Russia asked for before its full-scale invasion. Peskov parroted Russian President Vladimir Putin’s comments leading up to the war, claiming Russia was forced into the invasion due to Ukraine and the West’s actions.

Peskov claimed Russia was pushed into invasion because of an impending invasion of eastern Ukraine—an unfounded claim—saying "what tipped the balance was the lives of these 3 million people” and believing “they would be attacked." Russia has consistently advanced baseless claims[https://theconversation.com/putins-claims-that-ukraine-is-committing-genocide-are-baseless-but-not-unprecedented-177511] of genocide against Russian speakers in eastern Ukraine.

The United States and European Union sanctioned[https://www.forbes.com/sites/annakaplan/2022/03/03/us-sanctions-7-russian-oligarchs-and-kremlin-press-secretary-peskov/?sh=ff0a58c6b6ea] Peskov last week, and the White House called him a “top purveyor of Putin’s propaganda” in its announcement of the penalties.

— Derek Saul

March 7, 2022 6:34 AM EST

Putin Will Not Stop In Ukraine, Lithuanian President Tells Blinken

Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda on Monday warned U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken that Russia’s invasion of Ukraine could spiral into a global conflict and urged him to do more to help Kyiv.

Nauseda told Blinken, who is on a tour of the Baltic states, that Vladimir Putin “will not stop in Ukraine” and the world had a duty to help Ukrainians by “all means available,” Reuters reported[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/putin-will-not-stop-ukraine-lithuanian-president-warns-blinken-2022-03-07/].

“I mean indeed all means if we want to avoid the Third World War. The choice is in our hands,” Nauseda said. He added that the policy of deterrence was no longer adequate and “forward defense” was now needed.

Blinken reiterated that NATO was defensive alliance and stressed that U.S. commitment to NATO's mutual defense pact is “sacrosanct.” He added: We will defend every inch of NATO territory if it comes under attack. No one should doubt our readiness, no one should doubt our resolve.”

Blinken was set to visit neighboring Baltic nations of Latvia and Estonia later on Monday and Tuesday respectively.

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 5:37 AM EST

Ukraine Dismisses Russia's Offer For A Humanitarian Corridor For Fleeing Civilians

Moscow on Monday announced new “humanitarian corridors” for Ukrainian civilians that would lead them into the territory of Russia and its ally Belarus, an offer that was immediately rebuked by Kyiv who called it an “immoral stunt.”

The new “corridors” would be opened at 10 a.m. Moscow time on Monday from the capital Kyiv and the cities of Kharkiv, Sumy and Mariupol, Russia's defense ministry said.

Maps of these corridors[https://twitter.com/maria_avdv/status/1500754226422726657] published by Russian state controlled outlet RIA showed the corridor from Kyiv leading to Belarus, while the corridors out of Kharkiv, Sumy and Mariupol only lead to Russia.

According to[https://www.reuters.com/markets/asia/top-wrap-1-ukrainians-trapped-besieged-city-fighting-blocks-evacuation-efforts-2022-03-07/] Reuters, a spokesperson for Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky dismissed the offer as “completely immoral” and added that the citizens of Ukraine should have the right to “evacuate to the territory of Ukraine.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 3:30 AM EST

Russia Is Targeting Ukraine's Communication Infrastructure, U.K. Defense Ministry Says

The Russian military is likely targeting Ukraine’s communications infrastructure in an effort to prevent the country’s citizens from accessing reliable news and information, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500727508014088192] on the situation in Ukraine on Monday.

The report notes that Russia struck a TV tower in Kharkiv on Sunday, halting broadcasts.

The update also warns that Ukraine’s internet access is highly likely to be disrupted due to collateral damage on infrastructure caused by Russian air strikes. So far, internet outages have been reported in Mariupol, Sumy, Kyiv and Kharkiv.

Ukrainians have effectively used the internet and social media to rally global support for their cause, while Russia’s cyber efforts have been severely hamstrung as U.S. internet giants have cracked down Moscow-backed outlets and individuals.

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 2:40 AM EST

Global Stocks Slump, Oil Prices Touch 14-Year High

Global stock markets slumped[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/07/global-stocks-slump-oil-prices-touch-14-year-high-as-russia-intensifies-attack-on-ukraine/] on Monday while crude oil prices briefly hit a 14-year high after Washington indicated that a ban on Russian oil imports may be on the table.

Brent crude oil futures rose to $139 a barrel in early trade—the highest since August 2008—before settling at around $129 per barrel—8.52% up from Friday. The U.S. oil benchmark is up more than 9%—hitting $130.50 at one point—before settling at around $125 per barrel.

U.S. markets are also bracing for losses on Monday as futures for the S&P 500, Dow and Nasdaq were down 1.14%, 0.86% and 1.65%, respectively, at 2.30 am E.T.

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 1:50 AM EST

Moscow Is Reportedly Recruiting Syrian Fighters For Urban Combat In Ukraine

Russia is recruiting Syrian fighters, experienced in urban combat, to fight in Ukraine as its forces move closer into major cities, the Wall Street Journal reports[https://www.wsj.com/articles/russia-recruiting-syrians-for-urban-combat-in-ukraine-u-s-officials-say-11646606234], citing unnamed U.S. officials.

Russia has been fighting in Syria in support of Bashar al-Assad’s regime since 2015. Moscow reportedly believes that to tap into the fighters’ expertise in urban combat could help capture Kyiv.

While exact numbers are unclear, the report notes that some such fighters are already in Russia and preparing to enter the conflict.

Last week, Syrian publication DeirEzzor24 reported[https://deirezzor24.net/en/russia-has-opened-the-door-to-volunteering-in-eastern-syria-to-recruit-mercenaries-and-send-them-to-ukraine/] that Russia has offered volunteers between $200 and $300 “to go to Ukraine and operate as guards” for six months at a time.

Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, whose regime is heavily reliant on support from Moscow, backed[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/2/25/syrias-assad-praises-russias-ukraine-invasion-as-correction] Russia’s invasion of Moscow last week calling it a “correction of history.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 1:17 AM EST

New Zealand Government Working On Legislation That Would Allow It To Sanction Russia

New Zealand’s government is working to swiftly pass legislation that will allow it to join Western sanctions against Russia.

So far, the South Pacific nation has not been part of a multinational effort to impose economic sanctions on Moscow outside of voting in the U.N. as it lacked the legal means to do so.

Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Monday said that the new laws would enable her government to target people, companies and assets linked to the invasion. Ardern also noted that New Zealand may also freeze assets linked to Russian oligarchs and block their superyachts or planes from arriving.

“The creation of this targeted sanctions bill will send a very clear signal that New Zealand will not be a safe haven for those wishing to move their investments here.”— New Zealand Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 12:19 AM EST

South Korea Will Suspend Transactions With Russia's Central Bank

South Korea announced on Monday it plans to suspend transactions with the Russian central bank, joining the U.S. and several other nations in targeting Russian financial institutions.

According to[https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20220307004800320?section=market/economy] Yonhap news agency, the Korean government will announce details of the move after consulting government agencies.

Prior to this, South Korea also joined multinational sanctions against Russia, including the suspension of transactions with seven major Russian banks and a ban of exports to 49 Russian organizations and firms last week, including Russia's defense ministry.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 10:58 PM EST

Around 50 Expelled Russian Diplomats And Family Members Leave New York

Around 50 Russian diplomats including their family members left New York for Moscow on Sunday, CNN reported[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-06-22/h_a828901596bc52461c3285ee9db202dd], citing Russian state news outlet RIA.

The reported departure comes days after the U.S. sought the expulsion of 12 Russian diplomats from the United Nations, accusing them of engaging in “activities that were not in accordance with their responsibilities and obligations as diplomats.”

Reuters reported[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-flying-out-un-diplomats-expelled-by-us-officials-say-2022-03-05/] on Saturday that the Russian government had sent a chartered plane operated by the Rossiya Special Flight Squadron from St. Petersburg to Washington to fly out the expelled diplomats.

The State Department noted that the chartered plane had been given special permission to land in the U.S. to evacuate the expelled diplomats. Last week, President Joe Biden announced a ban on all Russian aircraft entering U.S. airspace.

FlightRadar24 reports[https://twitter.com/flightradar24/status/1500633029995384832] that the chartered plane has left New York’s John F. Kennedy Airport and is en route to Moscow.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 9:19 PM EST

House Explores Russian Oil Ban, Plans $10 Billion Aid Package, Pelosi Says

* The House of Representatives is exploring legislation that would “further isolate Russia from the global economy,” in response to the country’s invasion of Ukraine, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said in a letter[https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/3622] to Democratic colleagues Sunday night.

* Pelosi said Congress intends to pass $10 billion in humanitarian, military and economic support to Ukraine this week following the Biden administration’s request.

* Pelosi says the legislation would ban the import of Russian oil and energy products into the U.S., and seek to deny Russia access to the World Trade Organization by repealing its normal trade relations with Russia and Belarus.

* The legislation would also empower President Joe Biden’s administration to raise tariffs on Russian imports.

* Pelosi reiterated Biden’s statements that U.S. troops would not enter Ukraine, but the country would provide military equipment “and support our allies who are supplying airplanes to Ukraine.”

March 6, 2022 8:10 PM EST

Russia Increases Shelling Reportedly Killing Evacuating Civilians

* The Russian military has increased its shelling of Ukraine across several cities, Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovich said on Ukrainian television late Sunday, according[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-vladimir-putin-spacex-volodymyr-zelenskyy-business-807f67dcf116559d2646abb7ed851ca9] to the Associated Press.

* Arestovich said the most recent wave of missile strikes came at night, hitting the southern city of Mykolaiv, the northeast city of Kharkiv, and the outskirts of the capital city of Kyiv.

* Arestovich said residents were unable to evacuate in the Kyiv suburbs, but the Ukrainian government is working to resume evacuations.

* The New York Times reported[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/06/world/europe/ukraine-irpin-civilian-death.html] at least four civilians died as a result of mortar shells during these evacuations.

* In Kharkiv, officials reported the shelling of its residential areas, along with the city’s television tower, according to the Associated Press.

March 6, 2022 7:04 PM EST

U.K. Promises $100 Million More In Ukraine Aid

* The U.K. will provide the Ukraine with $100 million in financial support aimed to help the war-torn country pay its public-sector workers and fund pension and social security payments, Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/uk/britain-pledges-100-mln-help-keep-ukrainian-state-running-2022-03-06/] and the Financial Times[https://www.ft.com/content/a4496d8b-c23c-4efc-a88b-8a35fee0094a] reported Sunday.

* Britain had already committed nearly $300 million in aid to Ukraine.

* "While only Putin can fully end the suffering in Ukraine, today's new funding will continue to help those facing the deteriorating humanitarian situation," British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in a statement Sunday, according to Reuters.

* The International Monetary Fund (IMF), a global organization made up of over 190 countries, announced[https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2022/03/05/pr2261-imf-staff-statement-on-the-economic-impact-of-war-in-ukraine] Saturday it aims to bring Ukraine’s emergency financing request of $1.4 billion to its executive board for consideration “as early as next week.”

* In the announcement, the IMF warned Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and sanctions brought on as a result of the war would “have a severe impact on the global economy.”

—Mason Bissada

March 6, 2022 6:08 PM EST

Zelenksy Vows To Punish 'Everyone Who Committed Atrocities'; Russia Commits 95% Of Combat Power In Ukraine

* In an address Sunday, Ukrainian President Volodamir Zelensky vowed to punish those that have committed atrocities since the war began, proclaiming, “We will find every scum who was shelling our cities, our people, who was shooting the missiles, who was giving orders,” adding, “You will not have a quiet place on this earth – except for a grave,” according to the Guardian[https://twitter.com/shaunwalker7/status/1500589274420420618/photo/1] and the Ukrainian news service the Kyiv Independent[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1500584474471510027].

* Russia has amassed approximately 95% of its combat power in Ukraine as its invasion continues, an unnamed senior US defense official told CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-06-22/index.html] Sunday.

* The senior official said Russia has launched 600 missiles since it began its invasion last week.

* Ukrainian resistance has slowed Russian advances toward several cities, including Khakhiv, Chernihiv, and Mariupol and the capital city of Kyiv, the official said, but could give no update on whether the Russian convoy (last reported as 16 miles from Kyiv’s city center) has progressed further toward Kyiv.

—Mason Bissada

March 6, 2022 4:36 PM EST

Russia Shuts Off Communication From Ukrainian Nuclear Power Plant, IAEA Says

The International Atomic Energy Agency reported[https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/pressreleases/update-13-iaea-director-general-statement-on-situation-in-ukraine] Sunday Russian forces have switched off phone lines, emails and fax at the Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant, which Russia took control of last week, further threatening the stability of Ukraine’s largest nuclear power plant.

“Reliable communications between the regulator and the operator are a critical part of overall nuclear safety and security,” Director General of the IAEA Rafael Grossi said in a release Sunday.

The update, based on the IAEA’s communication with Ukraine’s nuclear regulator, said mobile phone communication was still available, “but with poor quality.”

The IAEA said the plant is now under the command of the Russian military leader that took the plant last week and alleged that plant management, made up of Ukrainian staff who have been working in inhumane conditions, must seek approval from the commander before taking any action.

March 6, 2022 2:41 PM EST

American Express Suspends Operations In Russia And Belarus, Joining Visa, Mastercard

American Express is suspending all operations in Russia in response to the country’s “unjustified attack on the people of Ukraine,” the credit card company announced Sunday in a release[https://about.americanexpress.com/all-news/news-details/2022/American-Express-Suspends-Operations-in-Russia-and-Belarus/default.aspx]. Globally issued American Express cards will no longer work at merchants or ATMs in Russia, and cards issued in Russia by Russian banks will no longer work internationally. The company said it is also ending all business operations in Belarus.

“We stand by our colleagues, customers, and the international community in hoping for a peaceful resolution to this crisis,” the company said.

American Express joins other major credit card companies Visa and Mastercard, along with dozens of other corporations, in a stance against Russia following its invasion of Ukraine. Visa and Mastercard released statements announcing their respective suspensions of service in Russia within 16 minutes of each other Saturday, according[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-europe-9c0554f52e25088ae6e7b492cb04e6d3] to the Associated Press.

“When it is appropriate, and if it is permissible under the law, we will…work to restore operations,” Mastercard announced in a release[https://www.mastercard.com/news/press/2022/march/mastercard-statement-on-suspension-of-russian-operations/], confirming its cards would no longer work in Russia, and cards issued by Russian banks will not be supported on the Mastercard network internationally.

“We are compelled to act following Russia’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, and the unacceptable events that we have witnessed,” Visa chairman and CEO Al Kelly said[https://usa.visa.com/about-visa/newsroom/press-releases.releaseId.18871.html] in the company’s release, announcing the same changes.

—Mason Bissada

March 6, 2022 12:02 PM EST

Putin Stands Firm In Call With Macron

Russian President Vladimir Putin told French President Emmanuel Macron during a Sunday phone call he plans to achieve his goals in Ukraine “through negotiation or war,” according to the AFP and New York Times, citing the the Élysée Palace.

The French presidency’s official readout[https://www.elysee.fr/emmanuel-macron/2022/03/06/entretien-telephonique-avec-le-president-de-la-federation-de-russie-m-vladimir-poutine-1] of the call didn’t mention this statement on Putin’s aims. The readout said Macron called for Russia to respect international humanitarian and nuclear law and expressed concern about reports of an imminent Russian attack on the Ukrainian port city of Odessa.

Macron is the latest leader to attempt desperate diplomacy with Putin, who spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett Saturday and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan Sunday.

Macron and Putin have maintained consistent dialogue leading up to and during Russia’s full invasion of Ukraine. A senior French official said[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/03/macron-putin-call-ukraine/] Thursday Macron left his most recent conversation with Putin believing Russia plans to overtake all of Ukraine and “the worst is yet to come.”

—Derek Saul

March 6, 2022 11:22 AM EST

Blinken: U.S. Discussing Ban On Russian Oil

The U.S. is in “active discussions” with its European allies to ban Russian oil imports, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Sunday. The move would be the latest designed to cut off Russia from the West economically, and petroleum is Russia’s primary export. The White House initially resisted a ban, though there is strong bipartisan support for the measure in Congress.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2022/03/06/us-in-active-discussions-to-ban-russian-oil-blinken-says/?sh=504340f35453].

—Derek Saul

March 6, 2022 9:19 AM EST

Evacuation From Mariupol Stopped For Second Straight Day

Attempts to evacuate an estimated 200,000 people out of the southeastern Ukrainian city of Mariupol besieged by Russian forces failed Sunday, the International Committee of the Red Cross said in a statement[https://www.icrc.org/en/document/ukraine-safe-passage-civilians-mariupol-halted-second-day-icrc-calls-parties-agree-specific]. Evacuation efforts failed Saturday, too, as both Russia and Ukraine accused[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-blame-each-other-mariupol-evacuation-fails-again-2022-03-06/] each other of breaking a ceasefire. Mariupol is out of power and water, and mobile networks are down, according[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-06-22/index.html] to the city’s mayor. The Red Cross said the failed evacuations “underscore the absence of a detailed and functioning agreement between parties to the conflict,” calling on Russia and Ukraine to establish a clear agreement to allow for a safe evacuation route.

—Derek Saul

March 6, 2022 8:44 AM EST

Key developments: Zelensky Warns Of Odessa Bombing As Pope Calls For Humanitarian Aid

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said[https://twitter.com/kaitlancollins/status/1500453749743140871?s=20&t=46QoFTDmpZQTr-ZvwyCOjg] Sunday he believes Russia plans to bomb Odessa, a southern Ukrainian port city on the Black Sea home to about 1 million. “Artillery, bombs against Odessa. This will be a war crime. This will be historic crime,” Zelensky said[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-06-22/index.html] in a video posted to his Facebook, adding to prior allegations that Russia’s invasion constitutes war crimes, under investigation by[https://www.reuters.com/world/un-rights-body-approves-probe-into-alleged-russian-violations-ukraine-2022-03-04/] the United Nations.

Here are additional updates from Sunday morning:

* Addressing a Vatican City crowd Sunday, Pope Francis denied[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/pope-francis-says-ukraine-conflict-is-not-military-operation-war-2022-03-06/] Russia’s claim it launched[https://www.newyorker.com/news/dispatch/how-putin-wants-russians-to-see-the-war-in-ukraine] a “special military operation” in Ukraine, saying “This is not just a military operation but a war which sows death, destruction and misery.”

* The pope called[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/pope-francis-says-ukraine-conflict-is-not-military-operation-war-2022-03-06/] on allowing humanitarian aid into Ukraine and the “return to the respect of international law,” after Russian forces allegedly refused[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/04/kherson-ukraine-russia/] to allow the supply of humanitarian aid or the evacuation of civilians in Ukraine.

* A Russian missile attack destroyed the Vinnytsia airport in central Ukraine using eight missiles, Zelensky said[https://twitter.com/KevinRothrock/status/1500449834712584197?s=20&t=2E02K3HVtZtEWev6BK-_2A] during his Sunday speech, marking the latest Russian attack on Ukrainian infrastructure.

* Ratings agency Moody’s downgraded[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-06/moody-s-cuts-russia-s-rating-deeper-into-junk-territory-to-ca] Russia’s credit outlook to the second-lowest Ca rating — propelling it further into junk territory — explaining in a statement: “Moody’s view is that the risk of a default occurring has significantly increased.”

* Russian authorities arrested at least 1,950 antiwar protestors Sunday, according[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/06/world/ukraine-russia] to Russian human rights group OVD-Info, bringing the total protest arrests in Russia since the war began to over 10,000[https://ovdinfo.org/].

—Derek Saul

March 6, 2022 6:06 AM EST

More Than 1.5 Million Refugees Have Fled Ukraine, UN Says

More than 1.5 million refugees have been force to leave Ukraine since the start of the Russian invasion of the country, according to UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi tweeted[https://twitter.com/FilippoGrandi/status/1500395166624010249] on Sunday.

Grandi added that the situation has now snowballed into the fastest growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.

Refugees fleeing from Ukraine have crossed into several neighboring countries including Poland, Hungary, Moldova, Slovakia, Romania, and Russia. As of late last week, Poland had accepted more than half a million refugees from Ukraine—more than any other country.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 4:20 AM EST

South Korea Will Tighten Export Controls Against Belarus

The South Korean government on Sunday said[https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20220306002700325?section=market/economy] that it will ban the export of certain strategic items to Belarus starting this week, due to its support for Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

“As we have concluded that the Republic of Belarus has been effectively supporting Russia's invasion of Ukraine, we have decided to implement the export ban on Belarus as well,” the South Korean Economy and Finance Ministry said.

Seoul noted that it will promptly notify the United States about this decision.

Last week, South Korea announced plans to ban exports to 49 Russian organizations and firms last week, including Russia's defense ministry. Seoul has also joined the U.S. and its western allies in suspending financial transactions with major Russian banks.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 2:12 AM EST

Surprised By Ukrainian Resistance, Russia Is Targeting Populated Areas: U.K. Defense Ministry

The Russian military has resorted to targeting populated areas in Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol after being surprised by the “scale and strength” of Ukrainian resistance, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500357239428763649] on the situation in Ukraine on Sunday.

The update notes that Russia’s supply lines continue to be targeted, slowing the speed of its advance.

The update adds that there is a “realistic possibility” that the Russians are attempting to disguise their fuel trucks as regular support vehicles to minimize losses.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 1:26 AM EST

Biden Speaks With Zelenskyy Again, Highlights Actions Undertaken To Raise Costs On Russia

U.S. President Joe Biden spoke with his Ukrainian counterpart on Saturday evening where he highlighted efforts undertaken by the U.S. government, its allies and partners, and the private industry “to raise the costs on Russia for its aggression in Ukraine.”

According to[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/05/readout-of-president-bidens-call-with-president-zelenskyy-of-ukraine-6/] a readout of the call published by the White House, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky welcomed the decision by Visa and Mastercard to suspend service in Russia.

Biden said his administration continues to surge security, humanitarian, and economic aid to Ukraine and he will work closely with Congress to secure additional funding for more of the same.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 1:14 AM EST

Ukrainian MMA Fighter Moroz Emotional After Dominant Victory At UFC 272

Ukrainian fighter Maryna Moroz received a huge ovation from the crowd at the T-Mobile Arena Las Vegas as she waved her country’s flag after pulling off a dominant submission victory against her opponent Mariya Agapova in a fight that lasted 3 minutes and 27 seconds.

Following her victory at the prelims of UFC 272 event Moroz was visibly emotional thanked[https://twitter.com/UFCEurope/status/1500281615402082309] the crowd for their support and said “This week was hard for me. I want to cry.”

“All this week I feel nervous, I cried. I tried to focus. Many people don't know, but it was really hard for me. I see in Ukraine how terrible the situation is. It was really my heart almost crying. But I did it. I focused, and I did fight,” she said during her post match interview.

Several Ukrainian athletes have vocally come out in opposition of Russia’s invasion of their country and some of them including boxer Oleksandr Usyk and tennis player Sergiy Stakhovsky have signed up to fight for the Ukrainian army.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 12:22 AM EST

Beijing Opposes Moves That 'Add Fuel To The Flames' Wang Yi Tells Blinken

Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken that Beijing opposes any adverse moves that would “add fuel to the flames” in Ukraine, the Associated Press reported[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-united-nations-europe-singapore-42fc449b3e3336d09660c273aa0d9f19].

Wang spoke with Blinken by phone on Saturday.

Wang reiterated Beijing’s calls for dialogue and negotiations to resolve the crisis in Ukraine and also urged U.S. and its Western allies to heed Russia’s concerns about the eastward expansion of NATO. The Chinese minister added that the U.S., NATO and the European Union should engage in “equal dialogue” with Russia.

According to a readout of the call previously released[https://www.state.gov/secretary-blinkens-call-with-peoples-republic-of-china-prc-state-councilor-and-foreign-minister-wang/] by U.S. State Department, Blinken told Wang that the “world is watching to see which nations stand up for the basic principles of freedom, self-determination and sovereignty.” Blinken also noted that the world was “acting in unison” to push back against Russia’s aggression, ensuring a high price for Moscow.

— Siladitya Ray

March 5, 2022 10:37 PM EST

Germany And Israel 'Share A Common Goal' Of Ending Ukraine Invasion

In a statement[https://www.bundesregierung.de/breg-de/aktuelles/bundeskanzler-scholz-trifft-israels-premierminister-bennett-2010420] issued early on Sunday, the German government said its shares a common goal with the Israeli government of ending the war in Ukraine as soon as possible.The statement was issued after German Chancellor Olaf Scholz's met with Israel's Prime Minister Naftali Bennett in Berlin.

The focus of the 90-minute meeting between the two leaders were the results of talks held on Saturday between Bennett and Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow, the statement added.

— Siladitya Ray

March 5, 2022 8:10 PM EST

U.S. Eyes Deal In Which Poland Would Provide Warplanes To Ukraine In Exchange For F-16s

The United States is in discussions to supply Poland with F-16 fighter jets in return for the former Soviet Bloc country sending its aging MiG-29s to Ukraine, U.S. officials told Politico[https://www.politico.com/news/2022/03/05/white-house-deal-fighter-jets-ukraine-00014424] and the Wall Street Journal[https://www.wsj.com/articles/ukrainian-president-asks-congress-to-help-secure-russian-made-jet-fighters-11646511532?mod=djemalertNEWS] late Saturday, after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky made an impassioned plea on a video call earlier in the day with U.S. lawmakers for Russian-made warplanes to help his country fight off a Russian invasion.

An EU promise last week to provide used Russian fighter jets to Ukraine fell through[https://www.politico.com/news/2022/02/28/ukrainian-pilots-arrive-in-poland-to-pick-up-donated-fighter-jets-00012560] after member countries possessing the planes balked.

Poland has been updating its air force: starting in 2006 it acquired 48 F-16s that serve as its main frontline fighter, and in 2020 it inked a $4.6 billion contract to buy 32 F-35s. But it still has about two dozen old MiG-29 twin-engine fighters — a type that Ukraine’s air force also flies. Poland is reportedly asking the U.S. to sell it more F-16s to make up the difference if it hands the planes over to Ukraine.

To the surprise of many military experts[https://rusi.org/explore-our-research/publications/rusi-defence-systems/russian-air-force-actually-incapable-complex-air-operations], Russia has so far failed to establish air superiority over Ukraine, despite on paper possessing a far superior air force and air-defense systems. Ukraine still has a “significant majority” of its military aircraft available, a U.S. defense official said Friday.

But Ukraine still appears overmatched, and Zelenksy has repeatedly asked the U.S. and NATO to establish a no-fly zone over Ukraine, something Western officials have said is out of the question given the likelihood that would lead to a wider war with Russia. On Saturday, he reportedly told U.S. lawmakers, “if you can’t do that, at least get me planes.”

March 5, 2022 6:28 PM EST

Mastercard And Visa Suspend Operations In Russia Over Invasion Of Ukraine

Mastercard and Visa are suspending operations in Russia with its invasion of Ukraine stretching into a 10th day, the two companies said Saturday, deepening the country’s economic isolation following a wave of sanctions.

Mastercard said in a statement[https://www.mastercard.com/news/press/2022/march/mastercard-statement-on-suspension-of-russian-operations/] that cards issued by Russian banks will no longer be supported by the Mastercard network and that any Mastercards issued outside of Russia will not work in Russia or ATMs there.

Visa said in a statement[https://investor.visa.com/news/news-details/2022/Visa-Suspends-All-Russia-Operations/default.aspx] it will work with clients and partners in Russia to stop all Visa transactions in the coming days. It added that all transactions initiated with Visa cards issued in Russia will no longer work outside of the country and any Visa cards issued outside of Russia will no longer work in Russia.

Mastercard and Visa cards accounted for nearly 74%[https://www.wsj.com/articles/russian-consumers-cut-off-from-many-foreign-purchases-11646154897] of card payment transactions in Russia in 2020, according to the Nilson Report.

–Lisa Kim

March 5, 2022 2:05 PM EST

Russia Resumes Offensive In Southern Ukraine As U.K. Accuses It Of Using Ceasefire To Reset Forces

Russia has restarted offensive operations in Mariupol and Volnovakha, the two southern cities where Ukrainian and Russian officials arranged to allow civilians to evacuate through humanitarian corridors as part of a temporary ceasefire agreement that collapsed hours after it began, with the U.K.’s Ministry of Defense accusing Russia of abusing the agreement to reset its forces.

“Due to the unwillingness of the Ukrainian side to influence the nationalists or to extend the ceasefire, offensive operations have been resumed from 18:00 Moscow time,” Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, a spokesperson for Russia’s Defense Ministry, said in a statement to Russian news agency Tass. Konashenkov claimed “not a single civilian” was able to leave the two cities through the corridors because “nationalists” prevented them from leaving.

However, in an intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500159409976131584/photo/1], the U.K.’s Ministry of Defense alleged[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500159409976131584/photo/1] Russia likely agreed to the ceasefire in Mariupol only to provide cover to reset some of its forces for a continued offensive attack without receiving “international condemnation.”

“By accusing Ukraine of breaking the agreement, Russia is likely seeking to shift responsibility for current and future civilian casualties in the city,” it said.

The evacuation process for children, women and the elderly to escape the fighting in the two cities in southern Ukraine was postponed[https://twitter.com/Pavlo_Kyrylenko/status/1500061621330362374] hours after it began, after Ukrainian officials said[https://www.facebook.com/100005295963148/videos/271886048436286/] Russia broke the agreement by shelling the cities and nearby areas along the evacuation routes.

— Anna Kaplan

March 5, 2022 1:16 PM EST

U.N. Counts 351 Civilian Deaths In Ukraine As Russian Attack Continues

The United Nations’ human rights office said[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28179&LangID=E] Saturday 351 civilians had died and 707 had been injured as of Friday since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine started last week, noting that the actual figures were likely “considerably higher.”

The figures include 329 adult deaths and 22 child deaths, and 671 adult injuries and 36 child injuries.

The U.N. has said the actual numbers were undoubtedly much higher given difficulties in reporting and corroborating casualties amid the ongoing fighting. The U.N. alleged "hundreds of civilian casualties” in Volnovakha, the Ukrainian government-controlled area of Donetsk.

Most civilian casualties continued to be caused by “ explosive[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28179&LangID=E] weapons with a wide impact area,” including shelling from heavy artillery, multi-launch rocket systems and missiles and airstrikes, the U.N. said.

— Lisa Kim

March 5, 2022 12:53 PM EST

Zelensky Pleads For Planes, Russian Oil Embargo In Call With U.S. Lawmakers

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky urged U.S. lawmakers Saturday to supply Ukraine with warplanes to fight Russian forces and to embargo Russian oil, multiple[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-united-nations-europe-singapore-42fc449b3e3336d09660c273aa0d9f19] news[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/05/world/russia-ukraine] outlets[https://www.axios.com/volodymyr-zelensky-ukraine-russian-righter-jets-c7a0e94a-07a1-49bf-aebc-abb8e4d1ba63.html] report.

Zelensky spoke to more than 300 members of Congress and aides on a Zoom call and made a “desperate plea for Eastern European countries to provide Russian-made planes to Ukraine,” Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a statement. Schumer said the warplanes are much needed, and that he “will do all I can to help the administration to facilitate their transfer.”

An EU promise last week to provide used Russian fighter jets to Ukraine fell through[https://www.politico.com/news/2022/02/28/ukrainian-pilots-arrive-in-poland-to-pick-up-donated-fighter-jets-00012560] after member countries possessing the planes balked.

Zelensky called for the U.S. to ban the import of Russian oil—a move the Biden administration is reportedly weighing[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-04/white-house-considering-ban-on-russian-oil-imports-to-u-s], amid concerns that it could drive up domestic prices. He also reiterated his desire for a no-fly zone over Ukraine, which Western leaders have rejected multiple[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/04/politics/blinken-stoltenberg-no-fly-zone-warning/index.html] times[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-3rd-2022/] this week due to the likelihood that it would drag them into a wider war with Russia.

Schumer reportedly pledged to Zelensky that lawmakers were working to pass a $10 billion aid package[https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2022/03/03/meeting-urgent-needs/] for Ukraine, which the Biden administration requested earlier this week. The package aims to deliver additional humanitarian, security, and economic assistance to Ukraine and its neighboring countries, according to the White House.

— Anna Kaplan

March 5, 2022 11:59 AM EST

State Department Urges U.S. Citizens To Leave Russia ‘Immediately’ As American Basketball Player Detained

The State Department warned U.S. citizens in Russia to depart immediately[https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories/russia-travel-advisory.html] Saturday – ramping up the level of alarm from a February 27 advisory[https://ru.usembassy.gov/security-alert-u-s-mission-russia/] in which it told Americans to “consider” leaving immediately – and continued to direct Americans not to travel to the country in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The State Department warned that Russian security officials could harass U.S. citizens while the U.S. Embassy has “limited ability to assist” Americans, and the sharply diminished number of flights into and out of the country.

A WNBA player was detained at Russia’s Sheremetyevo airport, near Moscow, after officials found vape cartridges containing hashish oil in her luggage, the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/05/sports/basketball/russia-brittney-griner.html] and USA Today[https://www.usatoday.com/story/sports/wnba/2022/03/05/brittney-griner-arrested-russia-drug-charges/9389748002/] reported on Saturday, citing the Russian Federal Customs Service. Russian news agency Tass identified the player as Phoenix Mercury center Brittney Griner, citing an anonymous law enforcement source.

The Times reports Griner could face up to 10 years in prison, and the WNBA said in a statement to USA Today her “her swift and safe return” is the organization’s main priority. Read more about her detainment here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/03/05/wnba-player-brittney-griner-reportedly-detained-in-russia-on-drug-charges/].

— Anna Kaplan

March 5, 2022 11:20 AM EST

Aeroflot Suspends International Flights, Except To Belarus

Aeroflot, Russia’s flagship carrier, is suspending all international flights from Monday, except to the country’s ally Belarus, it said in a statement[https://www.aeroflot.ru/ru-en/news/62292] Saturday, following a warning from Russia’s aviation authority that Russian airlines with foreign-leased planes should stop flying overseas due to the likelihood they could be seized.

The airline said[https://www.aeroflot.ru/ru-en/news/62292] the suspension is due to “additional circumstances impeding the operation of flights.”

The move follows the recommendation from Russia’s aviation authority that Russian airlines with foreign-leased planes halt international flights as they risk being seized after the European Union forbade leasing of jets[https://www.reuters.com/business/aerospace-defense/hundreds-russia-plane-leases-be-axed-after-eu-sanctions-2022-02-28/] to Russian airlines in its package of sanctions. The EU has given leasing companies until March 28 to end their Russian contracts.

A growing number of countries have closed their airspaces to Russian aircraft, including the United States, Canada and most European countries.

Boeing and Airbus have also halted supplying[https://www.theguardian.com/business/2022/mar/02/airbus-and-boeing-to-halt-supply-of-aircraft-parts-to-russian-airlines] aircraft parts and services to Russian airlines following the invasion of Ukraine.

— Lisa Kim

March 5, 2022 11:08 AM EST

Weaponless Kherson Residents Turn To Protests To Resist Russians After Army Retreats, Mayor Says

Armed resistance to Russian forces has ended in the strategically important southern Ukrainian city of Kherson, where the city’s mayor told CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-05-22/index.html] the local population was unarmed, and a large protest was staged Saturday morning, according to the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/05/world/russia-ukraine/kherson-protests-ukraine].

“We don’t have more weapons to resist, to put up an armed resistance,” said Mayor Ihor Kolykhaiev, who told CNN the army had retreated toward Nikolaev.

A senior U.S. defense official told reporters as recently as Friday the Pentagon could not independently verify reports[https://www.economist.com/europe/2022/03/02/a-regional-capital-in-ukraine-falls-to-russia-for-the-first-time] Russian forces had control of Kherson, as there were still clashes in and around the city.

Saturday morning, a crowd that Kolykhaiev estimated at 2,000 gathered in the city center to protest the Russian occupation of the city.

Kolykhaiev called for humanitarian assistance as “all city services are down,” including water and power. He noted logistical issues with receiving the aid, as the only route to receive supplies is through Crimea, which has been Russian-controlled since its annexation in 2014. The citizens of Kherson also only want to take aid from Ukrainians, according to Kolykhaiev.

“Russians want to send their humanitarian aid, but the people of Kherson are refusing it, because they are patriots and they don’t want aid from Russians,” he said. “So we are not receiving humanitarian aid at the moment.”

— Anna Kaplan

March 5, 2022 10:10 AM EST

Resistance Of Russian Invasion Of Ukraine Calls ‘Into Question’ Its Statehood, Putin Says

Russian President Vladimir Putin said Saturday that Ukraine is at risk of losing its statehood if officials continued to resist his invasion of the country, and denied that Russian conscripts are involved in the fighting.

Claiming there was a possibility of nuclear weapons being placed in Ukraine, Putin said, “Those from today's leadership should understand that if they continue doing what they are doing, they call into question the future of Ukrainian statehood. And if it happens it will be wholly and fully on their conscience,” Interfax quoted[https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/75628/] Putin as saying during a meeting Saturday with female crew members of Russian airlines.

In his first extended remarks since the war began, Putin claimed Russia would not need to conscript soldiers to help fight in the invasion, nor would the country need to impose martial law. There have been multiple reports[https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/03/01/russia-low-morale-ukraine-invasion/] from Russian soldiers and family members of servicemen[https://meduza.io/en/feature/2022/02/26/i-m-panicking-where-is-my-child] that conscripts are being put into action in Ukraine, though the military is not legally allowed to employ them in combat.

“Only professional military servicemen take part in this operation, officers and contract soldiers,” Putin claimed, according[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/05/world/russia-ukraine] to the New York Times. “Not a single conscript takes part in it, and we don’t plan to send them there.”

Putin said he did not plan to impose martial law in Russia, unless other countries became aggressive toward the country, including implementing a no-fly zone, which Ukrainian officials have repeatedly[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/04/world/europe/zelensky-nato-no-fly-zone-ukraine.html] called for. “The realization of that demand would bring catastrophic results not only to Europe, but to the whole world,” he said.

Western nations have rebuffed[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-3rd-2022/] the calls for a no-fly zone due to the likelihood that it would lead to a wider war with Russia.

In the meeting, Putin also attacked the sanctions[https://www.forbes.com/sites/annakaplan/2022/03/03/us-sanctions-7-russian-oligarchs-and-kremlin-press-secretary-peskov/] countries have imposed on Russia in retaliation for invading Ukraine, describing[https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/75630/] them as “like the declaration of war.”

— Anna Kaplan

March 5, 2022 9:06 AM EST

Temporary Ceasefire Collapses As Ukrainian Officials Say Russian Shelling Continues

Ukrainian officials said Russia had violated the terms of a temporary ceasefire agreement Saturday between the two countries to allow civilians to escape the fighting in two southern cities, Volnovakha and Mariupol. Iryna Vereshchuk, deputy prime minister, said in a video posted on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/100005295963148/videos/271886048436286/] that Russian forces began shelling Volnovakha around 11:45 a.m., CNBC[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/05/russian-state-media-declares-ceasefire-in-ukraine.html] and CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-05-22/h_a4e690df26ee2fc0d5fd0e078731cb1f] report.

“I hereby state that Russia has violated [the ceasefire] agreement, failed to fulfill its duty and shells the town of Volnovakha,” Vereshchuk said, according to a translation from NBC News[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/ukraine-russia-war-updates-temporary-cease-fire-mariupol-russia-says-rcna18831]. “Moreover, there has been fighting in the direction between Mariupol and Zaporizhia.”

Authorities also postponed evacuations from Mariupol to Zaporizhzhya around 12:45 p.m. due to attacks along the route, Pavlo Kyrylenko, governor of the eastern Donetsk region, said[https://twitter.com/Pavlo_Kyrylenko/status/1500061621330362374] in a tweet.

Oleg Nikolenko, a spokesperson for the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said in a tweet[https://twitter.com/OlegNikolenko_/status/1500103111435763713] the “ongoing Russian bombardment makes it impossible to open humanitarian corridors for safe evacuation of civilians.” “We call on Moscow to order Russian troops to cease fire immediately,” Nikolenko said.

Earlier on Saturday, Russia and Ukraine agreed to a temporary ceasefire so that civilians could evacuate through humanitarian corridors from the two cities. Mariupol has faced heavy bombardment this week, leading to supply shortages and utility outages. Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boychenko wrote[https://m.facebook.com/1547688482223955/posts/3178884925770961] in a Facebook post earlier this week Russian troops “deliberately destroyed” the city’s infrastructure, and that the city is working to restore heat, water and light for residents.

— Anna Kaplan

March 5, 2022 2:03 AM EST

Russia Declares 'Ceasefire' In 2 Southern Ukrainian Cities—And Will Open 'Humanitarian Corridors'

Russia declared a temporary “ceasefire” early Saturday so civilians in the Ukrainian cities of Mariupol and Volnovakha can evacuate through “humanitarian corridors,” the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/04/world/russia-ukraine?name=styln-russia-ukraine®ion=TOP_BANNER&block=storyline_menu_recirc&action=click&pgtype=LegacyCollection&variant=1_BlueLink&is_new=false] and Russian news agency Interfax[https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/75561/] reported, citing a statement from the Russian Ministry of Defense.

Mykhailo Podolyak, an advisor to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, tweeted[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1500012357099171843] Saturday morning “humanitarian evacuation corridors are being prepared for opening” in Mariupol[https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/03/04/ukraine-russia-siege-tactics-mariupol/] and Volnovakha[https://www.theguardian.com/world/video/2022/mar/04/footage-shows-devastated-town-of-volnovakha-ukraine-video], two southeastern Ukrainian cities that have seen intense fighting in recent days. He said “the parties temporarily ceased fire in the area of ​​the corridors.”

Russia’s statement claimed the ceasefire will begin at 10 a.m. Moscow time, but didn’t specify how extensive or long-lasting it will be.

On Thursday, delegations from Russia and Ukraine tentatively agreed to open “humanitarian corridors” in certain cities. Podolyak told CNN on Friday these corridors—which could be used to evacuate residents of besieged cities and replenish food and medical supplies—will likely be temporary.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 11:13 PM EST

Singapore Unveils Rare Slate Of Sanctions Against Russian Banks And Tech Imports

Singapore will restrict military and high-tech exports to Russia and sanction four Russian banks, including VTB, the Singaporean government announced[https://www.mfa.gov.sg/Newsroom/Press-Statements-Transcripts-and-Photos/2022/03/20220305-sanctions] Saturday morning, an unusual move for a country that normally doesn’t impose sanctions on its own. Singapore is also prohibiting financial institutions from helping Russia’s Central Bank or the Russian government raise funds, and barring the use of cryptocurrency to evade sanctions.

Officials in Singapore first indicated[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/02/28/singapore-to-impose-sanctions-on-russia-including-bank-transactions.html] they will roll out sanctions against Russia on Monday. Singapore usually does not enforce sanctions against foreign countries unless they are approved by the United Nations Security Council, Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/singapore-impose-appropriate-sanctions-restrictions-russia-2022-02-28/] and Bloomberg[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-02-28/singapore-to-sanction-russia-in-almost-unprecedented-move] noted earlier this week. But the government has argued Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is uniquely worrisome because, as a tiny island nation, Singapore views respecting borders as sacrosanct.

“While we continue to value good relations with Russia and the Russian people, we cannot accept the Russian government’s violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of another sovereign state. For a small state like Singapore, this is not a theoretical principle, but a dangerous precedent,” the government said in a statement Saturday.

Dozens of other countries have enacted financial penalties similar to Singapore’s. The United States and United Kingdom sanctioned[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/02/24/biden-announces-new-sanctions-on-russian-banks-and-tech-imports-following-ukraine-invasion/?sh=418464da5d8a] VTB—Russia’s second-largest bank—last week, and U.S., U.K. and European Union leaders plan to halt some technology exports to Russia.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 11:12 PM EST

Russia Reportedly Planning To Send 1,000 Additional Mercenaries Into Ukraine

Russia plans to send as many as 1,000 additional private mercenaries to Ukraine over the next few weeks, CNN reported Friday[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/04/world/russia-mercenaries-ukraine/index.html?utm_medium=social&utm_term=link&utm_source=twcnnbrk&utm_content=2022-03-05T02%3A58%3A55], citing an unnamed U.S. official—joining a corps of Russian mercenaries who are widely suspected[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/23/world/europe/russian-mercenaries-are-filtering-into-the-separatist-held-region-of-ukraine-european-officials-say.html] to have already entered Ukraine.

CNN reports the 1,000 extra mercenaries could work alongside the Russian military’s ground troops, who have faced morale problems amid resistance from Ukraine, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters earlier this week.

Before Russia invaded Ukraine last week, the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/23/world/europe/russian-ukraine-mercenaries.html] reported mercenaries from Russia’s secretive Wagner military contracting firm—known for its purported work in Syria[https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/24/world/middleeast/american-commandos-russian-mercenaries-syria.html] and Africa[https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/27/world/asia/russia-mercenaries-central-african-republic.html] —had quietly entered separatist-run parts of eastern Ukraine. A senior U.S. defense official said Monday the Pentagon has seen “some indications” the Wagner group is present in Ukraine, but it’s unclear how many operatives are in the country.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 10:03 PM EST

Zelensky Advisor: Ukraine Working To Create 'Humanitarian Corridors'—But Trusting Russia Could Be Difficult

One day after Ukraine and Russia tentatively agreed[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesstaffreports/2022/03/04/live-ukraine-russia/?sh=12e5aaf01519] to create “humanitarian corridors” to access besieged Ukrainian cities, an advisor to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told CNN Friday evening “the work on the logistics is now in progress” to set up temporary routes to evacuate civilians and resupply certain cities with food and medicine.

Zelensky’s advisor Mykhailo Podolyak told CNN Russia hasn’t agreed to create permanent humanitarian corridors, but Ukraine hopes to establish temporary routes that could be free of fighting for several hours at a time.

Podolyak also acknowledged it will be difficult to trust Russia’s military to respect ceasefires near agreed-upon corridors because “its current tactics [are] aimed at spreading panic among people.” Russia has ramped up bombardments of cities like Kyiv and Kharkiv in recent days, destroying apartment complexes and endangering civilians. He suggested international organizations could act as mediators to monitor the status of any humanitarian corridors.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 8:06 PM EST

Samsung Is Latest Tech Company To Cut Off Exports To Russia

Samsung Electronics is halting shipments to Russia, the tech company told Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/technology/samsung-elec-says-shipments-russia-suspended-donating-6-mln-aid-2022-03-04/] and Bloomberg[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-04/samsung-suspends-shipments-of-phones-chips-to-russia?srnd=premium-europe] Friday, joining a litany of companies that have stopped selling their products in the country since Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an invasion of Ukraine.

Forbes has reached out to Samsung for comment.

Several other companies have distanced themselves[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/04/microsoft-airbnb-google-heres-the-growing-list-of-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-invasion/?sh=45df33722cd8] from Russia in recent days. Apple paused product sales[https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-60579641] in Russia on Tuesday, Microsoft took similar action[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/03/04/horrified-microsoft-suspends-product-sales-and-services-in-russia-amid-ukraine-invasion/?sh=57407e757477] on Friday, and platforms like YouTube and Facebook have imposed restrictions on Russian state-controlled media outlets.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 7:01 PM EST

CNN Stops Broadcasting In Russia Amid Kremlin Media Crackdown

CNN will halt broadcasting in Russia, the cable network said Friday, making it the latest Western news outlet to scale back its presence in the country amid tightening government restrictions while it prosecutes an invasion of Ukraine.

A CNN spokesperson told Forbes the network “will stop broadcasting in Russia while we continue to evaluate the situation and our next steps moving forward.” A source at CNN said the outlet doesn’t plan on pulling its staff out of Russia.

The Russian government has sought to tightly control how media outlets report on the war with Ukraine, passing a law that threatens journalists with prison sentences of up to 15 years if they report what the Kremlin deems to be fake information about the invasion. Two of the country’s only remaining independent broadcasters left[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/03/world/europe/russia-ukraine-propaganda-censorship.html] the airwaves[https://www.niemanlab.org/2022/03/russia-blocks-tv-rain-its-last-independent-tv-channel-and-tv-rain-airs-its-last-broadcast/] earlier this week amid pressure[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/02/media/journalism-crackdown-russia/index.html] from Russian authorities. Earlier Friday, access to Facebook[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesstaffreports/2022/03/04/live-ukraine-russia/?sh=68304b321519] and the BBC’s website was blocked, and the BBC said[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60617365] it would suspend local reporting in Russia.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 6:52 PM EST

Zelensky Excoriates NATO For Rejecting No-Fly Zone Over Ukraine

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said NATO “gave the green light for further bombing of Ukrainian cities and villages” by refusing to implement a no-fly zone over his country, in a speech late Friday night translated by Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/business/aerospace-defense/nato-meets-ukraine-calls-no-fly-zone-hinder-russia-2022-03-04/]. Zelensky also called a summit of NATO countries earlier Friday “weak” and “confused,” pushing the alliance to take further action[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/index.html].

As Russia escalates its bombardment of Ukrainian cities, Zelensky has repeatedly urged Western leaders to force Russian warplanes to stay out of Ukraine’s airspace. The United States and its allies have categorically[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-3rd-2022/] rejected[https://twitter.com/PentagonPresSec/status/1498450940512382980] the idea[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/04/politics/blinken-stoltenberg-no-fly-zone-warning/index.html] and warned enforcing a no-fly zone would require Western militaries to confront and shoot down Russian aircraft, leading to the risk of a broader war between nuclear-armed powers. NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Friday[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/news_192795.htm] “we have a responsibility to ensure [the war] does not escalate and spread beyond Ukraine. That would be even more devastating and dangerous.”

Beyond the risks[https://warontherocks.com/2022/03/the-dangerous-allure-of-the-no-fly-zone/], some military experts argue[https://warontherocks.com/2022/03/the-dangerous-allure-of-the-no-fly-zone/] a no-fly zone’s impact on the war in Ukraine could be fairly muted, since most Ukrainian civilian deaths so far appear to have been caused by artillery fire and missile strikes rather than attacks from aircraft.

“Contrary to what so many in the commentariat seem to believe, a no-fly zone is not a military half-measure. It is a combat operation designed to deprive the enemy of its airpower, and it involves direct and sustained fighting,” the national security website War on the Rocks wrote.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 5:49 PM EST

White House ‘Looking At Options’ To Limit Russian Oil—But Blinken Finds ‘No Strategic Interest’ In Supply Cuts

The federal government is considering ways to reduce U.S. imports of Russian oil, Council of Economic Advisors Chair Cecilia Rouse said Friday, though the Biden Administration still appears hesitant to pursue a strategy that could cause prices to spike even higher.

Rouse said during a White House press briefing “we are looking at options that we can take right now if we were to cut the U.S. consumption of Russian energy, but what’s really most important is that we maintain a steady supply of global energy.”

However, Secretary of State Antony Blinken pushed back on the idea of restricting Russian oil Friday, telling reporters “there’s no strategic interest in reducing the global supply of energy.” He didn’t rule out the idea, but warned sanctions against Russian energy exports—a key part of Russia’s economy—could add fuel to the fire of the recent sharp rise in oil prices, an argument the Biden Administration has often articulated this week.

Earlier Friday, Bloomberg reported[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-04/white-house-considering-ban-on-russian-oil-imports-to-u-s] the Biden Administration has discussed the possibility of a ban on Russian oil with both federal staffers and the petroleum industry, citing unnamed sources. But oil is fungible, and Bloomberg reports the administration is concerned any Russian crude oil that the United States stops importing may just go to other countries, causing U.S. prices to increase without any tangible impact on Russia’s bottom line.

Last year, the United States imported around 72.6 million[https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/LeafHandler.ashx?n=PET&s=MCRIM_NUS-NRS_1&f=M] barrels of Russian crude oil, according to the U.S. Department of Energy’s statistics, a small fraction of the roughly 2.2 billion[https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/LeafHandler.ashx?n=PET&s=MCRIMUS1&f=M] barrels of crude oil imported into the U.S. from all countries in the same year, with Canada, Mexico and Saudi Arabia ranking as the top foreign sources[https://www.eia.gov/petroleum/imports/companylevel/] of oil. (Russia accounted for about 20%[https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/LeafHandler.ashx?n=PET&s=MTXIM_NUS-NRS_1&f=M] of the 861 million[https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/LeafHandler.ashx?n=PET&s=MPEIMUS1&f=M] barrels of refined petroleum products the U.S. imported last year, but imports are small compared to domestic production.)

Even though sanctions from Western countries haven’t directly targeted oil imports, some of the other severe economic penalties imposed on Russia after it invaded Ukraine could disrupt the country’s energy sector. Russia has[https://www.marketwatch.com/story/why-russian-oil-cant-find-buyers-even-as-crude-nearly-touches-120-a-barrel-11646347974] reportedly[https://www.npr.org/2022/03/04/1084448619/russia-lowers-its-oil-prices-after-buyers-self-sanction] struggled[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/03/investing/russia-oil-sanctions-ukraine/index.html] to find buyers for its oil, as traders steer clear of the country to avoid violating financial industry sanctions.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 3:51 PM EST

About 100 People Believed Trapped In Rubble Of Destroyed Apartment Building Near Kyiv, CNN Reports

The Ukrainian State Emergency Service believes around 100 people are still trapped in the rubble of a heavily bombarded apartment building in an area north of Kyiv, but an official told CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/h_2dedc6db127c8e68f744ecd4c95720b8] rescue crews have been unable to reach them due to constant shelling from Russian forces.

Drone footage[https://www.bbc.com/news/av/world-europe-60608706] published Thursday showed large chunks of a multi-story apartment complex essentially leveled by shelling in Borodyanka just north of Kyiv, as Russian forces attempt to advance toward Ukraine's capital.

"We are ready to evacuate people as soon as there is an agreement on a 'green corridor,'" State Emergency Service spokesperson Viktoriya Ruban told CNN, appearing to refer to "humanitarian corridors" Russian and Ukrainian officials agreed to in principle during talks on Thursday.

The agreement appears to involve temporary ceasefires to evacuate survivors of besieged cities, though exact logistics have not been confirmed and no corridors have been set up yet.

March 4, 2022 3:13 PM EST

Russia Blocks Access To Facebook, Twitter

Russia blocked access to Facebook across the country Friday in what Russian regulators said was retaliation for the social media giant restricting access to Russian media, and soon after blocked Twitter as well, according to Interfax[https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/75547/]. Meta, Facebook’s parent company, restricted access to posts from state-sponsored media outlets like RT and Sputnik earlier this week, while Twitter took steps to limit the reach of tweets linking to Russian state-affiliated news sources.

Read more about the bans here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicholasreimann/2022/03/04/russia-bans-facebook-charging-it-with-discriminating-against-russian-media/?sh=66404ffe4116].

— Anna Kaplan

March 4, 2022 1:36 PM EST

U.S. Officials Say Russian Attack On Power Plant A ‘War Crime’ That Almost Caused ‘Nuclear Catastrophe’

U.S. ambassador to the U.N. Linda Thomas-Greenfield said[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/h_c98b4ad678b4c0a67060d81796e15057] Friday that Russia nearly caused a "nuclear catastrophe" during an overnight attack that sparked a fire in the administration building at Europe's largest nuclear power plant.

Thomas-Greenfield called Russia's decision to attack the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant "madness" that threatened the security of both Ukrainians and Russians if there had been a meltdown and release of radiation.

The State Department also condemned the attack in a statement to Forbes. “The intentional targeting of civilians or civilian objects, including nuclear power plants, is a war crime, and we are assessing the circumstances of this operation,” a State Department spokesperson said. “But — regardless of the legality — this action was the height of irresponsibility, and the Kremlin must cease operations around nuclear infrastructure.”

Russian forces now control the facility after intense fighting overnight. The fire has been put out and the International Atomic Energy Agency hasn't found any evidence radioactive material was released into the environment.

Ukrainian workers running the plant have reportedly[https://www.thedailybeast.com/zaporizhzhia-nuclear-staff-working-at-gunpoint-after-russian-seizure-of-plant-says-owner] been forced to remain on the job at gunpoint.

— Nicholas Reimann and Anna Kaplan

March 4, 2022 12:55 PM EST

State Department Tells U.S. Embassies In Europe Not To Retweet Kyiv Embassy’s ‘War Crime’ Tweet, Reports Say

The State Department sent a message Friday to U.S. embassies in Europe, asking for staffers not to retweet a tweet from the U.S. Embassy in Kyiv calling Russia’s attack on the Zaporizhzhya nuclear plant in Ukraine a “war crime,” NBC News[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/live-blog/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-nuclear-scare-power-plant-shelled-n1290843#ncrd1290884] and CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/h_e964009d3573fc564e6d3edcbe4c6679] report, citing an internal email.

“All – do not/not retweet Embassy Kyiv’s tweet on shelling of the facility being a possible war crime,” the message reportedly said. “If you have retweeted it – un-retweet it ASAP.”

The State Department did not comment on the email, but a spokesperson said in a statement to Forbes “the intentional targeting of civilians or civilian objects, including nuclear power plants, is a war crime,” and that the department is “assessing the circumstances” of the Russian operation.

NBC News reports[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/live-blog/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-nuclear-scare-power-plant-shelled-n1290843#ncrd1290884] the State Department also sent a memo to its public affairs offices in Europe asking them not to endorse the message of the tweet. The U.S. Embassy Kyiv’s tweet[https://twitter.com/USEmbassyKyiv/status/1499708231903547394] said the shelling takes Putin’s “reign of terror one step further,” and had not been taken down as of 2:15 p.m.

— Anna Kaplan

March 4, 2022 12:28 PM EST

UN Confirms 331 Civilian Deaths In Ukraine—But Real Number Likely To Be Much Higher

The United Nations said[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/media.aspx?IsMediaPage=true] it had counted 331 civilian deaths and 675 civilian injuries in Ukraine since Russia’s invasion as of Thursday, adding the real number was likely to be higher.

The UN’s toll includes 312 adult deaths and 19 child deaths, and 644 injured adults and 31 injured children. It said the figures “could rise considerably further” as Russian attacks were delaying the verification of Ukrainian casualties, including the alleged "hundreds of civilian casualties” in the Ukrainian government-controlled area of Donetsk. Volnovakha was heavily damaged Thursday by Russian forces that used airstrikes and artillery shelling to attack the city, according[https://www.forbes.com/sites/katyasoldak/2022/03/03/thursday-march-3-russias-war-on-ukraine-news-and-information-from-ukraine/?sh=5509e47e3b5f] to Forbes Ukraine.

Most civilian casualties were caused by[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/media.aspx?IsMediaPage=true] “explosive weapons with a wide impact area,” including shelling from heavy artillery, multi-launch rocket systems and missiles and airstrikes, the UN said.

The Ukrainian government puts the death toll far higher than the UN. Ukraine's emergency service said[https://www.reuters.com/world/more-than-2000-ukrainian-civilians-killed-during-russian-invasion-ukrainian-2022-03-02/] Wednesday more than 2,000 Ukrainian civilians had been killed since Russia’s invasion of the country last week.

–Lisa Kim

March 4, 2022 12:09 PM EST

Russian Forces Repelled From Mykolaiv In Southern Ukraine, Official Says

The Russian advance in southern Ukraine made its way to the city of Mykolaiv on Friday, but forces were pushed back from the city's center to its outskirts, according to regional governor Vitaliy Kim.

Kim said in a video message that most of the Russian machinery was "destroyed and kicked out of the city," according to a translation tweeted by former Ukrainian diplomat Olexander Scherba.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/olex_scherba/status/1499775219732561921&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

A U.S. official told reporters at a Pentagon press briefing Friday American intelligence had observed fighting near Mykolaiv.

Russian forces appear to be having the most success taking the southern portion of Ukraine, which is the site of Kherson, the largest Ukrainian city to fall so far in the war. Mariupol in southeastern Ukraine is reportedly without access to power or water amid a Russian siege. Capturing Mariupol would create a landbridge connecting Russian forces in Crimea to the Donbass region in eastern Ukraine.

Odessa, a major Black Sea port in southwestern Ukraine and the country’s third-largest city, remains under Ukrainian control.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 4, 2022 12:09 PM EST

Russian Forces Remain Stalled Outside Kyiv As ‘Vast Majority’ Of $350 Million U.S. Aid Package Reaches Ukraine

Russian troops remain about 15 miles north of Ukraine’s capital city of Kyiv, as Ukrainian attacks combined with a destroyed bridge have slowed their advance, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Friday. “We certainly believe that the Ukrainians blowing up that bridge absolutely had an effect on stopping and curtailing the movement of that convoy,” the official said. “But we also believe that they have hit the convoy at other places as well in direct attacks.”

Another senior U.S. defense official said about $240 million worth of aid from a $350 million U.S. security assistance package approved last week has been delivered to Ukraine, and the rest should arrive within the next few weeks. It’s the largest presidential drawdown package in history, according to the State Department, and it contains equipment Ukrainian forces have already been trained on. A total of 14 countries have provided security assistance to Ukraine since the invasion began, according to the official, who declined to specify the countries by name.

Among other updates:

* The Pentagon has “no reason to doubt” claims that Russia has taken control of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, according to the official, after Russian shelling sparked a fire near the plant overnight, which the first official described as “recklessness.”

* There is no evidence of radioactive leakage from the facility, all of the fires are out and the U.S. Department of Energy is monitoring the situation.

* Russian forces remain about 6 miles outside of the cities of Chernihiv and Kharkiv, though due to the urban sprawl of Kharkiv, the distance “equates to really being on the outskirts of the city.”

* The U.S. sees Russian forces having more success in the south, and is not disputing reports that Russia has taken Kherson, though there have been clashes and conflicts near the city.

* Mairupol remains under Ukrainian control, though the city is under heavy bombardment and Russian troops are continuing to advance, leading to utility outages and supply issues.

* There is also fighting near the city of Mykolaiv, northwest of Kherson.

* About 92% of Russian forces assembled for the invasion have entered Ukraine, up from 90% on Thursday.

* More than 500 Russian missiles have been launched since the invasion began, up from about 480 on Thursday.

* The airspace over Ukraine remains contested – “a significant majority” of Ukraine’s aircraft remain available, the official said, and Ukrainian air and missile defenses remain effective.

— Anna Kaplan

March 4, 2022 10:58 AM EST

Historically Neutral Switzerland Announces New Sanctions Against Russia

The Swiss government on Friday announced[https://www.admin.ch/gov/en/start/documentation/media-releases.msg-id-87474.html] a new round of sanctions targeting Russia, including banning all transactions involving the Russian Central Bank.

The sanctions mainly impact Russia's ability to secure financing and conduct international trade, such as suspending the use of public financing for investments in Russia and prohibiting the export of goods for use in Russia's oil and aerospace industries.

Switzerland took up the sanctions in line with penalties already approved by the European Union, including freezing the assets of dozens of Russian oligarchs[https://www.politico.eu/article/eu-sanctions-major-russia-oligarchs-rosneft-transneft/] with ties to Vladimir Putin.

The country on Tuesday closed its airspace to Russian flights as part of an earlier round[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/01/business/switzerland-sanction-russia-freeze-assets-intl-hnk/index.html] of sanctions.

The Swiss government said in a statement it believes the sanctions are "compatible with Switzerland’s neutrality" while "due consideration is being given to humanitarian activities."

— Nicholas Reimann

March 4, 2022 10:28 AM EST

UN Security Council Calls Emergency Meeting After Attack On Nuclear Plant

The United Nations Security Council plans to hold an emergency meeting at 11:30 a.m. Friday in New York to discuss the Russian attack on the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, the largest nuclear power facility in Europe, according to multiple reports[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/h_b1123e014936c1d0ed16e82d5c4d38c2].

Russian forces have seized the plant after a battle with Ukrainians early Friday morning that included shelling, which caused a fire at one of the facility's buildings and prompted concerns the attack would lead to a catastrophic nuclear meltdown.

Fighting at the plant has since subsided and the International Atomic Energy Agency reported there was "no release" of radioactive material from the facility.

The U.S. Embassy in Ukraine tweeted Friday that Russia's attack on the plant constituted a "war crime."

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/usembassykyiv/status/1499708231903547394&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 4, 2022 9:40 AM EST

Russia Says 'No Talk' Of Formalizing Agreement For Temporary Ceasefires

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/h_38eaae7c5164d9ae2edf5508639faa32] Friday Russia has no plans at this point to sign any documents formalizing a tentative agreement that appeared to allow for temporary, localized ceasefires in Ukraine.

Ukrainian presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak tweeted Thursday that a second round of talks between Russian and Ukrainian officials yielded a "solution" to create "humanitarian corridors" allowing survivors the chance to safely evacuate from besieged cities through temporary ceasefires.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/podolyak_m/status/1499440266591232004&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

The agreement marked the first progress made so far in two rounds of negotiations between Russian and Ukrainian officials since the start of the war, but there wasn't any headway made on Ukraine's top two goals: a nationwide ceasefire and armistice.

Formal documents could provide more certainty to the tentative agreement made Thursday, though Russia has put little value in existing international agreements since invading its neighbor last week, and the nation is now under investigation[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-60597751] by the International Criminal Court for potential war crimes over shelling civilian targets.

Russian officials did acknowledge Thursday's agreement was very important, according to pool reports, and plans have been made for a third round of talks.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 4, 2022 9:30 AM EST

NATO Rejects Creating A No-Fly Zone Over Ukraine To Avoid Direct Conflict With Russia

NATO foreign ministers rejected the idea of establishing a no-fly zone over Ukraine on the grounds it would cause the war to spread beyond that country, the alliance’s secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg said[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gbGtUHyhSB4] at a press conference Friday,

“We are not part of this conflict,” Stoltenberg said, “and we have a responsibility to ensure it does not escalate and spread beyond Ukraine.”

Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte said[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/calls-nato-no-fly-zone-ukraine-irresponsible-lithuania-pm-says-2022-03-04/] Friday any demands for the alliance to implement a no-fly zone are “irresponsible” as it would require the alliance getting involved in military conflict.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has repeatedly[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-03-22/h_d51cf8cc136ccdce044815f8050366a8] urged the alliance to create a no-fly zone over the country as Russia escalates bombardment of major cities in Ukraine.

The U.S. has previously ruled out enacting a no-fly zone. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-3rd-2022/] Thursday at a press briefing that it “would require, essentially, the U.S. military shooting down Russian planes and causing a — prompting a potential direct war with Russia, something — the exact step that we want to avoid.”

— Lisa Kim

March 4, 2022 8:34 AM EST

'Worse Days' Likely To Come For Ukraine, NATO Chief Warns

Speaking at a meeting of NATO foreign ministers in Brussels Friday, NATO secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said[https://twitter.com/BBCWorld/status/1499730727541354498?s=20&t=G3jOjXPPEVXMMI7ihkOflw] things are likely to get worse for Ukraine in the near future, with Russian forces expected to bring in “heavier weaponry” as they continue attacks across the country. “The days to come are likely to be worse, with more death, more sufferings, and more destruction,” he said.

"We have seen the use of cluster bombs and we have seen reports of use of other types of weapons which would be in violation of international law," Stoltenberg said. Cluster bombs are widely condemned[https://www.hrw.org/news/2016/09/08/nations-condemn-use-cluster-bombs] in the international community due to the risk of civilian casualties in densely populated areas. Stoltenberg called on the International Criminal Court to make a decision to open an investigation into the use of these types of weapons in Ukraine.

Stoltenberg described the conflict as the “worst military aggression in Europe for decades” and called[https://news.sky.com/story/ukraine-russia-war-latest-news-putin-kherson-kyiv-kharkiv-invasion-live-updates-12541713] on Russian President Vladimir Putin to “stop this war immediately.” The chief reiterated that NATO is “not part” of the conflict but is committed to defending itself and ensuring hostilities do not spread beyond Ukraine. Stoltenberg said the alliance’s relationship with Russia has been “fundamentally changed” in the long-term as a result of the invasion.

– Robert Hart

March 4, 2022 8:13 AM EST

U.S. Accuses Russia Of War Crime After Attack On Nuclear Power Plant

Russia’s attack on Europe’s largest nuclear power plant in Ukraine is a “war crime,” the U.S. embassy in Kyiv said[https://twitter.com/USEmbassyKyiv/status/1499708231903547394?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1499708231903547394%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cnn.com%2Feurope%2Flive-news%2Fukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22%2Findex.html] on Friday. “It is a war crime to attack a nuclear power plant,” the embassy tweeted, after Russian forces reportedly seized control of the Zaporizhzhia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/04/zaporizhzhia-nuclear-power-plant-everything-you-need-to-know] power plant.

The embassy added: “Putin's shelling of Europe's largest nuclear plant takes his reign of terror one step further” and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky accused[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/04/russia-ukraine-nuclear-plant-fire-radiation-zaporizhzhia/] Russia of nuclear terrorism. In addition to Zaporizhzhia, Russia has also seized the Chernobyl site.

The accusation by a U.S. entity goes a step further than previous criticisms of Russian aggression in Ukraine, which have alluded to, but stopped short[https://edition.cnn.com/2022/03/02/politics/biden-ukraine/index.html] of, explicit accusations of war crimes. Russia has been accused of using prohibited weapons like vacuum bombs and cluster munitions in Ukraine and of intentionally targeting civilians.

A fire broke out at the plant overnight Friday when a Russian projectile hit the complex, sparking fears of a nuclear incident and international condemnation. Three Ukrainian troops were killed and two security staff at the plant injured, according to Ukraine’s state nuclear company and the UN’s nuclear watchdog, which said the projectile did not hit a reactor and no radioactive material had been released. However, the situation “remains very challenging,” said International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) chief Rafael Grossi.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/usembassykyiv/status/1499708231903547394&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

– Robert Hart

March 4, 2022 7:02 AM EST

UN Human Rights Council Backs Probe Into Russian Invasion Of Ukraine

The United Nations Human Rights Council on Friday voted[https://www.jpost.com/international/article-699342] overwhelmingly to create[https://twitter.com/trussliz/status/1499704214129463297?s=20&t=kD1Q3ZAI6A31R0Ts9APfow] a high-level investigation into alleged human rights violations committed during Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Thirty-two out of the council’s 47 members backed the probe, which aims to hold responsible parties accountable if violations have occurred. Russia—which denies committing any human rights violations like targeting civilians in Ukraine—was one of two countries to vote against the investigation. Eritrea also voted against establishing the probe, and remaining countries including India, Kazakhstan, Sudan and Cuba, abstained. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky praised the decision and said “Russian war criminals will be held accountable.”

States are elected to serve three year terms on the UNHRC by members of the UN’s General Assembly. The council’s inclusion of countries accused of human rights violations is controversial and widely criticized by Western governments. Russia is no exception and rights groups pointed[https://www.themoscowtimes.com/2020/10/14/russia-returns-to-un-human-rights-council-after-4-year-absence-a71746] to alleged war crimes before it was reelected in 2020. Russia’s membership on the council has become another flashpoint following its invasion of Ukraine, where it has been accused of targeting civilians, nuclear facilities and using prohibited weapons including cluster munitions[https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-03-01/ukraine-ambassador-us-russia-used-vacuum-bomb-cluster-munitions/100870638] and vacuum[https://www.dw.com/en/is-russia-using-vacuum-bombs-in-ukraine/a-61001817] bombs.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/zelenskyyua/status/1499714107553030147&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

– Robert Hart

March 4, 2022 6:34 AM EST

More Russian Banks To Be Removed From SWIFT In New Round Of EU Sanctions, Irish Minister Says

Ireland’s foreign minister Simon Coveney said the next salvo of EU sanctions will take “more Russian banks” out of SWIFT[https://www.forbes.com/sites/alisondurkee/2022/02/24/what-is-swift-heres-how-this-banking-system-could-be-used-to-punish-russia-for-invading-ukraine/?sh=137507431108], a crucial part of the global financial system, according to RTE[https://www.rte.ie/news/2022/0304/1284332-ukraine-russia/]. Several Russian banks have already[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/02/26/us-and-allies-to-remove-some-russian-banks-from-swift-sanction-central-bank/?sh=1e0bf8ad165a] been cut off from SWIFT in earlier[https://www.reuters.com/business/finance/eu-excludes-seven-russian-banks-swift-official-journal-2022-03-02/] waves of sanctions and Coveney did not specify which banks are set to be barred.

Coveney said the bloc will be “significantly adding” to its sanctions on Russia today, which are about “isolating” the country on the international stage, and he expects it will ban imports like steel, timber, aluminum and potentially even coal, noting the latter could have an impact on already volatile fuel prices in Europe. Russian flagged ships will also likely be banned from entering EU ports, Coveney added.

"These are big decisions by the European Union that are going to have an impact on Ireland and EU countries,” Coveney said. “But they’re decisions that need to be taken to send very, very strong messages to Russia that this madness must stop."

– Robert Hart

March 4, 2022 5:58 AM EST

Attack On Ukrainian Nuclear Power Plant Demonstrates ‘Recklessness’ Of Putin’s War, NATO Chief Says

NATO Secretary General Jens Stontenberg on Friday condemned[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/opinions_192736.htm?selectedLocale=en] Russia’s “brutal” invasion of Ukraine and its attacks on civilians. He said Russian attacks on the Zaporizhzhia in Ukraine “demonstrates the recklessness of this war and the importance of ending it.” However, Stoltenberg stressed that NATO “is not part of the conflict,” despite support to Ukraine and “unprecedented” sanctions against Russia. “We don't seek war, conflict with Russia…. NATO is a defensive alliance,” he said.

Speaking at the same press conference, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken stressed that while NATO does not seek conflict, it is “ready for it… if conflict comes to us.” U.S. and European allies are set for a day of talks on Saturday.

– Robert Hart

March 4, 2022 5:17 AM EST

IAEA Says ‘No Release’ Of Radioactive Material After Attack On Europe’s Largest Nuclear Plant

Attacks on Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant have not damaged any of the site’s six nuclear reactors and there has been no release of radioactive material, said International Atomic Energy Agency head Rafael Grossi at a press conference Friday. Five of the plant’s reactors are offline, Grossi added, with the remaining reactor operating at 60% capacity. Safety systems were “not affected at all” in the attack, which hit an “adjacent” building. Two security personnel died in the attack, Grossi said.

Grossi added the situation is “fragile” and “unstable,” and offered to personally travel to Chernobyl, which is under the control[https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-60514228] of Russian forces, in order to speak with Russia and Ukraine. The agency head stressed the initiative is about ensuring the safety of nuclear operations and has “nothing to do” with the political situation between Russia and Ukraine as this is beyond the IAEA’s remit. “I am not a self-appointed mediator.”

– Robert Hart

March 4, 2022 3:56 AM EST

BBC, Radio Liberty Restricted In Russia

Russia’s censorship of the war intensified Friday after the country’s communications regulator blocked access to the BBC’s local website and Radio Liberty.

According to GlobalCheck, which tracks site outages and availability, Twitter and Facebook were also restricted in Russia as of Friday morning, while Radio Liberty reports[https://www.rferl.org/a/russia-rferl-bbc-facebook-google-twitter-blocked/31735597.html] that Google’s Play Store and Apple’s App Store were also blocked.

The move comes a week after Russia partially blocked[https://rkn.gov.ru/news/rsoc/news74108.htm] access to Facebook, citing a violation of “the rights and freedoms of Russian citizens” and accusing the platform of “censorship.”

Russia’s domestic coverage of the war is largely sanitized and independent broadcasters[https://eeas.europa.eu/headquarters/headquarters-homepage/112128/russia-statement-high-representative-josep-borrell-media-censorship-and-crackdown-peaceful_en] have been taken off air[https://theintercept.com/2022/03/02/russian-tv-ukraine-war-conspiracy/] over the past week.

Russian state-backed channel RT came off air in the U.K. and EU Thursday and CNN reported the channel’s U.S. arm was shutting down[https://edition.cnn.com/2022/03/03/media/rt-america-layoffs/index.html] the same day.

– Isabel Togoh

March 4, 2022 3:09 AM EST

Stocks In Asia, Europe Drop

Stocks in Asia slid Friday and in pre-market trading in Europe as investors react to the ongoing impact of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index and Tokyo’s Nikkei were down more than 2%, while stocks in Shanghai fell almost 1%.

The drop comes after a blaze broke out at Europe’s largest nuclear plant in Zaporizhzhia, southeastern Ukraine, following shelling by Russian forces, but was later extinguished and no deaths were reported.

Benchmarks in London and across Europe were down around 2% in pre-market trading.

Moscow’s stock exchange will remain closed[https://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/russia-ukraine-latest-news-2022-03-04/card/russia-holds-off-again-on-reopening-stock-market-FMAptR8yuRRluLx6fVVI] for a fifth day Friday. On Thursday, the Kremlin admitted[https://edition.cnn.com/2022/03/02/business/russia-markets-economy-sberbank/index.html] that Russia’s economy was “experiencing serious blows” amid the impact of Western sanctions and as dozens of multinational firms pull out or halt operations in the country. Regulators in the U.S. along with the London Stock Exchange also halted trading with dozens of firms linked to Russia this week.

– Isabel Togoh

March 4, 2022 12:09 AM EST

Fire Extinguished at Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Plant, Ukraine Says

Emergency personnel have extinguished a fire that broke out at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant early Friday morning, with no casualties reported, the State Emergency Service of Ukraine announced on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/MNS.GOV.UA/posts/325786002922629?__cft__[0]=AZWDfNuXdl2M8oAkjdyHxmPhvmxwmRsffp6WQYh-vXZFd0NcLFMO9pHDpFHICjRztk5nQ-wKxly-PIeyniwxvSq7U_ShWIqGfqQpyzyS-w2ix5SOEQyNc10Mmt3BgA0g2moJcAZ-B5B0tVkCaWzLb6-r&__tn__=%2CO%2CP-R].

The fire was in a training building at the Zaporizhzhia plant, which is Ukraine’s largest nuclear power station. Ukrainian regulators told the International Atomic Energy Agency earlier Friday that radiation levels haven’t increased and the fire did not endanger[https://twitter.com/iaeaorg/status/1499571709774422017?s=20&t=DR8ttPmCkoza5udFQc4YwA] any “essential” equipment.

The fire broke out after Russian forces began approaching the plant, with heavy fighting reported in a town just miles away from the facility. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Russia’s military[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1499543775240196099] was “firing from all sides upon Zaporizhzhia.” The nuclear plant is located along the Dnieper River in the country’s south, which has faced an onslaught of invading Russian forces in recent days.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 12:06 AM EST

Airbnb Halts Operations In Russia

Short-term apartment rental service Airbnb is “suspending all operations” in Russia and allied nation Belarus, CEO Brian Chesky tweeted[https://twitter.com/bchesky/status/1499596215389863939?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet] Thursday, the latest company to pull out of the Russian market.

Airbnb has halted all new bookings in both countries, and will prevent users in Russia and Belarus from making reservations, the company told Forbes in a statement.

Chesky has been outspoken about the humanitarian crisis caused by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, offering[https://twitter.com/bchesky/status/1498214180674965504] earlier this week to house as many as 100,000 Ukrainian refugees free of charge. More than 1 million people fled Ukraine in the first week of Russia’s invasion, according to the United Nations.

Several other Western companies have distanced themselves from Russia over the last week, including petroleum giants BP and Shell. For more details on corporate responses to Russia’s invasion, click here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/03/ikea-spotify-and-hm-heres-the-growing-list-of-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-invasion/?sh=1ec136ec2880].

— Joe Walsh

March 3, 2022 11:42 PM EST

U.K. Calls For UN Security Council Meeting Over Ukrainian Nuclear Plant Fire

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will ask for an emergency United Nations Security Council meeting “in the coming hours,” after a fire broke out at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant amid heavy Russian fighting early Friday morning, Johnson’s office said[https://twitter.com/10DowningStreet/status/1499578323692834822?s=20&t=IcrWw3wRjPNTD-gxmUsGrw].

Johnson says he spoke[https://twitter.com/10DowningStreet/status/1499578323692834822?s=20&t=IcrWw3wRjPNTD-gxmUsGrw] with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy about the “gravely concerning situation” at the power plant, and called on Russia to cease all attacks near the facility, echoing a similar message from U.S. President Joe Biden. The International Atomic Energy Agency says radiation levels haven’t increased since the fire began, citing Ukraine’s nuclear regulator, but warned fighting near the plant is extremely dangerous.

The UN Security Council has met to discuss Ukraine several times[https://www.un.org/press/en/2022/sc14809.doc.htm] in recent weeks, but Russia is one of five Security Council members with the ability to veto resolutions, which limits the body’s ability to respond definitively to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Last week, a resolution calling for an end to the war failed[https://www.un.org/press/en/2022/sc14808.doc.htm] after Russia wielded its veto power.

— Joe Walsh

March 3, 2022 9:33 PM EST

Biden Urges Russia To Stop Fighting Near Ukrainian Nuclear Plant After Fire Breaks Out

U.S. President Joe Biden spoke on the phone with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy late Thursday night, as a fire broke out at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant. In a readout, the White House said Biden “joined President Zelenskyy in urging Russia to cease its military activities in the area and allow firefighters and emergency responders to access the site.”

The fire began after Russian troops started fighting in a town just miles away from the Zaporizhzhia plant. The International Atomic Energy Agency said on Twitter that Ukraine’s nuclear regulator has reported “no change” in radiation levels, and the fire hasn’t impacted critical plant equipment, but an attack on one of the plant’s reactors could lead to “severe danger.”

U.S. Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm tweeted that[https://twitter.com/SecGranholm/status/1499577622417666048] American officials also haven’t observed elevated radiation levels, noting the Zaporizhzhia plant’s reactors are surrounded by “robust containment structures.”

— Joe Walsh

March 3, 2022 9:09 PM EST

‘No Change’ In Radiation Levels After Fire Breaks Out At Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Plant, Ukraine Says

Ukraine’s nuclear regulator has observed “no change” in radiation levels after a fire broke out early Friday at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, the International Atomic Energy Agency tweeted[https://twitter.com/iaeaorg/status/1499562515340177416]. The fire also hasn’t impacted “essential” equipment, Ukrainian officials told the IAEA.

The fire at Zaporizhzhia—the largest nuclear plant in Ukraine—was reported after Russian troops began fighting in the nearby town of Energodar. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1499543775240196099] Russia is “firing from all sides upon Zaporizhzhia.”

The IAEA warned of[https://twitter.com/iaeaorg/status/1499557251627069450?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet] “severe danger” if one of Zaporizhzhia’s nuclear reactors is hit, and called for an end to the use of force near the plant.

— Joe Walsh

March 3, 2022 8:03 PM EST

Fire Reported At Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Plant As Russian Troops Approach

A fire has broken out at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant—Ukraine’s largest nuclear plant—amid intense fighting with nearby Russian forces, local and national officials said early Friday morning.

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1499543775240196099] Russia is “firing from all sides upon Zaporizhzhia,” causing a fire to start, and Dmytro Orlov—the mayor of nearby Energodar—confirmed the fire on social media, according to Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/markets/europe/top-wrap-1-europes-largest-nuclear-power-plant-fire-after-russian-attack-mayor-2022-03-04/]. Orlov and Kuleba didn’t offer further details on the extent of the fire.

Russian ground troops are fighting within several kilometers of the nuclear plant and are “moving directly towards” the site, Ukraine’s nuclear regulator told the International Atomic Energy Agency, a situation Ukrainian officials called “critical.” The IAEA said in a press release[https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/pressreleases/update-9-iaea-director-general-statement-on-the-situation-in-ukraine] the Russian military “broke through the block-post” outside the town of Energodar, and fighting is now ongoing in the town and on the road to the nuclear plant. On Wednesday, a crowd of civilians[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/03/zaporizhzhia-nuclear-plant-blockade-drone-video/] had blocked Russian troops from entering Energodar.

The Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant is the second-largest nuclear plant[https://www.forbes.com/sites/craighooper/2022/03/03/russia-about-to-take-6-nuclear-reactors-no-plan-to-safely-operate-them/?sh=33e3423164ac] in Europe, and one of the 10 largest in the world, with six pressurized water reactors. Last week, Russian forces also captured Chernobyl, the site of a massive nuclear disaster in 1986.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/podolyak_m/status/1499557725742805000&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

March 3, 2022 6:08 PM EST

U.S. Offers Temporary Immigration Protections To Ukrainians Amid Russian War

The U.S. Department of Homeland Security will offer Temporary Protected Status to Ukrainians who entered the United States by March 1, allowing them to temporarily remain in the country without fear of deportation, DHS said Thursday[https://www.dhs.gov/news/2022/03/03/secretary-mayorkas-designates-ukraine-temporary-protected-status-18-months]. The move comes as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has forced more than 1 million Ukrainians to flee their home country.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has also paused deportation flights to Ukraine, a spokesperson for the agency told Forbes earlier Thursday.

Temporary Protected Status allows people from countries devastated by wars or natural disasters to temporarily live and work in the United States, even after their current U.S. visa expires. TPS for Ukraine will last 18 months, DHS said, though the Biden Administration has the power to extend it. The Migration Policy Institute, a think tank, has[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/28/world/europe/biden-ukraine-visas.html] reportedly[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-03-22/index.html] estimated[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/28/world/europe/biden-ukraine-visas.html] there are about 30,000 Ukrainians in the United States who are neither U.S. citizens or permanent residents, making them potentially eligible for Temporary Protected Status.

Deportations of Ukrainians are fairly unusual: ICE removed just 106 Ukrainian citizens from the United States in fiscal year 2020, a tiny share of the agency’s 185,884 total deportations[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2020/12/23/ice-deportations-and-arrests-plummeted-in-2020-heres-why/?sh=60fe79d026a7] that year. Some 125 Ukrainians were deported in 2019 and 105 were deported in 2018.

A dozen other countries racked by conflict or natural disaster are currently designated for Temporary Protected Status, including Haiti and Syria.

— Joe Walsh

March 3, 2022 5:46 PM EST

Kherson Days Away From Running Out Of Food, City Official Says

Kherson, the southern Ukraine city surrounded by Russian troops, is “maybe three, four days” away from running out of food and medicine, the secretary of the city council, Galina Luhova, told[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/03/russia-ukraine-war-putin-news/] the Washington Post Thursday.

“We’re running out of medicines, we’re out of baby food, we are running out of diapers, and we are running out of first aid in hospitals,” Luhova told the Post by telephone.

The city requires a humanitarian corridor to allow civilians to safely evacuate the war-torn region, she said. Earlier in the day Ukrainian and Russian negotiators reached a tentative agreement[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1499440266591232004?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1499440266591232004%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fembedly.forbes.com%2Fwidgets%2Fmedia.html%3Ftype%3Dtext2Fhtmlkey%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935schema%3Dtwitterurl%3Dhttps3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Fpodolyak_m%2Fstatus%2F1499440266591232004image%3Dhttps3A%2F%2Fi.embed.ly%2F1%2Fimage3Furl3Dhttps253A252F252Fabs.twimg.com252Ferrors252Flogo46x38.png26key3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935] to set up such corridors.

Another Kherson resident told[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-03-22/h_908c3139eb50f5ee8be88aa09b27c6f8] CNN earlier Thursday the city is low on insulin as pharmacies are being looted by Russian troops and others.

On Wednesday, the city’s mayor, Ihor Kolykhaiev, said the city had already fallen to the Russians, and that Russian soldiers aimed to establish a military government despite President Vladimir Putin’s claims that he had no intention of occupying Ukraine. Neither the Pentagon nor the Ukrainian Defense Ministry could could definitively confirm that the city was under Russian control as of Thursday morning.

March 3, 2022 4:57 PM EST

Kremlin-Controlled News Channel RT America Shuts Down

The American affiliate of Russian-government funded cable news network RT is suspending its operations and laying off most staff, CNN[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/03/media/rt-america-layoffs/index.html] and CNBC[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/03/russia-backed-cable-news-station-rt-america-shuts-down-amid-ukraine-invasion.html] reported Thursday, citing an internal memo from RT America’s production company T&R Productions.

RT Deputy Editor-in-Chief Anna Belkina said in a statement to Forbes the network is “sad and disappointed” that RT America is leaving the airwaves, citing “challenging external circumstances.”

RT has sought to build a U.S. audience for years, partnering with familiar American personalities like Larry King[https://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/19/business/media/moscow-joins-the-partisan-media-landscape-with-familiar-american-faces.html], William Shatner[https://www.nbcnews.com/pop-culture/celebrity/william-shatner-his-rt-show-billionaire-space-race-mortality-n1274683] and Ed Schultz[https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/obituaries/ed-schultz-blunt-spoken-political-talk-show-host-dies-at-64.html]. The network has faced criticism for pushing inaccurate pro-Kremlin narratives, particularly since Russia invaded Ukraine[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/02/media/rt-propaganda-network/index.html]. In the last week, DirecTV promised to[https://www.axios.com/directv-rt-america-russia-ukraine-ef196f77-1929-4d94-9c42-2fccc915f7ed.html] remove RT America from its channel lineup, YouTube prohibited[https://www.reuters.com/technology/youtube-blocks-rt-other-russian-channels-generating-revenue-2022-02-26/] RT from monetizing its content and the European Union banned RT outright[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/eu-bans-rt-sputnik-banned-over-ukraine-disinformation-2022-03-02/].

— Joe Walsh

March 3, 2022 4:56 PM EST

U.S. Pauses Deportations To Ukraine

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has “paused” deportation flights to Ukraine, an agency spokesperson told Forbes on Thursday, as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine imperils civilians and forces over 1 million Ukrainians to flee.

“ICE will continue to monitor the ongoing situation and make operational changes as necessary,” the spokesperson said.

ICE removed just 106 Ukrainian citizens from the United States in fiscal year 2020, compared to 125 in 2019 and 105 in 2018.

— Joe Walsh

March 3, 2022 3:49 PM EST

Macron Says 'Vital To Maintain Dialogue' Even As Putin Refuses To Stop War In Ukraine

French President Emmanuel Macron tweeted Thursday afternoon he remains "fully determined" to continue to talk with Vladimir Putin after the Russian president told him Thursday morning he has no intention of halting his military offensive in Ukraine.

"I will continue my efforts and contacts. We must avoid the worst," Macron tweeted, while saying Putin "refused to stop attacks in Ukraine."

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/emmanuelmacron/status/1499461403798917124&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

According to the Washington Post[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/03/macron-putin-call-ukraine/], citing a French official, Macron was convinced after the 90-minute phone call that Putin intends for Russia to take over all of Ukraine, believing "the worst is yet to come."

The Kremlin said[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/putin-tells-macron-russia-will-achieve-its-goals-ukraine-2022-03-03/] in a statement Thursday that Putin informed the French president that Russia would keep up the war until Ukraine is completely demilitarized and it is certain "a threat to the Russian Federation will never emanate from its territory."

— Nicholas Reimann

March 3, 2022 1:25 PM EST

Russia Agrees To Allow ‘Humanitarian Corridors’—But No National Ceasefire In Ukraine

Russian and Ukrainian officials have reached a tentative agreement allowing residents of cities besieged by Russian forces to evacuate via “humanitarian corridors,” according to a Ukrainian official, which could involve temporary, local ceasefires[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/03/russia-ukraine-war-putin-news/?utm_source=alert&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=wp_news_alert_revere&location=alert&wpmk=1&wpisrc=al_news__alert-world--alert-national&pwapi_token=eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJjb29raWVuYW1lIjoid3BfY3J0aWQiLCJpc3MiOiJDYXJ0YSIsImNvb2tpZXZhbHVlIjoiNWEwMzUwM2JhZTdlOGEyZDhmODNjNjJiIiwidGFnIjoid3BfbmV3c19hbGVydF9yZXZlcmUiLCJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3d3dy53YXNoaW5ndG9ucG9zdC5jb20vd29ybGQvMjAyMi8wMy8wMy9ydXNzaWEtdWtyYWluZS13YXItcHV0aW4tbmV3cy8_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1hbGVydCZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWlsJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj13cF9uZXdzX2FsZXJ0X3JldmVyZSZsb2NhdGlvbj1hbGVydCZ3cG1rPTEmd3Bpc3JjPWFsX25ld3NfX2FsZXJ0LXdvcmxkLS1hbGVydC1uYXRpb25hbCJ9.kZcD-YBIGzcGzG-fNFYQxfG7PjSceDY-Ro4IDXRm8hU].

Ukrainian presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak tweeted the tentative deal was made during a round of talks between Russian and Ukrainian officials on Thursday, though he added no agreement was made on Ukraine’s top priorities—a nationwide ceasefire and armistice.

“The results Ukraine needs are not yet achieved,” Podolyak tweeted.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/podolyak_m/status/1499440266591232004&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

Russian officials called the agreements very important, according to CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-03-22/index.html], citing pool reports from Moscow.

The two sides reportedly[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/03/ukraine-news-russia-war-vladimir-putin-biden-latest-live-updates-kherson-kyiv-kharkiv-refugees-russian-invasion?page=with:block-6220fc818f08c1dd5f65a31e#block-6220fc818f08c1dd5f65a31e] agreed there will be a third round of talks.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 3, 2022 12:40 PM EST

U.S. Says 90% Of Russian Forces Are Now In Ukraine As Troops Remain ‘Largely Stalled’ In The North

Russia has directed about 90% of the combat power it assembled for its invasion across the border and into Ukraine, a senior U.S. defense official said during a press briefing Thursday. Ukrainian cities to the north and east remain under heavy bombardment a week into the invasion, though Russian forces are “largely stalled” in northern Ukraine.

Here are additional updates from the senior defense official:

* More than 480 Russian missile launches have been fired since the war began, with the majority coming from inside Ukraine, followed by Russia (more than 160), Belarus (more than 70) and the Black Sea (less than 10).

* The Pentagon cannot independently verify reports[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/02/world/europe/kherson-ukraine-russia.html] that the city of Kherson is under Russian control, as both sides are “still fighting.”

* Russian forces are on the outskirts of Kyiv to the north and northwest, and the 40-mile[http://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesstaffreports/2022/03/01/live-russia-ukraine-invasion/] military convoy remains stalled.

* The senior defense official said Russian troops appear to be trying to get to Kyiv “every single day” and are facing strong Ukrainian resistance, along with supply issues, as they intend to encircle the city.

* None of the Russian forces outside of Kyiv are closer than 25 kilometers, or about 15 miles, from the city.

* There is increasing bombardment in Chernihiv and Kharkiv, and there are indications Russian troops are “just outside the city” in Kharkiv.

* Russian forces are advancing on Mariupol from the north and from the coastline “with the apparent intention to isolate the city.”

* The airspace over Ukraine remains “contested,” and Ukrainian air defenses remain intact and effective.

— Anna Kaplan

March 3, 2022 12:32 PM EST

Russia Reportedly Considering Public Executions To Break Ukrainian Morale

Russia has drafted plans to crush the morale of the Ukrainian people in captured cities that include imprisoning political opponents and potentially public executions, according to Bloomberg[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-03/russia-attacks-cities-as-war-enters-second-week-ukraine-update?srnd=premium-europe], which cites a European intelligence official.

Russian soldiers have faced stiff resistance from Ukrainian troops as well as civilians who have taken up arms. Civilians have also attempted to stop Russian advances through tactics[https://www.wsj.com/video/watch-ukrainian-protesters-face-down-russian-military-vehicles/AB2949D5-BC2E-43EE-9EE1-566EA83FECCA.html] like laying on the ground to block military vehicles.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 3, 2022 12:02 PM EST

Lukoil, Russia's Second-Biggest Company, Calls For Peace Talks

Russia's second-largest company has requested peace talks to end the war in Ukraine, according to multiple[https://twitter.com/AFP/status/1499410431726731271?s=20&t=lxD8hi76XxLlcFDvUwqQfQ] reports[https://www.barrons.com/news/russian-oil-giant-lukoil-calls-for-halt-to-ukraine-war-bur-har-01646322607?refsec=afp-news].

Lukoil, which is led by Russian billionaire Vagit Alekperov[https://www.forbes.com/profile/vagit-alekperov/?sh=32c30a883a74], joined the calls for peace Thursday after boycott[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/01/business/russia-lukoil-boycott/index.html] threats against its gas stations in the U.S., though most are owned by Americans as franchises.

The company's London-listed stock[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/03/london-listed-russian-stocks-are-collapsing-with-trading-now-suspended.html] has plummeted more than 99% since Russia invaded Ukraine last week.

Alekperov's net worth has declined to around $18.6 billion after peaking at nearly $25 billion last year, according to Forbes.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 3, 2022 10:30 AM EST

Ukraine And Russia Begin Second Round Of Ceasefire Talks

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky’s office said[https://twitter.com/ZekeJMiller/status/1499400187071979522] the second round of ceasefire talks with Russia began Thursday evening. Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Zelensky, said in a tweet[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1499396344464637969?cxt=HHwWooCslf_B9s4pAAAA] the key issues include an “immediate ceasefire, armistice and humanitarian corridors for the evacuation of civilians from destroyed or constantly shelled villages/cities.”

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=cfc0fb0733504c77aa4a6ac07caaffc7&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/podolyak_m/status/1499396344464637969&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D8804248494c144f5b4765c41f66c6ed5]

— Anna Kaplan

March 3, 2022 9:32 AM EST

Mariupol Mayor Says Russian Forces Created ‘Humanitarian Disaster’ In City

The mayor of Mariupol, a city in southeastern Ukraine that is surrounded[https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2022/world/europe/ukraine-maps.html?name=styln-russia-ukraine®ion=TOP_BANNER&block=storyline_menu_recirc&action=click&pgtype=LegacyCollection&variant=0_Control&is_new=false] by Russian forces, said Russian soldiers had destroyed bridges and created a “blockade,” trapping women, children and the elderly in the city. “We are being destroyed as a nation,” Mayor Vadym Boychenko wrote[https://m.facebook.com/1547688482223955/posts/3178884925770961] in a Facebook post. “This is the genocide of the Ukrainian people.”

Boychenko said Russian troops “deliberately destroyed” the city’s infrastructure for the past seven days, and that the city is working to restore infrastructure capabilities. Boychenko also called on international groups to create a humanitarian corridor to help get supplies to the city to aid the “humanitarian disaster.”

A spokesperson for the Ukrainian National Guard told[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-03-22/h_ca28121f96a8c301d7a87577f3e6cb99] CNN the situation in Mariupol “remains difficult,” but stressed that “the Ukrainian military is not going to surrender the city.”

— Anna Kaplan

March 3, 2022 9:22 AM EST

Biden Wants $10 Billion More In Aid For Ukraine, Report Says

The Biden administration will ask Congress to approve an additional $10 billion in aid for Ukraine, the Washington Post reports[https://www.washingtonpost.com/us-policy/2022/03/03/ukraine-covid-aid-white-house-request/], citing two anonymous sources familiar with the plans. The $10 billion request aims to address the growing humanitarian crisis in the country, supporting Ukraine’s defenses, protecting the country’s electrical grid and assisting other European allies, the Post reports.

Lawmakers have been working in recent weeks to create a long-term deal to fund the government, as the spending bill is set to expire[https://www.forbes.com/sites/zacharysmith/2022/02/17/senate-passes-last-minute-bill-to-prevent-government-shutdown/] on March 11. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said[https://www.c-span.org/video/?c5003841/senate-republican-leader-omnibus-spending-bill-talks-have-hit-snag] there had been a “snag” over Ukraine assistance, claiming Democrats were trying to take the money from funds they had planned to allocate to the Pentagon.

The Post reports the Biden administration’s new request may alleviate these concerns, as the funding would come from new emergency aid for Ukraine, not repurposed dollars for the Department of Defense.

— Anna Kaplan

March 3, 2022 8:33 AM EST

UN Nuclear Watchdog Urges Russia To Cease Action At Ukrainian Nuclear Sites

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) passed a resolution condemning Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on Thursday and called[https://twitter.com/AFP/status/1499356191633383431?s=20&t=6bCVEUw-PwZUI6tPWFk29g] on Russia to “immediately cease actions” at Ukrainian nuclear sites, according to AFP and Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/iaea-board-deplores-russian-invasion-ukraine-only-two-votes-against-2022-03-03/]. Twenty six countries on the board of the UN’s nuclear watchdog supported the resolution, five abstained (India, Pakistan, Senegal, Vietnam and South Africa) and two (Mexico and Burundi) were absent. Just two voted against the resolution: Russia and China.

The resolution comes amid reports[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/03/russian-forces-surround-ukraines-biggest-nuclear-plant-sparking-un-concerns] Russian forces have surrounded Ukraine’s biggest nuclear plant—the largest in Europe—and a day after IAEA chief Rafael Grossi warned[https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-02-22/h_b5223142c78cee998ed02780fe44a605] about the dangers of war around nuclear facilities. Russian forces have already taken control[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/02/24/ukraine-russia-chernobyl-risk/] over the decommissioned Chernobyl power plant, the site of the world’s worst nuclear disaster.

– Robert Hart

March 3, 2022 7:07 AM EST

Formula 1 Cuts Ties With Russia Grand Prix

Formula 1 on Thursday cut ties with the Russian Grand Prix a week after cancelling[https://twitter.com/F1/status/1497181295532777475?s=20&t=784wWiz-8X8RlkWSzynmCA] the race this year.

In a statement[https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/formula1/60601632] reported by the BBC, F1 said it cancelled its “contract with the Russian Grand Prix promoter meaning Russia will not have a race in the future.”

Read more[https://www.forbes.com/sites/masonbissada/2022/03/03/formula-1-cuts-ties-with-russia-heres-how-the-sports-world-has-reacted-to-the-ukraine-invasion/?sh=4e193a067418] about how the sports world has reacted to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

– Isabel Togoh

March 3, 2022 6:29 AM EST

IKEA Halts Russia Operations

Furniture giant IKEA temporarily halted its Russia operations Thursday, including closing its shops and stopping its sourcing from the country, as well as Belarus.

A statement from the companies in charge of IKEA’s stores and supply, reported by Reuters, read[https://www.reuters.com/business/ikea-temporarily-closes-its-stores-russia-halts-sourcing-russia-belarus-2022-03-03/] : “The war has both a huge human impact and is resulting in serious disruptions to supply chain and trading conditions, which is why the company groups have decided to temporarily pause IKEA operations in Russia.”

Read more about the growing list of firms[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/03/ikea-spotify-and-hm-heres-the-growing-list-of-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-invasion/?sh=4a4e34e62880] cutting ties with Russia.

— Isabel Togoh

March 3, 2022 6:05 AM EST

London Stock Exchange Suspends Trading With Dozens Of Russia-Based Firms

The London Stock Exchange halted trading Tuesday with more Russian-based firms, including Gazprom and Sberbank.

A statement by the LSE read[https://docs.londonstockexchange.com/sites/default/files/documents/n0622.pdf] : “Further to recent sanctions in connection with events in Ukraine, in light of market conditions, and in order to maintain orderly markets, the London Stock Exchange has suspended the admission to trading of the instruments...with immediate effect.”

The move follows Sberbank’s exit from Europe on Tuesday and a barrage of Western sanctions against Russia that has cracked down on financial institutions, Putin allies and oligarchs.

— Isabel Togoh

March 3, 2022 5:51 AM EST

French Government Seizes Yacht Linked To Rosneft Chief Igor Sechin

French authorities on Thursday seized a yacht they believe is linked to Russian oil baron Igor Sechin, a close ally of Vladimir Putin, in the port of La Ciotat. This seizure by France follows a similar move by German authorities, who seized[https://www.forbes.com/sites/giacomotognini/2022/03/02/germans-seize-russian-billionaire-alisher-usmanovs-mega-yacht/?sh=e7c4dc452ddd] a mega yacht owned by Russian billionaire Alisher Usmanov on Wednesday.

According to the French finance ministry the yacht was owned by an entity of which Sechin had been identified as the main shareholder.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/brunolemaire/status/1499326925587767296&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/03/french-government-seizes-yacht-owned-by-rosneft-chief-igor-sechin/?sh=40b71df77684].

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 4:55 AM EST

Russian And Belarusian Athletes Banned From Winter Paralympic Games

Russian and Belarusian athletes have been banned from the Beijing 2022 Paralympic Winter Games, the International Paralympic Committee announced[https://www.paralympic.org/news/ipc-decline-athlete-entries-rpc-and-npc-belarus-beijing-2022] Thursday. The move comes a day after the sporting body faced widespread criticism and threats of boycotts following it’s initial decision[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/02/winter-paralympics-russian-and-belarusian-athletes-to-compete-as-neutrals-in-beijing/?sh=38d701bc3545] to allow athletes from those countries to compete under a neutral flag.

The number of athletes, teams and national Paralympic committees threatening to boycott the Games over Russian and Belarusian involvement was jeopardizing the “viability” of the Games, IPC president Andrew Parsons said in a statement[https://www.paralympic.org/news/ipc-decline-athlete-entries-rpc-and-npc-belarus-beijing-2022] explaining the u-turn.

The “situation in the athlete villages is escalating” and has become “untenable,” putting the IPC in a “unique and impossible position” close to the Games’ launch on Friday, Parsons added.

Read more here[https://forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/03/russian-and-belarusian-athletes-banned-from-winter-paralympic-games-in-u-turn/?sh=714c609a4131].

— Robert Hart

March 3, 2022 4:45 AM EST

Biden Set To Meet Other Leaders Of The Quad Alliance Later Today

Leaders of the Indo-Pacific security alliance known as the Quad—including U.S. President Joe Biden—will hold a virtual meeting[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-united-nations-general-assembly-joe-biden-india-australia-6fd7660d92ad81512a231e81628d46a6?utm_source=Twitter&utm_campaign=SocialFlow&utm_medium=AP] on Thursday, the group’s first meeting since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

A statement[https://www.mea.gov.in/press-releases.htm?dtl/34924/Quad_Leaders_Virtual_meeting_on_3March_2022] put out by the Indian Foreign Ministry noted that the leaders in the meeting will “exchange views and assessments about important developments in the Indo-Pacific,” with no mention of the Russia-Ukraine situation.

The Quad—which Beijing has referred to as Indo-Pacific NATO—is made up of the U.S., India, Australia and Japan and is seen as counterbalance against China.

On the issue of Russia, however, the groups appears to be divided with Japan and Australia backing the U.S. and NATO’s condemnation of the invasion of Ukraine, while India has chosen to remain on the sideline and has abstained from key votes on the issue in the U.N.

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 3:51 AM EST

Oil Depot In Chernihiv Catches Fire After Being Struck By Shelling

Diesel tanks in an oil depot in the city of Chernihiv were hit by an airstrike on Thursday morning, Ukraine’s State Emergency Service said in a post on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/MNS.GOV.UA/posts/325211489646747].

The agency said it was still working to find out details of any casualties but noted that diesel tanks with a total capacity of 5,000 cubic meters have caught fire.

Photos shared by the agency showed massive clouds of thick black smoke billowing from a large tanker with firefighters at the scene.

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 2:49 AM EST

Russia Column Outside Kyiv Has Made Very Little Progress, U.K. Defense Ministry Says

The Russian military’s massive convoy of soldiers, vehicles and weapons remain over 30 kilometers (18 miles) away from the center Kyiv and have made “little discernable progress” in the past three days, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1499278184407314437/photo/1] on the situation in Ukraine on Thursday.

The update claims that the Russian convoy continued to face “staunch Ukrainian resistance, mechanical breakdown and congestion.”

The update also notes that despite heavy Russian shelling the cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol remain in Ukrainian hands.

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 1:51 AM EST

Spotify Closes Russian Office, Blames 'unprovoked attack on Ukraine'

Streaming giant Spotify shut down its Russian office indefinitely on Wednesday citing Moscow’s “unprovoked attack on Ukraine,” according to[https://www.reuters.com/technology/spotify-closes-its-office-russia-response-attack-ukraine-2022-03-02/] Reuters.

“Our first priority over the past week has been the safety of our employees and to ensure that Spotify continues to serve as an important source of global and regional news at a time when access to information is more important than ever,” Spotify said in a statement. The company also noted that it has reviewed thousands of pieces of content since the start of the war and has limited the discoverability of shows run by Russian state-affiliated media.

Spotify joins a growing list of tech companies that have taken action against Russia and its state-sponsored media following its invasion of Ukraine.

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 1:37 AM EST

U.S. State Department Criticizes Russia's Media Clampdown

The US State Department accused[https://www.state.gov/media-crackdown-in-russia/] Moscow of launching a “full assault on media freedom and the truth” as various independent news outlets in Russia faced a government crackdown.

Earlier this week, the Russian Prosecutor General blocked access to two independent media outlets, Radio Ekho Moskvy and Dozhd TV, accusing them of reporting "false" information about the invasion. This followed moves by the communications regulator Roskomnadzor last week to restrict access to major social media platforms including Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram.

“The people of Russia did not choose this war. Putin did. They have a right to know about the death, suffering and destruction being inflicted by their government on the people of Ukraine. The people of Russia also have a right to know about the human costs of this senseless war to their own soldiers.”- U.S. State Department Spokesperson Ned Price

The State Department called on Vladimir Putin and the Russian government to immediately “cease this bloodshed” and withdraw troops from Ukraine.

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 1:09 AM EST

New Delhi Denies Russian Claims That Indian Students Are Being Held Hostage In Ukraine

The Indian government on Thursday denied a Russian allegation that Indian students stranded in Ukraine were being held hostages and used as “human shields” by the Ukrainian military.

On Wednesday, following a telephone conversation between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Kremlin has issued a statement noting that Putin had warned Modi about Indians students being taken hostage.

On Thursday, however, Indian foreign ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi stated[https://twitter.com/MEAIndia/status/1499221560657252356] that India had not “received any reports of any hostage situation regarding any student.” Bagchi added that many Indian students were able to leave Kharkiv on Wednesday “with the cooperation of Ukrainian authorities.”

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/meaindia/status/1499221560657252356&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

Earlier this week, shelling in Kharkiv claimed the life of one Indian student who had been standing in a queue to buy food. The student’s death led to widespread criticism of the Indian government by opposition politicians who accused it of failing to safely evacuate Indians from the war zone. According to New Delhi, more than 17,000 Indians have been evacuated from Ukraine as of Wednesday with a few thousand more remaining.

Despite its growing security partnership with the West, India has abstained from criticizing Russia’s invasion and has called for a diplomatic resolution to the situation. Amid growing tensions with its neighbor China both along its Himalayan mountain border and in the Indian Ocean, New Delhi has developed close security ties with the U.S. and its allies but still remains heavily reliant on Russian-made weaponry.

— Siladitya Ray

March 2, 2022 11:34 PM EST

OSCE Monitoring Mission Member Killed In Kharkiv Shelling

The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on Wednesday announced[https://www.osce.org/chairmanship/513280] that a member of its monitoring mission in Ukraine was killed during the shelling of Kharkiv a day earlier.

The victim, Maryna Fenina, was killed while she was out to get supplies for her family.

“In Kharkiv and other cities and towns in Ukraine, missiles, shells and rockets are hitting residential buildings and town centers, killing and injuring innocent civilians – women, men and children alike,” the agency said in its statement.

The OSCE “strongly condemned” the increased shelling of urban centers and once against urged Russia to immediately cease hostilities and “engage in a meaningful dialogue.”

The OSCE monitoring mission in Ukraine, made up of civilians, was established in 2014 following Russia’s annexation of Crimea.

— Siladitya Ray

March 2, 2022 10:24 PM EST

Moody’s And Fitch Downgrade Russia’s Debt To Junk

Credit rating agencies Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings both downgraded the Russian government’s debt to junk status Wednesday, following a similar move by Standard & Poors[https://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/russia-ukraine-latest-news-2022-02-26/card/russia-cut-to-junk-rating-by-s-p-ukraine-s-rating-lowered-grtPacmpCwsqrmnfKa2A] last week, as strict Western sanctions threaten to upend Russia’s economy.

Both companies announced six-notch decreases Wednesday: Moody’s[https://www.moodys.com/research/Moodys-downgrades-Russias-ratings-to-B3-ratings-remain-on-review--PR_463447] downgraded Russia from Baa3 to B3, and Fitch[https://www.fitchratings.com/research/sovereigns/fitch-downgrades-russia-to-b-on-rating-watch-negative-02-03-2022#:~:text=Fitch%20Ratings%20%2D%20N%2FA%20%2D,of%20this%20rating%20action%20commentary.] moved Russia from BBB to B.

The agencies cited tight international sanctions on Russian firms, particularly the United States and its allies’ joint decision[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/02/26/us-and-allies-to-remove-some-russian-banks-from-swift-sanction-central-bank/?sh=65a171fa165a] last weekend to cut some Russian banks out of the SWIFT financial messaging system and ban[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-02-27/eu-approves-banning-all-transactions-with-russian-central-bank] transactions[https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0612] with the Central Bank of Russia. The restrictions on the Central Bank “will have a much larger impact on Russia's credit fundamentals than any previous sanctions” by effectively freezing a large share of Russia’s international reserves, Fitch[https://www.fitchratings.com/research/sovereigns/fitch-downgrades-russia-to-b-on-rating-watch-negative-02-03-2022] said.

The sanctions have imperiled Russia’s economy. The value of the ruble plunged[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/27/world/europe/ruble-russia-stock-market.html] earlier this week, and an executive at financial firm MSCI told Reuters[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/02/28/russia-stocks-crash-even-with-moscow-stock-exchange-closed-experts-call-market-uninvestable/?sh=27c8b1ab5a9a] on Monday the Russian market is “uninvestable.” The Moscow Stock Exchange has remained closed this week.

— Joe Walsh

March 2, 2022 9:15 PM EST

1 Million Refugees Have Fled Ukraine, UN Says

About 1 million people have fled Ukraine for neighboring countries since Russia began its invasion last week, the United Nations’ refugee agency estimated Wednesday, a massive exodus for a nation of about 44 million[https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.POP.TOTL?locations=UA].

The UN estimates 4 million people could ultimately leave Ukraine, though that figure may turn out to be even higher, according[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-9c70fb215d15e0b054b5b2d40169f940] to the Associated Press.

“For millions more, inside Ukraine, it’s time for guns to fall silent, so that life-saving humanitarian assistance can be provided,” UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi tweeted[https://twitter.com/FilippoGrandi/status/1499156937644118022?s=20&t=2axMuIyCQh2bg4Tji3xRLQ] Wednesday afternoon.

Most refugees are crossing into neighboring countries to Ukraine’s west like Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Hungary and Moldova. Poland says it is taking in 50,000 refugees every day, according[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-60555472] to the BBC. Ukrainian officials have barred[https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-president-orders-general-mobilization/a-60908996] men ages 18 to 60 from leaving the country, part of a “general mobilization” as the country’s military and residents fight Russian troops.

Some African and Indian students say they’ve been subjected to racism while attempting to leave Ukraine, CNN reported[https://www.cnn.com/2022/02/28/europe/students-allege-racism-ukraine-cmd-intl/index.html]. And racial discrimination has also been reported on the Polish side of the border, with right-wing nationalist groups harassing some refugees of color, ABC News reported[https://abcnews.go.com/International/extremists-harass-minority-refugees-arriving-poland-ukraine-witnesses/story?id=83203897].

— Mason Bissada

March 2, 2022 8:12 PM EST

UN Verifies 227 Civilian Deaths In Ukraine—But Real Number Is Probably Far Higher

The United Nations has confirmed[https://ukraine.un.org/sites/default/files/2022-03/Civilian%20casualties%20as%20of%2024.00%201%20March%202022%20ENG.pdf] 227 civilian deaths and 525 civilian injuries in Ukraine from the start of Russia’s invasion until Tuesday, though it said the real number is likely “considerably higher,” as international monitors struggle to verify casualties in an active warzone.

The United Nations’ count includes 212 adult deaths and 15 child deaths, as well as 497 injured adults and 28 injured children. Most of these casualties were caused by artillery shelling, rocket launches and airstrikes, the United Nations said, as Russia ramps up its aerial attacks on cities like Kyiv.

The government’s casualty counts have been far higher. Ukraine’s emergency service said Wednesday approximately 2,000 civilians have died, according to several[https://www.axios.com/ukraine-civilian-deaths-russia-invasion-a9879347-36ed-433a-ba43-6c80dc7d2699.html] media[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/02/world/europe/ukraine-civilian-casualties.html] outlets[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-02-22/h_0b4e5dae06f9a7948b4c6d22695849be], though that figure hasn’t been independently verified.

— Joe Walsh

March 2, 2022 7:18 PM EST

ICC Will Investigate Alleged War Crimes In Ukraine

The International Criminal Court will “immediately proceed” with an investigation into alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Ukraine, prosecutor Karim A.A. Khan announced Wednesday[https://www.icc-cpi.int/Pages/item.aspx?name=2022-prosecutor-statement-referrals-ukraine], after 39 countries referred the case to the Hague-based court.

The investigation will not only examine possible war crimes committed during Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, but will also look into crimes that may have been perpetrated during the conflict between the Ukrainian government and Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine starting in 2014.

Khan said[https://www.icc-cpi.int/Pages/item.aspx?name=20220228-prosecutor-statement-ukraine] Monday there is a “reasonable basis” to open an investigation into the situation in Ukraine, but he needed a referral from a party to the Rome Statute—the treaty that established the ICC—in order to begin his probe (Russia, Ukraine and the United States are not parties to the statute).

If the ICC decides to indict anybody for alleged war crimes, its ability to take legal action is somewhat limited, as the organization relies[https://www.icc-cpi.int/about/how-the-court-works] on individual countries to make arrests and transfer arrestees to its custody. Khan says the support of the international community will be “essential” to the investigation.

— Mason Bissada

March 2, 2022 6:00 PM EST

Oracle, H&M, EA Sports Are Latest Companies To Cut Ties With Russia

Technology company Oracle said Wednesday[https://twitter.com/Oracle/status/1499058658583490568] it has “suspended all operations” in Russia, and clothing retailer H&M has paused sales in Russia, the latest companies to distance themselves from the Russian market following the country’s invasion of Ukraine.

Meanwhile, EA Sports is removing the Russian national soccer team and Russian club teams from its FIFA-branded video games, it announced Wednesday. Two days earlier, the real-life[https://www.fifa.com/tournaments/mens/worldcup/qatar2022/media-releases/fifa-uefa-suspend-russian-clubs-and-national-teams-from-all-competitions] Russian national team and Russian club soccer teams were banned from competitions run by FIFA and the Union of European Football Associations “until further notice.”

For more details on corporate responses to Russia’s invasion, click here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/02/google-dell-ford-and-apple-heres-the-growing-list-of-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-invasion/?sh=4fff6d5853d1].

— Joe Walsh

March 2, 2022 5:55 PM EST

U.S. Delivers Anti-Aircraft Stinger Missiles To Ukraine

The U.S. has delivered hundreds of anti-aircraft Stinger missiles to Ukraine over the past few days as part of the $350 million military aid package[https://www.state.gov/additional-military-assistance-for-ukraine/] President Joe Biden promised last week, according[https://twitter.com/jimsciutto/status/1499137668332101647] to CNN.

The U.S. is sending weapons paid for through the Foreign Assistance Act, according[https://www.reuters.com/world/biden-approves-350-million-military-aid-ukraine-2022-02-26/] to Reuters. Ukraine has also requested Javelin anti-tank weapons. The Pentagon told Reuters it would also be sending small arms, body armor, anti-armor and munitions to aid Ukrainian front-line personnel. The State Department said the U.S. has committed more than $1 billion in security assistance to Ukraine over the past year.

“It is another clear signal that the United States stands with the people of Ukraine as they defend their sovereign, courageous, and proud nation,” Secretary of State Antony Blinken wrote in a statement Saturday announcing the aid.

— Mason Bissada

March 2, 2022 5:18 PM EST

Key Developments: Ukraine And Russia Plan To Meet Amid Intense Fighting, U.S. Cancels Missile Test

* Ukrainian negotiators are set to meet[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesstaffreports/2022/03/02/live-russia-ukraine-invasion/?sh=50865415784e] with a Russian delegation, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky’s office told[https://twitter.com/nexta_tv/status/1499098959628881925?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1499098959628881925%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theguardian.com%2Fworld%2Flive%2F2022%2Fmar%2F02%2Fukraine-news-russia-war-kyiv-kharkiv-russian-invasion-vladimir-putin-joe-biden-latest-live-updates%3Fpage%3Dwith3Ablock-621fc6868f088d6b798daff4] the Eastern European news outlet NEXTA Wednesday.

* Russian troops have taken control of the southern Ukrainian city of Kherson, the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/02/world/ukraine-russia-war] reported Wednesday, citing Kherson’s mayor and a senior Ukrainian official, marking the first major city to fall to Russia since the invasion started last week.

* Russia has continued its aerial attacks on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, reportedly hitting[https://www.uz.gov.ua/press_center/up_to_date_topic/577692/] a railway station Wednesday, but Russian ground forces are largely stalled north of Kyiv amid logistical problems and intense Ukrainian resistance, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters.

* Russia's defense ministry announced[https://twitter.com/JDiamond1/status/1499068900503437319?s=20&t=mEByM2Yng3YsUeQqGuMgCg] via state-run media outlets Wednesday 498 troops have died and 1,597 have been injured in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, its first casualty update of the war—though Zelensky says nearly 6,000[https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/ukraine-russia-news-war-zelensky-putin-airstrikes-kyiv-kharkiv-mariupol/] Russian personnel have died.

* The United States has canceled an intercontinental ballistic missile test launch scheduled for this week to avoid escalating “heightened tensions” with Russia, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby announced Wednesday, three days after Russia put its nuclear weapons on high alert.

* Senior Chinese officials asked[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesstaffreports/2022/03/02/live-russia-ukraine-invasion/?sh=50865415784e] Russia not to invade Ukraine until after the 2022 Olympics in Beijing ended on February 20, the New York Times reports[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/02/us/politics/russia-ukraine-china.html], citing anonymous U.S. officials and an anonymous European official, who told the Times an intelligence report indicated the request came in early February.

* The United States has hit Belarus[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesstaffreports/2022/03/02/live-russia-ukraine-invasion/?sh=50865415784e] with the same export controls[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/02/fact-sheet-the-united-states-continues-to-impose-costs-on-russia-and-belarus-for-putins-war-of-choice/] that Russia is now facing, after U.S. officials said Belarus—a key Russian ally—is “enabling” the invasion.

— Mason Bissada

Forbes Media LLC

文件 FBCOM00020220315ei3f000um


News
Ukraine: EU unveils fourth package of Russian sanctions — live updates
4948 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日 17:14 GMT
DW English
DEUEN
英文
© 2022. DW
The EU has increased the scope of its sanctions against Russia as the number of people fleeing Ukraine has passed 3 million. Follow DW for the latest.

* The PMs of Poland, Czech Republic and Slovenia arrive in Kyiv

* UK to host 'Joint Expeditionary Force' leaders from northern Europe later

* Four residential buildings have been hit in several Kyiv districts, killing at least two people

* Fourth round of Russia-Ukraine talks has resumed

* More than 3 million people have fled Ukraine

* EU has announced further sanctions against Russia

This article was last updated at 18:49 UTC/GMT

Chernobyl reconnected to the electricity grid

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said Ukraine had reconnected the Chernobyl nuclear power plant to the electricity grid.

A Russian attack hit a high-voltage power line last week that disconnected the site from the electricity grid.

Since then, Chernobyl, captured by Russian forces in February, has been running on diesel generators.

"Ukrainian specialist teams succeeded on the weekend to repair one of two damaged lines linking the plant to the power network," an IAEA statement said.

The plant has been shut down since 2000 but spent fuel rods stored on the site need constant cooling.

Turkish Foreign Minister to visit Moscow and Kyiv

Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Tuesday that his Foreign Minister Mevlut Cevasoglu will fly to Moscow for further cease-fire talks.

Cevasoglu will arrive in the Russian capital later on Tuesday and hold talks on Wednesday before heading to Kyiv for talks on Thursday.

"We are sending our foreign minister to Russia today. He will hold talks in Moscow tomorrow. He will travel to Ukraine on Thursday," Erdogan said following a cabinet meeting.

The Turkish foreign minister "will continue our efforts to achieve a ceasefire and peace through talks with both sides," Erdogan added.

Turkey hosted the first high-level wartime talks between the Ukrainian and Russian foreign ministers last Thursday, but these failed to reach a diplomatic solution to the conflict.

Polish, Czech and Slovenian leaders arrive in Kyiv

The prime ministers of Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia arrived in Kyiv on Tuesday to express European Union solidarity as Russia continues its assault on Ukraine's capital city.

Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki shared a photo from Kyiv on social media, saying "It is here, in war-torn Kyiv, that history is being made. It is here, that freedom fights against the world of tyranny. It is here that the future of us all hangs in the balance."

The leaders are set to meet with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal and are going in their capacity as representatives of the European Council.

Biden to travel to Europe for NATO and EU Summit

US President Joe Biden will travel to Brussels next week to attend a an extraordinary NATO summit, the White House said.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the trip would focus on the war in Ukraine and "reaffirm our ironclad commitment" to America's allies in the region.

Biden will meet with NATO and European leaders in Brussels on 24 March.

The trip follows after Vice President Kamala Harris' visit to Poland and Romania last week.

EU announces fourth package of sanctions against Russia

The European Council has announced a fourth wave of sanctions against 15 individuals and nine entities connected to the Kremlin and Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"Sanctioned entities include companies in the aviation, military and dual use, shipbuilding and machine building sectors," the EU said in a statement.

The newly sanctioned individuals include Chealsea FC owner Roman Abramovich as well as Konstantin Ernst, the CEO of Channel One Russia that has helped push "the Kremlin's narrative on the situation in Ukraine."

"We are adding to our sanctions list even more oligarchs and regime-affiliated elites, their families and prominent businesspeople, which are involved in economic sectors providing a substantial source of revenue to the regime," EU foreign policy chief Josep Borell said.

"These sanctions also target those who have a leading role in disinformation and propaganda that accompany President Putin’s war against Ukrainian people. Our message is clear: Those who enable the invasion of Ukraine pay a price for their actions," he added.

The package includes a series of measures aimed at "ramping up economic pressure on the Kremlin," these include:

* Ban on transactions with Russia's military-industrial complex

* Ban on imports of Russian steel under EU safeguard measures

* Ban on investments in Russian energy sector

* Ban on exporting luxury goods to Russian elites

* Ban on rating Russia and Russian companies by EU credit rating agencies

* Extension of sanctions against further individuals close to the Kremlin and companies connected to Russia's military and defense sectors

Russia quits Council of Europe

Moscow has launched "the procedure to exit the Council of Europe," avoiding a possible expulsion provoked by its invasion of Ukraine, the Russian foreign ministry wrote on Telegram.

The head of Russia's delegation to the European human rights body, Pyotr Tolstoy, handed a letter from Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to the council's secretary general announcing Moscow's decision to formally leave.

The move comes amid calls from Ukraine to kick Russia out of the council.

Ukrainian refugees surpass 3 million

The head of the UN's High Commission for Refugees Filippo Grandi said on Tuesday that the number of people who have fled Ukraine since the invasion began on February 24 has now passed the 3 million mark.

"This war has to stop. Now," he wrote on Twitter.

Spanish police impound second oligarch yacht

Police on the Spanish island of Mallorca have impounded a yacht that they believe belongs to Russian arms tycoon Alexander Mikheev.

Mikheev runs Rosoboronexport, a weapons exporting group that is part of the Russian defense company Rostec, which is owned by Putin ally Sergei Chemezov.

The 48-meter-long yacht, Lady Anastasia, is being held while police determine if it "belongs or is under the control of" anyone on the EU sanctions list, the Spanish transport ministry said.

Both Chemezov and Mikheev are on the sanctions list. The Lady Anastasia made headlines last month after a Ukrainian crew member was arrested after trying to sink the yacht in revenge for Russia's invasion.

On Monday evening, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said that police had impounded an 85-meter-long yacht worth $140 million (€128 million) in Barcelona. Spanish newspaper El Pais reported that this yacht belonged to Chemezov.

Anti-war protester who interrupted live broadcast fined and released

Marina Ovsyannikova, a Russian journalist who protested against the war on Ukraine on the state-controlled Channel 1 has been fined and released.

A judge ordered Ovsyannikova to pay a fine of 30,000 rubles ($280, €247) for flouting protest legislation.

She pleaded not guilty, "I am still convinced that Russia is committing a crime."

Earlier, her whereabouts were unknown, but a photo of Ovsyannikova alongside a lawyer at Moscow's Ostankinsky district court has been posted on Twitter.

During a news briefing, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed Ovsyannikova's actions as "hooliganism."

Russia hit with new sanctions as it unveils countersanctions on US

Canada announced on Tuesday it will sanction 15 Russian officials who facilitated and aided President Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine to apply more pressure on the Kremlin to end the war.

"President Putin made the choice to further his illegal and unjustifiable invasion, and he can also make the choice to end it by immediately ending the senseless violence and withdrawing his forces," Canada's Foreign Minister Melanie Joly said.

The announcement came ahead of President Zelenskiy addressing the Canadian parliament this afternoon in a virtual call.

The US Treasury also announced new sanctions against top Russian defense officials on Tuesday, including eight deputy ministers of defense and the head of Moscow's National Guard, Viktor Zolotov.

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Zolotov "has cracked down on Russian citizens who have taken to the streets to protest their government's brutal campaign in Ukraine" and also is "responsible for suppressing dissent in occupied areas of" Russia's neighbor.

Washington also renewed sanctions against Belarus' Lukashenko as part of plans to punish countries and individuals supporting Russia in the Ukraine war.

The US Treasury dubbed Lukashenko, whose wife Halina Lukashenka was also sanctioned, as "the head of a corrupt government in Belarus whose patronage network benefits his inner circle and regime."

Meanwhile Russia has banned Trudeau, Joly and Canadian Defense Minister Anita Anand from entering the countr.

The Kremlin is also imposing entry bans on US President Joe Biden, Blinken and other top officials added to a "stop list," the Kremlin said on Tuesday. Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has also been named as one of the 13 on the list.

The sanction comes in response to similar restrictions imposed on Russian officials by the White House.

Red Cross aid unable to enter Mariupol

The Ukrainian Red Cross told DW on Tuesday it is unable to deliver aid into besieged city of Mariupol.

Deputy director, Olena Stokoz, said that there are large stockpiles of supplies in the besieged city of Mariupol but distributing it inside the city is not possible, due to the dire security situation.

"We have a big supply of everything, in fact, because of the major support of our partners in the business. But we cannot get into the city in order to get into the city and to deliver humanitarian aid," she said.

"We need to add the humanitarian corridor, which hasn't been successful for almost two weeks. That is why we cannot replenish our supply from other parts of Ukraine."

Ukraine accepts it cannot join NATO

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told the northern European representatives of the UK-led Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF) that Kyiv has come to accept that it will not join NATO.

"We heard for years about the allegedly open doors" of the NATO alliance, but "we have already heard that we won't be able to join."

"It's the truth we must recognize, and I'm glad that our people are starting to realize that and count on themselves and our partners who are helping us," Zelenskyy said.

The possibility of Ukraine joining NATO is seen as one of the main reasons behind Russia's invasion and removing the option of membership is on Moscow's list of demands.

While NATO had refused to deny membership to Ukraine ahead of Russia's invasion, it was made clear that there was on ongoing procedure regarding Ukraine's admission to the alliance.

NATO forces on heightened alert in Eastern Europe

NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg gave a press conference on Tuesday ahead of an emergency meeting of NATO member ministers on Wednesday amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine which "has shaken the international order"

He warned of Russian claims that could be seen as a pretext to launching chemical attacks in Ukraine.

"For months we have expose Russia's long list of lies. They claimed they did not plan to invade Ukraine, but they did. They claimed they were withdrawing their troops, but they sent in even more. They claim to be protecting civilians, but they are killing civilians," Stoltenberg said.

"Now they are making absurd claims about biological labs and chemical weapons in Ukraine. This is just another lie. And we are concerned that Moscow could stage a false flag operation, possibly including chemical weapons."

He went on to lay out NATO's response, including mobilizations and the deployment of key weapons on NATO's eastern border.

"There are now hundreds of thousands of NATO forces on heightened alert across the alliance, 100,000 US troops in Europe, and around 40,000 troops under direct NATO command, mostly in the Eastern part of the alliance," Stoltenberg said.

He also pointed out that the US, Germany and the Netherlands are deploying long-range air-defense Patriot missiles in Eastern Europe.

"All of this sends an unmistakable message: An attack on one ally will be met with a decisive response from the whole alliance," the NATO chief said.

At least three journalists killed during war — Kyiv

Besides the US journalist Brent Renaud, whose death made headlines over the weekend, at least two other journalists have also been killed since the start of the war, Ukrainian lawmaker Lyudmyla Denisova said on Tuesday.

Denisova wrote on Telegram that the two, both Ukrainian, were killed by Russian troops. Victor Dudar was killed near the southern city of Mykolaiv and cameraman Yevhen Sakun was killed in a missile attack in Kyiv.

US channel Fox News said on Tuesday that their cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski was also killed. He was hit in the same attack that injured Fox News correspondent Benjamin Hall on Monday.

Denisova added that over 30 journalists had been injured, claiming that international reporters had been targeted. British, Swiss and Danish reporters were among those listed as injured.

Russian forces have also targeted media infrastructure in Ukraine while cracking down on independent reporting of the invasion at home.

France to offer diplomatic help to Russian state TV protester

President Emmanuel Macron said France will support the woman who interrupted a live news bulletin on Russia's state TV Channel One to denounce the war in Ukraine.

"We're obviously taking diplomatic steps to offer help, either through our embassy or in a different form," Macron told journalists.

He also added that he will raise the issue in his next phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

The protester, Marina Ovsyannikova, was heard shouting "stop the war. No to war," as the news anchor continued to read from her teleprompter.

The Kremlin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov earlier called the incident "an act of hooliganism."

Ukraine-Russia talks resume

Ukrainian negotiator and presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak said on Twitter that the fourth round of talks between Ukraine and Russia, which were paused yesterday, resumed on Tuesday afternoon.

The talks are being held over a video conference. Podolyak reiterated on Tuesday that, for Kyiv, the meeting would focus on "general regulation matters, ceasefire [and] withdrawal of troops."

Previous rounds of talks had focused on establishing local cease-fires to set up humanitarian corridors, but these quickly fell apart several times.

Higher-level talks between the Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Turkey last Thursday failed to produce any diplomatic solutions to the conflict.

Kremlin: Military operation going to plan

Russia's Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev says Moscow's military operation in Ukraine is going to plan.

He also claimed US advisers in Ukraine were helping Kyiv develop biological weapons, RIA Novosti, a Russian state-owned domestic news agency, reported.

UK adds 350 more Russia sanctions

The British government has announced an additional 350 listings under its Russia sanctions regime and nine new listings under its cyber sanctions regime.

Among those sanctioned were Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov and foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova, the foreign office said.

Andrey Melnichenko, an oil investor who built a European business empire with an estimated net worth of $4.7 billion (€4.27 billion), and Russia's defense minister Sergei Shoigu, were also among those hit in the new listings.

"We are going further and faster than ever in hitting those closest to Putin — from major oligarchs, to his prime minister, and the propagandists who peddle his lies and disinformation,"

Foreign Minister Liz Truss said in a statement.

The latest round of sanctions on Tuesday included elites with a net worth of £100 billion pounds (€119 billion, $130.63 billion).

Kyiv death toll rises from overnight strikes

The death toll has risen to four in Kyiv following overnight and early morning strikes in the Ukrainian capital, mayor Vitali Klitschko said.

"Rescuers are still extinguishing the flames from early morning," he said on the Telegram messaging app.

"Today is a difficult and dangerous moment," he continued. "The capital is the heart of Ukraine, and it will be defended. Kyiv, which is currently the symbol and forward operating base of Europe's freedom and security, will not be given up by us."

Scholz: All avenues of diplomacy open for cease-fire

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Tuesday all diplomatic channels should remain open as Europe seeks to end the conflict.

"It is a question of using all the formats of dialogue and maintaining them ... and of pressing for a cease-fire to come soon, so that it comes immediately," he told reporters after meeting Jordan's King Abdullah in Berlin.

Scholz also welcomed the news of the leaders of Poland, Czech Republic and Slovenia visiting Kyiv.

Zelenskyy: Aiding Ukraine will help all of Europe stay safe

In helping Ukraine, Europe will also be protecting itself as "we are all targets of Russia," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told a meeting of Joint Expeditionary Force leaders via video link on Tuesday.

"You know the kind of weapon we need ... without your support it would be very difficult I'm very grateful but I want to say that we need more ... I do hope that you will be able to enhance that scope and you will see how this will protect your security, your safety," Zelenskyy told British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Nordic and Baltic leaders who are meeting in London to discuss security.

New Zealand announces new measures to support Ukraine

New Zealand introduced a new policy on Tuesday that will allow close to 4,000 family members of Ukrainian-born citizens to move to the country and announced another 4 million New Zealand dollars ($2.7 million, €2.4 million) in humanitarian aid.

Three million flee Ukraine, nearly half of whom have been children

In less than three weeks, around 1.5 million children have fled Ukraine, meaning nearly one child has become a refugee every second, the United Nations said Tuesday.

In the latest figures from the International Organization for Migration (IOM), more than three million people have now fled Ukraine since Russia invaded on February 24.

"On average, every day over the last 20 days in Ukraine, more than 70,000 children have become refugees," James Elder, spokesman for the UN children's agency UNICEF, told reporters in Geneva.

That amounts to around "55 every minute, so almost one per second," he said, stressing that "this crisis in terms of speed and scale is unprecedented since World War II."

Elder warned that "like all children driven from their homes by war and conflicts, Ukrainian children arriving in those border countries are at significant risk of family separation, of violence, of sexual exploitation and trafficking. They're in desperate need of safety, stability and child protection services," he said.

Kyiv brings in curfew as onslaught increases

Kyiv has imposed a curfew from 8 p.m. (1800 GMT) Tuesday to 5 a.m. on Thursday.

Most residents will only be allowed to leave their homes to seek refuge in shelters and bunkers, the Ukrainian capital's mayor, Vitali Klitschko, wrote on Telegram.

"Therefore, I call on all Kyivis to prepare for the fact that they will have to stay at home for two days or in the shelter in case of an alarm," Klitschko said.

The move comes as Kyiv comes under increased attacks from Russian troops, with residential buildings being hit, and fatalities reported by officials.

Kremlin: Anti-war protest was 'hooliganism'

Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said on Tuesday that the actions of a woman who interrupted a live news bulletin on Russian state television to denounce the war in Ukraine amounted to "hooliganism."

The protester, in an extraordinary act of dissent on Monday, held up a placard behind the presenter which read: "Stop the war. Don’t believe the propaganda. They’re lying to you" while shouting "Stop the war. No to war."

But Peskov told reporters: "As far as this woman is concerned, this is hooliganism. He also praised Channel One for objective reporting.

'Massive destruction' at Dnipro airport

Rocket strikes have caused "massive destruction" at the airport in the eastern Ukrainian city of Dnipro, regional governor Valentin Reznichenko said on Tuesday.

"During the night the enemy attacked the Dnipro airport. Two strikes. The runway was destroyed. The terminal is damaged. Massive destruction," Reznichenko said on Telegram.

"It will take a lot of time to recover. We will win!" he added.

EU adds more Russia sanctions

The European Union formally gave the green light on Tuesday to a new raft of sanctions against Russia, which include bans on investments in the Russian energy sector, luxury goods exports and imports of steel products from the country.

The sanctions, which will take effect on Tuesday, will hit Russia's major oil outlets Rosneft, Transneft and Gazprom Neft, according to Reuters.

The ban on Russian steel imports is estimated to affect €3.3 billion ($3.6 billion) worth of products, the European Commission said.

The sanctions will also freeze the assets of more business leaders who support the Kremlin, including Roman Abramovich, the billionaire owner of Chelsea Football Club who was subjected to sanctions by the UK government last week.

A jet linked to Abramovich landed in Moscow early on Tuesday, after a brief stop in Istanbul, plane tracking data showed. Prior to that the jet was in Israel.

Polish, Czech, Slovenian PMs head for Kyiv

The prime ministers of Poland, Czech Republic and Slovenia will meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kiev on Tuesday.

"The purpose of the visit is to confirm the unequivocal support of the entire European Union for the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine and to present a broad package of support for the Ukrainian state and society," the Polish government said in a statement.

The visit — which was organised "in agreement with" European Council chief Charles Michel and European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen — comes amid deadly Russian strikes on the Ukrainian capital.

Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala tweeted: "Today, we are going together with PM of Poland Mateusz Morawiecki, deputy PM Jaroslaw Kaczynski and PM of Slovenia Janez Jansa to Kiev as representatives of the European Council to meet with president Zelenskyy and PM Shmyhal."

Russian attacks on Kyiv intensify

Strikes on residential areas in Kyiv killed at least two people early on Tuesday morning, emergency services said, as Russian troops intensified their attacks on the Ukrainian capital.

The casualties came after a strike hit a 16-storey building in the Sviatoshynsky district, the emergency service said in a Facebook post, adding that 27 people had been rescued from the construction.

Another residential building in the Podilsk area also came under attack, the emergency service said, causing "a fire" that "started on the first five floors of a ten-storey residential building on Mostytska street as a result of ammunition fire."

Zelenskyy adviser: Peace agreement likely by May

The war is likely to be over by May when Russia runs out of resources to continue its onslaught, according to an adviser to the Ukrainian president's chief of staff.

"I think that no later than in May, early May, we should have a peace agreement, maybe much earlier, we will see, I am talking about the latest possible dates," Oleksiy Arestovich said.

"We are at a fork in the road now: there will either be a peace deal struck very quickly, within a week or two, with troop withdrawal and everything, or there will be an attempt to scrape together some, say, Syrians for a round two and, when we grind them too, an agreement by mid-April or late April."

Even once peace is agreed, skirmishes could continue for a year, according to Arestovich, although Kyiv insists on the complete removal of Moscow troops from Ukraine.

China denies that Russia asked for help

China has refuted claims by US officials that Russia had sought military assistance from Beijing.

"The US has repeatedly spread malicious disinformation against China on the Ukraine issue," the Chinese embassy in London told news agency Reuters in a statement.

"China has been playing a constructive role in promoting peace talks," the statement continued.

"The top priority now is to ease the situation, instead of adding fuel to the fire, and work for diplomatic settlement rather than further escalate the situation."

Russia has also denied making such a request.

Met opera holds special Ukraine benefit

The Metropolitan Opera in New York, known as the "Met," held a special benefit concert for Ukraine on Monday night.

The 90-minute program started with a rendition of Ukraine's national anthem led by Ukrainian bass-baritone Vladyslav Buialskyi.

Last week, the Met dropped Russian soprano Anna Netrebko from future performances as she declined to condemn Russian President Vladimir Putin.

"Members of the Metropolitan Opera company stand in solidarity with the proud Ukrainian people, so strong in the face of such injustice, destruction and death," Met general manager Peter Gelb said while speaking from the stage.

The concert was broadcast on Ukrainian public radio.

Zelenskyy: Russia didn't expect such resistance

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video address late on Monday that Russia "didn't expect such resistance" in Ukraine.

Zelenskyy said that the Russian military was responsible for war crimes and vowed to hold Russian leadership accountable.

"We are working with our partners on new punitive measures against the Russian state," Zelenskyy said.

Zelenskyy confirmed that negotiations between Ukraine and Russia would resume on Tuesday.

UK to host Joint Expeditionary Force meeting

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will on Tuesday host leaders from a number of European countries belonging to the Joint Expeditionary Force.

Besides the United Kingdom, the force includes Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands and Sweden.

Leaders of the group will meet in London, where they are expected to discuss measures to be taken against Russia.

Oil prices dropping sharply again after spike

Crude oil prices dived sharply in early trading in Asia on Tuesday, with the West Texas Intermediate price dipping back below $100 per barrel.

The other major oil price indicator, Brent Crude, sank to $100.54 but remained in three-figure territory.

Oil prices have risen sharply during the conflict in Ukraine, amid concerns over shortages and supply amid sanctions against Russia. Both prices peaked above $120 per barrel, near 14-year highs.

Possible falling demand in China, as the government shuts down the tech hub of Shenzen in a bid to control COVID cases, was attributed to the reduction in price.

Continued talks between Russia and Ukraine also led to cautious optimism among some investors.

Brazil's government also said late on Monday that, after talks with the US, it was willing to increase its oil production in a bid to compensate for any missing Russian stock.

Slovakia expels three Russian diplomats

The Foreign Ministry in Bratislava said late on Monday that Slovakia had given three Russian embassy staff 72 hours to leave the country.

The ministry said they had broken diplomatic rules, without disclosing their identities or their roles at the Russian Embassy.

Meanwhile, Defense Minister Jaoslav Nad told news site Pravda.sk that Slovakia had detained three of its citizens suspected of spying for Russia. He said, "This is just the beginning."

Police confirmed they were investigating suspected espionage but did not comment on domestic media reports on the individuals' identities. Reportedly, they included an officer from the Defense Ministry, an employee at domestic intelligence service SIS, and an employee for pro-Russian media. The SIS said nobody detained was a current employee at the agency.

Russia said it would take retaliatory steps in response to Slovakia's expulsions.

Summary of events in Ukraine-Russia crisis on Monday

Another round of direct talks between Russia and Ukraine closed with little meaningful progress, save a plan for another round later on Tuesday.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy asked Ukrainian lawmakers to extend martial law for another 30 days.

Russian authorities were halting grain exports to the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union, which includes Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan in addition to Russia itself. The Russian government was also temporarily stopping the exports of white sugar and raw sugar to countries outside the bloc.

The move comes amid fears that the war in Ukraine would disrupt the food supply in Europe.

Over 4,000 civilians were transported away from the fighting on Monday, according to Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk, including a convoy of vehicles that left the besieged city of Mariupol.

Jake Sullivan, security adviser to US President Joe Biden, met with Chinese Foreign Policy Advisor Yang Jiechi in Rome for the seven-hour negotiations concerning Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

During talks, Sullivan warned China against supporting Russia.

The World Bank said it was making nearly $200 million (€183 million) in additional and reprogrammed financing to bolster Ukraine's social services for vulnerable people.

Marina Ovsyannikova, an editor at Channel One interrupted a live broadcast on Russian state TV waving a placard reading: "No war, stop the war."

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz made a renewed call for a cease-fire during a visit to Turkey, speaking alongside President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

At least nine people were killed and nine more wounded in an airstrike on a television tower in Ukraine's northern Rivne region, Governor Vitaliy Koval said. Meanwhile, Russia said a Ukrainian strike killed 20 civilians in the rebel-held city of Donetsk, which Ukraine later disputed.

lo, fh, ab, jsi, si/aw (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)

Russian attacks against Ukrainian cities have continued as negotiators from both sides discuss a possible cease-fire (Evgeniy Maloletka/AP Photo/picture alliance)[https://static.dw.com/image/61138679_401.jpg]

Deutsche Welle

文件 DEUEN00020220315ei3f000jk


PM Fiala, Slovenian, Polish PMs to visit Kyiv, meet Zelenskiy
478 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日 08:46 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds paras 5-6 with Cernochova's comments.

Prague, March 15 (CTK) - Czech PM Petr Fiala, his Polish and Slovenian counterparts Mateusz Morawiecki and Janez Jansa accompanied by Polish President Jaroslaw Kaczynski will visit Kyiv and meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy as representatives of the European Council today, Fiala has announced on Twitter.

Besides Zelenskiy, the politicians are to meet Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Smyhal, too. This is the first visit of high elected foreign officials since the outbreak of the Russian invasion on February 24.

"The visit is organised after consultations with European Council President Charles Michel and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. The goal of the visit is to express the univocal support of the EU to Ukraine, its freedom and independence," Fiala (Civic Democrats, ODS) said.

During the visit, he wants to present "a broad support package for Ukraine and its nationals," Fiala added. He noted that the international community as well as the UN are informed about the visit.

Last night, Fiala informed about the visit the ministers of defence and interior, Defence Minister Jana Cernochova (ODS) told CTK. First Deputy PM and Interior Minister Vit Rakusan (Mayors and Independents, STAN) will stand for Fiala during his absence, she added, saying that Fiala was determined to go to Kyiv.

"It is a signal to the Ukrainian side that Czechia stands with them and that PM Zelenskiy enjoys our absolute support," Cernochova said.

As of today, the EU puts in practice the fourth anti-Russia sanction package upon which the EU member states agreed on Monday, according to France that chairs the Council of the EU now.

Peace talks between Russia and Ukraine should continue today, Reuters reported, referring to Zelenskiy. In a night TV address, Zelenskiy said that the Ukrainian delegation had done a good job, without elaborating.

The talks on Monday were held via videoconference. Recently, the delegations of both countries repeatedly met at the Belarusian-Ukrainian border, too. While both parties spoke about some progress last weekend, the AP agency wrote that no considerable progress had been made.

Kyiv authorities declared emergency due to air strikes again. People heard at least four strong explosions in early morning hours, Ukrinform agency wrote. The strikes hit several high-rise buildings, Ukrainian Interior Ministry wrote, adding that two people died and one person was brought to hospital. The Ukrainian military wrote that the air raid hit the Kyiv-Svyatoshyn Raion.

Zelenskiy called on Russian soldiers to lay down their arms, offering them the chance to survive.

In reaction to the situation in Ukraine, the Parliament Assembly of Council of Europe (PACE) continues its extraordinary meeting to discuss the Russian invasion. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and his Iranian counterpart Hossein Amir-Abdollahian will talk about the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, too.

vok/dr/pvr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220315ei3f00019


News
Ukraine: 20,000 civilians flee war-torn city of Mariupol — live updates
6228 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日 20:33 GMT
DW English
DEUEN
英文
© 2022. DW
The EU has increased the scope of its sanctions against Russia while thousands flee besieged cities along humanitarian corridors. Follow DW for the latest.

* The PMs of Poland, Czech Republic and Slovenia arrive in Kyiv

* US President to travel to Brussels for 'extraordinary NATO summit' next week

* Four residential buildings have been hit in several Kyiv districts, killing at least two people

* Fourth round of Russia-Ukraine talks has resumed

* More than 3 million people have fled Ukraine

* EU has announced further sanctions against Russia

This article was last updated at 00:34 UTC/GMT

Germany's Scholz: 'Nobody can want' NATO to clash militarily with Russia

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz again spoke against NATO wading into the war in Ukraine with military means on Tuesday.

"We will not establish a no-fly zone over Ukraine," Scholz said at an event organized by newspaper die Welt. He said such a step would amount to a "direct military confrontation" with Russia.

"Along with US President Joe Biden, with France's President Emmanuel Macron and with other allies, I agree that there can be no military confrontation between NATO and Russia. Nobody can want that," Scholz said.

Scholz said the western alliance would continue to rely on the effectiveness of economic sanctions and other measures designed to ensure Russia's invasion of Ukraine carried a cost closer to home.

"President Vladimir Putin may have planned this war for a year and prepared himself for economic reaction from the international community, but he has underestimated our determination: the sanctions are having a tougher impact than Russia ever imagined," Scholz said.

The German chancellor also warned that these steps would have an economic impact for Germany and its citizens too, amid record petroleum and gas prices caused in no small part by the conflict.

Zelenskyy salutes Polish, Slovenian and Czech PMs' visit

Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy hailed a visit by the prime ministers of Poland, the Czech Republic, and Slovenia to Kiyv.

"[They are] not afraid of anything and are more afraid of our fate," he told reporters after meeting the three European leaders.

They traveled to the capital by train in solidarity with Ukraine and are the first western leaders to Kyiv since the war began.

"Your visit to Kyiv at this difficult time for Ukraine is a strong sign of support. We really appreciate it," Zelenskyy told them.

"Europe must understand that if it loses Ukraine, it will never be the same again. It will no longer be Europe. Rather it will be a defeated, humiliated and pathetic version of its former self," Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said on social media after their meeting.

His deputy, Jaroslaw Kaczynski, who accompanied Morawiecki, said a NATO-led peacekeeping force should deploy in Ukraine.

"I think that it is necessary to have a peace mission - NATO, possibly some wider international structure - but a mission that will be able to defend itself, which will operate on Ukrainian territory," Kaczynski said.

"This cannot be an unarmed mission," he said.

NATO itself and various western leaders, including US President Joe Biden and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, have so far ruled out sending Alliance troops to Ukraine in any capacity.

Ukrainian lawmaker Kira Rudik: 'We are ready for the siege'

Ukrainian Member of Parliament Kira Rudik told DW that Ukraine was "ready" for a siege of Kyiv, while urging for the establishment of a no-fly zone over the country.

Rudik said that both civilians and the Ukrainian government had been preparing for a siege of Kyiv "for a while."

"We are ready for the siege," Rudik said, adding that Kyiv was becoming a "fortress."

"What we are not ready for is the shelling and missiles that are coming from the air."

Rudik called for NATO countries to enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine or provide the country with jets to counter Russian airpower. Both these steps have so far been dismissed by the US and NATO, among others.

"If [Russian forces] try to bombard this city and bring it to the ground," Rudik said, there won't be much Ukraine will be able to do to mount a defense.

Rudik said that she had a machine gun and had been training with her resistance team for 20 days.

"So I'm ready to give them a good fight if necessary," she said.

Senior Republicans urge Biden admin to rethink transfer of Polish fighter jets

Six senior Republicans lawmakers urged President Joe Biden's administration to help provide the Ukrainian Air Force with MiG-29 fighter planes from Poland.

In a letter to the Secretaries of Defense and State, the Republicans called the US decision to reject the proposal from Poland "flawed."

Separately, Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell told reporters the idea of arming Ukraine with warplanes transferred from Poland was still under discussion.

"I haven't met anybody in the Senate who's not in favor of seeing those MiGs get into Ukraine. Exactly how to make that happen is still under discussion," McConnell told reporters."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was scheduled to speak to members of Congress on Wednesday in a virtual address.

Biden wrote on Twitter he would give more details about US assistance to Ukraine after Zelenskyy's speech.

It was unlikely to include the jet transfer as the Defense Department warned it would be a "high risk" step that could lead to open conflict between NATO and Russia.

NATO and Germany also rejected the transfer of the jets, which Poland initially said should be transferred via the US Ramstein Air Base in Germany.

Ukraine-Russia talks to continue talks Wednesday

Ukrainian negotiator Mykhailo Podoliak described talks with Russia as "difficult and vicious."

He wrote on Twitter the negotiations would continue on Wednesday but added, "there are fundamental contradictions."

This week's talks between the two countries via video link follow three rounds of negotiations in Belarus that have failed to produce any visible progress.

Russia previously said it wanted guarantees of Ukraine's neutrality, meaning that it would not join NATO.

Ukraine was demanding an end to the war and the withdrawal of Russian forces.

Earlier in the day, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's presidential adviser Ihor Zhovkva said talks had been growing "more constructive."

20,000 civilians escape besieged Mariupol

Civilians fleeing from the heavily besieged south-eastern coastal city of Mariupol were able to escape through a humanitarian corridor on Tuesday, the Ukrainian president's Chief of Staff Kyrylo Tymoshenko said on Telegram.

"Today around 20,000 people drove out of Mariupol in private cars along the humanitarian corridor," he wrote.

Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said that in total almost 29,000 people were able to flee several war-torn cities on Tuesday, using humanitarian routes.

A reported 4,000 vehicles made their way along damaged and mined roads, and past various checkpoints. Of these, 570 were reported to have already reached the city of Zaporizhzhia to the northwest. The remaining cars will spend the night on the route, Tymoshenko said.

Monday saw 4,000 people leave the city along similar routes.

The escape was made possible by a cease-fire agreed between Ukrainian and Russian forces. Previous attempts had failed, leaving the 400,000 strong population without access to food, water and electricity.

The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) warned that the situation in Mariupol "remained dire" and that they were unable to provide the people still stuck there with necessary aid. According to city authorities, some 2,100 residents of the city have been killed already.

Biden approves 'historic' $13.6 Ukraine aid package

US President Joe Biden signed a bill providing $13.6 billion (€12.4 billion) in humanitarian, military, and economic assistance to Ukraine.

The money will allow the US to provide Ukraine with more weapons and military equipment. Some of it would also be used to provide emergency food assistance, health care, and other humanitarian support.

Lawmakers put up a rare united front when they agreed on the bipartisan deal last week to aid Ukraine.

Democratic and Republican backing for the Ukraine aid package was so staunch it is substantially more than the $10 billion the White House initially requested.

Chernobyl reconnected to the electricity grid

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said Ukraine had reconnected the Chernobyl nuclear power plant to the electricity grid.

A Russian attack hit a high-voltage power line last week that disconnected the site from the electricity grid.

Since then, Chernobyl, captured by Russian forces in February, has been running on diesel generators.

"Ukrainian specialist teams succeeded on the weekend to repair one of two damaged lines linking the plant to the power network," an IAEA statement said.

The plant has been shut down since 2000 but spent fuel rods stored on the site need constant cooling.

Turkish Foreign Minister to visit Moscow and Kyiv

Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Tuesday that his Foreign Minister Mevlut Cevasoglu will fly to Moscow for further cease-fire talks.

Cevasoglu will arrive in the Russian capital later on Tuesday and hold talks on Wednesday before heading to Kyiv for talks on Thursday.

"We are sending our foreign minister to Russia today. He will hold talks in Moscow tomorrow. He will travel to Ukraine on Thursday," Erdogan said following a cabinet meeting.

The Turkish foreign minister "will continue our efforts to achieve a ceasefire and peace through talks with both sides," Erdogan added.

Turkey hosted the first high-level wartime talks between the Ukrainian and Russian foreign ministers last Thursday, but these failed to reach a diplomatic solution to the conflict.

Polish, Czech and Slovenian leaders arrive in Kyiv

The prime ministers of Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia arrived in Kyiv on Tuesday to express European Union solidarity as Russia continues its assault on Ukraine's capital city.

Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki shared a photo from Kyiv on social media, saying "It is here, in war-torn Kyiv, that history is being made. It is here, that freedom fights against the world of tyranny. It is here that the future of us all hangs in the balance."

The leaders are set to meet with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal and are going in their capacity as representatives of the European Council.

Biden to travel to Europe for NATO and EU Summit

US President Joe Biden will travel to Brussels next week to attend a an extraordinary NATO summit, the White House said.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki said the trip would focus on the war in Ukraine and "reaffirm our ironclad commitment" to America's allies in the region.

Biden will meet with NATO and European leaders in Brussels on 24 March.

The trip follows after Vice President Kamala Harris' visit to Poland and Romania last week.

EU announces fourth package of sanctions against Russia

The European Council has announced a fourth wave of sanctions against 15 individuals and nine entities connected to the Kremlin and Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"Sanctioned entities include companies in the aviation, military and dual use, shipbuilding and machine building sectors," the EU said in a statement.

The newly sanctioned individuals include Chealsea FC owner Roman Abramovich as well as Konstantin Ernst, the CEO of Channel One Russia that has helped push "the Kremlin's narrative on the situation in Ukraine."

"We are adding to our sanctions list even more oligarchs and regime-affiliated elites, their families and prominent businesspeople, which are involved in economic sectors providing a substantial source of revenue to the regime," EU foreign policy chief Josep Borell said.

"These sanctions also target those who have a leading role in disinformation and propaganda that accompany President Putin’s war against Ukrainian people. Our message is clear: Those who enable the invasion of Ukraine pay a price for their actions," he added.

The package includes a series of measures aimed at "ramping up economic pressure on the Kremlin," these include:

* Ban on transactions with Russia's military-industrial complex

* Ban on imports of Russian steel under EU safeguard measures

* Ban on investments in Russian energy sector

* Ban on exporting luxury goods to Russian elites

* Ban on rating Russia and Russian companies by EU credit rating agencies

* Extension of sanctions against further individuals close to the Kremlin and companies connected to Russia's military and defense sectors

Russia quits Council of Europe

Moscow has launched "the procedure to exit the Council of Europe," avoiding a possible expulsion provoked by its invasion of Ukraine, the Russian foreign ministry wrote on Telegram.

The head of Russia's delegation to the European human rights body, Pyotr Tolstoy, handed a letter from Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to the council's secretary general announcing Moscow's decision to formally leave.

The move comes amid calls from Ukraine to kick Russia out of the council.

Ukrainian refugees surpass 3 million

The head of the UN's High Commission for Refugees Filippo Grandi said on Tuesday that the number of people who have fled Ukraine since the invasion began on February 24 has now passed the 3 million mark.

"This war has to stop. Now," he wrote on Twitter.

Spanish police impound second oligarch yacht

Police on the Spanish island of Mallorca have impounded a yacht that they believe belongs to Russian arms tycoon Alexander Mikheev.

Mikheev runs Rosoboronexport, a weapons exporting group that is part of the Russian defense company Rostec, which is owned by Putin ally Sergei Chemezov.

The 48-meter-long yacht, Lady Anastasia, is being held while police determine if it "belongs or is under the control of" anyone on the EU sanctions list, the Spanish transport ministry said.

Both Chemezov and Mikheev are on the sanctions list. The Lady Anastasia made headlines last month after a Ukrainian crew member was arrested after trying to sink the yacht in revenge for Russia's invasion.

On Monday evening, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said that police had impounded an 85-meter-long yacht worth $140 million (€128 million) in Barcelona. Spanish newspaper El Pais reported that this yacht belonged to Chemezov.

Anti-war protester who interrupted live broadcast fined and released

Marina Ovsyannikova, a Russian journalist who protested against the war on Ukraine on the state-controlled Channel 1 has been fined and released.

A judge ordered Ovsyannikova to pay a fine of 30,000 rubles ($280, €247) for flouting protest legislation.

She pleaded not guilty, "I am still convinced that Russia is committing a crime."

Earlier, her whereabouts were unknown, but a photo of Ovsyannikova alongside a lawyer at Moscow's Ostankinsky district court has been posted on Twitter.

During a news briefing, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed Ovsyannikova's actions as "hooliganism."

Russia hit with new sanctions as it unveils countersanctions on US

Canada announced on Tuesday it will sanction 15 Russian officials who facilitated and aided President Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine to apply more pressure on the Kremlin to end the war.

"President Putin made the choice to further his illegal and unjustifiable invasion, and he can also make the choice to end it by immediately ending the senseless violence and withdrawing his forces," Canada's Foreign Minister Melanie Joly said.

The announcement came ahead of President Zelenskiy addressing the Canadian parliament this afternoon in a virtual call.

The US Treasury also announced new sanctions against top Russian defense officials on Tuesday, including eight deputy ministers of defense and the head of Moscow's National Guard, Viktor Zolotov.

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Zolotov "has cracked down on Russian citizens who have taken to the streets to protest their government's brutal campaign in Ukraine" and also is "responsible for suppressing dissent in occupied areas of" Russia's neighbor.

Washington also renewed sanctions against Belarus' Lukashenko as part of plans to punish countries and individuals supporting Russia in the Ukraine war.

The US Treasury dubbed Lukashenko, whose wife Halina Lukashenka was also sanctioned, as "the head of a corrupt government in Belarus whose patronage network benefits his inner circle and regime."

Meanwhile Russia has banned Trudeau, Joly and Canadian Defense Minister Anita Anand from entering the countr.

The Kremlin is also imposing entry bans on US President Joe Biden, Blinken and other top officials added to a "stop list," the Kremlin said on Tuesday. Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has also been named as one of the 13 on the list.

The sanction comes in response to similar restrictions imposed on Russian officials by the White House.

Red Cross aid unable to enter Mariupol

The Ukrainian Red Cross told DW on Tuesday it is unable to deliver aid into besieged city of Mariupol.

Deputy director, Olena Stokoz, said that there are large stockpiles of supplies in the besieged city of Mariupol but distributing it inside the city is not possible, due to the dire security situation.

"We have a big supply of everything, in fact, because of the major support of our partners in the business. But we cannot get into the city in order to get into the city and to deliver humanitarian aid," she said.

"We need to add the humanitarian corridor, which hasn't been successful for almost two weeks. That is why we cannot replenish our supply from other parts of Ukraine."

Ukraine accepts it cannot join NATO

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told the northern European representatives of the UK-led Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF) that Kyiv has come to accept that it will not join NATO.

"We heard for years about the allegedly open doors" of the NATO alliance, but "we have already heard that we won't be able to join."

"It's the truth we must recognize, and I'm glad that our people are starting to realize that and count on themselves and our partners who are helping us," Zelenskyy said.

The possibility of Ukraine joining NATO is seen as one of the main reasons behind Russia's invasion and removing the option of membership is on Moscow's list of demands.

While NATO had refused to deny membership to Ukraine ahead of Russia's invasion, it was made clear that there was on ongoing procedure regarding Ukraine's admission to the alliance.

NATO forces on heightened alert in Eastern Europe

NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg gave a press conference on Tuesday ahead of an emergency meeting of NATO member ministers on Wednesday amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine which "has shaken the international order"

He warned of Russian claims that could be seen as a pretext to launching chemical attacks in Ukraine.

"For months we have expose Russia's long list of lies. They claimed they did not plan to invade Ukraine, but they did. They claimed they were withdrawing their troops, but they sent in even more. They claim to be protecting civilians, but they are killing civilians," Stoltenberg said.

"Now they are making absurd claims about biological labs and chemical weapons in Ukraine. This is just another lie. And we are concerned that Moscow could stage a false flag operation, possibly including chemical weapons."

He went on to lay out NATO's response, including mobilizations and the deployment of key weapons on NATO's eastern border.

"There are now hundreds of thousands of NATO forces on heightened alert across the alliance, 100,000 US troops in Europe, and around 40,000 troops under direct NATO command, mostly in the Eastern part of the alliance," Stoltenberg said.

He also pointed out that the US, Germany and the Netherlands are deploying long-range air-defense Patriot missiles in Eastern Europe.

"All of this sends an unmistakable message: An attack on one ally will be met with a decisive response from the whole alliance," the NATO chief said.

At least three journalists killed during war — Kyiv

Besides the US journalist Brent Renaud, whose death made headlines over the weekend, at least two other journalists have also been killed since the start of the war, Ukrainian lawmaker Lyudmyla Denisova said on Tuesday.

Denisova wrote on Telegram that the two, both Ukrainian, were killed by Russian troops. Victor Dudar was killed near the southern city of Mykolaiv and cameraman Yevhen Sakun was killed in a missile attack in Kyiv.

US channel Fox News said on Tuesday that their Irish cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski and Ukrainian producer Oleksandra Kuvshynova were also killed in the same attack that injured Fox News correspondent Benjamin Hall on Monday.

Denisova added that over 30 journalists had been injured, claiming that international reporters had been targeted. British, Swiss and Danish reporters were among those listed as injured.

Russian forces have also targeted media infrastructure in Ukraine while cracking down on independent reporting of the invasion at home.

France to offer diplomatic help to Russian state TV protester

President Emmanuel Macron said France will support the woman who interrupted a live news bulletin on Russia's state TV Channel One to denounce the war in Ukraine.

"We're obviously taking diplomatic steps to offer help, either through our embassy or in a different form," Macron told journalists.

He also added that he will raise the issue in his next phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

The protester, Marina Ovsyannikova, was heard shouting "stop the war. No to war," as the news anchor continued to read from her teleprompter.

The Kremlin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov earlier called the incident "an act of hooliganism."

Ukraine-Russia talks resume

Ukrainian negotiator and presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak said on Twitter that the fourth round of talks between Ukraine and Russia, which were paused yesterday, resumed on Tuesday afternoon.

The talks are being held over a video conference. Podolyak reiterated on Tuesday that, for Kyiv, the meeting would focus on "general regulation matters, ceasefire [and] withdrawal of troops."

Previous rounds of talks had focused on establishing local cease-fires to set up humanitarian corridors, but these quickly fell apart several times.

Higher-level talks between the Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Turkey last Thursday failed to produce any diplomatic solutions to the conflict.

Kremlin: Military operation going to plan

Russia's Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev says Moscow's military operation in Ukraine is going to plan.

He also claimed US advisers in Ukraine were helping Kyiv develop biological weapons, RIA Novosti, a Russian state-owned domestic news agency, reported.

UK adds 350 more Russia sanctions

The British government has announced an additional 350 listings under its Russia sanctions regime and nine new listings under its cyber sanctions regime.

Among those sanctioned were Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov and foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova, the foreign office said.

Andrey Melnichenko, an oil investor who built a European business empire with an estimated net worth of $4.7 billion (€4.27 billion), and Russia's defense minister Sergei Shoigu, were also among those hit in the new listings.

"We are going further and faster than ever in hitting those closest to Putin — from major oligarchs, to his prime minister, and the propagandists who peddle his lies and disinformation,"

Foreign Minister Liz Truss said in a statement.

The latest round of sanctions on Tuesday included elites with a net worth of £100 billion pounds (€119 billion, $130.63 billion).

Kyiv death toll rises from overnight strikes

The death toll has risen to four in Kyiv following overnight and early morning strikes in the Ukrainian capital, mayor Vitali Klitschko said.

"Rescuers are still extinguishing the flames from early morning," he said on the Telegram messaging app.

"Today is a difficult and dangerous moment," he continued. "The capital is the heart of Ukraine, and it will be defended. Kyiv, which is currently the symbol and forward operating base of Europe's freedom and security, will not be given up by us."

Scholz: All avenues of diplomacy open for cease-fire

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Tuesday all diplomatic channels should remain open as Europe seeks to end the conflict.

"It is a question of using all the formats of dialogue and maintaining them ... and of pressing for a cease-fire to come soon, so that it comes immediately," he told reporters after meeting Jordan's King Abdullah in Berlin.

Scholz also welcomed the news of the leaders of Poland, Czech Republic and Slovenia visiting Kyiv.

Zelenskyy: Aiding Ukraine will help all of Europe stay safe

In helping Ukraine, Europe will also be protecting itself as "we are all targets of Russia," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told a meeting of Joint Expeditionary Force leaders via video link on Tuesday.

"You know the kind of weapon we need ... without your support it would be very difficult I'm very grateful but I want to say that we need more ... I do hope that you will be able to enhance that scope and you will see how this will protect your security, your safety," Zelenskyy told British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Nordic and Baltic leaders who are meeting in London to discuss security.

New Zealand announces new measures to support Ukraine

New Zealand introduced a new policy on Tuesday that will allow close to 4,000 family members of Ukrainian-born citizens to move to the country and announced another 4 million New Zealand dollars ($2.7 million, €2.4 million) in humanitarian aid.

Three million flee Ukraine, nearly half of whom have been children

In less than three weeks, around 1.5 million children have fled Ukraine, meaning nearly one child has become a refugee every second, the United Nations said Tuesday.

In the latest figures from the International Organization for Migration (IOM), more than three million people have now fled Ukraine since Russia invaded on February 24.

"On average, every day over the last 20 days in Ukraine, more than 70,000 children have become refugees," James Elder, spokesman for the UN children's agency UNICEF, told reporters in Geneva.

That amounts to around "55 every minute, so almost one per second," he said, stressing that "this crisis in terms of speed and scale is unprecedented since World War II."

Elder warned that "like all children driven from their homes by war and conflicts, Ukrainian children arriving in those border countries are at significant risk of family separation, of violence, of sexual exploitation and trafficking. They're in desperate need of safety, stability and child protection services," he said.

Kyiv brings in curfew as onslaught increases

Kyiv has imposed a curfew from 8 p.m. (1800 GMT) Tuesday to 5 a.m. on Thursday.

Most residents will only be allowed to leave their homes to seek refuge in shelters and bunkers, the Ukrainian capital's mayor, Vitali Klitschko, wrote on Telegram.

"Therefore, I call on all Kyivis to prepare for the fact that they will have to stay at home for two days or in the shelter in case of an alarm," Klitschko said.

The move comes as Kyiv comes under increased attacks from Russian troops, with residential buildings being hit, and fatalities reported by officials.

Kremlin: Anti-war protest was 'hooliganism'

Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said on Tuesday that the actions of a woman who interrupted a live news bulletin on Russian state television to denounce the war in Ukraine amounted to "hooliganism."

The protester, in an extraordinary act of dissent on Monday, held up a placard behind the presenter which read: "Stop the war. Don’t believe the propaganda. They’re lying to you" while shouting "Stop the war. No to war."

But Peskov told reporters: "As far as this woman is concerned, this is hooliganism. He also praised Channel One for objective reporting.

'Massive destruction' at Dnipro airport

Rocket strikes have caused "massive destruction" at the airport in the eastern Ukrainian city of Dnipro, regional governor Valentin Reznichenko said on Tuesday.

"During the night the enemy attacked the Dnipro airport. Two strikes. The runway was destroyed. The terminal is damaged. Massive destruction," Reznichenko said on Telegram.

"It will take a lot of time to recover. We will win!" he added.

EU adds more Russia sanctions

The European Union formally gave the green light on Tuesday to a new raft of sanctions against Russia, which include bans on investments in the Russian energy sector, luxury goods exports and imports of steel products from the country.

The sanctions, which will take effect on Tuesday, will hit Russia's major oil outlets Rosneft, Transneft and Gazprom Neft, according to Reuters.

The ban on Russian steel imports is estimated to affect €3.3 billion ($3.6 billion) worth of products, the European Commission said.

The sanctions will also freeze the assets of more business leaders who support the Kremlin, including Roman Abramovich, the billionaire owner of Chelsea Football Club who was subjected to sanctions by the UK government last week.

A jet linked to Abramovich landed in Moscow early on Tuesday, after a brief stop in Istanbul, plane tracking data showed. Prior to that the jet was in Israel.

Polish, Czech, Slovenian PMs head for Kyiv

The prime ministers of Poland, Czech Republic and Slovenia will meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kiev on Tuesday.

"The purpose of the visit is to confirm the unequivocal support of the entire European Union for the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine and to present a broad package of support for the Ukrainian state and society," the Polish government said in a statement.

The visit — which was organised "in agreement with" European Council chief Charles Michel and European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen — comes amid deadly Russian strikes on the Ukrainian capital.

Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala tweeted: "Today, we are going together with PM of Poland Mateusz Morawiecki, deputy PM Jaroslaw Kaczynski and PM of Slovenia Janez Jansa to Kiev as representatives of the European Council to meet with President Zelenskyy and PM Shmyhal."

Russian attacks on Kyiv intensify

Strikes on residential areas in Kyiv killed at least two people early on Tuesday morning, emergency services said, as Russian troops intensified their attacks on the Ukrainian capital.

The casualties came after a strike hit a 16-storey building in the Sviatoshynsky district, the emergency service said in a Facebook post, adding that 27 people had been rescued from the construction.

Another residential building in the Podilsk area also came under attack, the emergency service said, causing "a fire" that "started on the first five floors of a ten-storey residential building on Mostytska street as a result of ammunition fire."

Zelenskyy adviser: Peace agreement likely by May

The war is likely to be over by May when Russia runs out of resources to continue its onslaught, according to an adviser to the Ukrainian president's chief of staff.

"I think that no later than in May, early May, we should have a peace agreement, maybe much earlier, we will see, I am talking about the latest possible dates," Oleksiy Arestovich said.

"We are at a fork in the road now: there will either be a peace deal struck very quickly, within a week or two, with troop withdrawal and everything, or there will be an attempt to scrape together some, say, Syrians for a round two and, when we grind them too, an agreement by mid-April or late April."

Even once peace is agreed, skirmishes could continue for a year, according to Arestovich, although Kyiv insists on the complete removal of Moscow troops from Ukraine.

China denies that Russia asked for help

China has refuted claims by US officials that Russia had sought military assistance from Beijing.

"The US has repeatedly spread malicious disinformation against China on the Ukraine issue," the Chinese embassy in London told news agency Reuters in a statement.

"China has been playing a constructive role in promoting peace talks," the statement continued.

"The top priority now is to ease the situation, instead of adding fuel to the fire, and work for diplomatic settlement rather than further escalate the situation."

Russia has also denied making such a request.

Met opera holds special Ukraine benefit

The Metropolitan Opera in New York, known as the "Met," held a special benefit concert for Ukraine on Monday night.

The 90-minute program started with a rendition of Ukraine's national anthem led by Ukrainian bass-baritone Vladyslav Buialskyi.

Last week, the Met dropped Russian soprano Anna Netrebko from future performances as she declined to condemn Russian President Vladimir Putin.

"Members of the Metropolitan Opera company stand in solidarity with the proud Ukrainian people, so strong in the face of such injustice, destruction and death," Met general manager Peter Gelb said while speaking from the stage.

The concert was broadcast on Ukrainian public radio.

Zelenskyy: Russia didn't expect such resistance

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video address late on Monday that Russia "didn't expect such resistance" in Ukraine.

Zelenskyy said that the Russian military was responsible for war crimes and vowed to hold Russian leadership accountable.

"We are working with our partners on new punitive measures against the Russian state," Zelenskyy said.

Zelenskyy confirmed that negotiations between Ukraine and Russia would resume on Tuesday.

UK to host Joint Expeditionary Force meeting

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will on Tuesday host leaders from a number of European countries belonging to the Joint Expeditionary Force.

Besides the United Kingdom, the force includes Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands and Sweden.

Leaders of the group will meet in London, where they are expected to discuss measures to be taken against Russia.

Oil prices dropping sharply again after spike

Crude oil prices dived sharply in early trading in Asia on Tuesday, with the West Texas Intermediate price dipping back below $100 per barrel.

The other major oil price indicator, Brent Crude, sank to $100.54 but remained in three-figure territory.

Oil prices have risen sharply during the conflict in Ukraine, amid concerns over shortages and supply amid sanctions against Russia. Both prices peaked above $120 per barrel, near 14-year highs.

Possible falling demand in China, as the government shuts down the tech hub of Shenzen in a bid to control COVID cases, was attributed to the reduction in price.

Continued talks between Russia and Ukraine also led to cautious optimism among some investors.

Brazil's government also said late on Monday that, after talks with the US, it was willing to increase its oil production in a bid to compensate for any missing Russian stock.

Slovakia expels three Russian diplomats

The Foreign Ministry in Bratislava said late on Monday that Slovakia had given three Russian embassy staff 72 hours to leave the country.

The ministry said they had broken diplomatic rules, without disclosing their identities or their roles at the Russian Embassy.

Meanwhile, Defense Minister Jaoslav Nad told news site Pravda.sk that Slovakia had detained three of its citizens suspected of spying for Russia. He said, "This is just the beginning."

Police confirmed they were investigating suspected espionage but did not comment on domestic media reports on the individuals' identities. Reportedly, they included an officer from the Defense Ministry, an employee at domestic intelligence service SIS, and an employee for pro-Russian media. The SIS said nobody detained was a current employee at the agency.

Russia said it would take retaliatory steps in response to Slovakia's expulsions.

Summary of events in Ukraine-Russia crisis on Monday

Another round of direct talks between Russia and Ukraine closed with little meaningful progress, save a plan for another round later on Tuesday.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy asked Ukrainian lawmakers to extend martial law for another 30 days.

Russian authorities were halting grain exports to the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union, which includes Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan in addition to Russia itself. The Russian government was also temporarily stopping the exports of white sugar and raw sugar to countries outside the bloc.

The move comes amid fears that the war in Ukraine would disrupt the food supply in Europe.

Over 4,000 civilians were transported away from the fighting on Monday, according to Ukraine's Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk, including a convoy of vehicles that left the besieged city of Mariupol.

Jake Sullivan, security adviser to US President Joe Biden, met with Chinese Foreign Policy Advisor Yang Jiechi in Rome for the seven-hour negotiations concerning Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

During talks, Sullivan warned China against supporting Russia.

The World Bank said it was making nearly $200 million (€183 million) in additional and reprogrammed financing to bolster Ukraine's social services for vulnerable people.

Marina Ovsyannikova, an editor at Channel One interrupted a live broadcast on Russian state TV waving a placard reading: "No war, stop the war."

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz made a renewed call for a cease-fire during a visit to Turkey, speaking alongside President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

At least nine people were killed and nine more wounded in an airstrike on a television tower in Ukraine's northern Rivne region, Governor Vitaliy Koval said. Meanwhile, Russia said a Ukrainian strike killed 20 civilians in the rebel-held city of Donetsk, which Ukraine later disputed.

lo, fh, ab, jsi, si/aw (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)

Russian attacks against Ukrainian cities have continued as negotiators from both sides discuss a possible cease-fire (Evgeniy Maloletka/AP Photo/picture alliance)[https://static.dw.com/image/61138679_401.jpg]

Deutsche Welle

文件 DEUEN00020220316ei3f00002


Russia Ukraine Updates: Leaders Of Poland, Czech Republic And Slovenia Will Visit Kyiv Tuesday
Forbes Staff Reports, Forbes Staff
44775 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日
Forbes.com
FBCOM
英文
© 2022 Forbes LLC
Follow real-time updates on Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Firefighters work in an apartment building damaged by shelling in Kyiv, Ukraine.ASSOCIATED PRESS[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/623045218fd514ec1a3fbdd5/960x0.jpg?cropX1=0&cropX2=1667&cropY1=86&cropY2=1023]

March 15, 2022 1:30 PM EST

Chelsea Requests FA Cup Match To Be Played Behind Closed Doors After Abramovich Sanctions Affect Ticket Sales

Chelsea F.C. have asked for its FA Cup match against Middlesbrough F.C. on Saturday to be played behind closed doors “for matters of sporting integrity” as the team is no longer allowed to sell away game tickets due to the sanctions imposed on the team’s owner, Roman Abramovich[https://www.forbes.com/profile/roman-abramovich/].

The team said in a statement[https://www.chelseafc.com/en/news/2022/03/15/middlesbrough-ticket-update?utm_source=tw&utm_medium=orgsoc&utm_campaign=none] some fans were able to purchase a “limited amount of tickets” before the deadline for ticket sales ended, and that discussions about extending the deadline with the U.K.’s Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation failed to yield “appropriate amendments.” Chelsea said it was important for the match to continue, but noted playing behind closed doors would be “the fairest way of proceeding in the current circumstances.”

The U.K. imposed sanctions[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/uk-sanctions-roman-abramovich-and-six-other-russian-oligarchs-freezes-assets-including-chelsea-fc/?sh=52d1cdea4bbd] on Abramovich and several other Russian oligarchs last week, which froze his assets, including Chelsea F.C. and its sale. The British government created a special license[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_QXtt6dc8CiKhnagOFaRKT8-Ijkld2E0nVmRoy92IL8/edit?usp=sharing] to allow Chelsea to continue playing games and engage in other soccer-related activities despite the sanctions against its owner.

— Anna Kaplan

March 15, 2022 1:03 PM EST

Ukraine’s Second-Richest Man Calls On West To Increase Military Aid

Ukrainian billionaire Victor Pinchuk called for the West to step up its aid to Ukraine in an op-ed[https://www.wsj.com/articles/ukraine-needs-beat-putin-kyiv-russia-weapons-antitank-missiles-plane-jet-drones-refugees-civilian-deaths-bombing-shelling-war-nato-11647275205?mod=hp_opin_pos_5#cxrecs_s] published in the Wall Street Journal Monday, specifically asking for additional military support. Pinchuk wrote: “If you want to save us, Ukraine needs planes, antiaircraft and antitank missiles, armed drones and other weapons of war. So I beg our friends in the West: Please give Ukraine the planes and other weapons it needs—now.”

Pinchuk is the second-wealthiest man in Ukraine, according to Forbes’ real-time billionaire tracker[https://www.forbes.com/real-time-billionaires/#32189a683d78], and is worth an estimated $1.9 billion. Pinchuk primarily built his fortune through founding steel producer Interpipe and has strong Western ties, hosting a lunch at the World Economic Forum at Davos annually. Last week, Ukraine’s wealthiest man Rinat Akhmetov, told[https://www.forbes.com/sites/luisakroll/2022/03/10/ukraines-richest-man-rinat-akhmetov-says-hes-doing-everything-he-can-to-help-his-country/?sh=3507ead66841] Forbes Ukraine he “will do everything” and “spare no expense” in supporting Ukraine in its war efforts.

—Derek Saul

March 15, 2022 10:40 AM EST

Nearly 89,000 Brits Offer Homes To Ukrainian Refugees

Around 89,000 people in the U.K. have signed[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/15/homes-for-ukraine-website-crashes-refugees] up to host refugees fleeing Ukraine within hours of the government launching its “ Homes for Ukraine[https://homesforukraine.campaign.gov.uk/] ” scheme. The website for registering interest in housing a refugee reportedly crashed due to the surge in interest.

The scheme offers U.K. residents £350 ($467) a month to provide space for Ukrainian refugees in their homes. Refugees arriving will be able to live and work in the U.K. for up to three years and will have access to local services including schools, healthcare and social benefits.

The government says there is “no limit” to the number of people it will welcome, though the scheme requires individuals to name the refugee they wish to sponsor. Lisa Nandy, the shadow communities secretary in the opposing Labour party, branded[https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2022/mar/14/labour-calls-uks-homes-for-ukraine-plan-a-diy-asylum-scheme] the operation a “DIY asylum scheme” over the requirement.

— Robert Hart

March 15, 2022 10:34 AM EST

Kyiv Mayor Announces One And Half Day Curfew As Russia Steps Up Shelling Of City

Vitali Klitschko, the mayor of Kyiv, announced a 35-hour long curfew in the Ukrainian capital on Tuesday, as the city faces increased bombardment by the Russian military.

The curfew will go into effect at 8 p.m. local time on Tuesday and remain in place till 7 a.m. Thursday morning.

While the curfew is in effect, citizens will be prohibited from moving inside the city without a special pass unless they are asked to go into a bomb shelter.

In an impassioned plea on Telegram Klitschko, the former heavyweight boxer, urged the residents of Kyiv to be prepared to defend the city. “Men of Kiev! Come back! We need to protect our city and our future!”

— Siladitya Ray

March 15, 2022 9:22 AM EST

West Made A ‘Terrible Mistake’ Letting Putin Annex Crimea, Says U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson

The West made a “terrible mistake” by letting Russian President Vladimir Putin “get away” with invading Ukraine and annexing Crimea in 2014, wrote[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/politics/2022/03/14/cannot-go-like-west-must-end-dependence-vladimir-putin/] the U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson in the Telegraph newspaper Monday. He added the West “intensified” economic ties with Russia afterwards and took “more Russian gas than ever before,” leaving it dependent on the “goodwill of Putin” and more exposed to fluctuations in global gas and oil price.

Johnson said the West must break its “addiction” to Russian hydrocarbons, which has “emboldened” Putin to invade Ukraine and subject the world to “continuous blackmail.” Johnson acknowledged that it will be “painful” for the world to give up Russia’s vast fossil fuel reserves but said it is the “only way to force Putin to cease his aggression.”

The U.K. has pledged to phase out Russian oil imports by 2023 and the U.S. has banned Russian oil and gas. The European Union, which imports[https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/science-environment-60664799] a significant amount of fuel from Russia, has vowed to end its use of Russian hydrocarbons as soon as possible. Green, renewable energy sources “are the quickest and cheapest route to greater energy independence,” Johnson said. “They are invulnerable to Putin’s manipulations.”

— Robert Hart

March 15, 2022 9:20 AM EST

Leaders of Poland, Czech Republic And Slovenia Will Visit Kyiv Later Today

The leaders of three counties, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia, will travel to Kyiv to meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, in a bold diplomatic move announced[https://www.gov.pl/web/primeminister/prime-ministers-visit-to-kyiv] by the Polish government on Tuesday.

The visit scheduled to later in the day and would be the first high level visit by foreign leaders to Kyiv since the start of Russia’s invasion.

Poland’s Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša will be visiting the Ukrainian capital as representatives of the European Council.

“The purpose of the visit is to confirm the unequivocal support of the entire European Union for the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine. The aim of this visit is also to present a broad package of support for Ukraine and Ukrainians.” -Polish Prime Minister’s Office

— Siladitya Ray

March 15, 2022 8:29 AM EST

At Least Two People Killed In Kyiv After Early Morning Strikes Hit Residential Buildings

At least two people were killed in Kyiv after residential buildings in Kyiv were hit by multiple strikes early on Tuesday morning, Ukraine’s state emergency services said[https://www.facebook.com/MNS.GOV.UA/posts/332970388870857].

In Kyiv’s western district of Sviatoshynskyi, a nine-story apartment building and a 16-story residential building were hit by shelling sometime after 5 a.m. local time. The nine story building only suffered minor damage with fires being quickly put out. But two people in the larger building were killed by the strike while 35 others were rescued.

At around 6 a.m., a 10-story apartment building in the city’s central Podilskyi District was also struck by shelling, causing a fire on the first five floors. A two-floor private home in Osokorky district in the southern part of the city was also hit by shelling.

— Siladitya Ray

March 15, 2022 6:32 AM EST

War Could Be Over By May As Russia Runs Out Of Resources, Ukrainian Officials Claim

The war could end by early May when the Russian military runs out of necessary resources to continue its invasion of Ukraine, Oleksiy Arestovich, adviser to the Ukrainian president’s chief of staff, claimed on Monday.

According to[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/war-could-be-over-by-may-says-ukrainian-presidential-adviser-2022-03-15/] Reuters, Arestovich said an end date depends on the resources the Kremlin puts into the invasion, adding: “I think that no later than in May, early May, we should have a peace agreement, maybe much earlier, we will see, I am talking about the latest possible dates.”

Arestovich, who has not directly been involved in peace talks, said either a peace deal would be worked out within a week or two—with Russia withdrawing its troops, or there will be attempts to bring in Syrian fighters for “round two” who will also be ground down, followed by an agreement by mid or late April. Another possibility could see conscripts with little training sent to fight, he added.

The basis of Arestovich’s claims remain unclear but questions about Russia’s ability to support a long drawn out campaign has been questioned by some experts.

— Siladitya Ray

March 15, 2022 6:19 AM EST

Russia May Stage Sham Referendum In Kherson, U.K. Defense Ministry Says

The occupying Russian forces may stage a false “referendum” in the city of Kherson in an attempt to legitimize the region as a “breakaway republic” similar to Crimea, Donetsk and Luhansk, the U.K. defense ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1503613213006565377] on Tuesday.

This push comes amid protests by the region’s residents on Monday, who the Russian forces tried to disperse by firing warning shots. Multiple protests have also taken place in other Russian occupied regions including Melitopol and Berdyansk, the report adds.

The update warns that Russia may engage in further attempts to subvert Ukrainian democracy as it attempts to “consolidate political control of Ukraine.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 15, 2022 3:45 AM EST

Reports Of Multiple Loud Explosions In Central Kyiv

Several loud explosions were heard in downtown Kyiv early on Tuesday morning, according to the New York Times. Multiple flashes of lights were seen across the city while other spoke of their beds and windows being rattled.

It is unclear what parts of the city have been hit by the attack.

In the past few days, Russia has stepped up shelling of major urban centers across Ukraine as its ground invasion appears to have been bogged down by logistical challenges and fierce Ukrainian resistance.

— Siladitya Ray

March 15, 2022 1:30 AM EST

Zelensky Thanks Russians Protesting Invasion—Including TV Staffer Who Held Antiwar Sign

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky thanked Russian citizens who have protested their country’s invasion of Ukraine in a speech late Monday night.

“I am grateful to those Russians who do not stop trying to convey the truth,” Zelensky said, according to a translation by CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-14-22/index.html].

Zelensky specifically thanked Marina Ovysannikova, an editor at state television network Russia Channel One who held up a sign during a news broadcast Monday that read, “NO WAR. Stop the war. Do not believe propaganda they tell you lies here.”

Russia has sought to control how its invasion of Ukraine is covered in local news. Some of the country’s only independent news outlets have shut down, and a law passed earlier this month[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-introduce-jail-terms-spreading-fake-information-about-army-2022-03-04/] threatens prison terms of up to 15 years for spreading military information the Russian government deems to be “fake.” Some residents of cities like Moscow and St. Petersburg have protested the war, but OVD-info—an independent human rights group— estimates[https://ovdinfo.org/] Russian authorities have detained nearly 15,000 people at antiwar demonstrations since the invasion began.

March 15, 2022 12:29 AM EST

Satellite Images Show Fires And Destroyed Buildings Across Mariupol

Satellite photos taken Monday by space technology company Maxar show hospitals and residential buildings either destroyed or on fire in the southeastern Ukrainian city of Mariupol, which has been besieged by Russian forces for several days.

Russian troops are north and east of Mariupol, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Monday, and the city has faced frequent attacks from the air[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/14/europe/mariupol-pregnant-woman-baby-death-intl/index.html]. Ukrainian officials estimate[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-14-22/h_3db1542de366d188c4e7979e7b5ecc95] more than 2,500 people have died in Mariupol since the siege began, though independent third parties have yet to verify those figures.

—Mason Bissada

March 14, 2022 11:07 PM EST

Russia Reportedly Requested Surface-To-Air Missiles, Drones From China—US Has ‘Deep Concerns’

Following Sunday’s reports[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/13/us/politics/russia-china-ukraine.html] that Russia requested military and economic assistance from China, the Financial Times on Monday detailed[https://www.ft.com/content/52ea7aab-f8d1-46b6-9d66-18545c5ef9b9] the types of weapons Russia requested. Unnamed officials said Russia requested surface-to-air missiles, drones, armored vehicles, intelligence-related equipment and vehicles for logistics support—and that China had signaled its willingness to provide the equipment, according to the report.

The news follows U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan’s Monday meeting with China’s top diplomat, Yang Jiechi, in Rome. The meeting lasted seven hours and covered a wide range of topics, including China’s relationship with Russia, according to a senior U.S. administration official. The official said the U.S. has “deep concerns about China's alignment with Russia at this time,” and that Sullivan expressed these concerns to Jiechi, along with the “consequences of certain actions.”

Sullivan told[https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2022/03/13/sullivan-on-china.cnn] CNN Sunday there would be consequences if China elects to defy U.S. and NATO sanctions and supply Russia with military and economic support, though he would not say whether the U.S. would go as far as to sanction China.

—Mason Bissada

March 14, 2022 9:06 PM EST

Airbnb Says Over 21,500 New Hosts Signed Up To Host Ukrainian Refugees

An Airbnb representative told Forbes Monday that over 21,500 new Airbnb.org hosts have signed up to host refugees fleeing Ukraine. Roughly 14,000 hosts are in Europe and 4,000 are in the U.S. The company said over $36.7 million has been raised to support Ukranians.

The announcement comes about two weeks after the rental company pledged[https://www.forbes.com/sites/suzannerowankelleher/2022/03/02/airbnb-european-hosts-ukraine/?sh=61e2002f706e] free short-term housing for up to 100,000 displaced refugees.

Over 2.8 million refugees have fled Ukraine since February 24, according to the United Nations.

— Marisa Dellatto

March 14, 2022 8:39 PM EST

Protestor Interrupts Russian State TV News Broadcast

A protestor interrupted a popular nightly Russian state newscast Monday by holding a sign that said, in part, "Russians against war."

The protester, which multiple media outlets identified as Russian Channel One editor Marina Ovysannikova, also shouted “Stop the war! No to war!” for the approximately five seconds she was in on air, according to the Guardian[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/14/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-talks-resume-blockade-black-sea-coast-zelenskiy-putin-live?page=with:block-622fa1b48f080ca367919061#block-622fa1b48f080ca367919061].

In addition to the statement "Russians against war," which was written in English, her sign also read: "NO WAR. Stop the war. Do not believe propaganda they tell you lies here" in Russian, according to a CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-14-22/index.html] translation.

A message[https://t.me/vottaktv/13498] was posted to Ovysannikova's Telegram page following the incident where she says she was "ashamed" to work at Channel One, which spreads "Kremlin propaganda," according to a translation from independent Russian media outlet Meduza[https://meduza.io/en/short/2022/03/14/russian-state-tv-editor-interrupts-live-news-broadcast-with-anti-war-message].

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/nexta_tv/status/1503457922747088902&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 14, 2022 7:54 PM EST

U.S.: Russia Stalled Outside Kyiv And Kharkiv

Russian forces remain about 9.3 miles northwest of Kyiv and are as close as 12.4 miles to the east, as Russia’s advance on the capital city remains stalled, a senior U.S. defense official said.

The Russian military also hasn’t made progress on the ground toward Ukraine’s second-largest city, Kharkiv. A contingent of military vehicles have begun driving southeast of Kharkiv, which the U.S. official framed as a possible attempt to link up with forces in southern Ukraine—where several cities are surrounded or controlled by Russia—and cut off the country’s east.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/03/14/russian-forces-stalled-outside-kyiv-us-says/?sh=6ace61fb6864].

— Joe Walsh

March 14, 2022 7:28 PM EST

Fox News Reporter Injured Near Kyiv

Fox News correspondent Benjamin Hall was injured and hospitalized Monday while reporting outside Kyiv, Fox News anchor John Roberts announced on air Monday afternoon, citing an internal message from Fox News CEO Suzanne Scott.

A "minimal level of details" is available at the moment, Roberts said.

News of Hall's hospitalization comes a day after the State Department confirmed American freelance journalist Brent Renaud[https://www.axios.com/american-journalist-killed-ukraine-624299bb-42aa-4b88-a0ff-2605c7e571fb.html] was killed in Ukraine.

"The safety of our entire team of journalists in Ukraine and the surrounding regions is our top priority," Roberts said.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/oliverdarcy/status/1503445004605394944&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 14, 2022 6:30 PM EST

Ukraine Will Fall Into ‘Deep Recession’: IMF

The International Monetary Fund said it expects Ukraine to enter a “deep recession” due to Russia’s invasion of the country, in a report[https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/CR/Issues/2022/03/10/Ukraine-Request-for-Purchase-under-the-Rapid-Financing-Instrument-and-Cancellation-of-Stand-514148] released Monday. The IMF said Ukraine’s GDP will fall this year 10% “at a minimum” and Ukraine’s real GDP may eventually contract by as much as 35%, based on analysis using data from other recently wartorn countries.

The report was prepared March 7 ahead of the IMF’s approval[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/imf-approves-14-bln-emergency-funding-ukraine-2022-03-09/] of $1.4 billion in financing to Ukraine. The $1.4 billion loan is the most the IMF can directly give to Ukraine in funding and the IMF is in the process of making a trust fund for Ukraine that other countries can donate to, Reuters reported[https://www.reuters.com/world/imf-says-working-bilateral-donor-trust-fund-ukraine-2022-03-14/] Monday, citing an anonymous IMF official.

-Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 4:59 PM EST

White House Is Considering Biden Trip To Europe

The White House is discussing a visit to Europe for President Joe Biden amid Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, several[https://www.cnn.com/2021/10/28/politics/biden-europe-trip/index.html] outlets[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-14/white-house-discussing-plans-for-biden-trip-to-europe?utm_campaign=socialflow-organic&utm_source=twitter&cmpid%3D=socialflow-twitter-politics&utm_content=politics&utm_medium=social] reported Monday. No destinations are finalized, but NBC News[https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/white-house/white-house-considering-possible-biden-trip-europe-rcna19923] and CBS News[https://www.cbsnews.com/news/russia-ukraine-biden-europe-travel-possible/] reported Brussels, the headquarters of NATO and the European Union, is under consideration as a destination. Timing for the trip isn’t finalized, but discussions are for the visit to happen in the “coming weeks,” according to CBS News and NBC News. Biden last traveled[https://www.cnn.com/2021/10/22/politics/biden-g20-rome-pope-francis-cop26-summit/index.html] to Europe in October and November, attending the COP26 Climate Summit in Glasgow and the G20 summit in Rome.

Vice President Kamala Harris and Secretary of State Antony Blinken made separate Ukraine-related diplomatic trips to Europe earlier this month. Blinken briefly stepped[https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/blinken-hears-harrowing-tales-refugees-fleeing-ukraine-rcna18857] on Ukrainian soil during his visit to several countries, while Harris visited Poland and Romania.

—Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 3:47 PM EST

Civilian Death Toll In Ukraine Surpasses 600, According To Official U.N. Count

More than 600 civilians have been killed in Ukraine since Russia invaded last month, according to a Monday update[https://ukraine.un.org/sites/default/files/2022-03/Ukraine%20-%20civilian%20casualty%20update%20as%20of%2024.00%2013%20March%202022%20ENG.pdf] from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR). The U.N. said 636 civilians have been killed thus far—40 more deaths than its Sunday estimate—and another 1,125 have been injured. The U.N. noted it believes the true death toll is much higher and it is working to verify casualty figures reported by the Ukrainian government in several cities.

—Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 3:17 PM EST

Zelensky Will Address Congress

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will deliver a virtual address to both chambers of Congress Wednesday at 9 a.m. EST, according[https://twitter.com/sahilkapur/status/1503367275990200323?s=20&t=E-aHc3fHcV5cmteep0w4mQ] to a joint letter from Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY). The U.S. intends to “​​convey [congressional] support to the people of Ukraine as they bravely defend democracy” during the speech, Pelosi and Schumer said in the letter. Zelensky conducted[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/05/politics/ukraine-russia-zelensky-us-lawmakers/index.html] a Zoom meeting with some members of the House and Senate March 5, and the British Parliament gave[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/08/zelensky-uk-parliament-address-war-ukraine/] Zelensky a standing ovation last Tuesday during a video address.

—Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 2:44 PM EST

Fourth Round Of Ceasefire Talks Break Monday Without Agreement But Will Resume Tuesday, Ukraine Says

The Russian and Ukrainian delegations conducting their fourth round of ceasefire talks took a "technical pause" until Tuesday for sides to independently deliberate, tweeted[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1503369315978027015?s=20&t=Uqg_rVOTG2cgjENqrWvFYw] Mykhailo Podolyak, an advisor to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky involved in the negotiations.

Podolyak said the negotiation will resume Tuesday after conducting “additional work in the working subgroups and clarification of individual definitions.”

Monday’s meeting was conducted virtually, unlike prior talks which were held in-person in Belarus and Turkey. Podolyak and Leonid Slutsky, a Russian delegate in the talks, each expressed optimism Sunday some sort of agreement could be reached this week.

—Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 1:40 PM EST

Zelensky Calls For Savings Security, Lower Taxes Amid War

In his Monday video address, Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelensky called for lower taxes for Ukrainian businesses and for the guarantee of "security of assets and savings" of Ukrainians, according[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/sogodni-dobrovolcyami-ye-vsi-hto-vidchuvaye-vilnij-poklik-do-73557] to an English translation of the speech provided by the Ukrainian government.

The Ukrainian government is working on these new measures intended to provide stability to small and medium business and everyday citizens, Zelensky said, adding there will be an official announcement within days.

Zelensky has rarely discussed day-to-day Ukrainian economic policy since the war began last month, but his shift to economic matters began Sunday when he pressed[https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2022/03/13/zelensky-presses-companies-microsoft-sap-and-oracle-to-punish-russia-more/?sh=4cfb9e241ffe] technology companies Microsoft, Oracle and SAP to ramp up their measures to punish Russia in a tweet.

In the speech, Zelensky confirmed the fourth round of talks between Russia and Ukraine were ongoing, and said Ukraine will give an update on the “difficult negotiations” later Monday.

—Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 12:21 PM EST

Pfizer Says It Will Donate Russian Profits To Ukrainian Causes

Pfizer will donate all profits from its Russia subsidiary to humanitarian efforts supporting Ukraine but continue to sell medicines in Russia, the company announced[https://www.pfizer.com/news/press-release/press-release-detail/pfizer-updates-company-position-russia] Monday. Additionally, Pfizer said it will phase out clinical trials in Russia and pull out of partnerships with Russian manufacturers.

Read more here.[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/14/pfizer-will-donate-all-russian-profits-to-ukrainian-relief-efforts/?sh=43addeed4a4f]

—Derek Saul

March 14, 2022 11:00 AM EST

1.3 Million Children Among 2.8 Million Refugees Who Have Fled Ukraine

Nearly 1.35 million children have been forced to flee Ukraine since Russia’s invasion of the country last month, a UNICEF spokesperson told Forbes on Monday.

“Obviously as numbers come in from the weekend this number will only increase. We also believe more than 1 million children are displaced within the country,” Joe English, UNICEF spokesperson said in an emailed statement.

In total, more than 2.8 million refugees[https://data2.unhcr.org/en/situations/ukraine] have fled Ukraine since the start of the invasion, including 1.7 million people who have entered neighboring Poland.

— Robert Hart

March 14, 2022 10:30 AM EST

Fourth Round Of Talks Between Russia And Ukraine Begin

A fourth round of talks between Ukraine and Russia have begun[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1503312641896370178], according to the lead Ukrainian negotiator Mikhail Podolyak.

Monday’s talks are being held virtually, unlike all previous talks which were held in Belarus and Turkey.

On Twitter, Podolyak outlined[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1503287133964054530] Ukraine’s expectations which included a ceasefire and an immediate withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine’s territory.

Podolyak added that the ongoing discussions were “hard” and the reason for this was the contrast between Ukraine’s culture of free speech and consensus versus Russia’s ultimatum driven approach.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 9:58 AM EST

90 Children Have Been Killed, More Than 100 Wounded Since Russian Invasion, Ukrainian Prosecutor General Says

Ninety children have been killed[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukrainian-general-prosecutors-office-says-90-children-have-been-killed-ukraine-2022-03-14/] and more than 100 wounded in Ukraine since Russia’s invasion of the country last month, Ukrainian general prosecutor’s office revealed on Monday.

“The highest number of victims are in the Kyiv, Kharkiv, Donetsk, Chernihiv, Sumy, Kherson, Mykolayiv and Zhytomyr regions,” the official added.

As of last week, an estimated[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/08/more-than-2-million-refugees-flee-ukraine---half-of-them-are-children/?sh=6dbe321a7f39] 1 million child refugees had fled the conflict in Ukraine.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 9:25 AM EST

Pregnant Woman And Baby Killed By Russian Strike On Mariupol Hospital

A pregnant woman and baby died following a Russian attack on the maternity hospital Mariupol last week, the Associated Press reported[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-health-europe-c0f2f859296f9f02be24fc9edfca1085] on Monday.

Images[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-health-europe-c0f2f859296f9f02be24fc9edfca1085/gallery/0c824c429f0f4bfbb1c5cea372219a22] of the heavily pregnant woman being carried off in a stretcher by emergency worker were widely published after the Russian strike on the hospital that has been denounced by many, including Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, as a war crime.

AP reported that the woman was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital and doctors said her said her pelvis had been crushed and her hip detached. The baby was delivered following a cesarean section but showed “no signs of life” and the mother was declared dead after doctors tried to resuscitate her.

Another woman, Marianna Podgurska, who was also photographed rushing out of the hospital after it was bombed, gave birth[https://www.thedailybeast.com/marianna-podgurska-beauty-blogger-who-was-smeared-as-crisis-actor-in-ukraine-hospital-bombing-gives-birth?ref=author] to a baby girl later. Podgurska, a beauty vlogger, was the subject of a baseless conspiracy theory pushed by Russian officials who claimed that she was a “crisis actor.” This has since been debunked.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 7:24 AM EST

WHO Outlines Plans To Deliver Medical Supplies To Ukraine, Condemns Attacks On Health Care

The World Health Organization on Monday said it was coordinating the delivery of critical medical equipment and drugs to Ukraine as its healthcare system grapples with supply shortages.

In a statement[https://www.euro.who.int/en/media-centre/sections/press-releases/2022/who-is-working-day-and-night-to-keep-medical-supply-chains-open-and-preserve-ukraines-health-system], the WHO said that a total of 18 million people have been affected by the Russian invasion, including 6.7 million who have been internally displaced and 3 million refugees who have left the country.

The global agency has set up a hub in neighboring Poland to support operations into Ukraine and stepped up surveillance of possible disease outbreaks in the country. The relief mission is being carried out in coordination with Ukraine’s health ministry.

“The coming days and weeks will see a constant flow of medical supplies, as part of an effort to ensure people’s access to essential drugs and medical care.”— WHO Statement

The WHO also condemned attacks on medical facilities inside Ukraine, saying: “Every single attack deprives people of life-saving services. Attacks on health care are violations of international humanitarian law and human rights.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 6:53 AM EST

Two People Killed, Three Injured After Building Outside Kyiv Is Struck By Shelling

Two people were killed and three others were injured after a residential building outside Kyiv was struck by Russian shelling, Ukraine’s state emergency services said[https://www.facebook.com/MNS.GOV.UA/posts/332362435598319] on Facebook.

“As of 07:40, the bodies of 2 people were found in a nine-storey residential building, 3 people were hospitalized, 9 people were treated on the spot,” the agency said, adding that a nine-storey building had caught fire due to Russia shelling early on Monday morning.

Emergency workers managed to rescue 15 people from the blaze, while 63 other were evacuated from the building.

Over the weekend, Russia stepped up its bombardment of several major cities across Ukraine as it makes a fresh push to overrun the capital city.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 6:42 AM EST

Australia Sanctions 33 Russian Oligarchs Including Roman Abramovich

The Australian government on Monday issued[https://www.foreignminister.gov.au/minister/marise-payne/media-release/australia-joins-uk-and-us-sanctioning-key-russian-oligarchs] fresh sanctions against 33 Russian oligarchs including billionaire Roman Abramovich, whose assets were frozen by the U.K. government last week.

Other key targets of Russia’s sanctions included Gazprom CEO Alexey Miller and Bank Rossiya chairperson Dmitri Lebedev. The fresh sanctions mirror similar actions undertaken by the U.S., U.K., Canada and the European Union.

“We will continue to coordinate closely with our partners to impose a high cost on Russia for its actions,” Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said in a statement announcing the sanctions.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 6:24 AM EST

Chechen Leader Kadyrov Claims He's Joined Russian Troops Near Kyiv

Ramzan Kadyrov, the autocratic leader of Russia’s Chechnya region, claims[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/13/world/ukraine-russia-war/chechen-strongman-claims-he-has-joined-russian-troops-outside-kyiv] he has joined Russian forces near Kyiv. In a video shared on Telegram, Kadyrov is seen speaking with members of the Chechen militia who are fighting alongside Russian troops in Ukraine.

Kadyrov claims the video was shot near Hostomel airfield near Kyiv and said: “The other day we were about 20km from you Kyiv Nazis and now we are even closer.” He called on Ukrainian forces to surrender “or you will be finished.” The Chechen strongman’s claims, however, have not been verified.

Kadyrov’s militiamen have been accused of serious human rights abuses in the Chechnya region of Russia.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 5:36 AM EST

Russian Billionaire Melnichenko Calls For The End Of War

Russian billionaire Andrei Melnichenko called the war in Ukraine a tragedy and urged for it to be stopped, warning that it will lead to a global food crisis.

The coal and fertilizer magnate told[https://www.reuters.com/world/exclusive-ukraine-war-must-end-russias-fertiliser-coal-king-says-2022-03-14/] Reuters on Monday that the “events in Ukraine are truly tragic,” and there was an urgent need for peace. The billionaire, however, stopped short of urging Putin or the Russian government to end hostilities.

Melnichenko, who’s mother is Ukrainian, said: “As a Russian by nationality, a Belarusian by birth, and a Ukrainian by blood, I feel great pain and disbelief witnessing brotherly peoples fighting and dying.”

The coal and fertilizer tycoon is among several Russian oligarchs who have been targeted by Western sanctions. Last week, Melnichenko’s yacht was seized[https://www.forbes.com/sites/giacomotognini/2022/03/12/italian-police-freeze-russian-billionaire-andrey-melnichenkos-sailing-yacht-a/?sh=41e6e57b3946] by Italian authorities owing to EU sanctions.

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 4:11 AM EST

Melitopol's Russian Installed Mayor Faces Treason Investigation

The Ukrainian prosecutor general has initiated a treason investigation into Galina Danilchenko, who was recently installed as the mayor of the Russian-occupied city of Melitopol. Danilchenko took over the role after the city’s elected mayor Ivan Fedorov was allegedly abducted by Russian forces last week.

The treason investigation into Danilchenko comes after members of the Melitopol City Council called for criminal proceedings against her for “the high crime of treason, for attempting to set up an occupying government in Melitopol,” CNN reports.

In a televised address on Sunday, Danilchenko said that “Russian TV channels” would begin broadcasting in the occupied region, claiming there was “a great deficit of trustworthy information being circulated.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 14, 2022 1:47 AM EST

Chinese Embassy Spokesperson Denies Reports Russia Asked Them For Military Aid

Liu Pengyu, a spokesperson for China’s embassy in Washington, told[https://www.reuters.com/world/white-house-adviser-discuss-russias-war-ukraine-with-chinas-top-diplomat-source-2022-03-13/] Reuters Sunday he’d “never heard of” Russia requesting military and economic aid from China following reports of such requests from the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/13/us/politics/russia-china-ukraine.html] and Financial Times[https://www.ft.com/content/30850470-8c8c-4b53-aa39-01497064a7b7], who spoke with unnamed U.S. officials.

Pengyu told Reuters China finds the current situation in Ukraine “disconcerting,” and supports a “peaceful settlement of the crisis.”

Liu added, "utmost efforts should be made to support Russia and Ukraine in carrying forward negotiations despite the difficult situation to produce a peaceful outcome."

The reports from the New York Times and Financial Times did not outline China’s response to the alleged requests, nor include specifics as to the type of military aid Russia might have requested.

U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan is set to meet with Chinese foreign policy official Yang Jiechi in Rome Monday to discuss China’s relationship with Russia. Sullivan told[https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2022/03/13/sullivan-on-china.cnn] CNN Sunday China would face consequences if it aided Russia financially, as heavy sanctions by the U.S. and NATO allies have decimated Russia’s economy. Sullivan would not confirm whether the U.S. would go as far as to sanction China as punishment for aiding Russia.

—Mason Bissada

March 13, 2022 11:43 PM EST

WHO, U.N. Agencies Demand End To Attacks On Health Care Services, Workers In Ukraine

The World Health Organization, the U.N. Population Fund and UNICEF called for the halt of all attacks on health care systems in Ukraine, the three organizations said in a joint statement[https://www.who.int/news/item/13-03-2022-stop-attacks-on-health-care-in-ukraine] Sunday.

"To attack the most vulnerable – babies, children, pregnant women, and those already suffering from illness and disease, and health workers risking their own lives to save lives – is an act of unconscionable cruelty,” the organizations wrote.

The organizations also called for an immediate ceasefire to allow for humanitarian assistance and a peaceful end to the war.

The release pointed to the WHO’s Surveillance System for Attacks on Health Care, which found at least 12 people have died and at least 34 have been injured as a result of attacks in which health care facilities in Ukraine were damaged or destroyed.

On Thursday, Russian airstrikes and shelling leveled[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/photos-russian-airstrikes-demolish-maternity-hospital-and-houses-in-mariupol/?sh=71624dfa4eb5] multiple civilian buildings in the south eastern Ukrainian port city of Mariupol, including a maternity hospital, killing at least three people including one child, according[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-ap-news-alert-europe-38f781a1977432b5d660cbc578eb5c07] to Mariupol’s city council via the Associated Press.

—Mason Bissada

March 13, 2022 10:34 PM EST

Russia Threatens Western Companies It Could Arrest Leaders For Criticism, Report Says

Russian prosecutors have threatened to arrest corporate leaders of Western companies in Russia if they criticize the government, the Wall Street Journal reported[https://www.wsj.com/articles/russian-prosecutors-warn-western-companies-of-arrests-asset-seizures-11647206193] Sunday based on unnamed sources. Prosecutors also threatened to seize the assets of companies that pull out of Russia, as dozens have in recent weeks following the country’s invasion of Ukraine.

Russian President Vladimir Putin last week advocated for a law that would nationalize assets of foreign companies across several sectors that have pulled out Russia, the report said.

The report comes the same day that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called on American companies Microsoft, Oracle and SAP to “stop supporting your products in Russia, stop the war!” Zelensky deemed the companies’ efforts “‘half’ decisions.” Read more about Zelensky’s comments here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2022/03/13/zelensky-presses-companies-microsoft-sap-and-oracle-to-punish-russia-more/?sh=4dc524941ffe].

Find a running list of companies that have distanced themselves from Russia since it began its invasion of Ukraine here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/11/youtube-disney-goldman-sachs-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=2fef1635662d].

—Mason Bissada

March 13, 2022 9:55 PM EST

Russia Reportedly Asks China For Military Aid For Ukraine Invasion

Russia has requested military equipment from China to use in its invasion of Ukraine, unnamed U.S. officials told[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/13/us/politics/russia-china-ukraine.html] the New York Times Sunday, which reported that Russia also requested financial support from China as heavy sanctions continue to tank Russia’s economy.

The report comes a day before White House National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan is set to meet[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/13/politics/jake-sullivan-meeting-chinese-counterpart-ukraine/index.html] with Chinese foreign policy official Yang Jiechi in Rome to discuss China’s relationship with Russia. “We have communicated to Beijing that we will not stand by and allow any country to compensate Russia for its losses from the economic sanctions,” Sullivan said[https://www.cnn.com/videos/politics/2022/03/13/sullivan-on-china.cnn] to CNN Sunday, adding there would be consequences if China backed Russia financially, though he would not outright say if the U.S. would sanction China.

Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi said at a press conference Monday the country’s relationship with Russia “is valued for its independence,” and that the Chinese government aims to keep the relationship “free from interference or discord sown by third parties,” according[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/07/china-upholds-its-relationship-with-russia-says-negotiations-needed-to-solve-ukraine-conflict.html] to CNBC.

Sullivan also confirmed that the U.S. believes China knew that Russia “was planning something” before the invasion, though it’s unclear what exactly China knew. “The Times report suggests many U.S. officials believe it unlikely China will attempt to convince Putin to shift his stance on Ukraine, despite the Biden administration’s hopes for such an attempt.

—Mason Bissada

March 13, 2022 7:53 PM EST

Tulsi Gabbard Spreads Russian-Backed Biological Labs Conspiracy

Former presidential candidate and congress member Tulsi Gabbard shared unsubstantiated claims Sunday about the U.S. backing biological laboratories in Ukraine, propping up potentially dangerous, false Russian propaganda about the U.S. developing bioweapons in Ukraine.

Read more on Gabbard’s comments and the popular but unfounded conspiracy here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2022/03/13/tulsi-gabbard-latest-to-push-russian-backed-conspiracy-about-us-backed-biological-labs-in-ukraine/?sh=536c61e95522].

March 13, 2022 3:44 PM EST

Russia, Ukraine Say Some Sort Of Agreement Can Come In ‘Days’—But U.S. Warns Putin Still Out For Destruction

Members of Russia and Ukraine’s negotiating delegations independently said Sunday they see progress on negotiations and an agreement could come as soon as this week.

Mykhailo Podolyak, an advisor to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, said in a video posted[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1502982017667026945?s=20&t=3Lm3aEGkxLcWIJZSXz60fA] to his Twitter and translated[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russian-delegate-says-talks-with-ukraine-may-soon-produce-draft-agreements-2022-03-13/] to Reuters, "I think that we will achieve some results literally in a matter of days,” clarifying Ukraine doesn’t plan to “concede” on any major issues. Russian and Ukrainian delegations plan to conduct their fourth round of negotiations early this week, the Kyiv Independent reported[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1502990336725078025], citing Podolyak.

Leonid Slutsky, the chairman of the Russian Duma's committee on international affairs, said[https://tass.com/politics/1421439] he sees “considerable progress” in negotiations according to Russian news agency TASS and “this progress may develop into a common stance within days and some documents to be signed.”

U.S. Deputy Sec. of State Wendy R. Sherman said[https://video.foxnews.com/v/6300527397001#sp=show-clips] on Fox News Sunday she sees progress in discussions, but warned she believes Russian President Vladimir Putin intends to continue the Russian invasion. Sherman said, “We are seeing some signs of a willingness to have real, serious negotiations, but…so far, it appears that Vladimir Putin is intent on destroying Ukraine.”

—Derek Saul

March 13, 2022 2:22 PM EST

American Journalist Killed In Ukraine

American journalist Brent Renaud was killed Sunday in Irpin, a small city outside of Kyiv, according[https://twitter.com/ChristopherJM/status/1502998026863919105] to a social media post reportedly from the Kyiv regional police chief and later acknowledged by the New York Times, where Renaud’ had contributed through the years.

Cliff Levy, a Times deputy managing editor, said in a Sunday morning tweet[https://twitter.com/cliffordlevy/status/1502994874068762629?s=21] the Times is “deeply saddened” to hear about Renaud’s death, calling him a “ talented photographer and filmmaker.”

Renaud was a Peabody Award-winning filmmaker, producing humanitarian documentaries across several continents alongside his brother, Craig Renaud. The Times said[https://twitter.com/cliffordlevy/status/1502994874068762629/photo/1] he last worked for the publication in 2015, though used a Times press badge in his Ukraine coverage.

Jane Ferguson, a contributor to PBS and the New Yorker, said[https://twitter.com/janeferguson5/status/1503000669153808387?s=21] a Ukrainian police officer told her at the site where Renaud was killed: “Tell America, tell the world, what they did to a journalist,” indicating Russian forces killed Renaud.

U.S. National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said[https://twitter.com/katierogers/status/1502994156511191042?s=20&t=hFGPfzHFzeAUozRV0yv6dw] on CBS’ Face The Nation the news was “shocking and horrifying,” and the U.S. “will be responding accordingly.”

—Derek Saul

March 13, 2022 12:51 PM EST

Key developments: Ukraine Alleges Another Mayor Abduction, Pope Calls Russian Tactics 'Barbaric'

Russian forces kidnapped the mayor of Dniprorudne, a small city in southern Ukraine, Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraine’s minister of foreign affairs, said in a Sunday tweet[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1502945209159761923]. Ukrainian authorities alleged Russian forces kidnapped Ivan Fedorov, the mayor of Melitopol, earlier this week.

Josep Borrell, the European Union’s high representative for foreign affairs, said the EU “strongly condemns” alleged abduction in Dniprorudne in a Sunday tweet[https://twitter.com/JosepBorrellF/status/1502968243371270144?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet], writing, “It is yet another attack on democratic institutions in #Ukraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukraine?src=hashtag_click] and an attempt to establish illegitimate alternative government structures in a sovereign country.”

Here are additional updates from Sunday morning:

* Almost 125,000 Ukrainians have evacuated via humanitarian corridors, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/nearly-125000-people-evacuated-via-humanitarian-corridors-ukraine-says-president-2022-03-13/] Sunday, and a convoy of humanitarian supplies is about 50 miles from Mariupol, a besieged city of about 400,000 that’s received widespread international attention for unsafe conditions for civilians.

* Pope Francis called[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-13-22/index.html] Russia’s targeting of civilians “barbaric” during a Sunday morning address in Vatican City, adding, "All that is needed is to stop the unacceptable armed aggression before it reduces cities to cemeteries."

* Polish President Andrzej Duda said it would be a “game changer” for NATO if Russia used chemical weapons in Ukraine during a Sunday interview[https://twitter.com/BBCPolitics/status/1502939673123078144?s=20&t=c0XbVeD55NkngAitzzoDQQ] with the BBC, coming shortly after NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg warned[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/nato-chief-says-russia-may-use-chemical-weapons-german-paper-2022-03-13/] Russia may soon resort to chemical weapons.

—Derek Saul

March 13, 2022 11:30 AM EST

Death Toll From Russian Missile Strike Near Lviv Rises To 35

The death toll from Russia’s air strikes on a military training center on the outskirts of Lviv—near the Polish border—rose to 35, the Lviv regional administration announced on Sunday.

An additional 134 people were injured in the strike and are now hospitalized, the authorities added, noting that the early morning strikes were carried out warplanes flying over the Azov and Black Sea.

In a statement[https://www.facebook.com/maks.kozytskyy/posts/4888495511187084] on Facebook, the regional governor of Lviv Maksym Kozytskyy said “Once again I stress and appeal to all governments of NATO countries: NATO, close the sky over Ukraine! Close the sky over Ukraine or provide us military planes! Now that the shelling is approaching the borders of NATO countries, is that crucial moment!”

— Siladitya Ray

March 13, 2022 10:47 AM EST

U.K. Gov't Urges Companies To Inflict 'Maximum Economic Pain' On Putin's Regime

The U.K.’s Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak, issued a warning[https://twitter.com/RishiSunak/status/1502942902187659272] to companies on Sunday “to think very carefully” about any investments that would aid Vladimir Putin’s regime, as London looked step up economic sanctions against Moscow.

Sunak said he was clear that there is no case for new investment in Russia and welcomed commitments made by companies to divest away from Russian assets.

“I welcome the consensus on the need to inflict maximum economic pain on Putin and his regime.” Sunak added.

— Siladitya Ray

March 13, 2022 9:35 AM EST

Nine Dead, 57 Injured After Russian Missile Strike Near Lviv

Nine people were killed by a barrage of Russian missiles which struck the Yavoriv military training ground near the western Ukrainian city of Lviv on Sunday, regional authorities said[https://www.facebook.com/maks.kozytskyy/posts/4888291591207476].

An additional 57 people were injured in the strike and are now hospitalized, the authorities added, noting that not all casualties were military personnel.

The strike took place a few dozen kilometers near the Polish border with more than 30 missiles being fired, according to the authorities. They added that the region’s air defense systems managed to intercept some of the projectiles but were overwhelmed by the sheer number Russian missiles.

Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov tweeted:

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=cfc0fb0733504c77aa4a6ac07caaffc7&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/oleksiireznikov/status/1502911608242196482&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D8804248494c144f5b4765c41f66c6ed5]

— Siladitya Ray

March 13, 2022 8:48 AM EST

Russian Forces Trying To 'Envelop' Ukrainian Soldiers In The East, U.K. Defense Ministry Says

Russian forces are attempting to “envelop” Ukrainian soldiers in the eastern part of the country as they advance both from Kharkiv in the north and Mariupol in the south, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1502900346703814657] on Sunday.

The report notes that Russia’s southern advance from Crimea is now looking to drive west towards Odessa, circumventing Mykolaiv where they have faced stiff resistance.

The update claims that Russia is “paying a high price” for each of its advance.

— Siladitya Ray

March 13, 2022 5:46 AM EST

Russian Forces Fire Missiles At Lviv In Western Ukraine

Russian forces fired as many as eight missiles at a military base in western Ukraine on Sunday, regional governor of Lviv said[https://www.facebook.com/maks.kozytskyy/posts/4887940117909290] on Facebook.

The missiles reportedly[https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-13-22/h_fdbfd051bea0b2089482e60467d72a1d] struck the International Peacekeeping and Security Center (IPSC), a large military base that trains soldiers—primarily for peacekeeping missions.

The strikes come after several news outlets reported air raid sirens and explosion on the outskirts of the city of Lviv earlier. The city which is close to the Polish border has emerged a refuge for people fleeing fighting in the eastern half of the country and an important transit point for supplies entering the country.

The western city had largely been left untouched by the invading Russian forces so far. However, Sunday’s attack indicates that Russia may be expanding its offensive.

— Siladitya Ray

March 13, 2022 4:00 AM EST

Russia Installs New Mayor In Melitopol After Abduction Of Previous One

The Russian military has installed a new mayor in the occupied Ukrainian city of Melitopol on Saturday after the alleged abduction of the city’s mayor Ivan Fedorov earlier in the week.

The newly installed mayor, Galina Danilchenko, issued a video statement stating that her main task is to lead the city to adjust to “a new reality.” However, she has immediately been denounced[https://twitter.com/NeilMacFarquhar/status/1502804264372125707] as a “traitor” by regional officials.

Danilchenko, reportedly a former member of the city council, claimed in her televised announcement that there were people still in Melitopol who would try to destabilise “the situation and provoke a reaction of bad behaviour.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 12, 2022 11:29 PM EST

Ukraine Says Russia Seeking To Take Permanent Control Of Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant

Ukraine believes Russia is taking steps to seize “full and permanent” control of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, where around 400 Russian soldiers are present, the International Atomic Energy Agency said in a statement[https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/pressreleases/update-19-iaea-director-general-statement-on-situation-in-ukraine] Saturday, adding that Russian authorities denied the accusation.

Energoatom, Ukraine’s state-run nuclear energy company, told the IAEA that Russia plans to hand over the management of Europe’s largest nuclear power plant, which its troops seized last week, to Russia’s state-run company Rosatom, the statement said.

Rosatom Director General Alexei Likhachev denied to the IAEA that it had any plans to take over management of the power plant but admitted Russian experts were at the plant to provide “consultative assistance,” the statement said.

Energoatom said Saturday morning that one of the 11 Rosatom officials who arrived at the plant Friday claimed the plant belonged to Russia, CNN reported[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-12-22/h_58411049df7971c8fd14eaee4aa4f910].

Russian military forces captured the plant March 4, which has six reactors, and Energoatom has said its employees have since been working at “gunpoint,” CNN reported[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-12-22/h_58411049df7971c8fd14eaee4aa4f910].

Two of the four high voltage offsite power lines have been damaged but a functioning power line can provide the power the plant needs, the IAEAsaid.

– Lisa Kim

March 12, 2022 10:12 PM EST

Around 13,000 Ukrainians Evacuated From Cities Saturday, Deputy Prime Minister Says

Around 13,000 people evacuated embattled Ukrainian cities through humanitarian corridors on Saturday, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said, according to Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/some-13000-ukrainians-evacuated-cities-saturday-deputy-pm-says-2022-03-12/].

Russian troops prevented anyone from leaving the besieged city of Mariupol, she said, refuting accusations by Moscow that Ukrainian forces were keeping people in the city. Mariupol is in a dire humanitarian situation, with Doctors Without Borders warning that residents have not had drinking water for weeks, food is running out and patients are dying from a lack of medicine, CNN reported[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-12-22/h_f0005e75a91eef9e59307f9f91dbbd9d]. Russian attacks had killed more than 1,500 civilians in Mariupol as of Friday, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said in a tweet[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1502357027934416897?s=20&t=lHGWWLn1v4RMyXdkFMB8jw].

— Lisa Kim

March 12, 2022 7:40 PM EST

Moscow Stock Exchange To Stay Closed For Third Week

The Russian Central Bank said the Moscow Stock Exchange will remain closed next week through March 18, marking the third week in a row that trading will be halted on the country’s main stock market. The central bank said foreign exchange transactions will be allowed to resume Monday morning.

The Moscow Exchange hasn’t opened since February 25, one day after the Russian invasion[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/02/23/russia-orders-special-military-operation-in-ukraine/] into Ukraine began, and days before several Western countries imposed[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/02/26/us-and-allies-to-remove-some-russian-banks-from-swift-sanction-central-bank/] harsh economic sanctions on Russia’s economy. Shares of Russian companies listed on overseas exchanges have plummeted since the invasion began.

— Anna Kaplan

March 12, 2022 6:03 PM EST

Ukrainian Civilian Casualties Rise Over 1,500, U.N. Says

Russia’s invasion into Ukraine has caused 1,581 casualties since the war began, the United Nations said[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28273&LangID=E] Saturday, though the organization believes the actual figures are “considerably higher.” The U.N.’s Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights said 579 civilians had been killed, including 42 children, and 1,002 had been injured.

The U.N. office said most of the casualties had been caused by “explosive weapons with a wide impact area,” including shelling and missile strikes. The organization cited delayed information from areas with intense fighting and reports pending corroboration as reasons why its figures may be an underestimate. It noted reports from the Prosecutor General’s Office of Ukraine, which alleged[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1502574444493127687?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] 79 children had been killed, and allegations of hundreds of casualties in the cities of Izium, Mariupol and Volnovakha. The figures released Saturday do not include casualty statistics from those areas.

— Anna Kaplan

March 12, 2022 5:00 PM EST

White House Authorizes Another $200 Million In Military Aid For Ukraine

President Joe Biden authorized[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/12/memorandum-on-the-delegation-of-authority-under-section-506a1-of-the-foreign-assistance-act-of-1961/] a $200 million aid package for Ukraine on Saturday that will provide defense articles and services, and military education and training. In a memo[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/12/memorandum-on-the-delegation-of-authority-under-section-506a1-of-the-foreign-assistance-act-of-1961/] released by the White House, Biden delegated Secretary of State Antony Blinken to direct the funds to Ukraine as part of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, which allows[https://www.dsca.mil/sites/default/files/drawdown_handbook_2004b.pdf] a president to authorize a drawdown, or the “disposition of United States property or services,” to a foreign nation during an emergency.

White House officials told reporters the new aid includes more man-portable Stinger anti-aircraft missile systems and Javelin anti-tank missiles.

Earlier in the day, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said that Russia could attack shipments of military aid for Ukraine, describing them as “ legitimate targets[https://www.politico.com/news/2022/03/12/russia-warns-u-s-over-arms-shipments-to-ukraine-00016820].”

This is the fourth drawdown package from the U.S. to Ukraine in the past year, and a senior U.S. defense official told reporters last week Biden’s last drawdown[https://www.state.gov/additional-military-assistance-for-ukraine/] of $350 million constituted “the largest presidential drawdown package in history.” Another senior U.S. defense official told reporters on Wednesday the U.S. is very close to delivering the $350 million aid package, and expected for it to be completely closed out “in the coming days.”

Congress also passed a $1.5 trillion spending bill[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/10/senate-passes-15-trillion-spending-bill-with-14-billion-for-ukraine-aid-heres-whats-in-it/?sh=1af1676eb713] earlier this week, which appropriated $13.6 billion in emergency aid to Ukraine to help displaced refugees, provide military assistance and for any macroeconomic needs, according[https://appropriations.house.gov/sites/democrats.appropriations.house.gov/files/Ukraine%20Fact%20Sheet.pdf] to the House Committee on Appropriations.

— Anna Kaplan

March 12, 2022 3:10 PM EST

Ukraine Reveals Winning Design For ‘Russian Warship, Go F—k Yourself’ Stamp

The Ukrainian postal service announced[https://www.ukrposhta.ua/en/news/57585-obrano-eskiz-dlja-poshtovoi-marki-russkij-voennyj-korabl-idi-nauj] the winning design of its “Russian Warship, Go F–k Yourself” stamp contest Saturday to commemorate the soldiers who reportedly cursed[https://www.politico.eu/article/go-fuck-yourself-ukraine-soldiers-snake-island-russia-war-ship-killed/] at invading Russian troops on Snake Island when they were asked to surrender. Ukraine’s First Deputy Foreign Minister Emine Dzheppar shared the design in a tweet[https://twitter.com/EmineDzheppar/status/1502545496614789126], and said the postal service will soon publish the stamp.

Ukrposhta, the country’s postal service, offered up 20 designs for a public vote[https://www.facebook.com/ukrposhta/posts/4970728059640475]. The winner was made by Boris Groh, a Ukrainian who was forced to move from his home in Crimea after Russia’s annexation of it in 2014, according to Ukrposhta[https://www.ukrposhta.ua/en/news/57585-obrano-eskiz-dlja-poshtovoi-marki-russkij-voennyj-korabl-idi-nauj].

The stamp commemorates one of the most inspiring acts of defiance in the war so far by outgunned Ukrainians. In the early days of the invasion, a Russian warship hailed a small force of 13 Ukrainian border guards on Snake Island, which is about 186 miles west of Crimea, and told them to surrender. They reportedly[https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/02/25/snake-island-russian-warship-ukraine/] responded, “Russian warship, go f–k yourself.”

All 13 were initially thought to have been killed, leading Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to announce[https://twitter.com/washingtonpost/status/1497187425071865870] he would posthumously award them with the Hero of Ukraine award. However, the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine later wrote in a Facebook post[https://www.facebook.com/DPSUkraine/] it has a “strong belief” they may still be alive.

— Anna Kaplan

March 12, 2022 2:30 PM EST

Ukraine Is Inflicting ‘Biggest Blow’ To Russian Army In Decades, Zelensky Claims

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky claimed Saturday in a speech[https://president.gov.ua/en/news/chas-buti-efektivnimi-v-rutinnih-spravah-i-viddavati-vse-neo-73509] that Ukrainian forces had battered 31 Russian battalion tactical groups out of action in what he called the “biggest blow” to the Russian Army in decades. Zelensky said Russia had lost more than 360 tanks, 1,205 armored vehicles, about 60 planes and more than 80 helicopters. Forbes could not independently verify these claims.

Zelensky added during a separate news conference that between 500 and 600 Russian soldiers had surrendered to Ukrainian forces Friday, and that about 1,300 Ukrainian troops have been killed since the invasion began, according to multiple[https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/ukraine-russia-war-troops-deaths-zelensky-b2034504.html] news outlets[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1502660753396019204?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]. Zelensky said during his speech Russia is recruiting reservists, conscripts and mercenaries to replenish its forces. He also called on Russia to “ensure silence” on more than 15 humanitarian corridors Ukraine has tried to establish for civilians to receive water, food and medicine.

Zelensky lauded a group of about 2,000 protesters who demonstrated against the Russian occupation of the city of Melitopol, and to demand the release of the city’s mayor, Ivan Fedorov. Multiple media outlets reported[https://en.interfax.com.ua/news/general/811615.html] Russia took Fedorov into custody on Friday, and CNN reports[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-11-22/h_722529676279d7b0f3933d94b6cbbca4] he could face terrorism charges from the government of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic, a Russian-backed separatist state in east Ukraine. The New York Times reports[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/12/world/ukraine-russia-war/russia-meets-public-resistance-in-cities-and-towns-it-seized] the size of the protests were in the hundreds, and that Russian forces moved quickly to shut them down.

— Anna Kaplan

March 12, 2022 2:09 PM EST

Premier League Disqualifies Roman Abramovich As Director Of Chelsea FC

Roman Abramovich has been disqualified to serve as a director of British soccer team Chelsea FC due to government sanctions imposed[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/uk-sanctions-roman-abramovich-and-six-other-russian-oligarchs-freezes-assets-including-chelsea-fc/?sh=3121ec924bbd] on the billionaire earlier this week, the Premier League said in a statement[https://www.premierleague.com/news/2527612?sf254422036=1] on Saturday. The Premier League’s board said the decision does not impact the club’s “ability to train and play its fixtures.”

His disqualification comes days after the U.K. government sanctioned[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/uk-sanctions-roman-abramovich-and-six-other-russian-oligarchs-freezes-assets-including-chelsea-fc/?sh=3121ec924bbd] Abramovich and several other Russian oligarchs over their ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Abramovich has previously denied[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/24/roman-abramovich-linked-to-russian-state-and-corrupt-activity-mp-says] reports he has links to the Kremlin. The U.K. established a special license[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_QXtt6dc8CiKhnagOFaRKT8-Ijkld2E0nVmRoy92IL8/edit?usp=sharing] to allow Chelsea to continue to play games and engage in other soccer-related activities amid the sanctions.

A disqualified director cannot own a club, and must put it up for sale, according to Premier League rules, however, Abramovich already announced[https://www.forbes.com/sites/annakaplan/2022/03/02/russian-billionaire-roman-abramovich-to-sell-chelsea-fcdonate-proceeds-to-help-victims-in-ukraine/] last week he intended to sell the club. The billionaire, who’s net worth[https://www.forbes.com/profile/roman-abramovich/?sh=4b20f3fb134a] is about $7.8 billion, bought the club for about $190 million in 2003. Chelsea is now valued at more than $3 billion, according to Forbes estimates[https://www.forbes.com/sites/mikeozanian/2021/04/12/the-worlds-most-valuable-soccer-teams-barcelona-on-top-at-48-billion/].

— Anna Kaplan

March 12, 2022 5:24 AM EST

Italian Police Reportedly Seize Sanctioned Russian Billionaire Melnichenko’s Yacht

Italy’s financial police have seized a 469-foot superyacht[https://www.forbes.com/sites/giacomotognini/2022/03/01/biden-and-allies-are-coming-for-russian-billionaires-yachts-forbes-tracked-down-36-heres-where-to-find-them/?sh=40c739f24624] that belongs to Russian industrial magnate Andrey Melnichenko, CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-11-22/h_00e0e700ba49d1d0cd1dd5996179ff1a] reported late Friday. The sailing yacht is known as “SY A,” and it’s worth about $578 million, according to CNN, which cited a police statement.

The yacht was reportedly seized in Trieste, a port city on the Adriatic Sea.

Forbes estimates[https://www.forbes.com/profile/andrey-melnichenko/?sh=51a5f7b53086] Melnichenko’s net worth at $11.6 billion, partly due to his majority stakes in coal company SUEK and fertilizer company Eurochem. The European Union sanctioned[https://www.forbes.com/sites/carlieporterfield/2022/03/09/eu-targets-four-more-russian-billionaires-in-latest-wave-of-sanctions/?sh=77a3a5451427] him earlier this week, in the latest round of asset freezes against well-connected Russian elites following the invasion of Ukraine. A spokesperson for Melnichenko called the sanctions unjustified in a statement to Forbes[https://www.forbes.com/sites/giacomotognini/2022/03/01/tracker-in-depth-look-at-20-russian-billionaires-hit-by-sanctions/?sh=3b674fc33ce7], arguing he “has no relation to the tragic events in Ukraine” and “has no political affiliations.”

In addition to “SY A,” Melnichenko owns another[https://www.forbes.com/sites/giacomotognini/2022/03/01/biden-and-allies-are-coming-for-russian-billionaires-yachts-forbes-tracked-down-36-heres-where-to-find-them/?sh=40c739f24624] 390-foot yacht called “A.” He also owns several properties[https://www.forbes.com/sites/giacomotognini/2022/03/05/a-guide-to-all-the-outrageous-mansions-and-estates-owned-by-sanctioned-russian-billionaires/?sh=4eb73dcb2e0f] in Western countries, including a mansion in Monaco, a villa in the French town of Cap d’Antibes, homes in Italy and Switzerland and a penthouse condo in Manhattan, Forbes reported.

— Joe Walsh

March 12, 2022 3:20 AM EST

Zelensky Compares Russian Forces To ‘ISIS Terrorists’

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky lashed out at Russia in a late-night speech[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/sogodni-kozhen-zdobuvaye-ukrayini-slavu-na-svoyemu-misci-zve-73501] after the mayor of Melitopol was reportedly taken into custody, calling the move a “crime against democracy” and arguing Russia’s behavior “will be equated with the actions of ISIS terrorists.”

The mayor of Melitopol—a southern Ukrainian city occupied by Russian forces[https://www.wsj.com/articles/occupied-ukrainian-towns-want-russian-troops-to-go-home-11646662450] —was detained by armed men, and an official for the pro-Russian separatist government in eastern Ukraine’s Luhansk region suggested he could face terrorism charges, CNN reported earlier Friday[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-11-22/h_722529676279d7b0f3933d94b6cbbca4]. The Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs denounced the move[https://www.facebook.com/UkraineMFA/posts/335670685270070] as an “abduction” and a “war crime under the Geneva Convention.”

— Joe Walsh

March 12, 2022 1:56 AM EST

Zelensky Says Over 7,000 People Fled 4 Cities Friday—Down From A Day Earlier

Some 7,144 Ukrainian civilians escaped from four cities—Enerhodar, Hostomel, Bucha and Kozarovychi—on Friday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in a late-night speech[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/sogodni-kozhen-zdobuvaye-ukrayini-slavu-na-svoyemu-misci-zve-73501]. It’s a steep decrease[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/derzhava-robit-use-shob-dopomogti-mariupolyu-zvernennya-prez-73485] from the nearly 40,000 evacuees from seven cities reported by Zelensky a day earlier, as Ukrainian officials seek to create evacuation routes in cities besieged by Russian forces.

Zelensky said “these are 7,144 reasons to try to organize evacuation for Ukrainians from the besieged cities tomorrow and the day after tomorrow,” according to a translation from his office.

Ukrainian and Russian negotiators have sought to set up[https://www.cbsnews.com/news/ukraine-russia-ceasefire-opening-several-civilian-evacuation-corridors/] temporary, localized ceasefires that would allow residents of some cities to flee via “humanitarian corridors.” However, Ukraine has accused Russia of repeatedly[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-promises-silence-ukrainians-flee-battered-cities-2022-03-09/] violating[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-blame-each-other-mariupol-evacuation-fails-again-2022-03-06/] ceasefire agreements, and the Ukrainian government has rebuffed Russia’s proposal[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/07/russia-humanitarian-corridors-ukraine-war-mariupol-kyiv] to set up evacuation corridors that lead to Russia or Belarus[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/ukraine-rejects-russia-cease-fire-humanitarian-corridors-putin-belarus-rcna18936].

Zelensky also accused Russia of blocking[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/sogodni-kozhen-zdobuvaye-ukrayini-slavu-na-svoyemu-misci-zve-73501] aid to the southeastern port city of Mariupol, which has run low on basic supplies[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/11/ukraine-russia-war-mariupol-evacuation] amid a siege and frequent shelling[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/09/world/europe/ukraine-mariupol-siege.html] by Russian forces. He said the government will attempt to deliver food, water and medicine again Saturday.

— Joe Walsh

March 11, 2022 11:42 PM EST

In Photos: Artillery Fire And Burning Homes Visible Outside Kyiv

Russian and Ukrainian forces are engaged in heavy fighting[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/08/ukraine-russia-irpin-war/] near an airport northwest of Kyiv, and satellite images taken Friday morning by Maxar Technologies show artillery firing and destruction less than 20 miles from the center of Ukraine’s capital.

Some Russian military units could be as close as nine miles from central Kyiv, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Thursday. The fighting spotted in Maxar’s images is somewhat further away: The artillery battalion was photographed in the town of Ozera, which is just north of Antonov airport and about 18 miles northwest of Kyiv. The company spotted a set of homes on fire almost five miles southeast of the artillery units, though the units’ targets are unclear.

— Joe Walsh

March 11, 2022 10:35 PM EST

Deutsche Bank ‘Winding Down’ Business In Russia

Deutsche Bank is currently “winding down” its presence in Russia and will not do any new business in the country, it announced[https://www.db.com/news/detail/20220311-statement-on-russia?language_id=1] Friday, making it the latest bank to distance itself from Russia.

In a statement, Deutsche Bank cited “legal and regulatory obligations” for its exit from Russia. The German financial institution said Wednesday it has scaled back its presence in Russia since 2014, and its gross loan exposure[https://www.db.com/news/detail/20220309-deutsche-bank-reports-very-limited-russia-exposure?language_id=1] to the country stood at around $1.5 billion, with net exposure reduced to $650 million after accounting for guarantees and collateral.

Deutsche Bank initially declined to leave the Russian market after the invasion of Ukraine, with CFO James von Moltke telling CNBC[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/10/deutsche-bank-says-not-practical-to-exit-russia-business.html] on Thursday the bank has a duty to continue serving its clients in Russia and leaving the country wouldn’t be “practical.” The decision drew criticism from Bill Browder, a former investor in Russia and staunch regime critic[https://www.wsj.com/articles/financier-bill-browder-plays-the-long-game-to-expose-russian-money-laundering-11561647331] who told Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/business/deutsche-bank-ceo-gets-20-pay-rise-2021-2022-03-11/] earlier Friday the move was “completely at odds with the international business community.”

JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs announced earlier this week they will wind down their presence in Russia, joining a growing list of Western companies that have sought to exit the Russian market, likely due to a combination of public pressure and sanctions. Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/11/youtube-disney-goldman-sachs-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=393c84a0662d].

— Joe Walsh

March 11, 2022 10:19 PM EST

U.S. Sanctions Billionaire Viktor Vekselberg And Russian Lawmakers

The Treasury Department announced[https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0650] a new round of sanctions Friday targeting Russian elites, including billionaire Viktor Vekselberg[https://www.forbes.com/profile/viktor-vekselberg/?sh=2dec594f30b1].

The U.S. sanctioned three members of Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov's immediate family, along with the management board of VTB Bank, Russia's second-largest financial institution. Twelve members of the Russian State Duma who signed a letter urging Russian President Vladimir Putin to recognize two pro-Kremlin breakaway states in eastern Ukraine as independent were also sanctioned.

All of those sanctioned Friday will be blocked from accessing any property they may own in the U.S., among related penalties.

As part of the actions against Vekselberg, whose fortune Forbes estimates at $6 billion, Treasury blocked an Airbus A319 jet registered in Aruba and his Cook Islands-flagged yacht, which the government believes are worth a total of $180 million.

“Treasury continues to hold Russian officials to account for enabling Putin’s unjustified and unprovoked war,” Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said in a statement. “Today’s actions also further isolates the severely damaged Russian economy by prohibiting trade in products that are key to the economic and financial interests of all Russian elites.”

— Nicholas Reimann

March 11, 2022 8:33 PM EST

Melitopol Mayor Taken Into Custody--Could Reportedly Face Terrorism Charges From Russia-Backed Separatists

The mayor of Russian-occupied Melitopol in southern Ukraine was taken into custody Friday, according to multiple[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-11-22/h_722529676279d7b0f3933d94b6cbbca4] reports[https://en.interfax.com.ua/news/general/811615.html], in what's believed to be the first case of a Ukrainian official being detained since the Russian invasion began.

Fedorov could now face terrorism charges from the government of the Luhansk People's Republic, a Russian-backed breakaway state in eastern Ukraine, according to CNN.

A statement posted on the Luhansk prosecutor's website accused Fedorov of financing terrorist operations and being a member of a far-right Ukrainian nationalist group, the news outlet reported.

It's not apparent that Fedorov has any connection to nationalist groups, but Russian President Vladimir Putin falsely claimed the Ukrainian government was being run by neo-Nazis to justify an invasion.

The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry in a Facebook post[https://www.facebook.com/UkraineMFA/posts/335670685270070] Friday said Fedorov was the victim of an “abduction,” which it called a “war crime under the Geneva Conventions.”

— Nicholas Reimann

March 11, 2022 7:39 PM EST

Facebook Will Only Allow Calls For Violence Against Russians In Ukraine—Not Nearby Countries

A spokesman for Facebook parent company Meta said Friday the platform's temporary move to allow posts calling for violence against Russians will only apply "in Ukraine itself."

A Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/exclusive-facebook-instagram-temporarily-allow-calls-violence-against-russians-2022-03-10/] report Thursday about the change drew widespread attention, and claimed Facebook would allow users based in multiple countries to call for violence.

Facebook's community standards[https://www.facebook.com/communitystandards/violence_criminal_behavior] ban posts that call for violence, but Meta spokesman Nick Clegg said in a statement the platform would allow Ukrainians to express "their resistance and fury at the invading military forces," but not against Russian civilians.

Clegg did not address Reuters' reporting that calls for the death of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko would be allowed.

"We have no quarrel with the Russian people," Clegg said. "We will not tolerate Russophobia or any kind of discrimination, harassment or violence towards Russians on our platform."

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/nickclegg/status/1502349805221126144&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 11, 2022 6:54 PM EST

YouTube Blocks Access To Russian-Backed Channels Worldwide

YouTube announced Friday afternoon it would immediately start the process of blocking access to Russian-funded channels globally, expanding on a ban that covered Europe.

The video platform tweeted[https://twitter.com/YouTubeInsider/status/1502335085122666500?s=20&t=Y1r626MhUh3F5-MULUPTOw] it was making the move in line with community guidelines that prohibit "content denying, minimizing or trivializing well-documented violent events."

Russia has repeatedly spread disinformation about Ukraine leading up to its invasion of the country two weeks ago and has continued doing so throughout the conflict, notably making the false claim[https://www.vanityfair.com/news/2022/03/russia-struggles-to-get-its-story-straight-on-horrific-bombing-of-maternity-hospital] a maternity hospital it bombed on Wednesday was a military target and questioning whether images of wounded women were legitimate.

The move from YouTube comes after it banned all ads in Russia, saying it aims to suspend "all of the ways to monetize on our platform in Russia.”

Read more about companies cutting ties with Russia: JPMorgan, Disney, Goldman Sachs—Here Are The Companies Cutting Ties With Russia Over Ukraine Invasion[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/10/goldman-sachs-amazon-3m-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=148f589067de]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 11, 2022 6:18 PM EST

Russia Struggles With Improper Planning Two Weeks Into Invasion, U.S. Says; No Signs Belarus Joining Fight

With Russian forces continuing to struggle to meet their objectives in Ukraine two weeks after their invasion began, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Friday that Russia did not properly plan supplies and resources for the scale of the operation.

Here are additional updates on the situation from the senior defense official:

* Russian forces have not moved closer to Kyiv since Thursday, though rear elements have been moved closer to the front of the advance, and portions of a 40-mile-long military convoy[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/11/europe/kyiv-russian-convoy-intl/index.html] are moving off-road and into the tree line, which the U.S. believes is to better protect the vehicles from Ukrainian forces.

* After reports of air strikes in western Ukraine for the first time since the invasion began, the official said “long range” Russian missiles struck two airfields in Lutsk and Ivano-Frankivsk.

* Chernihiv, a city north of Kyiv, is now isolated by Russian troops, which are “right outside,” according to the official.

* Russia has fired nearly 810 missiles since the invasion began, with about half coming from inside Ukraine, and the other half coming from Russia and Belarus.

* Both Ukraine and Russia have about 90% of their combat power available, though the official noted Russia has an advantage in “sheer numbers.”

* The official said 80% of Ukraine’s fixed-wing aircraft are intact, but they are making limited numbers of sorties, with Ukraine effectively defending against Russian air attacks with surface-to-air missiles.

* The U.S. has seen no substantive indications that Belarusian troops have joined the Russian offensive.

* The U.S. is aware of recruiting efforts from Syria[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/11/putin-approves-russian-use-of-middle-east-fighters-against-ukraine], but has not seen evidence or indications of any arrivals from outside countries.

— Anna Kaplan

March 11, 2022 3:27 PM EST

U.S. Bans Russian Diamonds, Alcohol And Seafood — And Will Move To Revoke Russia's Trade Status

President Joe Biden called for the U.S., along with its G7 and European allies, to revoke Russia’s “most-favored nation” trade status Friday morning, as they look to raise the economic pression on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. Stripping Russia of this status, which requires action from Congress, would allow the U.S. and other countries to impose higher tariffs on some Russian imports.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) told[https://twitter.com/mkraju/status/1502313929069973504?s=20&t=J60PDqI4wRWfAEw-QVkn9g] reporters the House will move to revoke Russia’s trade status next week, adding she hopes it will receive “a strong, bipartisan vote.” Canada was the first major U.S. ally to strip[https://www.cbc.ca/player/play/2008998979598] Russia of most-favored nation status last week.

The U.S. is also banning imports of Russian alcohol, seafood and diamonds, Biden said. The U.S. imported about $4.6 billion in seafood from Russia last year, according to federal trade data[https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/foss/f?p=215:2:20485990429576::NO], leading some national food marketers to oppose[https://www.adn.com/business-economy/2022/02/28/ban-on-us-purchases-of-russian-seafood-opposed-by-some-national-food-marketers/] a potential ban earlier this month. And while Russia is known for its vodka, U.S. imports of Russian vodka have declined by 79% since 2011, and it only accounts for 1.3% of vodka imports, according[https://news.yahoo.com/russian-vodka-only-1-3-205201759.html] to the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States.

— Anna Kaplan

March 11, 2022 2:17 PM EST

Russia Opens Criminal Inquiry Into Meta, Moves To Block All Services

Russia launched a criminal investigation into Facebook’s parent company Meta on Friday, and applied in court to label the company as an “extremist organization” after the company confirmed reports[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/exclusive-facebook-instagram-temporarily-allow-calls-violence-against-russians-2022-03-10/] it had eased its political speech policy.

A Meta spokesperson confirmed to multiple[https://www.reuters.com/world/kremlin-says-meta-would-have-cease-work-russia-if-reuters-report-is-true-2022-03-11/] media outlets[https://www.theverge.com/2022/3/10/22970705/russia-ukraine-moderation-facebook-instagram-hate-speech-violence-policy] the company would allow users to post messages such as “death to the Russian invaders,” though it would not allow posts calling for violence against Russian civilians. Reuters reports[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/exclusive-facebook-instagram-temporarily-allow-calls-violence-against-russians-2022-03-10/] internal Meta emails showed the company was also temporarily allowing posts that called for violence against Russian President Vladimir Putin and Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko.

The Russian State Prosecutor’s Office said[https://www.reuters.com/world/kremlin-says-meta-would-have-cease-work-russia-if-reuters-report-is-true-2022-03-11/] Meta’s actions are “aimed at inciting hatred and enmity towards the citizens of the Russian Federation,” and Russia’s State Duma IT Committee first deputy head said all Meta services “will soon be blocked” in the country, Russian news agency Interfax reports[https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/76431/].

— Anna Kaplan

March 11, 2022 12:00 PM EST

UN Has ‘Credible Reports’ Of Russian Forces Using Cluster Bombs In Ukraine

The United Nations human rights office said[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28262&LangID=E] on Friday it has received “credible reports” of Russian forces deploying cluster munitions in populated areas in Ukraine.

Cluster munitions are a class of weapon that break apart in the air and scatter a large number of smaller weapons across a wide area. While not prohibited—neither Russia nor Ukraine are party to the treaty banning them—their use in civilian areas can constitute a war crime. Human rights[https://www.hrw.org/news/2022/03/04/ukraine-cluster-munitions-launched-kharkiv-neighborhoods] groups[https://www.amnesty.org/en/latest/news/2022/02/ukraine-cluster-munitions-kill-child-and-two-other-civilians-taking-shelter-at-a-preschool/], watchdogs and journalists[https://www.bellingcat.com/news/rest-of-world/2022/03/11/these-are-the-cluster-munitions-documented-by-ukrainian-civilians/] have repeatedly alleged[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/10/what-cluster-bombs-ukraine-war-how-much-damage/] their indiscriminate use by Russian forces since the start of the war.

"Due to their wide area effects, the use of cluster munitions in populated areas is incompatible with the international humanitarian law principles governing the conduct of hostilities," UN spokesperson Liz Throssell said. Targeting civilians, area bombardment and “other forms of indiscriminate attacks” are banned under international law and “may amount to war crimes,” Throssell said.

Throssell told Forbes the organization is “in the process of corroborating” the reports.

— Robert Hart

March 11, 2022 11:35 AM EST

Putin Calls On Foreign Volunteers To Fight In Ukraine

Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday said Russia would recruit foreign “volunteers” to fight in Ukraine, according[https://www.ft.com/content/e4778432-ec5f-4bad-a7f3-6c8cdb7143d9] to multiple[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/putin-says-volunteers-welcome-help-fight-against-ukrainian-forces-2022-03-11/] news[https://www.politico.eu/article/live-blog-ukraine-invasion-putin-donetsk-luhansk/#1287962] reports[https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-60705486] of him speaking[https://t.me/tass_agency/118221] at a Russian security council meeting. Putin said those wishing to fight “of their own accord, not for money,” should be allowed to do so and greenlit their deployment alongside Russian-backed forces in Ukraine’s breakaway Donbas region.

Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said there were 16,000 volunteers from the Middle East willing to fight alongside the Russian-backed rebels and proposed sending captured Western military equipment to forces in the region. Putin supported the decision. Russia has already been reported[https://www.wsj.com/articles/russia-recruiting-syrians-for-urban-combat-in-ukraine-u-s-officials-say-11646606234] to be hiring Syrian fighters familiar with urban conflict to help Moscow take and hold Ukrainian cities and Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said Russia already has a “large number of paid mercenaries” on the ground, according to the Financial Times.[https://www.ft.com/content/ea9dd3fd-2257-4543-9cdb-ba5de7a005f8]

Ukraine has been encouraging volunteers from around the world to come and help defend the country as part of an International Legion. Some 20,000 have reportedly expressed interest[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/09/criminal-charges-revoked-passports-heres-why-some-countries-are-pushing-back-against-ukraines-call-for-volunteer-soldiers/?sh=4b16a5b7a031], according to Ukrainian officials.

— Robert Hart

March 11, 2022 10:38 AM EST

Property Tycoon Nick Candy ‘Still Pursuing’ Chelsea Bid After Abramovich Sanctions

Sanctions against billionaire Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich have not deterred one bidder for the famous London club.

In a statement to Forbes, a spokesperson for property tycoon and Chelsea fan Nick Candy confirmed that he is "still pursuing his bid for Chelsea in light of yesterday’s news."

"We are examining the details of yesterday’s announcement and we are still interested in making a bid. Clearly this is a time of great uncertainty for all Chelsea fans. In our view, no one is the owner of a football club – you are the custodian of it for the fans and the community," the statement read.

Nick Candy, who likely does not himself have the financial muscle to fund Chelsea’s spending at its current level, confirmed this week that he is working with a consortium and was "actively exploring" a potential bid for Chelsea Football Club. A life-long fan who watched games at the club’s home of Stamford Bridge from the age of four, Candy’s bid pivots on slotting a new world-class stadium into London’s most exclusive postcode. "The club deserves a world class stadium and infrastructure,” the statement said, adding Candy’s "unique expertise and background in real estate would be a hugely valuable asset to delivering this vision.”

Following the announcement of U.K. sanctions against Abramovich[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/uk-sanctions-roman-abramovich-and-six-other-russian-oligarchs-freezes-assets-including-chelsea-fc/?sh=20c9551b4bbd] on Thursday, a source at the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport confirmed that the sale of Chelsea was now prohibited. However, the source added that U.K. lawmakers are very much “open to the sale of the club” and would consider it if Chelsea were to apply for a license to allow that sale to happen. Following the sanctions, Abramovich would receive none of the proceeds of a deal. Last week, he turned over stewardship (not ownership) of the club to the trustees of Chelsea’s charitable foundation.

Read more: Hurry Up And Wait: U.K. Sanctions Leave Roman Abramovich And A Growing List Of Chelsea Suitors In Limbo[https://www.forbes.com/sites/justinbirnbaum/2022/03/10/hurry-up-and-wait-uk-sanctions-leave-roman-abramovich-and-a-growing-list-of-chelsea-suitors-in-limbo/]

— David Dawkins

March 11, 2022 10:27 AM EST

2.5 Million Refugees Flee Ukraine — UN

Almost 2.5 million people have now fled Ukraine since the start of Russia’s invasion, the latest figures from the UN’s refugee agency show[https://data2.unhcr.org/en/situations/ukraine].

The majority of refugees have fled into neighboring Poland and the UN estimates some 4 million people could leave the country as the war continues.

On Thursday, President Zelensky said 100,000 residents had left Ukrainian cities through humanitarian corridors, but that routes were blocked[https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-10-22/h_edd0eccd8aeac6c077a0bd67c78fcfda] out of the southeastern city of Mariupol, where Russian’s bombed a maternity hospital this week, killing three.

—Isabel Togoh

March 11, 2022 8:32 AM EST

Biden, EU And G7 Will Reportedly Call For Russia To Have Trading Privileges Removed

President Biden, the EU and G7 nations will reportedly call for Russia to be removed from a key system Friday that prevents trading partners from discriminating against one another, Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/markets/europe/us-steps-up-pressure-russia-over-ukraine-invasion-2022-03-11/], Bloomberg[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-11/biden-set-to-call-for-end-of-russia-s-preferred-trade-status] and the Associated Press[https://apnews.com/] report.

Under the “ most favored nation[https://www.wto.org/english/thewto_e/whatis_e/tif_e/fact2_e.htm] ” principle set up by the World Trade Organization, countries are prevented from giving special privileges to one country over others, ensuring equal treatment between members.

A removal of that status would further punish Russia economically by allowing countries to slap higher tariffs on Russian goods. It follows Western nations and allies continuing to sanction[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/uk-sanctions-roman-abramovich-and-six-other-russian-oligarchs-freezes-assets-including-chelsea-fc/?sh=5b9ba0f24bbd] Russian oligarchs and financial institutions, the U.S. banning the import[https://www.forbes.com/sites/sergeiklebnikov/2022/03/08/heres-how-bidens-historic-ban-on-russian-oil-will-hit-the-economy/?sh=45a5271659d3] of Russian gas and oil, and multinational firms[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/10/goldman-sachs-amazon-3m-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=3e3ade3167de] either pausing business in Russia or completely pulling out over its invasion of Ukraine.

—Isabel Togoh

March 11, 2022 6:30 AM EST

U.K.: Russia Could Launch ‘Renewed Offensive Activity’ Against Kyiv

The Russian military’s progress in Ukraine has been “limited,” the U.K. Ministry of Defense said in a Friday morning intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ], but Russia is probably “seeking to reset and re-posture its forces for renewed offensive activity in the coming days”—including a likely push toward Kyiv.

Western officials[https://www.defense.gov/News/Transcripts/Transcript/Article/2960227/senior-defense-official-holds-a-background-briefing-march-8-2022/] believe[https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/defence-secretary-statement-to-the-house-of-commons-on-ukraine-9-march-2022] Russia is aiming to encircle Kyiv. A group of Russian forces moved three miles closer to the city in a 24-hour period ending Thursday afternoon, and some units are now about nine miles northwest of the city center, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters. Troops are also approaching Kyiv from the east, and remain about 25 miles away.

However, Russia’s progress toward Kyiv—a city of about 3 million people—has been slow and halting so far, partly due to pervasive logistical snags and stiff Ukrainian resistance, according to U.S. and U.K. assessments.

“It remains highly unlikely that Russia has successfully achieved the objectives outlined in its pre-invasion plan,” the Ministry of Defense said[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ].

— Joe Walsh

March 11, 2022 4:30 AM EST

Biden Will Reportedly Push To End Normal Trade Relations With Russia

President Joe Biden will announce a plan Friday to revoke permanent normal trade relations with Russia, making it easier to impose additional tariffs on Russian goods, several[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-biden-business-european-union-europe-d86084ccec8d2ef338ed5a0432c34a1b] news[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/10/world/ukraine-russia-war?name=styln-russia-ukraine®ion=TOP_BANNER&block=storyline_menu_recirc&action=click&pgtype=LegacyCollection&variant=1_BlueLink&is_new=false] outlets[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/10/politics/russia-trade-status-us-g7-eu-biden/index.html] reported[https://www.wsj.com/articles/biden-to-call-for-revoking-normal-trade-relations-with-russia-11646971099], citing unnamed sources.

The measure will require action from Congress, but both Democratic and Republican lawmakers have backed[https://gop-waysandmeans.house.gov/brady-smith-introduce-bipartisan-bicameral-house-bill-responding-to-russias-invasion-of-ukraine/] the[https://gop-waysandmeans.house.gov/brady-smith-introduce-bipartisan-bicameral-house-bill-responding-to-russias-invasion-of-ukraine/] idea[https://www.finance.senate.gov/chairmans-news/wyden-introduces-no-most-favored-nation-trading-with-russia-act-in-response-to-putins-unprovoked-invasion-of-ukraine] in recent days.

The European Union and the G7—a group of wealthy countries that includes the U.S.—are reportedly expected to unveil similar moves.

Since Russia invaded Ukraine two weeks ago, the United States and its allies have unveiled several rounds of penalties aimed at choking Russia’s economy. The Biden Administration has sanctioned Russia’s central bank[https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0612] and the country’s two largest banks[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/02/24/biden-announces-new-sanctions-on-russian-banks-and-tech-imports-following-ukraine-invasion/], banned Russian oil and gas imports[https://www.forbes.com/sites/sergeiklebnikov/2022/03/08/heres-how-bidens-historic-ban-on-russian-oil-will-hit-the-economy/?sh=197941a9659d] and imposed sanctions on several[https://www.forbes.com/sites/annakaplan/2022/03/03/us-sanctions-7-russian-oligarchs-and-kremlin-press-secretary-peskov/?sh=695a4a716b6e] Russian oligarchs and politicians.

Forbes has reached out to the White House for comment.

— Joe Walsh

March 11, 2022 3:38 AM EST

Senate Passes $13.6 Billion In Aid For Ukraine

The U.S. Senate passed a $1.5 trillion spending package that includes $13.6 billion in emergency aid for Ukraine late Thursday. The bill passed the House on Wednesday and is now headed to the desk of President Joe Biden, who is expected to sign it.

The bill will fund normal government operations until late September, staving off a government shutdown set to begin Friday. The Ukraine-related portion includes[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/09/politics/ukraine-aid-spending-bill-congress/index.html] military and economic aid[https://appropriations.house.gov/sites/democrats.appropriations.house.gov/files/Ukraine%20Fact%20Sheet.pdf] for Ukraine as it fights back against Russian troops, as well as assistance to neighboring countries that have accepted millions of refugees and additional funding for the Pentagon, which has deployed extra troops to nearby NATO member states.

The bill passed the Senate 68-31, with 18 Republicans joining every Democrat to vote in favor, and it passed the House by similar bipartisan margins.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/10/senate-passes-15-trillion-spending-bill-with-14-billion-for-ukraine-aid-heres-whats-in-it/?sh=5256257cb713].

March 11, 2022 3:02 AM EST

Biden Administration Warns Of ‘Economic Pain’ If Russia Seizes Assets From Companies That Leave

White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki castigated Russian officials on Thursday for suggesting they may try to seize the assets of multinational corporations that have abandoned the Russian market in recent weeks, warning the move could further isolate the country’s economy.

Russian President Vladimir Putin said Thursday this government will seek “legal solutions” to the corporate exodus, including imposing “external management” and then “transfer[ring] these enterprises to those who want to work,” according to CNN[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/10/business/russia-nationalization-western-companies/index.html] and the Financial Times[https://www.ft.com/content/0284a4e6-c005-46e7-992a-9e1bdd5ad0d5]. Under one proposal[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/03/10/ftse-100-index-markets-live-news-oil-price-sanctions/] reportedly[https://www.ft.com/content/0284a4e6-c005-46e7-992a-9e1bdd5ad0d5] floated[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/10/russia-plans-to-seize-assets-of-western-companies-exiting-country] by the economic ministry, departing firms whose foreign ownership exceeds 25% could be temporarily[https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2022/03/10/russia-nationalize-foreign-business-ukraine/] placed under local management.

In a series of tweets[https://twitter.com/PressSec/status/1502099524147453953?s=20&t=Rdxd80dw5KGRikyWVsttyA] Thursday evening, Psaki said any move to seize assets “will ultimately result in even more economic pain for Russia” by signaling to other foreign enterprises that the country “is not a safe place to invest and do business.” Russia could also face stiff legal blowback, Psaki warned.

Since Russia invaded Ukraine, dozens of Western companies[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/10/goldman-sachs-amazon-3m-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=ef5347767dea] like JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and BP have announced plans to suspend business in Russia or exit joint ventures in the country. The moves come amid public outcry[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/03/10/from-mars-to-uniqlo-these-major-companies-are-continuing-to-do-business-in-russia/?sh=642796b93983] and hefty sanctions that make it difficult to do business[https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2022/03/08/1084280072/how-sanctions-are-pinning-down-the-russian-economy] in Russia. Psaki said any voluntary moves to leave the Russian market are “ultimately up to companies,” but the Biden Administration “welcome[s] the decisions.”

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/presssec/status/1502099530577289220&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

— Joe Walsh

March 11, 2022 1:47 AM EST

Large Russian Convoy Disperses Outside Kyiv

A large convoy of Russian military vehicles last seen northwest of Ukraine’s capital of Kyiv has “largely dispersed” into surrounding areas, according to satellite images taken by Maxar Technologies Thursday morning.

The convoy was last spotted near Antonov airport, which is about 17 miles northwest of central Kyiv. Its vehicles have been redeployed: Some military vehicles have moved through towns near the airport—an area that has seen heavy fighting in recent days—and some units entered forests a few miles north, according to Maxar.

Maxar spotted a 40-mile-long Russian convoy that ended at Antonov airport last week. The convoy, which included armored vehicles[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60596629] and artillery, was stalled for days due to heavy Ukrainian resistance and logistical issues[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60596629], a senior U.S. defense official told reporters last week. Maxar did not specify whether the stalled 40-mile convoy is the same column that appeared to be dispersed in Thursday’s images.

Russia’s advance toward Kyiv has been slower than expected, amid intense fighting from Ukrainian forces. Some Russian troops are now just over nine miles northwest from Kyiv, a senior U.S. defense official said Thursday.

Images taken by Maxar on Thursday also showed property damage near Kyiv and in the northern city of Chernihiv, which is now surrounded by Russian forces[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/10/world/europe/chernihiv-russia-troops.html], according to local and U.S. officials.

Residential buildings are heavily damaged in Borodyanka, about 30 miles northwest of Kyiv, in satellite images taken Thursday.Satellite image ©2022 Maxar Technologies[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/622aacccfbf6e9b70fe6e781/960x0.jpg?fit=scale]

Cars line up near a destroyed bridge, amid evacuation efforts in the Kyiv suburb of Irpin.Satellite image ©2022 Maxar Technologies[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/622aad73cf993507646f32c9/960x0.jpg?fit=scale]

A shopping center in the northern city of Chernihiv was heavily damaged as Russian troops encircled the city.Satellite image ©2022 Maxar Technologies[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/622aadb14f4a696b6c7a7528/960x0.jpg?fit=scale]

March 11, 2022 12:34 AM EST

Senators Urge Biden To Reconsider Nixing Transfer Of Polish Jets To Ukraine

The vast majority of the Republican Senate caucus urged the Biden administration Thursday to reverse its opposition to supplying Ukraine with Soviet-era warplanes from Poland—a proposition the Pentagon said[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/03/09/pentagon-opposes-sending-mig-29-fighter-jets-to-ukraine/?sh=3abdf8284483] would’ve been too “high risk” without providing much aid to Ukrainian forces.

In a letter[https://www.ernst.senate.gov/public/_cache/files/27f1a32f-aa03-460b-a6da-05fd93b251a0/EEAC805CD285FCBD6B3AE1C0ED6869A0.2022-03-10-final-ernst-ukraine-letter-to-biden.pdf] addressed to the president, 42 Republican senators called on the administration to “work with Poland and our NATO allies to expedite the transfer of urgently-needed airpower, air defense systems, and other combat and support capabilities,” pointing to Russia’s attacks on Ukrainian civilians and commending the Biden Administration for the aid it has sent to Ukraine.

Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby said Wednesday the U.S. would not take up Poland on its public offer to fly dozens of its MiG-29 fighters to a German air base used by U.S. forces, from which it proposed the U.S. could transport them to Ukraine, stating that supplying the planes to Ukraine was a decision for the Polish government. Kirby also said the Pentagon did not think it made sense to give the planes to Ukraine at all, stating it“is not likely to significantly change the effectiveness of the Ukrainian air force relative to Russian capabilities,” and it “may be mistaken as escalatory” by Russia.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky requested[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/05/us/politics/zelensky-congress-no-fly-zone.html] warplanes in a Zoom meeting with members of the U.S. Congress last weekend, in addition to the imposition of a no-fly zone—an ask the Biden Administration has said[https://www.state.gov/secretary-antony-j-blinken-on-nbc-meet-the-press-with-chuck-todd/] is a non-starter as it would put the U.S. in direct conflict with Russia.

The Pentagon is considering facilitating the transfer to Ukraine of mid- and high-altitude Russian-made anti-aircraft systems[https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-allies-look-at-sending-soviet-era-air-defense-systems-to-ukraine-11646933998] that would give the Ukrainians a powerful complement to the portable Stinger anti-aircraft missiles that the U.S. has provided.

—Mason Bissada

March 10, 2022 11:28 PM EST

Ukraine Claims Civilian Deaths Outnumber Troop Deaths—And About 280 Schools Were Damaged

Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov said Thursday Russian forces have killed more Ukrainian civilians than military personnel since they first invaded two weeks ago. The claim has not been independently verified, and Reznikov didn’t list the number of military or civilian deaths in his Thursday evening Facebook post[https://www.facebook.com/100063790800238/videos/501003601588184/?__so__=watchlist&__rv__=video_home_www_playlist_video_listhttps%3A%2F%2Ft.me%2FSerhiyShkarlet%2F717].

“The Kremlin is bombing schools and hospitals, including maternity hospitals. Moscow does not protect anyone. It destroys,” Reznikov said of the death tolls. Ukrainian officials said at least 17 people were wounded Wednesday after airstrikes and shelling destroyed a maternity hospital[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/photos-russian-airstrikes-demolish-maternity-hospital-and-houses-in-mariupol/?sh=42bd7b644eb5] and other civilian buildings in the besieged port city of Mariupol.

The Ukrainian Ministry of Education and Science also said[https://www.facebook.com/UAMON/posts/295194329387053?__cft__[0]=AZUaIRSDXk6pR7utRJOVCDUS-CuAjd3hLTUmBeBhimv8gKBlg86WxxV4O3ZDEIuG_yJJY5SG9RXXrMa-jaWcusPeNHQ1nb9A5neRUkhvidHeksVoav2k7WtPtI3aEOk8ASn3Bi9CnLcsjERVksvrIUJy&__tn__=%2CO%2CP-R] in a Thursday Facebook post more than 280 educational institutions have been damaged or destroyed by bombing and shelling. The ministry linked a website[https://saveschools.in.ua/] showing nine schools had been destroyed and 277 had been damaged, citing news outlets and videos of damaged buildings.

Since the war began, both Russian and Ukrainian officials have made claims about civilian and military fatality counts that haven’t been independently verified by third parties.

The United Nations has verified[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28233&LangID=E] 549 civilian deaths during Russia’s invasion, including 41 children, though it said Thursday the actual death toll could be “considerably higher.” The UN pointed to “heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and missile and air strikes” as reasons for many of the deaths. Nearly 1,000 more civilians have been injured, the UN said.

—Mason Bissada

March 10, 2022 9:55 PM EST

Russian Forces Move 3 Miles Closer To Kyiv, U.S. Says

Some Russian units have moved about three miles closer to Kyiv in the last 24 hours, a senior U.S. defense official said Thursday, as Russian troops approach the capital city from multiple angles and appear to be aiming to encircle it—but their advance is facing heavy resistance.

Some of the Russian forces that moved forward—an advance the senior defense official cast as relatively modest—could be less than 10 miles northwest of central Kyiv, and are largely “in the vicinity of” an airport in the town of Hostomel. Irpin and other towns near the airport have faced[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/09/world/europe/ukraine-family-perebyinis-kyiv.html#:~:text=They%20didn't%20make%20it,trying%20to%20evacuate%20to%20Kyiv.] heavy fighting[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/08/ukraine-russia-irpin-war/] in recent days, and the U.K. Ministry of Defense accused Russia[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500981170280050688?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet] of intentionally targeting evacuation routes in the area earlier this week, leading to multiple civilian deaths[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/06/world/europe/ukraine-irpin-civilian-death.html] in Irpin.

Russia is also approaching Kyiv from the east, along two parallel lines that are as close as 25 miles from the capital, according to the U.S. defense official. And Russian forces have “isolated” Chernihiv, a city of almost 300,000 people that lies about 80 miles northeast of Kyiv, though that contingent hasn’t moved past Chernihiv.

Russia has aimed to encircle Ukrainian cities like Chernihiv in the north and Mariupol in the south, but surrounding Kyiv—a sprawling city of around 3 million—could be a more difficult task, especially as Ukrainian forces continue to put up stiff resistance. The senior U.S. defense official said it’s tough to predict how long it will take Russia to encircle Kyiv, but an unnamed American official told NBC News on Thursday[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/live-blog/ukraine-russia-war-live-updates-top-diplomats-meet-talks-kyiv-n1291419] it could take one or two weeks, and seizing control of Kyiv would likely take four weeks or more.

“Kyiv is being well-defended, and the Ukrainians are putting a lot of energy … into protecting their capital city,” the senior defense official told reporters Thursday.

— Joe Walsh

March 10, 2022 9:45 PM EST

U.S. Ambassador Says Russia Committing 'War Crimes' In Ukraine

U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield told BBC Newshour Thursday that Russia is committing "war crimes" in Ukraine, becoming the highest ranking American official to accuse Russia of doing so.

"I still see images of women being rolled out of a hospital, pregnant, bleeding, people screaming, children crying. It is just unconscionable," Thomas-Greenfield said.

The White House has criticized Russian attacks as "atrocities" but has been careful about alleging war crimes, with Press Secretary Jen Psaki saying[https://twitter.com/kelliemeyernews/status/1501986278752980995?s=21] Thursday the Biden Administration was waiting for a "legal assessment" before making any war crimes claim.

Read more about these accusations here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicholasreimann/2022/03/10/us-ambassador-says-russia-committing-war-crimes-in-ukraine/?sh=26f516535382].

—Mason Bissada

March 10, 2022 9:26 PM EST

European Leaders Rule Out Ukraine’s Hopes Of ‘Fast-Tracking’ Its EU Membership

Western European leaders said at a European Union summit Thursday they won’t grant Ukraine’s request to let the country swiftly join the EU[https://www.forbes.com/sites/alisondurkee/2022/02/28/will-ukraine-join-the-eu-after-zelensky-signs-membership-application-heres-what-could-come-next/?sh=5410f4d368c7] by creating a “fast-track” procedure, instead requiring it to go through the normal years-long membership process. “Can we open today a procedure of accession with a country at war? I don’t think so,” French President Emmanuel Macron said, according to the Associated Press[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-business-france-europe-bd12fb7b215140a200d1c87a6fce01a3], while Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte stressed[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/10/western-europe-leaders-rebuff-ukraine-fast-track-eu-membership-appeal] “there is no fast-track procedure to become a member of the EU.”

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky signed Ukraine’s application to join the EU on February 28 after Russia’s invasion and called for Ukraine’s “immediate accession under a new special procedure.” Speeding up the process had been viewed as a long shot, but had gained steam with a number of leaders in Eastern European countries, including the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia. EU leadership has been supportive of Ukraine eventually joining the bloc, but without a quicker procedure the process will likely stretch on for years; Croatia, the last country admitted, joined[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-02-28/ukraine-wants-eu-membership-but-accession-usually-takes-years?sref=LfZwdw4Z] the EU in 2013 after a 10-year process.

— Alison Durkee

March 10, 2022 7:47 PM EST

At Least 549 Civilians Dead From Russian Invasion — UN Says Actual Figures ‘Considerably Higher’

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has killed 549 civilians, including 41 children, according[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28233&LangID=E] to the United Nations, though the organization noted it believes the actual figures are “considerably higher.” The UN’s Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights said an additional 957 people, 52 of whom are children, have been injured since the invasion began two weeks ago.

The UN blamed many casualties on “heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and missile and air strikes,” in a statement. The UN acknowledged there are allegations of hundreds of civilian casualties in the towns of Volnovakha, Mariupol and Izium, and said its figures released Thursday do not include casualty statistics from those areas.

— Anna Kaplan

March 10, 2022 5:16 PM EST

Twitter Takes Down Russian Embassy's Tweets About Pregnant Ukraine Hospital Victim

Twitter took down posts from the Russian Embassy in the United Kingdom’s official account on Thursday, in a rare disciplinary action by the social media platform against a government account. The embassy’s tweets included unsupported accusations that a widely circulated photograph of a pregnant woman wounded in an attack on a maternity hospital was faked. A Twitter spokesperson told Forbes the removal was due to a violations of its policies “related to the denial of violent events.”

Read more on Twitter’s removal here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2022/03/10/twitter-deletes-russian-embassys-posts-calling-an-apparent-pregnant-ukraine-hospital-victim-a-crisis-actor/?sh=565f85f83c2b].

—Derek Saul

March 10, 2022 3:00 PM EST

Goldman Sachs Becomes First Major Wall Street Bank To Announce Russia Exit

Goldman Sachs is[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/10/goldman-sachs-amazon-3m-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=23a1dd4a67de] “winding down its business in Russia in compliance with regulatory and licensing requirements,” a spokeswoman for the investment bank told Forbes Thursday. Goldman Sachs joins dozens of other major American companies in exiting Russian business dealings, but is the first major U.S. bank to announce such plans.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/10/goldman-sachs-amazon-3m-here-are-the-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=23a1dd4a67de].

—Derek Saul

March 10, 2022 2:36 PM EST

Zelensky Says More Than 60,000 Ukrainians Evacuated Wednesday

More than 60,000 Ukrainians evacuated cities under attack by Russian forces Wednesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/zavdyaki-nashim-zahisnikam-ukrayinci-ne-stali-rabami-j-nikol-73477#:~:text=Despite%20everything%2C%20updated%20information%20was,the%20evacuation%20in%20the%20morning] during a Thursday speech. Zelensky mentioned several cities under siege, the largest of which is Mariupol in southeastern Ukraine, but didn’t specify how many evacuees came from each city. The Red Cross estimated[https://www.icrc.org/en/document/ukraine-safe-passage-civilians-mariupol-halted-second-day-icrc-calls-parties-agree-specific] Sunday 200,000 people seek evacuation in Mariupol alone.

Efforts to evacuate Ukrainian civilians from dangerous areas have repeatedly failed over the last week, and Ukraine has blamed[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/3/8/ukraine-accuses-russia-shelling-mariupol-evacuation-corridor] Russian shelling for breaking ceasefire agreements in humanitarian corridors. Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraine’s foreign minister, said[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukraine-accuses-russia-genocide-after-bombing-childrens-hospital-2022-03-10/] Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov declined to guarantee safe passage for fleeing civilians during their Thursday meeting.

—Derek Saul

March 10, 2022 1:57 PM EST

Half Of Kyiv Residents Have Evacuated, Mayor Says

About half of Kyiv’s residents have fled since Russia began its invasion of Ukraine last month, Kyiv mayor Vitali Klitschko said on Ukrainian television Thursday, according to multiple[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-boris-johnson-business-europe-united-nations-bf2bcfb3a499d688e3075f2d4cf54989?utm_source=Twitter&utm_medium=AP&utm_campaign=SocialFlow] outlets[https://twitter.com/AFP/status/1501904249088880640]. "According to the latest data, every second citizen of Kyiv has left the city,” Klitschko said, according[https://en.interfax.com.ua/news/general/810826.html?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=%5Btwitter%5D&utm_campaign=%5Brogue_corq%5D] to the Ukraine branch of the Interfax news agency, estimating two million people remain in the Kyiv metropolitan area.

Klitschko’s estimates come as Russian forces slowly[https://abcnews.go.com/Politics/95-putins-forces-intact-plan-surround-kyiv-pentagon/story?id=83317142] close in Kyiv and amid a wider refugee crisis in the country. More than two million Ukrainians have left Ukraine since the beginning of the war, according[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/08/ukraine-refugees-2-million-russia/] to the United Nations, a majority of whom have fled to Poland. It’s unclear how many people fleeing Kyiv have left the country or moved within Ukraine.

—Derek Saul

March 10, 2022 12:49 PM EST

Vice President Harris Underscores U.S. Commitment To NATO In Poland Visit

The United States is “prepared to defend every inch of NATO territory” and is firmly committed to the alliance and its eastern flank, Vice President Kamala Harris said at a press conference with the President of Poland in Warsaw on Friday. The two Patriot missile systems the U.S. promised to the country have now been delivered, Harris said, also noting the Biden administration’s decision to send an additional 4,700 troops to Poland.

Harris praised the people of Poland for their “generosity and kindness” towards more than 1.4 million Ukrainian refugees fleeing to the country. The U.S. will send an additional $50 million in aid through the United Nations food program to assist refugees in the region, Harris said.

— Robert Hart

March 10, 2022 11:05 AM EST

Meeting Between Putin And Zelensky Possible: Russian Foreign Minister

A meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky may be possible, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said following his meeting with his counterpart from Kyiv, Dmytro Kuleba.

“I hope that this will become necessary at some point. But preparatory work needs to take place for this,” Lavrov said in a press conference following his meeting.

Responding to a reporter, Lavrov said Russia was not planning to attack other countries. “We didn’t attack Ukraine, either,” repeating Moscow’s claims that it was carrying out a “special military operation.”

When asked about the Russian strike on a maternity hospital—condemned by Ukrainian officials as a war crime—Lavrov claimed without evidence that the building was being used by Ukrainian nationalist militias.

— Siladitya Ray

March 10, 2022 10:49 AM EST

Russia Has No Ceasefire Plans, But Ukraine Will Not Surrender: Ukrainian Foreign Minister

Thursday’s meeting between Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Turkey ended with no progress made on a possible ceasefire.

In a press conference following the meeting, Kuleba said Russia had no plans to establish a ceasefire and was instead seeking a surrender from Ukraine. “This is not what they're going to get. Ukraine is strong, Ukraine is fighting.”

Kuleba said that Ukraine has ensured the failure of Russia’s initial invasion plans and was now seeking a diplomatic resolution to the conflict. “But we will not surrender.” The Ukrainian minister added he spent most the time during the meeting trying to address humanitarian issues, seeking a humanitarian corridor in the port city of Mariupol where a maternity hospital was hit by Russian strikes on Wednesday.

According to Kuleba, Lavrov told him he did not have the authority to agree this measure, but would take the proposal back to the Kremlin. The Ukrainian minister then added: “Lavrov has a different impression of what foreign ministers do in a crisis.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 10, 2022 10:14 AM EST

Billionaire Roman Abramovich Among 7 Russian Oligarchs Sanctioned By The U.K.

The U.K. government on Thursday sanctioned Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich, freezing all his assets including the English Premier League soccer club Chelsea, as part of a broader sanctions effort that targets assets owned by several Russian oligarchs with close ties to Vladimir Putin’s regime.

Read more: U.K. Sanctions Roman Abramovich And Six Other Russian Oligarchs, Freezes Assets Including Chelsea F.C.[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/10/uk-sanctions-roman-abramovich-and-six-other-russian-oligarchs-freezes-assets-including-chelsea-fc/?sh=67db93f64bbd]

— Siladitya Ray

March 10, 2022 7:51 AM EST

Russian And Ukrainian Foreign Ministers Begin Talks In Turkey

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba arrived[https://twitter.com/MFA_Ukraine/status/1501816573966880768] in Antalya, Turkey on Thursday morning for a meeting with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov.

The ongoing discussion is the highest level meeting between the two sides since Russia began its invasion of Ukraine more than 2 weeks ago.

Turkish president Recep Erdogan on Wednesday said: “We are working to stop this crisis transforming into a tragedy. I hope the meeting between the ministers will open the way to a permanent ceasefire.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 10, 2022 6:48 AM EST

'Notable' Drop In Russian Air Activity Due To Effectiveness Of Ukrainian Air Defenses: U.K. Defense Ministry

There has been a “notable decrease” in Russian air activity over Ukraine in the past few days, owing to the unexpected effectiveness of Ukraine’s air defense forces, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1501801441941405697/photo/1] on the situation in Ukraine on Thursday.

The large Russian column north west of Kyiv has made very little progress in the past week and continues to suffer losses at the hands of the Ukrainian forces, the statement said.

The update also noted that Russia has deployed conscripts, despite previous assurances by Putin that he will not do so. This has also been acknowledged[https://ria.ru/20220309/spetsoperatsiya-1777325478.html] by the Russian defense ministry which added that a “number” of conscripts had been captured by Ukrainian forces.

The intel update adds that Russia may be forced to draw from across the Russian Armed Forces and “other sources” to replace losses in Ukraine.

— Siladitya Ray

March 10, 2022 4:56 AM EST

House Passes Bipartisan Bill Banning Russian Energy Imports

The House on Wednesday passed a bipartisan bill that will ban Russian energy imports—after its final passage in the Senate—building on an executive order signed by President Joe Biden Tuesday.

The Suspending Energy Imports from Russia passed 414 to 17, with 194 Republicans joining 220 Democrats in support, setting up a final vote in the Senate as soon as Thursday.

The 17-page bill will suspend the import of Russian oil and energy products into the U.S. beginning 45 days after the legislation is enacted but give Biden the authority to waive the ban for any products necessary for the "national interest of the United States.”

Read More Here: House Passes Russian Oil Ban Building On Biden's Executive Order After Ukraine Invasion[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/09/house-passes-russian-oil-ban-building-on-bidens-executive-order-after-ukraine-invasion/?sh=428ac074617a]

— Jonathan Ponciano

March 10, 2022 4:51 AM EST

Between 5,000 and 6,000 Russian Troops Have Been Killed So Far, According To U.S. Estimates

Between 5,000 and 6,000 Russian troops have been killed during the first two weeks of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, a U.S. official told various news outlets. That number is significantly higher than the Pentagon’s previous estimate of between 2,000 to 4,000 deaths shared[https://www.deccanherald.com/international/world-news-politics/pentagon-estimates-2000-to-4000-russian-soldiers-killed-in-ukraine-1089394.html] earlier this week.

According to[https://www.cbsnews.com/news/ukraine-russia-death-toll-invasion/] CBS News, the official noted that while accurate casualty numbers are difficult to determine, Russia has suffered “very, very significant casualties,” comparable to some battles from World War II.

While there are no estimates from the number of wounded Russian soldiers, CBS notes that they are generally around three times as many killed, putting that estimate between 15,000 to 18,000.

— Siladitya Ray

March 10, 2022 3:31 AM EST

House Passes $13.6 Billion In Aid For Ukraine

The U.S. House of Representatives on Wednesday approved $13.6 Billion in aid for Ukraine as part of a $1.5 trillion omnibus spending bill.

According to the House Committee on Appropriations the aid package includes $4 billion to help displace refugees, $6.5 billion for military assistance and $1.8 billion for any macroeconomic needs.

Read more here: House Passes $1.5 Trillion Spending Bill With $14 Billion For Ukraine Aid—Here's What's In It[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/09/house-passes-15-trillion-spending-bill-with-14-billion-for-ukraine-aid-but-no-covid-relief/?sh=2fba04286cfb]

— Jonathan Ponciano

March 10, 2022 2:17 AM EST

IMF Approves $1.4 Billion Disbursement To Ukraine

The International Monetary Fund has approved $1.4 billion in emergency financing for Ukraine, the international lender announced[https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2022/03/09/pr2269-ukriane-imf-executive-board-approves-usd-billion-in-emergency-financing-support-to-ukraine] Wednesday.

“The war in Ukraine is resulting in tragic loss of life and human suffering,” the IMF said in its release[https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2022/03/09/pr2269-ukriane-imf-executive-board-approves-usd-billion-in-emergency-financing-support-to-ukraine]. “While the outlook is subject to extraordinary uncertainty, the economic consequences are already very serious.”

The IMF said it will disburse the loan using its Rapid Financing Instrument, an emergency assistance policy designed to quickly provide funds during a conflict or natural disaster.

The IMF’s emergency funding follows a $723 million support package for Ukraine approved[https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2022/03/07/world-bank-mobilizes-an-emergency-financing-package-of-over-700-million-for-ukraine] Monday by the World Bank. The bank said another $3 billion package would be sent “in the coming months” for Ukraine and its neighbors, which are receiving millions of refugees.

U.S. lawmakers said it aims to pass a $13.6 billion package that includes military and humanitarian aid for Ukraine, unnamed members of Congress and aides told[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/08/world/ukraine-russia-war/lawmakers-close-in-on-agreement-to-provide-nearly-14-billion-in-military-and-humanitarian-aid-for-ukraine] the New York Times Tuesday. The aid is expected to be passed in a larger government spending package that Congress must approve by Friday in order to avoid a government shutdown, following last month’s approval of a short-term spending bill.

March 10, 2022 2:09 AM EST

‘He Sees That We Are Strong’: Zelensky Thinks Putin Will Eventually End Hostilities In Ukraine

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told[https://www.vice.com/en/article/xgdm37/volodymyr-zelenskyy-interview-ukraine-russia] Vice News on Wednesday he believes Russian President Vladimir Putin will eventually “stop the war” and “begin to speak,” as Ukrainian forces continue to push back against invading Russian troops.

“I think he sees that we are strong,” Zelensky said in an in-person interview with Vice. “He will [cease fighting]. We need some time.”

Zelensky added that he does not trust Putin: “I only trust my family,” he said.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba are expected to meet[https://twitter.com/MevlutCavusoglu/status/1500798954379919362?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet] in Turkey on Thursday. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, whose top diplomat has hosted several calls between the two parties since the invasion began, said[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/09/world/europe/ukraine-russia-cease-fire-talks.html] the meeting could “crack the door open to a permanent cease-fire.” Russian and Ukrainian negotiators have met for several rounds of talks[https://www.axios.com/russia-ukraine-invasion-day-12-555ad039-6426-4ae9-ac8d-8e9a3a5a6f69.html] to discuss temporary local ceasefires to allow civilians to evacuate from besieged cities.

Russia has said one of its demands for a permanent ceasefire is that Ukraine remain neutral and not join NATO—a desire Zelensky said[https://abcnews.go.com/US/video/zelenskyy-interview-david-muir-reporting-abc-news-exclusive-83309456] he has “cooled down” on recently because “NATO is not prepared to accept Ukraine,” according to a translation of an ABC News interview.

Russia has bombarded Ukrainian cities in recent weeks, but its ground forces have struggled to make extensive progress in the country’s north. Western officials say the invasion’s slower-than-expected pace is partly due to stiff resistance from Ukrainians.

March 10, 2022 12:38 AM EST

Russia ‘Likely’ Deploying Private Mercenaries In Ukraine, U.K. Says

The British Ministry of Defense said[https://twitter.com/defencehq/status/1501701763921059845?s=21] in an intelligence update Wednesday Russia is “likely deploying” private military companies as part of its invasion of Ukraine.

Mercenaries were reportedly deployed in Ukraine weeks before Russia began its invasion, unnamed security officials told Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/exclusive-russian-mercenaries-with-spy-links-increasing-presence-ukraine-western-2022-02-14/] last month. The U.S. had warned of Russia using private contractors to stage “false flag” operations in Ukraine to justify its eventual invasion.

Mercenaries from the Wagner Group—a secretive Russian contracting organization—appeared to enter regions of eastern Ukraine controlled by pro-Russian separatists, the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/23/world/europe/russian-ukraine-mercenaries.html] reported hours before the invasion started two weeks ago. A senior U.S. defense official told reporters last week there are indications the Wagner Group is present in Ukraine, but it’s unclear how many of their staff are participating in the war.

Private military contractors such as the Wagner Group have been accused of committing human rights violations in several countries, including the Central African Republic and Syria[https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20211213-eu-imposes-sanctions-on-russian-mercenary-group-wagner-over-human-rights-abuses]. Last year, the United Nations raised concerns[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=27717&LangID=E] the group—operating as security and military personnel in the Central African Republic—committed crimes such as arbitrary detention, torture, disappearances and summary execution, along with reports of rape and sexual violence. Russia has denied ties to the Wagner Group[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-africa-58009514].

—Mason Bissada

March 9, 2022 11:08 PM EST

White House Warns Russia Could Use Chemical Weapons In Ukraine

White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki tweeted Wednesday the world should "be on the lookout" for Russia possibly using chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine, after the Kremlin accused the U.S. of backing a bioweapons program for the Ukrainian government.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/presssec/status/1501676240180322311&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova claimed without offering any proof Wednesday that Russia had amassed evidence of a U.S.-backed chemical weapons program in Ukraine, which Psaki called "preposterous."

Psaki said Russia might be setting the stage for a false flag operation to use its own chemical weapons in Ukraine, noting Russia has "long maintained a biological weapons program in violation of international law" and backs the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, which has used chemical weapons in the Syrian civil war.

"Russia has a track record of accusing the West of the very violations that Russia itself is perpetrating," Psaki tweeted. "This is all an obvious ploy by Russia to try to try to justify its further premeditated, unprovoked, and unjustified attack on Ukraine."

Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said Wednesday there currently isn’t any intelligence indicating that Russia has brought chemical or biological weapons into Ukraine, but he warned “it is … a piece of the Russian playbook to blame others for that which you are about to do.”

Russian President Vladimir Putin justified the invasion of Ukraine by falsely claiming ethnic Russians were facing a genocide in the Donbas region and inconceivably accusing Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who is Jewish, of heading a neo-Nazi government.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 10:44 PM EST

U.S. Doesn’t Support Giving More Fighter Jets To Ukraine

Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby pushed back Wednesday against proposals to supply Ukraine’s air force with Soviet-made MiG-29 fighter jets, rebuffing Ukraine’s request for planes and Poland’s offer to make the jets available.

Kirby said extra fighter jets are unlikely to significantly tip the sales in Ukraine’s favor, especially since Ukraine’s air force still has some planes in working condition. He also warned Russia may perceive a transfer of warplanes to Ukraine as an escalation.

“At this time, we believe the provision of additional fighter aircraft provides little increased capabilities at high risk,” Kirby told reporters Wednesday.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/03/09/pentagon-opposes-sending-mig-29-fighter-jets-to-ukraine/?sh=9e8148b44831].

— Joe Walsh

March 9, 2022 9:35 PM EST

Zelensky Brushes Off Putin's Nuclear Threats As A 'Bluff'

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he does not take Russian President Vladmir Putin's move to put nuclear forces on high alert seriously, telling a German news outlet escalating the conflict into nuclear war would amount to Putin's "suicide."

In an interview published Wednesday by German newspaper Die Zeit[https://www.zeit.de/politik/ausland/2022-03/wolodymyr-selenskyj-ukraine-russia-war-interview-english/seite-2?utm_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cnn.com%2F], Zelensky said Putin is only floating the nuclear threat because "nothing else is working" in Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"It’s one thing to be a murderer. It’s another to commit suicide," Zelensky said. "Every use of nuclear weapons means the end for all sides, not just for the person using them."

Putin on February 27 said he was placing the country's nuclear deterrence forces on high alert, an action U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Linda Thomas-Greenfield called[https://www.cbsnews.com/news/ukraine-russia-putin-nuclear-linda-thomas-greenfield-united-nations-face-the-nation/] "totally unacceptable." Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov[https://www.reuters.com/world/russias-lavrov-says-third-world-war-would-be-nuclear-destructive-ria-2022-03-02/] followed Putin's move last week by warning that a potential third world war would certainly be a nuclear conflict.

Many Western officials, including President Joe Biden, also appear to be unfazed by Putin's move. Biden on February 28 said[https://www.reuters.com/world/us/biden-says-americans-should-not-worry-about-nuclear-war-2022-02-28/] Americans did not need to worry about nuclear war over Putin's threat.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 8:13 PM EST

Satellite Images Show Toll Of Russian Bombing In Mariupol

The satellite company Maxar released images of the bombarded southern Ukrainian city of Mariupol, which has come under heavy shelling from Russians.

Ukraine has accused Russia of committing war crimes by targeting civilians in the city, with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky tweeting[https://twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1501579520633102349?s=20&t=a8AIoq3C4BfqFbXlPEe2xQ] a video Wednesday appearing to show an attack on a maternity hospital.

Capturing the port city is considered key for the Russians since it would connect Russian-controlled Crimea to the Donbas region.

It was confirmed Wednesday Russia has used thermobaric weapons in Ukraine, which is illegal for targeting civilian structures. It’s unclear if those weapons have played a part in the widespread damage across Mariupol. Read more here.[https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicholasreimann/2022/03/09/russia-has-used-thermobaric-weapons-in-ukraine-uk-says/?sh=4015d77cffb7]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 6:43 PM EST

At Least 18 Attacks On Health Facilities Confirmed In Ukraine, WHO Says

World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said Wednesday there have been at least 18 attacks on hospitals, ambulances and health workers in Ukraine since the Russian invasion began.

Tedros said at a news conference the WHO is aware of 10 deaths and 16 injuries resulting from the attacks.

The WHO has delivered 81 metric tons of health supplies to Ukraine and is aiming to generate pipelines to funnel supplies to health care facilities, Tedros said.

Ukrainian authorities said Wednesday that a Russian strike had devastated a maternity hospital in Mariupol, with President Vladimir Zelensky tweeting[https://twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1501579520633102349?s=20&t=iAnP34R5rE5VAOkWoVo2qg] a video said to be of the damage. The number of casualties has not yet been announced.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 6:42 PM EST

EU Sanctions 4 More Russian Billionaires

The European Union announced a new round of sanctions Wednesday against 146 Russian lawmakers and 14 business leaders, which include at least four billionaires.

Andrey Melnichenko[https://www.forbes.com/profile/andrey-melnichenko/?sh=118dff363086], whose net worth Forbes has estimated at $16.2 billion, was among those hit with sanctions, which includes asset freezes and a travel ban.

Andrei Guriev[https://www.forbes.com/profile/andrei-guriev-family/?sh=6ac53a757404], who has a net worth of $4.9 billion, along with Dmitry Pumpians[https://www.forbes.com/profile/dmitry-pumpyansky/?sh=43c02f9b69a1] and Vadim Moshkovich[https://www.forbes.com/profile/vadim-moshkovich/?sh=52ef31225448], who are both worth an estimated $1.2 billion, were also sanctioned.

Read more here.[https://www.forbes.com/sites/carlieporterfield/2022/03/09/eu-targets-four-more-russian-billionaires-in-latest-wave-of-sanctions/?sh=2e2ba68b5142]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 6:12 PM EST

U.K. To Supply Ukraine With Air Defense Systems

The United Kingdom will begin sending air defense systems to Ukraine in response to Russia's bombardment of the country, Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said at a briefing Wednesday alongside U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken. She didn’t specify the weaponry it will provide.

Truss reiterated that the U.K. has no plans to set up the "no-fly zone" Ukrainian officials have requested. Western leaders have repeatedly denied the request over concerns shooting down Russian planes could escalate the conflict into a world war.

"The best way to help protect the skies is through anti-air weaponry, which the U.K. is now going to be supplying to Ukraine," Truss said.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 6:06 PM EST

Russia May Be Dropping ‘Dumb Bombs’ In Ukraine As Patriot Missile Batteries Reach Poland, U.S. Says

The U.S. has seen indications Russia is using “dumb bombs,” or unguided munitions that have limited ability to hit precise targets, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Wednesday. Military experts told[https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/03/01/ukraine-invasion-russia-missiles-siege/] the Washington Post last week Russia may be experiencing a shortage of specific weapons, including guided munitions, as Russian forces appeared to begin their attack in Ukraine with guided missiles, but began firing weapons that can be difficult to aim precisely days after the invasion began.

The senior U.S. defense official also confirmed the two Patriot missile batteries the Pentagon said it would send to Poland on Tuesday have been delivered, and that “they are manned.” The U.S. European Command said in a statement[https://twitter.com/DanLamothe/status/1501390081776664580?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] the repositioning of the Patriot batteries would “proactively” counter “any potential threat” to the U.S. and its allies in NATO territory.

Polish officials signed[https://www.reuters.com/article/us-raytheon-poland-patriot/poland-signs-4-75-billion-deal-for-u-s-patriot-missile-system-facing-russia-idUSKBN1H417S] an agreement in 2018 to receive the batteries, which were due to be delivered by the end of this year. Poland also hosts one of the two Aegis Ashore[https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/2849023/aegis-ashore-in-poland-on-target-for-2022/#:~:text=The%20Aegis%20Ashore%20%22Deckhouse%22%20command,by%20the%20end%20of%202022.] missile defenses in Europe, which Russian officials have expressed concerns[https://foreignpolicy.com/2022/01/12/putin-russia-us-missile-defense-nato-ukraine/] about, fearing the U.S. could use the defensive batteries to fire offensive attacks. U.S. officials offered to allow Moscow to inspect the facility last month in an effort to ease tensions, USNI reports[https://news.usni.org/2022/02/02/u-s-offered-russians-aegis-ashore-inspections-to-ease-ukraine-tensions-more-american-troops-headed-to-europe].

Here are additional updates from the 14th day of Russia’s invasion, according to the senior defense official:

* The official said the U.S. sees “increasing damage to civilian infrastructure and civilian casualties” in Ukraine.

* Russian forces appear to be “just outside of the city” in Kharkiv, and have moved about 12 miles closer since Tuesday, though there is still “heavy fighting.”

* In Mykolaiv, Russian troops have advanced from the north and are about 9 miles outside of the city.

* There has been “no real ground progress to speak to” in Kyiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol.

* The U.S. is very close to delivering the $350 million aid package approved[https://www.reuters.com/world/biden-approves-350-million-military-aid-ukraine-2022-02-26/] by President Joe Biden at the end of February, and the official expects it will be completely closed out “in the coming days.”

* Russia has launched more than 710 missiles since the invasion began, with the majority coming from Russia and inside Ukraine.

* The airspace remains contested over Ukraine, and Russia has not reached air superiority.

— Anna Kaplan

March 9, 2022 5:14 PM EST

Retired Military Leaders Call For Supplying Ukraine With Air Defense Systems

A group of retired senior military leaders from the United States and Europe have penned a letter[https://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/21399038/an-open-letter-to-the-leaders-of-democratic-governments-of-the-world.pdf] obtained by CNN that calls for transferring Russian-made air defense systems to Ukraine to thwart Russia's continued bombardment of the country.

The military leaders proposed that countries with similar mid- and high-altitude air defense systems to Ukrainian ones that have been destroyed should transfer them to the besieged nation, saying the world has a "moral duty and humanitarian obligation" to limit the damage Russia is inflicting.

The retired generals and admirals framed the move as an alternative to creating a "no-fly zone" over Ukraine. NATO and U.S. officials have dismissed Ukraine’s entreaties to establish one, arguing that shooting down Russian planes could spark a full-blown world war.

"We cannot stand idly by and wish them well as Russia prosecutes an unrestricted campaign of destruction on the Ukrainian government, its infrastructure, and its people," the letter said.

Signatories include retired U.S. Air Force Gen. Phillip M. Breedlove, who served as supreme allied commander Europe; Sir Richard Shireff, a former U.K. general who served as deputy supreme allied commander Europe; and retired generals from Germany, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 9, 2022 4:24 PM EST

Mariupol Maternity Hospital Destroyed By Russian Strike, Ukraine Says

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky tweeted[https://twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1501579520633102349?s=20&t=iAnP34R5rE5VAOkWoVo2qg] a video Wednesday of an alleged Russian strike on a maternity hospital in the besieged southeastern city of Mariupol. Zelensky said the “direct strike” caused an unknown number of casualties, including children. The video and attack have yet to be independently verified. The Mariupol city council first shared news and videos of the attack on its Telegram account[http://drive.google.com/drive/my-drive], appearing to show the hospital in complete ruins.

The alleged attack would be a violation[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-promises-silence-ukrainians-flee-battered-cities-2022-03-09/] of a ceasefire agreement to enable civilians to evacuate Mariupol and several other Ukrainian cities. Evacuation attempts in Mariupol and elsewhere have repeatedly failed since Saturday amid[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/08/ukraine-war-civilians-sumy-irpin-refugees-russia] allegations of shelling from Russian forces. The Red Cross estimates[https://www.icrc.org/en/document/ukraine-safe-passage-civilians-mariupol-halted-second-day-icrc-calls-parties-agree-specific] 200,000 civilians are seeking to flee the city of 400,000, and residents have been without electricity, running water and heat since March 2, according[https://www.hrw.org/news/2022/03/07/ukraine-mariupol-residents-trapped-russian-assault#] to Human Rights Watch.

—Derek Saul

March 9, 2022 3:19 PM EST

Russia Defense Ministry Admits Conscript Soldiers Are Fighting In Ukraine A Day After Putin Said They Weren’t

Russian conscript soldiers are fighting in Ukraine, Russian Defense Ministry spokesperson Igor Konashenkov said[https://ria.ru/20220309/spetsoperatsiya-1777325478.html] in a statement shared by Russian state media Tuesday. The admission comes shortly after Russian President Vladimir Putin promised conscripts would not participate in the invasion, saying[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/putin-says-will-not-use-conscript-soldiers-ukraine-2022-03-07/] in a televised Wednesday address, "I emphasize that conscript soldiers are not participating in hostilities and will not participate in them.”

Konashenkov claimed[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/09/world/ukraine-russia-war] Russia still has “comprehensive measures” in place to keep conscripts—who are completing their mandatory military service—out of battle, but admitted “a number” of conscripts and other soldiers have been captured.

—Derek Saul

March 9, 2022 2:20 PM EST

Chernobyl Power Outage Poses No ‘Critical’ Safety Risk, International Nuclear Watchdog Says

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said[https://twitter.com/iaeaorg/status/1501545852715905029?s=20&t=fUkqZJZHc1Rnr0Mvdaz09w] Wednesday morning a power outage at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant presents “no critical impact on safety” shortly after Ukraine’s government said a radioactive leak appeared imminent. Even without electricity, the IAEA said[https://twitter.com/iaeaorg/status/1501545852715905029?s=20&t=fUkqZJZHc1Rnr0Mvdaz09w] Chernobyl’s cooling mechanism are sufficient to effectively cool spent nuclear fuel and thus block the release of nuclear discharge.

Earlier Wednesday, Ukraine’s state security communications service reported[https://twitter.com/dsszzi/status/1501518949703426051?s=20&t=OMzdjJRlho9wSg6-sSZvRw] Russian forces damaged a power line to Chernobyl, claiming the plant will not be able to prevent the release of radioactive substances without electricity. Dmytro Kuleba, Ukraine’s minister of foreign affairs, warned[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1501531432031858690?s=20&t=Mm-liQydgLgJnv_5fGz_JA] “radiation leaks [are] imminent” and the power loss “puts entire Europe in danger.” Russia captured[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/chernobyl-power-plant-captured-by-russian-forces-ukrainian-official-2022-02-24/] Chernobyl on the first day of its invasion of Ukraine, and the IAEA has[https://news.un.org/en/story/2022/03/1113382] previously expressed concern in Russia’s targeting of Ukraine’s four nuclear power plants in the war.

—Derek Saul

March 9, 2022 1:25 PM EST

U.K. Reportedly Impounds Private Jet Linked To Russian Oligarch

A private jet has been impounded in England over its suspected ties to Eugene Shvidler, a Russian oil billionaire, according[https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2022/mar/09/uk-seizes-private-jet-with-suspected-links-to-russia-hampshire-sanctions] to multiple[https://news.sky.com/story/ukraine-war-private-jet-impounded-at-hampshire-airport-over-suspected-link-to-russian-oligarch-eugene-shvidler-12561559] news reports[https://www.reuters.com/world/uk/britain-announces-new-aviation-sanctions-against-russia-2022-03-09/]. The jet, a Bombardier Global 6500,

was reportedly grounded on the orders of British Transport Secretary Grant Shapps using new aviation sanctions[https://twitter.com/grantshapps/status/1501310674911342594?s=20&t=cS9JR1pgkq0cpNS1qYwo_Q] that came into force Tuesday night. The restrictions prohibit Russian aircraft from landing in the U.K. as well as any owned or chartered by those on the sanctions list.

While the jet is registered to a Luxembourg company, ownership of private planes can involve third parties and be hard to trace precisely. The plane will stay impounded while investigators examine its ownership in more detail.

— Robert Hart

March 9, 2022 12:47 PM EST

Power Outage At Chernobyl Threatens Radioactive Leak, Ukraine Warns

Radioactive materials could be released from Ukraine’s Chernobyl nuclear power plant after a power line to the station was cut, the Ukrainian government said[https://twitter.com/dsszzi/status/1501518949703426051?s=20&t=8zUgGC2fYiOXqYYRRxKLwA] Wednesday. The power plant relies on electricity to cool spent nuclear fuel, which can release radioactive substances if allowed to overheat. All personnel at Chernobyl will receive a “dangerous dose of radiation” if this happens, the government warned, and wind could carry a radioactive cloud to other parts of Ukraine, Belarus, Russia and across Europe.

Nuclear power plants typically have backup sources of power, though it is unclear whether these are operational after fighting around the plant.

The Chernobyl plant, the site of the world’s worst accidental nuclear disaster, is under Russian control and officials say they do not know what levels of radiation there are at the plant. On Tuesday, the UN’s atomic energy agency said it was no longer receiving monitoring data from Chernobyl.

— Robert Hart

March 9, 2022 11:56 AM EST

U.S. Is Waging Economic War Against Russia, Says Kremlin Spokesperson

Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov on Wednesday accused the U.S. of waging an economic war against Russia.

"The US, undoubtedly, declared an economic war against Russia and they are waging this war. Yes, de facto this is exactly what it is," Peskov told[https://tass.com/politics/1419037] the state-backed news agency TASS.

The Kremlin official said Moscow will do “what in the best way corresponds to our interests,” without elaborating any possible retaliatory sanctions.

Earlier on Wednesday, a Russian foreign ministry official said[https://www.reuters.com/world/russia-warns-west-our-sanctions-will-hurt-you-2022-03-09/] that Moscow was working on a set of counter sanctions that will be “swift, thoughtful and sensitive for those it addresses.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 11:26 AM EST

EU Agrees To A New Set Of Sanctions Targeting Kremlin Officials, Russian Oligarchs

The European Union has agreed[https://twitter.com/Europe2022FR/status/1501481397269241859] to a new set of sanctions aimed at Kremlin officials and Russian oligarchs.

France, which currently hold the rotating presidency of the European council, announced[https://whichholdstherotatingpresidencyoftheeuropeancouncil/] the measures which include the expulsion of three Belarusian banks from the SWIFT remittance system and sanctions targeting the Russian maritime sector.

The EU’s top diplomat Josep Borrell told the European parliament that the sanctions which will target “around 100 people responsible at different levels of (the Russian) government.”

These additional sanctions will be formally approved by leaders of the bloc's 27 member states later this week.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 10:14 AM EST

U.S. Lawmakers Reach Deal For $13.6 Billion Aid Package For Ukraine

U.S. lawmakers early on Wednesday agreed to a bipartisan deal to provide $13.6 in aid to Ukraine and other European allies, the Associated Press reported[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-biden-covid-health-business-fa702b0f9efa4805b622739d302bc4cf].

Last week President Joe Biden had requested $10 billion to provide military, humanitarian and economic aid to Ukraine. But strong bipartisan support for the package allowed it to grow to $13.6 billion.

More than $4 billion of the aid package will be allotted to help Ukraine and its Eastern European neighbours cope with the influx over 2 million refugees and other internally displaced civilians who have been forced to flee the fighting zones. Another $6.7 billion will be used to fund the deployment of U.S. troops and equipment to the region and transfer of military weapons to Ukraine.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 7:45 AM EST

Kamala Harris Will Arrive In Poland Amid Disagreements Over Fighter Jets To Ukraine

U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris will begin her three-day trip to Poland and Romania on Wednesday amid an unexpected diplomatic disagreement between the NATO allies over providing fighter jets to Ukraine.

Earlier on Tuesday, Poland offered its Soviet-era MiG-29 jets to the U.S. “free-of-cost” to hand over to the Ukrainian military, which had put out several pleas for it. This idea—which would also have involved sending U.S.-made jets as replacement to the Polish Air Force—was quickly rejected by the Pentagon as “not tenable.”

Regardless of the differences over sending fighter jets to Ukraine, Poland remains critical to NATO’s efforts to aid Ukraine as it fights against the Russian invasion.

While announcing the trip last week, the White House said[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/04/statement-by-deputy-press-secretary-sabrina-singh-on-vice-president-harriss-travel-to-poland-and-romania-2/], Harris will discuss “security, economic, and humanitarian assistance” to Ukraine with the leaders of Poland and Romania.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 7:06 AM EST

Ukrainian Air Defenses Enjoying 'Considerable Success' Against Russian Warplanes: U.K. Defense Ministry

Ukrainian air defense systems “appear to have enjoyed considerable success” against Russia’s modern fighter jets, preventing them from gaining air superiority, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1501438467103989762] on the situation in Ukraine on Wednesday.

This echoes what U.S. intelligence officials have said[https://twitter.com/DanLamothe/status/1501281167210856449] about the air space above which they believe continues to remain contested.

The report states that fighting in Kyiv’s north-west region is ongoing but Russian forces have failed to make any significant breakthroughs.

Russian forces, however, have managed to encircle the cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Sumy and Mariupol which continue to face heavy bombardment, the update adds.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 6:21 AM EST

Evacuation Of Civilians From Sumy Will Continue On Wednesday

Evacuation of civilians from the city of Sumy in north-east Ukraine will continue on Wednesday, according to the region’s governor Dmytro Zhyvytsky.

Reuters reports[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/evacuation-ukraines-sumy-continue-weds-regional-governor-2022-03-09/] that around 5,000 people were evacuated from the city on Tuesday after Russia and Ukraine agreed to a brief ceasefire to allow a humanitarian corridor. Additionally, around 1,000 cars were also able to leave the city.

The corridor connecting Sumy to Poltava in central Ukraine was the only corridor where a ceasefire remained in place on Tuesday and both sides accused each other of violating it in Kharkiv, Mariupol and Chernihiv.

Zhyvytsky also added that a residential block in Sumy was bombed overnight, with one bomb killing 22 civilians.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 5:27 AM EST

IAEA Warns Of 'Increasingly Urgent' Need To Rotate Staff At Chernobyl, Says

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), citing Ukrainian officials, said[https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/pressreleases/update-15-iaea-director-general-statement-on-situation-in-ukraine] on Tuesday that it was becoming “increasingly urgent” to rotate some of the 210 technical personnel and guards at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant who have been working there since Russian forces took control of the site two weeks ago.

Ukrainian authorities informed the IAEA that the staff at Chernobyl had access to food, water, and medicine “to a limited extent,” but their condition was worsening.

The agency’s director general “indicated” that the IAEA has stopped receiving data transmissions from monitoring systems installed at the Chernobyl plant. The agency added that it was “looking into the status” of similar monitoring systems installed in other sites in Ukraine.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 4:55 AM EST

U.S. Sends Two Patriot Missile Batteries To Poland

Washington is sending two Patriot missile batteries to Poland as a “defensive deployment” to counter “any potential threat” to the U.S. and its NATO allies, the Pentagon said[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/08/world/ukraine-russia-war/the-us-is-sending-patriot-anti-missile-systems-to-poland] on Tuesday night.

The statement stressed that the move was a defensive measure—previously used to protect U.S. troops in the Middle East—and it “will in no way support any offensive operations.”

The Washington Post reports[https://twitter.com/DanLamothe/status/1501389447996358657] that the batteries include both the Patriot surface-to-air missile system and powerful radars which can track incoming aerial threats like jets or missiles.

— Siladitya Ray

March 9, 2022 2:17 AM EST

Fitch Downgrades Russia’s Credit Rating Amid Fears Of ‘Imminent’ Sovereign Default

Credit agency Fitch Ratings lowered[https://www.fitchratings.com/research/sovereigns/fitch-downgrades-russia-to-c-08-03-2022] Russia’s sovereign rating from a ‘B’ to a ‘C’ Tuesday, warning a default on its debt is “imminent” as Russia faces harsh sanctions and trade restrictions following its invasion of Ukraine.

Fitch and the other two major U.S. credit rating agencies—Moody’s Investors Service and Standard & Poors—downgraded Russia to junk status within a week of the invasion, and have further downgraded the country in recent days. Moody’s lowered[https://www.moodys.com/research/Moodys-downgrades-Russias-ratings-to-Ca-from-B3-the-outlook--PR_463675] its rating of Russia to a ‘Ca’ on Sunday, and S&P lowered[https://www.reuters.com/markets/deals/sp-drags-russias-rating-deeper-into-junk-territory-2022-03-03/] its rating to ‘CCC-minus’ last week.

In a press release Tuesday, Fitch cited a recent decision[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-05/putin-seeks-to-avert-defaults-with-ruble-payments-to-creditors] by Russia to let the government and companies pay foreign creditors in rubles. The firm also warned that sanctions on Russia—including new limits on the country’s crucial oil export industry—“increase the probability of a policy response by Russia that includes at least selective non-payment of its sovereign debt obligations.”

March 9, 2022 12:08 AM EST

U.S. Rejects Poland’s Offer To Hand Over MiG-29s To Aid Ukraine

The Pentagon on Tuesday rejected Poland’s offer to transfer dozens of aging Soviet-made MiG-29 fighter jets to the United States, which could then hand the planes off to Ukraine.

Earlier Tuesday, Poland proposed sending its MiG-29s—a model also flown by the Ukrainian air force—to the U.S.-run Ramstein Air Base in Germany “immediately and free of charge,” with the U.S. giving used fighter jets to Poland in return. The proposal came as NATO members looked for a way to give warplanes to Ukraine to aid in its fight against invading Russian troops.

But Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said hours later “we do not believe Poland’s proposal is a tenable one.” Kirby warned that sending planes from a base in Germany to contested Ukrainian airspace “raises serious concerns for the entire NATO alliance.”

Some U.S. officials told NBC News[https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/proposed-plan-sending-fighter-jets-ukraine-hits-logistical-snag-rcna19083] on Monday the prospect of transferring planes from Poland to Ukraine—with the U.S. military backfilling Poland’s supply—raised logistical challenges, and Russia may interpret the move as NATO’s entry into the war.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/03/08/poland-offers-to-give-mig-29-fighter-jets-to-us-to-aid-ukraine-but-pentagon-calls-the-idea-untenable/?sh=8b4e005696e6].

— Joe Walsh

March 8, 2022 11:59 PM EST

Congress Crafting $13.6 Billion Ukrainian Aid Package As Shutdown Looms

U.S. lawmakers are coming close to agreement on a $13.6 billion package of military and humanitarian aid for Ukraine, unnamed lawmakers and aides told[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/08/world/ukraine-russia-war/lawmakers-close-in-on-agreement-to-provide-nearly-14-billion-in-military-and-humanitarian-aid-for-ukraine] the New York Times Tuesday. The figure is $3.6 billion more than the $10 billion package House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said[https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/3622] Congress planned on passing this week, following the White House’s request[https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/COVID-and-Ukraine-Supplemental-Funding-Request-Pelosi.pdf] for Ukrainian aid and Pentagon funding.

The Times says the aid will be a part of a larger government spending package that will need to be approved by both the House and Senate by Friday in order to avoid a government shutdown, following last month’s approval of a short-term spending bill.

On Monday, the World Bank approved[https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2022/03/07/world-bank-mobilizes-an-emergency-financing-package-of-over-700-million-for-ukraine] a $723 million support package for Ukraine, and said another $3 billion package would be sent “in the coming months” for Ukraine and its neighbors, which are receiving millions of refugees.

—Mason Bissada

March 8, 2022 11:17 PM EST

McDonald’s, Starbucks, Coca-Cola: More Companies Exit Russian Market

PepsiCo and Coca-Cola announced Tuesday they will suspend business in Russia, and McDonald’s and Starbucks are temporarily shuttering Russian stores, as a growing list of American consumer brands leave Russia amid the invasion of Ukraine.

McDonald’s said it will continue to pay[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/03/08/mcdonalds-shuts-800-restaurants-in-russia-over-ukraine-invasion/?sh=2ca2582a4dd1] its Russia-based employees after closing 847 stores, and Starbucks[https://stories.starbucks.com/press/2022/letter-to-partners-from-kevin-johnson-on-ukraine/] says the licensee that runs its Russian shops will “provide support” to employees despite the closures. Yum! Brands—the parent company of KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut—also announced[https://www.yum.com/wps/portal/yumbrands/Yumbrands/news/press-releases/yum+brands+pausing+investment+and+development+in+russia+redirecting+profit+to+humanitarian+efforts] Tuesday it has “suspended all investment and restaurant development in Russia,” though it didn’t specify whether existing stores will remain open, noting that the vast majority of its 1,000 Russia-based KFCs and 50 Pizza Huts are run by independent operators.

Read more about the corporate exodus from Russia here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/08/shell-adidas-swatch-group-heres-the-list-of-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-invasion/].

— Joe Walsh

March 8, 2022 10:03 PM EST

U.S. Threatens To Cut Off Chinese Companies If They Defy Russian Sanctions

The U.S. threatened to cut off supplies of vital semiconductors, microchips, and other American-made technology essential to Chinese companies if they continue to supply Russia with equipment, according to an interview in the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/08/technology/chinese-companies-russia-semiconductors.html] Tuesday. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo told the Times that the Chinese state-owned Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMIC) and any other Chinese company that supplies equipment to Russia in defiance of U.S. sanctions could be cut off from U.S.-made supplies, which would "essentially shut" down those companies.

Under recently issued sanctions[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/24/fact-sheet-joined-by-allies-and-partners-the-united-states-imposes-devastating-costs-on-russia/] and export controls, companies like SMIC are not allowed to sell products that use American technology (even if the companies themselves are not American) to Russia. The White House said last week these restrictions were put in place to “choke off Russia’s import of technological goods critical to a diversified economy and Putin’s ability to project power.”

“We could essentially shut SMIC down because we prevent them from using our equipment and our software,” Raimondo told the Times.

Prior to Russia’s invasion, China had maintained close ties with its neighbor. Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi said at a press conference Monday, “The China-Russia relationship is valued for its independence,” adding his country aimed to keep ties “free from interference or discord sown by third parties,” according[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/07/china-upholds-its-relationship-with-russia-says-negotiations-needed-to-solve-ukraine-conflict.html] to CNBC.

—Mason Bissada

March 8, 2022 9:59 PM EST

Roughly Four In Five Americans Support Ban On Russian Oil, Poll Shows

On the same day President Joe Biden announced a decision Tuesday to ban the import of Russian oil and natural gas as further punishment for Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, a Wall Street Journal poll[https://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/russia-ukraine-latest-news-2022-03-08/card/wsj-poll-79-of-americans-back-ban-on-russian-oil-even-if-energy-prices-rise-niT9f6YRH5wRWe4pbhNv] found 79% of surveyed Americans support the ban and just 13% oppose it—despite the uptick in prices at the pump.

The poll pulled from 529 registered voters over the last four days. Left-leaning voters were more in favor of the move, with 88% of surveyed Democrats saying they favored the ban compared to 77% of surveyed Republicans and 72% of surveyed voters who said they would support the re-election of Donald Trump.

Gas prices in the U.S. surpassed their all-time highest average price Tuesday, reaching $4.17 a gallon and exceeding costs last seen during the 2008 recession. Read more about why Americans will “feel the pain” of these high costs for a while here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/08/gas-prices-surge-to-record-high-ahead-of-russian-oil-ban-americans-will-feel-the-pain-for-a-while/?sh=7898ff27339b].

—Mason Bissada

March 8, 2022 7:55 PM EST

Poland Offers MiG-29 Fighter Jets To Assist Ukraine

Poland is ready to transfer more than two dozen Soviet-era MiG-29 fighter jets to a U.S. air base in Germany “immediately and free of charge,” allowing the planes to be made available to Ukraine, the Polish government announced Tuesday. The offer comes as Ukrainian officials urge NATO countries like Poland to send fighter jets to aid in its war against Russia.

The Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs asked the United States to give used jets to Poland in return. American officials have reportedly[https://www.wsj.com/articles/ukrainian-president-asks-congress-to-help-secure-russian-made-jet-fighters-11646511532?mod=djemalertNEWS] discussed[https://www.politico.com/news/2022/03/05/white-house-deal-fighter-jets-ukraine-00014424] sending the country F-16 fighter jets, as the Polish air force replaces its aging Soviet-made planes with U.S.-made F-16s.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/03/08/poland-agrees-to-hand-over-mig-29-fighter-jets-to-aid-ukraine/?sh=3a2933934d59].

— Joe Walsh

March 8, 2022 6:35 PM EST

Russia Advances On Kyiv From New Direction — But ‘Stiff’ Ukrainian Resistance Slows Progress

A new column of Russian forces is advancing on Kyiv from the east as bombardment of the capital city continues, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Tuesday, though Ukrainian resistance efforts are still slowing down Russian troops, particularly in northern Ukraine. The eastern advance toward Kyiv supports the U.S. assessment that Russia aims to encircle the city, according to the official.

Here are additional updates from the senior defense official:

* Russian troops are advancing on Kyiv from three sides, with a new force from the east about 37 miles outside of Kyiv.

* One contingent of Russian forces headed for Kyiv from the north is “stuck” in Chernihiv and “can’t get past it,” according to the official.

* The key port city of Mariupol is now isolated from Ukraine, and has been disconnected from the power grid since March 2, but “stiff” Ukrainian resistance has kept Russian forces from taking control of the city.

* Bombardment and shelling of Mykolaiv, a city near the Black Sea, has increased from yesterday, but Russian forces have not taken control of the city.

* Russian shelling damaged a major gas pipeline in eastern Ukraine—24 gas distribution centers were switched off and about 1 million consumers are without gas in the Donetsk and Zaporizhzhia regions.

* Nearly 100% of Russian forces assembled for the invasion have been sent into Ukraine, and about 95% of the combat power assembled is still “intact.”

* Nearly 670 missiles have been launched since the invasion began, with the majority coming from Russia and inside Ukraine.

* Most of Ukraine is under threat from Russian surface to air missiles, but Russia has not achieved air superiority, and Ukraine can still fly aircraft and conduct viable and effective missile defense.

* The U.S. cannot confirm that Russian Maj. Gen. Vitaly Gerasimov had been killed following a Ukrainian government claim that he died in a battle near Kharkiv.

— Anna Kaplan

March 8, 2022 4:34 PM EST

Biden Announces U.S. Ban On Russian Energy

President Joe Biden said[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=riIbml4OyOY] Tuesday the U.S. will ban all imports of Russian energy, including oil and natural gas, in the latest step by the White House to cut off Russia economically for invading Ukraine. Biden said the move will target “the main artery of Russian economy” — energy products accounted for roughly 50% of Russia’s $489.8 billion in exports in 2021.

Russian crude accounted for 3% of U.S. oil imports in 2021, according to the trade group American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers[https://www.afpm.org/newsroom/blog/oil-and-petroleum-imports-russia-explained].

Biden said the U.S. is working with European countries, which are heavy importers of Russian oil and gas, on a long-term strategy to reduce their reliance.

The U.K. will also stop importing Russian oil through a gradual phaseout over the course of 2022, Kwasi Kwarteng, the British secretary of state for business, energy and industrial strategy, announced[https://twitter.com/KwasiKwarteng/status/1501229850454937600?s=20&t=5zC55e0c6y8iyWUwdr6N5g] in a tweet.

—Derek Saul

March 8, 2022 4:15 PM EST

Market Reaction To Oil Bans: Gas Prices Skyrocket, Stocks Continue Dip

Average gas prices reached[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/08/gas-prices-surge-to-record-high-ahead-of-russian-oil-ban-americans-will-feel-the-pain-for-a-while/?sh=43f36073339b] a record high of $4.17 per gallon Tuesday, a 55-cent increase from last week, as reports of the United States and United Kingdom’s impending Russian oil bans surfaced. Patrick De Haan, head of petroleum analysis at fuel savings company GasBuddy, predicted average gas prices may soon near $4.50 in a statement.

Stocks dipped slightly in early Tuesday trading, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite all falling between 0.3% and 0.7%, building off of significant Monday losses. Edward Moya, senior market analyst at Oanda, predicted “ultimately the economy will fall into a recession at some point over the next 24 months” due to Russia’s war on Ukraine.

Read more here:

Gas Prices Surge To Record High Ahead Of Russian Oil Ban—Americans Will 'Feel The Pain' For A While[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/03/08/gas-prices-surge-to-record-high-ahead-of-russian-oil-ban-americans-will-feel-the-pain-for-a-while/?sh=43f36073339b]

Stocks Weigh Historic U.S. Ban On Russian Energy, Oil Nears $130 Per Barrel[https://www.forbes.com/sites/sergeiklebnikov/2022/03/08/stocks-weigh-historic-us-ban-on-russian-energy-oil-nears-130-per-barrel/?sh=3cf34ff16663]

—Derek Saul

March 8, 2022 3:50 PM EST

U.K. Will Ban Russian Oil Imports

The United Kingdom will ban Russian oil imports, according to Politico[https://www.politico.eu/why-go-pro/?redirect_to=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.politico.eu%2Foauth%2Fauthorize%2F%3Fclient_id%3DznQGlYseabkN6WX9uDEbFfROVnDhBF1a3SRoQjC0%26redirect_uri%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fapi.politico.eu%252Foauth%252Fcallback%26response_type%3Dcode%26timestamp%3D16467531640059526] and Bloomberg[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-08/u-k-to-phase-out-russian-oil-imports-in-latest-sanctions-move], with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson expected to announce the move Tuesday, according to Politico. Both outlets report the embargo will be gradual and take place over the course of several months—and the ban does not include Russian gas.

The United States will soon announce a blanket ban on all Russian energy imports, numerous outlets reported Tuesday morning. The European Union released[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_1511] a plan Tuesday to cut EU demand for Russian gas by two-thirds by the end of 2022 and make the EU energy “independent from Russian fossil fuels well before 2030,” but isn’t expected to announce a ban on Russian oil due to opposition from several member countries, most notably Germany.

—Derek Saul

March 8, 2022 3:17 PM EST

U.N.'s Official Civilian Death Toll In Ukraine Nears 500

The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) updated its civilian casualty total from the war in Ukraine to 474 deaths and 861 more injuries in a Tuesday statement[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28233&LangID=E], increasing its death total estimate by 68 since Monday. The OHCHR stipulated the real tally is likely much higher. The statement noted, “Most of the civilian casualties recorded were caused by the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multi-launch rocket systems, and missile and air strikes.” There have been numerous[https://www.hrw.org/news/2022/03/08/ukraine-russian-assault-kills-fleeing-civilians] reports[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/06/world/europe/ukraine-irpin-civilian-death.html] about Russian shelling targeting Ukraine’s civilian population and infrastructure, including hospitals and schools.

—Derek Saul

March 8, 2022 2:00 PM EST

U.S. Expected To Announce Ban On Russian Oil Imports

The U.S. will soon announce a ban on Russian energy imports, several[https://twitter.com/ZekeJMiller/status/1501189806457593857] news[https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-planning-to-ban-russian-oil-imports-11646746787?mod=breakingnews] outlets[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-08/biden-set-to-ban-u-s-imports-of-russian-oil-as-soon-as-today?srnd=premium] reported Tuesday morning, citing anonymous sources. The move will ban Russian coal, natural gas and oil imports, according to CNN[https://twitter.com/jimsciutto/status/1501192139715325956] and CBS News[https://twitter.com/weijia/status/1501192599482388484].

President Joe Biden is expected to formally announce the ban Tuesday at 10:45 a.m. EST, according[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-08/biden-set-to-ban-u-s-imports-of-russian-oil-as-soon-as-today?srnd=premium] to the New York Times. The White House did not immediately respond to Forbes’ request for comment.

The prices of West Texas Intermediate (WTI) and Brent Crude both spiked Tuesday morning in response to the reports: Brent jumped 4.4% to $128.64 and WTI spiked 3.9% to $123.98 as of 9:15 a.m EST.

Russia accounted[https://www.forbes.com/sites/kenroberts/2022/03/05/percent-of-us-oil-imports-from-russia-highest-in-decades---at-35/?sh=3de3800faae8] for 3.5% of U.S. oil imports and 21% of its gasoline imports in 2021. U.S. gas prices hit their highest-ever[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/08/shell-pledges-to-stop-buying-russian-oil-and-gas/?sh=25893328368d] price Tuesday, according to AAA data.

A bipartisan group of Congressmen sitting on finance committees said[https://www.forbes.com/sites/masonbissada/2022/03/07/bipartisan-congressional-leaders-back-russian-oil-ban-suspending-trade-relations/?sh=6fc2cfd647ea] Monday they agreed to legislation banning Russian energy imports. The U.S.’ European allies are not expected to announce similar bans Tuesday, Bloomberg reports[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-08/biden-set-to-ban-u-s-imports-of-russian-oil-as-soon-as-today?srnd=premium], after several European leaders cast doubt on the feasibility of a ban Monday given Europe’s stronger reliance on Russian energy.

—Derek Saul

March 8, 2022 12:01 PM EST

Shell Says It Will Stop Buying Russian Oil And Gas, Shuts Russian Service Stations

Shell has pledged to stop buying Russian oil and gas and will immediately stop buying Russian crude oil, the company announced[https://www.shell.com/media/news-and-media-releases/2022/shell-announces-intent-to-withdraw-from-russian-oil-and-gas.html] on Tuesday, as the firm’s boss apologized for purchasing discounted crude oil from Russia last week amid the ongoing invasion of Ukraine.

Read more here: Shell Pledges To Stop Buying Russian Oil And Gas[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/08/shell-pledges-to-stop-buying-russian-oil-and-gas/?sh=548eb8c3368d]

– Robert Hart

March 8, 2022 11:34 AM EST

The U.S. Wants To Send Soviet-Era MiG 29 Jets To Help Ukraine—Here's Why That May Be Difficult

A proposal to send Soviet-built fighter jets to Ukraine has found support among several U.S. lawmakers following “desperate” pleas[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-volodymyr-zelenskyy-kyiv-business-europe-a0f619604ad19c50484e6a41eb02880c] by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky over the past few days[https://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/russia-ukraine-latest-news-2022-03-07/card/zelensky-asks-americans-for-help-fighter-jets-in-abc-interview-i5Yhmrr0nvczRj4FtxxB]. But such a plan faces multiple logistical and geopolitical hurdles that may be difficult to overcome.

On Sunday U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has given a ‘greenlight’ to a proposal that involves Poland sending its MiG-29s to Ukraine in exchange for new American F-16 jets. However, the response from Poland has been guarded—after an initial outright rejection[https://www.wsj.com/articles/ukrainian-president-asks-congress-to-help-secure-russian-made-jet-fighters-11646511532] —as the logistics of such a move may prove to be too challenging.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/08/the-us-wants-to-arrange-soviet-era-fighters-for-ukraine-heres-why-that-may-be-difficult/?sh=4308b1367281].

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 11:16 AM EST

London Metal Exchange Halts Trading Of Nickel As Price Soars To $100,000 A Tonne

The London Metal Exchange (LME) on Tuesday suspended[https://www.lme.com/api/sitecore/MemberNoticesSearchApi/Download?id=9be362b4-fa9e-41d5-b6a0-c4f1e7892e4c] trading of Nickel following an “unprecedented” 70% jump in its price to a record $100,000 a tonne.

Announcing the suspension, the exchange attributed the sharp increase to the “evolving situation in Russia and Ukraine,” forcing the LME to halt trading on “orderly market grounds.”

The massive surge in the price of Nickel—a key component in stainless steel and rechargeable batteries—comes as Washington mulls more severe sanctions against Russia, including a ban on all energy imports from the country. Russia is one of the world’s top producers[https://pubs.usgs.gov/periodicals/mcs2021/mcs2021-nickel.pdf] of Nickel which traders fear may be included in the import ban.

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 9:54 AM EST

Humanitarian Corridor Created In Sumy, Ukraine Deputy Prime Minister Says

A humanitarian corridor was created in the city of Sumy, northeast Ukraine, Tuesday, allowing civilians safe passage from Russian attacks into other parts of the country, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said[https://www.instagram.com/p/Ca1ZFK5j8UN/].

Russia and Ukraine agreed to the move, Reuters reports[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/humanitarian-corridor-set-allow-civilians-out-ukraines-sumy-deputy-pm-2022-03-08/], citing Vereshchuk. It comes after Ukraine rejected Russia’s proposal of humanitarian corridors into Russia and Belarus on Monday.

A planned 5-hour ceasefire in Mariupol that would allow civilians to seek safe passage on Saturday failed after Russian forces continued firing[https://www.theguardian.com/global/video/2022/mar/05/russia-fails-to-observe-ceasefire-in-mariupol-and-volnovakha-say-ukrainian-officials-video], Ukrainian officials said at the weekend.

Hundreds of international students, including from India and Nigeria, are also stuck[https://eu.usatoday.com/story/news/world/2022/03/05/ukraine-refugees-sumy-students/9382600002/] in Sumy and have told of running out[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/08/sumy-international-students-in-ukrainian-city-tell-of-desperation] of food and water.

Read more here: Humanitarian Corridors: What You Need To Know As Refugees Seek Safe Passage To Leave Ukraine[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/07/humanitarian-corridors-what-you-need-to-know-as-refugees-seek-safe-passage-to-leave-ukraine/]

– Isabel Togoh

March 8, 2022 8:45 AM EST

At Least 1.2 Million Refugees From Ukraine Have Crossed Into Poland

At least 1.2 million refugees from Ukraine have entered Poland since the Russian invasion of their country began last month, the Polish Border Guard said[https://twitter.com/Straz_Graniczna/status/1501091352221732865] on Tuesday.

Some 141,500 refugees passed through the Polish border on Monday, the guard added. The number of Ukrainian refugees pouring into Poland may continue to rise as fighting in Ukraine continues to intensify.

As of Monday, more than 1.7 million refugees had left Ukraine, according to the United Nations. Besides Poland refugees have also streamed into Hungary, Slovakia, Moldova, Romania and Russia.

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 7:46 AM EST

Venezuelan Leader Says He's Ready To Step Up Oil Production After 'Cordial' Meeting With U.S. Officials

Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro on Monday indicated his willingness to increase his country’s oil production if the import of Russian oil is cut off, in a surprising move by the Russian ally.

According to the New York Times Maduro said that Venezuela has the capacity to produce more than 3 million barrels of crude oil per day “if necessary for the stability of the world.” The comments come after he engaged in what he called a “respectful, cordial, very diplomatic” meeting with U.S. officials over the weekend.

Venezuela’s oil industry is currently under heavy American sanctions and Maduro’s regime has close ties with Putin and Russia. However, Washington is now reportedly trying to court Maduro to help address rapidly rising crude oil prices by easing some of these sanctions.

The move is facing some resistance from U.S. lawmakers, including Bob Menendez[https://www.foreign.senate.gov/press/chair/release/chairman-menendez-statement-on-biden-administration-talks-with-the-maduro-regime] (D-N.J.) and Marco Rubio[https://twitter.com/marcorubio/status/1501038220712325122] (R-Fla.) who warn against propping up the Venezuelan strongman.

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 7:16 AM EST

U.S. Embassy Says Situation In Ukraine Remains Unpredictable

The U.S. Embassy in Ukraine on Tuesday stated[https://twitter.com/USEmbassyKyiv/status/1501056375614586881] that the security situation in Ukraine continues to remain “unpredictable” and warned Americans trying to flee the country to not cross into either Russia or Belarus.

The embassy noted that “conditions at each border can change very quickly and wait times can increase without warning.”

The advisory[https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/ea/information-for-us-citizens-in-Ukraine.html] issued by the State Department warns Americans escaping Ukraine against traveling into Belarus due to “arbitrary enforcement of laws, the risk of detention.” U.S. citizens have also been advised against entering Russia as they may face “potential harassment...by Russian government security officials.”

Escaping U.S. citizens have been advised to go to Poland, Romania, Hungary, Slovakia and Moldova. The advisory however, urges them to avoid the pro-Russian separatist enclave of Transnistria in eastern Moldova.

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 6:30 AM EST

Ukraine claims a Russian General Was Killed During Combat In Kharkiv

The Ukrainian military on Tuesday claimed that its forces have killed a Russian general near the besieged eastern city of Kharkiv.

The Ukrainian defense ministry identified him as Major General Vitaly Gerasimov, the first deputy commander of Russia's 41st army, claiming that he previously fought with Russian forces in Syria, Chechnya and Crimea.

If the claim is accurate, Gerasimov may be the second senior Russian commander to be killed in combat in Ukraine. Major General Andrei Sukhovetsky was killed by Ukrainian forces late last month, following the invasion.

While Sukhovetsky’s death has been acknowledged[https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/andrei-sukhovetsky-russian-general-killed-b2029363.html] by Russian officials, they has been no official statement on Gerasimov.

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 4:28 AM EST

Proposal To Send Polish MiG-29 Fighters To Ukraine Reportedly Hits Roadblock

A proposal to send Poland’s Soviet-built fighter jets to Ukraine has hit a logistical roadblock, according to[https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/national-security/proposed-plan-sending-fighter-jets-ukraine-hits-logistical-snag-rcna19083] an NBC News report with the Biden administration now reviewing the plan’s feasibility.

The proposed idea involves Poland sending its old but still operational Russian-made MiG-29 jets to Poland and in return the U.S. would replace them with American F-16 planes.

However, such a plan may be difficult to implement soon, NBC reports, noting that such major weapon transfers take time and the U.S. does not have a surplus of F-16s.

— Siladitya Ray

March 8, 2022 2:59 AM EST

U.K. Says Russia Is Targeting Civilians Evacuating Kyiv Suburb

The Russian military “continues to directly target” evacuation routes in the town of Irpin, killing multiple civilians who tried to flee the Kyiv suburb, the U.K. Ministry of Defense said in a tweet late Monday evening[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500981170280050688?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet]. The report follows days of heavy[https://www.france24.com/en/live-news/20220307-hand-to-hand-combat-street-battles-rage-on-kyiv-s-edge] fighting[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/07/ukraine-kyiv-russia-advance/] between Ukrainian and Russian forces near Irpin, forcing residents to attempt to leave the town[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/kyiv-digs-battle-fighting-flares-areas-nearby-2022-03-06/] while Russia[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/06/russian-forces-shelling-irpin/] launched[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/06/world/europe/ukraine-irpin-civilian-death.html] shells at[https://www.rferl.org/a/russia-ukraine-irpin-civilians-shelled/31739089.html] a route[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/06/europe/ukraine-russia-invasion-sunday-intl-hnk/index.html] used by evacuating civilians Sunday.

The U.K. also said Ukrainian resistance “endures” near Irpin and in the nearby towns of Bucha, Hostomel and Vorzel. The fighting has left Irpin—a town of about 60,000[https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-03-04/ukraine-irpin-evacuation-kyiv] people less than 15 miles outside Kyiv—without water or electricity for days, according to the Ministry of Defense.

Ukrainian and Russian officials have discussed establishing temporary, local ceasefires to allow residents of some cities to evacuate. Negotiations have been frayed, partly because Russian officials wants civilians to flee via “humanitarian corridors” into Russia and Belarus, an idea the Ukrainian government has cast as a propaganda effort[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/ukraine-rejects-russia-cease-fire-humanitarian-corridors-putin-belarus-rcna18936]. Ukraine is also wary of trusting the Russian military to abide by the terms of any local ceasefires, presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak told CNN last week.

— Joe Walsh

March 8, 2022 2:29 AM EST

World Bank Approves $723 Million Support Package For Ukraine

The World Bank’s board of directors approved a $723 million support package[https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2022/03/07/world-bank-mobilizes-an-emergency-financing-package-of-over-700-million-for-ukraine] to aid Ukraine following Russia’s invasion, the institution announced Monday. The package brings together loans, loan guarantees, grants and parallel financing from several countries, and the World Bank says it will help pay for “critical services” in Ukraine like hospital wages and social programs.

The World Bank says it is preparing another $3 billion package for Ukraine “in the coming months,” in addition to aid for surrounding countries that are receiving millions of Ukrainian refugees.

The World Bank has committed nearly $14 billion[https://www.worldbank.org/en/country/ukraine/overview#2] to Ukraine since the country first joined the organization in 1992, which was shortly after the fall of the Soviet Union.

U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) announced[https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/3622] Sunday night Congress is aiming to approve $10 billion in support for Ukraine, a sum initially requested by the White House[https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/COVID-and-Ukraine-Supplemental-Funding-Request-Pelosi.pdf] to pay for military and humanitarian assistance as well as extra Pentagon spending. It adds to over $650 million[https://www.forbes.com/sites/annakaplan/2022/02/25/live-us-will-sanction-putin-for-russian-invasion-of-ukraine/?sh=78d19ecc1d2c] in security aid and $50 million in humanitarian aid already sent to Ukraine by the United States over the last year.

Ukraine Infrastructure Minister Oleksander Kubrakov said Monday in a televised address Russia’s invasion had already destroyed $10 billion worth of the country’s infrastructure, and it will take years to fix the damage inflicted on many of Ukraine’s cities by Russian shelling, according[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukrainian-minister-puts-war-damage-infrastructure-about-10-billion-2022-03-07/] to Reuters.

—Mason Bissada

March 8, 2022 1:51 AM EST

Shelling Damages Nuclear Research Facility In Kharkiv

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) reported[https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/pressreleases/update-14-iaea-director-general-statement-on-situation-in-ukraine] Monday a nuclear research facility in Ukraine’s second-largest city of Kharkiv was damaged by shelling, though radiation levels at the site did not increase, according to Ukraine’s nuclear regulator. This facility—which IAEA said produces “radioisotopes for medical and industrial applications”—did not have a large inventory of radioactive material, so there is little risk of disaster, IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi said in a statement.

However, the IAEA says it remains concerned about the state of Ukraine’s four nuclear power plants[https://news.un.org/en/story/2022/03/1113382] amid Russia’s invasion. The Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant, the country’s largest, is now under Russia’s control after Russian forces seized it last week, starting a fire at a nearby training facility in the process—an act the U.S. embassy in Kyiv deemed[https://twitter.com/USEmbassyKyiv/status/1499708231903547394?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1499708231903547394%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cbsnews.com%2Flive-updates%2Frussia-ukraine-power-plant-fire-war-news-latest-vladimir-putin-invasion%2F] a war crime. The plant was not damaged during the fire, but U.S. officials said[https://www.reuters.com/world/china/un-security-council-hold-emergency-meeting-after-russian-attack-nuclear-plant-2022-03-04/] the attack could’ve easily led to a nuclear disaster. The IAEA said Monday it is not possible to get medicine or spare parts to the Zaporizhzhya plant, adding to earlier concerns that staff are overworked and outside communication has largely been cut off. Grossi noted all of these factors pose safety risks.

—Mason Bissada

March 7, 2022 11:32 PM EST

‘I’m Not Hiding’: Zelensky Appears In Office For First Time Since Invasion Began

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky posted a video[https://www.facebook.com/zelenskiy.official/posts/3026120197638336?__cft__[0]=AZUCUZwH1pXjhdPvOKe59ldMJjx_3mLfxP9QgRDI5Rmw8Kh-0JWv-BKnXTrGW2qcjtsN3_Jj0MyBMVYJizK3H6OmHDPi97A2rZBHCUNIEFGqpp0s1WCFXi-gwl7BNtXy5ucbgmE0l1HB4NGhzYw9X0la&__tn__=%2CO%2CP-R] of himself in his office in Kyiv late Monday night, the first time Zelensky has appeared in the aboveground space since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began almost two weeks ago, CNN and The Guardian noted.

“I stay in Kyiv. On Bankhova Street. I’m not hiding. And I'm not afraid of anyone,” Zelensky said in the video, according to a translation[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/kozhen-den-sprotivu-stvoryuye-dlya-ukrayini-krashi-umovi-na-73417] released by his office that referenced the presidential administration building’s location on Bankhova Street in central Kyiv.

Zelensky has posted several video messages to social media in recent weeks, but aside from a pair of[https://mobile.twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1497450853380280320] defiant videos[https://www.facebook.com/zelenskiy.official/posts/3018618901721799?__cft__[0]=AZWo4s8NQhVcO7sCFN7-aAUn8Op76fl-Pw5eH5AtssRGzlBePf9TipuZW1O02dftp2Wb1hTSoYCSFKMOsxPkhR33otEYhhcz6y74VG1LoYoNMQRgOdacBvxEt1tAjNOvn3QFJZdX0eydIqX6HVeNbN0m&__tn__=%2CO%2CP-R] recorded on the streets of Kyiv, many of Zelensky’s public appearances have appeared to take place in a[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/01/europe/volodymyr-zelensky-ukraine-cnn-interview-intl/index.html] bunker[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/02/opinion/ukraine-russia-war-zelensky.html] in an undisclosed location[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/05/us/politics/russia-ukraine-succession-zelensky.html] in Ukraine’s capital.

Zelensky has declined U.S. offers to evacuate him from Ukraine’s capital city as Russian ground troops loom just miles away, at one point telling American officials he needs “ammunition, not a ride,” the Associated Press[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-volodymyr-zelenskyy-kyiv-poland-europe-c270027c825e009ed66988bb98a3476e] reported. Still, Zelensky has acknowledged threats to his safety, as Western officials warn Russia is likely angling to oust[https://www.state.gov/secretary-antony-j-blinken-with-james-landale-of-the-bbc/] the Ukrainian government. He called[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/02/25/russia-ukraine-president-zelensky-family-target/] himself[https://www.wsj.com/articles/once-a-comic-ukrainian-president-transforms-into-wartime-leader-11645794378] “target number one” for Russia shortly after the invasion began, and he reportedly told[https://www.axios.com/zelensky-eu-leaders-last-time-you-see-me-alive-3447dbc0-620d-4ccc-afad-082e81d7a29f.html] European Union officials during a call last week it could be the last time they see him alive.

— Joe Walsh

March 7, 2022 10:36 PM EST

Russia Claims To Offer Ceasefire For 5 Ukrainian Cities

Russian state media claims a temporary ceasefire could start Tuesday to allow evacuations from five of Ukraine's biggest and hardest-hit cities.

The ceasefire would start at 2 a.m. Eastern time Tuesday morning in the cities of Kyiv, Kharkiv, Mariupol, Chernihiv and Sumy, Russian outlets Interfax and TASS reported Monday, citing the Russian government. As part of the arrangement, Russian officials are reportedly requiring[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-07-22/h_8f05450550521508b6a64cec1d4dff3a] Ukraine to agree to let residents flee via "humanitarian corridors" into Russian and Belarusian territory, which Ukrainian officials have derided as[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/ukraine-rejects-russia-cease-fire-humanitarian-corridors-putin-belarus-rcna18936] "propaganda corridors."

Ukraine did not appear to immediately respond to the ceasefire offer, and it's unclear what other terms Russia might be demanding. Ukrainian officials reportedly have until 7 p.m. Eastern time Monday to accept the offer.

The two sides last week agreed in principle to set up humanitarian corridors, giving survivors of besieged cities a chance of fleeing to safety, but Ukrainian officials have questioned Russia's proposals so far. Ukraine rebuffed a similar offer[https://www.reuters.com/markets/asia/top-wrap-1-ukrainians-trapped-besieged-city-fighting-blocks-evacuation-efforts-2022-03-07/] to set up “humanitarian corridors” in four cities—including Kyiv—earlier Monday, and an attempted ceasefire to evacuate the cities of Mariupol and Volnovakha on Saturday collapsed within hours.

Ukrainian presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak said Monday talks with Russian officials yielded "small positive" progress in improving the logistics of humanitarian corridors.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 7, 2022 8:55 PM EST

White House Says 'No Decision' Yet On Russian Oil Ban

White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Monday President Joe Biden has not made a decision yet about whether to ban the import of Russian oil.

"Those discussions are ongoing internally and also with our counterparts and partners in Europe and around the world," Psaki said at a press briefing.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/abcpolitics/status/1500923423207436289&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who said[https://thehill.com/homenews/house/597098-house-working-on-bill-to-ban-russian-oil-imports] last week she supported a ban, wrote in a letter to colleagues last night that Congress should explore banning the import of Russian oil. A bipartisan group of lawmakers unveiled the framework of an agreement Monday to “ban the import of energy products from Russia and to suspend normal trade relations with both Russia and Belarus."

Psaki said any decision Biden makes will come with the rapidly spiking price of gas across the U.S. in mind. The average price for a gallon of gasoline in the U.S. has soared more than 49 cents in the past seven days, according to GasBuddy, surpassing the period after Hurricane Katrina as the quickest weekly rise in history.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/gasbuddyguy/status/1500910754207199234&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 7, 2022 8:17 PM EST

Ukraine President Zelensky Will Address U.K. Parliament

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will deliver a speech to the U.K. House of Commons at 12 p.m. Eastern time on Tuesday, according to a statement from House Speaker Lindsay Hoyle.

The address will take place through a video link, which will mark the first time an address has been given to the chamber via video, according to the statement. There will be no questions-and-answers session following Zelensky's speech.

"Every parliamentarian wants to hear directly from the president, who will be speaking to us live from Ukraine, so this is an important opportunity for the House," Hoyle said.

Western countries like the U.K. have faced growing calls to put further sanctions on Russia, such as a ban on the import of Russian oil, though Prime Minister Boris Johnson expressed caution[https://www.theguardian.com/business/live/2022/mar/07/markets-slide-surging-oil-price-stagflation-ftse-russia-sanctions-business-live] when pressed on the issue Monday. Zelensky has also called on NATO members to enforce a no-fly zone over Ukraine, reportedly pushing the idea[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/05/politics/ukraine-russia-zelensky-us-lawmakers/index.html] during a call with U.S. lawmakers on Saturday, but NATO has ruled out a no-fly zone and warned any attempt to force Russian planes out of Ukraine’s airspace could spark a broader conflict.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 7, 2022 6:35 PM EST

Third Round Of Ukraine-Russia Talks Ends With 'Small Positive' Progress On Humanitarian Corridors

Ukrainian presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak said Monday talks with Russian officials yielded "small positive" progress in improving the logistics of humanitarian corridors allowing survivors of besieged cities the chance to flee to safety.

The two sides agreed in principle to allow for humanitarian corridors at an earlier round of talks, but Ukrainian officials have slammed the agreement as a sham so far after Russian officials proposed corridors[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/ukraine-rejects-russia-cease-fire-humanitarian-corridors-putin-belarus-rcna18936] that would lead into Russia and Belarus, a Russian ally.

"Intensive consultations have continued on the basic political block of the regulations, along with a ceasefire and security guarantees," Podolyak said.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/podolyak_m/status/1500891711450583041&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

It's not immediately clear if another round of talks is planned.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 7, 2022 6:04 PM EST

Ukraine Claims It Has Suffered $10 Billion In Damage So Far

Ukraine Infrastructure Minister Oleksander Kubrakov said Monday the Russian invasion has already inflicted around $10 billion in damage to the nation's infrastructure, as shelling continues around the country while Russian troops advance on larger cities.

In a televised address, Kubrakov estimated it would take a year to repair most of the structures damaged so far, with "the most difficult ones" taking two years to fix, according to a Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukrainian-minister-puts-war-damage-infrastructure-about-10-billion-2022-03-07/] translation.

Kubrakov also used his speech to urge Russian troops to allow civilians to safely leave cities, accusing Russia of "doing all it can" to prevent humanitarian corridors, according to the Guardian[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/07/ukraine-news-russia-war-latest-news-vladimir-putin-zelenskiy-kyiv-russian-invasion-civilian-attacks-irpin-ceasefire-live-updates?page=with:block-622640978f087f6d099f2ca3#block-622640978f087f6d099f2ca3].

About 40,000 people were evacuated from Kharkiv on Sunday, Kubrakov said.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 7, 2022 5:00 PM EST

UK, Germany Push Back On Russian Oil Ban

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson expressed hesitation on a ban of Russian oil Monday, a day after Secretary of State Antony Blinken said[https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2022/03/06/us-in-active-discussions-to-ban-russian-oil-blinken-says/?sh=44089d903545] the U.S. is in “very active discussions with our European partners” on a ban.

Scholz said[https://www.theguardian.com/business/live/2022/mar/07/markets-slide-surging-oil-price-stagflation-ftse-russia-sanctions-business-live?filterKeyEvents=false&page=with:block-622609a08f087f6d099f28cc#block-622609a08f087f6d099f28cc] in a Monday statement[https://www.cbsnews.com/newyork/live-updates/russia-ukraine-news-war-vladimir-putin-nato-fighter-jets/] he opposes a blanket ban, saying Russian oil is of “essential importance” and Germany will “continue the activities of business enterprises in the area of energy supply with Russia.” The European Union hasn’t publicly weighed in on a ban, and Bloomberg reports[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-07/eu-is-divided-over-russian-oil-sanctions-as-calls-for-ban-grow] its members are split on the decision.

Johnson similarly noted the logistical challenges of a ban, saying[https://www.theguardian.com/business/live/2022/mar/07/markets-slide-surging-oil-price-stagflation-ftse-russia-sanctions-business-live], "You can’t simply close down use of oil and gas overnight, even from Russia." However, Johnson was less resolute on ruling out a ban, saying it remains[https://www.reuters.com/world/all-options-table-uk-pm-says-when-asked-about-russian-oil-ban-2022-03-07/] “on the table.”

Russia accounts for about 40%[https://www.wsj.com/articles/europe-fears-it-could-be-too-late-to-shake-off-russian-gas-addiction-11646476200#:~:text=The%20European%20Union%20gets%20around,has%20grown%20in%20recent%20years.] of the EU gas supply and about 4%[https://www.gov.uk/government/news/russia-ukraine-and-uk-energy-factsheet#:~:text=There%20are%20no%20gas%20pipelines,UK%20gas%20supply%20in%202021.] of the UK’s. Brent crude briefly hit a 14-year high of $139.13 early Monday, but quickly fell, trading at $123.08 at 12 ET Monday.

— Derek Saul

March 7, 2022 3:32 PM EST

UN Says More Than 1,200 Civilian Casualties So Far

* Since Russia invaded Ukraine February 24, 406 civilians have died and 801 more were injured, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) said in a Monday statement[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28179&LangID=E].

* The OHCHR “believes that the real figures are considerably higher,” as reports of further casualties await confirmation.

* The OHCHR said 27 children have died in the war so far.

* Civilian casualties were most densely concentrated in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions of eastern Ukraine, with 93 civilians dead and 435 more injured.

* Ukraine has yet to release an official civilian death total, but the OHCHR noted it is working to verify reports from the Ukraine government of hundreds of additional civilian casualties in separate incidents Sunday and Monday.

— Derek Saul

March 7, 2022 2:16 PM EST

Photos: Scenes Of Evacuation Near Kyiv

The struggle to safely evacuate civilians from fighting in Ukraine has drawn significant international attention, and a Russian plan to open a humanitarian corridor for fleeing Ukrainians only to Russia and Belarus was dismissed[https://www.reuters.com/markets/asia/top-wrap-1-ukrainians-trapped-besieged-city-fighting-blocks-evacuation-efforts-2022-03-07/] by Ukraine Monday as an “immoral stunt.”

Irpin, a small city less than 15 miles outside of Kyiv, became symbolic of the crisis as thousands of residents flee from advancing Russian forces by crossing[https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-03-06/ukrainians-cross-under-destroyed-bridge-irpin/100886922] under a demolished bridge. Russian shelling killed at least four civilians in Irpin Sunday.

Here are photos Monday from Irpin:

— Derek Saul

People cross an improvised path under a destroyed bridge while fleeing the town of Irpin close to Kyiv, Ukraine, Monday, March 7, 2022. ASSOCIATED PRESS[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/62260cc32452cb46ae4fa271/960x0.jpg?fit=scale]

Residents of Irpin flee heavy fighting via a destroyed bridge as Russian forces entered the city on March 07, 2022 in Irpin, Ukraine. Getty Images[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/6226106a8afe3c3be7dcafb9/960x0.jpg?fit=scale]

A woman in a wheelchair is evacuated from Irpin via a destroyed bridge as Russian forces entered the city on March 07, 2022 in Irpin, Ukraine. Getty Images[https://specials-images.forbesimg.com/imageserve/622610e6c5d7389ee0beb604/960x0.jpg?fit=scale]

March 7, 2022 2:00 PM EST

Russia Issues Demands Of Ukraine—The Same Ones From Before Invasion

Kremlin Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov told[https://www.reuters.com/world/kremlin-says-russian-military-action-will-stop-moment-if-ukraine-meets-2022-03-07/] Reuters Monday it will stop its war in Ukraine “in a moment” should Ukraine meet its lengthy set of demands, which includes recognizing the Russian-backed Donetsk and Luhansk rebel states in eastern Ukraine as independent, the Crimean peninsula seized by Russia in 2014 as Russian territory, and amending its constitution to commit to neutrality, promising never to join a group such as NATO.

The demands Peskov outlined Monday match hose Russia asked for before its full-scale invasion. Peskov parroted Russian President Vladimir Putin’s comments leading up to the war, claiming Russia was forced into the invasion due to Ukraine and the West’s actions.

Peskov claimed Russia was pushed into invasion because of an impending invasion of eastern Ukraine—an unfounded claim—saying "what tipped the balance was the lives of these 3 million people” and believing “they would be attacked." Russia has consistently advanced baseless claims[https://theconversation.com/putins-claims-that-ukraine-is-committing-genocide-are-baseless-but-not-unprecedented-177511] of genocide against Russian speakers in eastern Ukraine.

The United States and European Union sanctioned[https://www.forbes.com/sites/annakaplan/2022/03/03/us-sanctions-7-russian-oligarchs-and-kremlin-press-secretary-peskov/?sh=ff0a58c6b6ea] Peskov last week, and the White House called him a “top purveyor of Putin’s propaganda” in its announcement of the penalties.

— Derek Saul

March 7, 2022 11:34 AM EST

Putin Will Not Stop In Ukraine, Lithuanian President Tells Blinken

Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda on Monday warned U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken that Russia’s invasion of Ukraine could spiral into a global conflict and urged him to do more to help Kyiv.

Nauseda told Blinken, who is on a tour of the Baltic states, that Vladimir Putin “will not stop in Ukraine” and the world had a duty to help Ukrainians by “all means available,” Reuters reported[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/putin-will-not-stop-ukraine-lithuanian-president-warns-blinken-2022-03-07/].

“I mean indeed all means if we want to avoid the Third World War. The choice is in our hands,” Nauseda said. He added that the policy of deterrence was no longer adequate and “forward defense” was now needed.

Blinken reiterated that NATO was defensive alliance and stressed that U.S. commitment to NATO's mutual defense pact is “sacrosanct.” He added: We will defend every inch of NATO territory if it comes under attack. No one should doubt our readiness, no one should doubt our resolve.”

Blinken was set to visit neighboring Baltic nations of Latvia and Estonia later on Monday and Tuesday respectively.

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 10:37 AM EST

Ukraine Dismisses Russia's Offer For A Humanitarian Corridor For Fleeing Civilians

Moscow on Monday announced new “humanitarian corridors” for Ukrainian civilians that would lead them into the territory of Russia and its ally Belarus, an offer that was immediately rebuked by Kyiv who called it an “immoral stunt.”

The new “corridors” would be opened at 10 a.m. Moscow time on Monday from the capital Kyiv and the cities of Kharkiv, Sumy and Mariupol, Russia's defense ministry said.

Maps of these corridors[https://twitter.com/maria_avdv/status/1500754226422726657] published by Russian state controlled outlet RIA showed the corridor from Kyiv leading to Belarus, while the corridors out of Kharkiv, Sumy and Mariupol only lead to Russia.

According to[https://www.reuters.com/markets/asia/top-wrap-1-ukrainians-trapped-besieged-city-fighting-blocks-evacuation-efforts-2022-03-07/] Reuters, a spokesperson for Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky dismissed the offer as “completely immoral” and added that the citizens of Ukraine should have the right to “evacuate to the territory of Ukraine.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 8:30 AM EST

Russia Is Targeting Ukraine's Communication Infrastructure, U.K. Defense Ministry Says

The Russian military is likely targeting Ukraine’s communications infrastructure in an effort to prevent the country’s citizens from accessing reliable news and information, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500727508014088192] on the situation in Ukraine on Monday.

The report notes that Russia struck a TV tower in Kharkiv on Sunday, halting broadcasts.

The update also warns that Ukraine’s internet access is highly likely to be disrupted due to collateral damage on infrastructure caused by Russian air strikes. So far, internet outages have been reported in Mariupol, Sumy, Kyiv and Kharkiv.

Ukrainians have effectively used the internet and social media to rally global support for their cause, while Russia’s cyber efforts have been severely hamstrung as U.S. internet giants have cracked down Moscow-backed outlets and individuals.

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 7:40 AM EST

Global Stocks Slump, Oil Prices Touch 14-Year High

Global stock markets slumped[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/07/global-stocks-slump-oil-prices-touch-14-year-high-as-russia-intensifies-attack-on-ukraine/] on Monday while crude oil prices briefly hit a 14-year high after Washington indicated that a ban on Russian oil imports may be on the table.

Brent crude oil futures rose to $139 a barrel in early trade—the highest since August 2008—before settling at around $129 per barrel—8.52% up from Friday. The U.S. oil benchmark is up more than 9%—hitting $130.50 at one point—before settling at around $125 per barrel.

U.S. markets are also bracing for losses on Monday as futures for the S&P 500, Dow and Nasdaq were down 1.14%, 0.86% and 1.65%, respectively, at 2.30 am E.T.

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 6:50 AM EST

Moscow Is Reportedly Recruiting Syrian Fighters For Urban Combat In Ukraine

Russia is recruiting Syrian fighters, experienced in urban combat, to fight in Ukraine as its forces move closer into major cities, the Wall Street Journal reports[https://www.wsj.com/articles/russia-recruiting-syrians-for-urban-combat-in-ukraine-u-s-officials-say-11646606234], citing unnamed U.S. officials.

Russia has been fighting in Syria in support of Bashar al-Assad’s regime since 2015. Moscow reportedly believes that to tap into the fighters’ expertise in urban combat could help capture Kyiv.

While exact numbers are unclear, the report notes that some such fighters are already in Russia and preparing to enter the conflict.

Last week, Syrian publication DeirEzzor24 reported[https://deirezzor24.net/en/russia-has-opened-the-door-to-volunteering-in-eastern-syria-to-recruit-mercenaries-and-send-them-to-ukraine/] that Russia has offered volunteers between $200 and $300 “to go to Ukraine and operate as guards” for six months at a time.

Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, whose regime is heavily reliant on support from Moscow, backed[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/2/25/syrias-assad-praises-russias-ukraine-invasion-as-correction] Russia’s invasion of Moscow last week calling it a “correction of history.”

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 6:17 AM EST

New Zealand Government Working On Legislation That Would Allow It To Sanction Russia

New Zealand’s government is working to swiftly pass legislation that will allow it to join Western sanctions against Russia.

So far, the South Pacific nation has not been part of a multinational effort to impose economic sanctions on Moscow outside of voting in the U.N. as it lacked the legal means to do so.

Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Monday said that the new laws would enable her government to target people, companies and assets linked to the invasion. Ardern also noted that New Zealand may also freeze assets linked to Russian oligarchs and block their superyachts or planes from arriving.

“The creation of this targeted sanctions bill will send a very clear signal that New Zealand will not be a safe haven for those wishing to move their investments here.”— New Zealand Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 5:19 AM EST

South Korea Will Suspend Transactions With Russia's Central Bank

South Korea announced on Monday it plans to suspend transactions with the Russian central bank, joining the U.S. and several other nations in targeting Russian financial institutions.

According to[https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20220307004800320?section=market/economy] Yonhap news agency, the Korean government will announce details of the move after consulting government agencies.

Prior to this, South Korea also joined multinational sanctions against Russia, including the suspension of transactions with seven major Russian banks and a ban of exports to 49 Russian organizations and firms last week, including Russia's defense ministry.

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 3:58 AM EST

Around 50 Expelled Russian Diplomats And Family Members Leave New York

Around 50 Russian diplomats including their family members left New York for Moscow on Sunday, CNN reported[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-06-22/h_a828901596bc52461c3285ee9db202dd], citing Russian state news outlet RIA.

The reported departure comes days after the U.S. sought the expulsion of 12 Russian diplomats from the United Nations, accusing them of engaging in “activities that were not in accordance with their responsibilities and obligations as diplomats.”

Reuters reported[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-flying-out-un-diplomats-expelled-by-us-officials-say-2022-03-05/] on Saturday that the Russian government had sent a chartered plane operated by the Rossiya Special Flight Squadron from St. Petersburg to Washington to fly out the expelled diplomats.

The State Department noted that the chartered plane had been given special permission to land in the U.S. to evacuate the expelled diplomats. Last week, President Joe Biden announced a ban on all Russian aircraft entering U.S. airspace.

FlightRadar24 reports[https://twitter.com/flightradar24/status/1500633029995384832] that the chartered plane has left New York’s John F. Kennedy Airport and is en route to Moscow.

— Siladitya Ray

March 7, 2022 2:19 AM EST

House Explores Russian Oil Ban, Plans $10 Billion Aid Package, Pelosi Says

* The House of Representatives is exploring legislation that would “further isolate Russia from the global economy,” in response to the country’s invasion of Ukraine, Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said in a letter[https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/3622] to Democratic colleagues Sunday night.

* Pelosi said Congress intends to pass $10 billion in humanitarian, military and economic support to Ukraine this week following the Biden administration’s request.

* Pelosi says the legislation would ban the import of Russian oil and energy products into the U.S., and seek to deny Russia access to the World Trade Organization by repealing its normal trade relations with Russia and Belarus.

* The legislation would also empower President Joe Biden’s administration to raise tariffs on Russian imports.

* Pelosi reiterated Biden’s statements that U.S. troops would not enter Ukraine, but the country would provide military equipment “and support our allies who are supplying airplanes to Ukraine.”

March 7, 2022 1:10 AM EST

Russia Increases Shelling Reportedly Killing Evacuating Civilians

* The Russian military has increased its shelling of Ukraine across several cities, Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovich said on Ukrainian television late Sunday, according[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-vladimir-putin-spacex-volodymyr-zelenskyy-business-807f67dcf116559d2646abb7ed851ca9] to the Associated Press.

* Arestovich said the most recent wave of missile strikes came at night, hitting the southern city of Mykolaiv, the northeast city of Kharkiv, and the outskirts of the capital city of Kyiv.

* Arestovich said residents were unable to evacuate in the Kyiv suburbs, but the Ukrainian government is working to resume evacuations.

* The New York Times reported[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/06/world/europe/ukraine-irpin-civilian-death.html] at least four civilians died as a result of mortar shells during these evacuations.

* In Kharkiv, officials reported the shelling of its residential areas, along with the city’s television tower, according to the Associated Press.

March 7, 2022 12:04 AM EST

U.K. Promises $100 Million More In Ukraine Aid

* The U.K. will provide the Ukraine with $100 million in financial support aimed to help the war-torn country pay its public-sector workers and fund pension and social security payments, Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/uk/britain-pledges-100-mln-help-keep-ukrainian-state-running-2022-03-06/] and the Financial Times[https://www.ft.com/content/a4496d8b-c23c-4efc-a88b-8a35fee0094a] reported Sunday.

* Britain had already committed nearly $300 million in aid to Ukraine.

* "While only Putin can fully end the suffering in Ukraine, today's new funding will continue to help those facing the deteriorating humanitarian situation," British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in a statement Sunday, according to Reuters.

* The International Monetary Fund (IMF), a global organization made up of over 190 countries, announced[https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2022/03/05/pr2261-imf-staff-statement-on-the-economic-impact-of-war-in-ukraine] Saturday it aims to bring Ukraine’s emergency financing request of $1.4 billion to its executive board for consideration “as early as next week.”

* In the announcement, the IMF warned Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and sanctions brought on as a result of the war would “have a severe impact on the global economy.”

—Mason Bissada

March 6, 2022 11:08 PM EST

Zelenksy Vows To Punish 'Everyone Who Committed Atrocities'; Russia Commits 95% Of Combat Power In Ukraine

* In an address Sunday, Ukrainian President Volodamir Zelensky vowed to punish those that have committed atrocities since the war began, proclaiming, “We will find every scum who was shelling our cities, our people, who was shooting the missiles, who was giving orders,” adding, “You will not have a quiet place on this earth – except for a grave,” according to the Guardian[https://twitter.com/shaunwalker7/status/1500589274420420618/photo/1] and the Ukrainian news service the Kyiv Independent[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1500584474471510027].

* Russia has amassed approximately 95% of its combat power in Ukraine as its invasion continues, an unnamed senior US defense official told CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-06-22/index.html] Sunday.

* The senior official said Russia has launched 600 missiles since it began its invasion last week.

* Ukrainian resistance has slowed Russian advances toward several cities, including Khakhiv, Chernihiv, and Mariupol and the capital city of Kyiv, the official said, but could give no update on whether the Russian convoy (last reported as 16 miles from Kyiv’s city center) has progressed further toward Kyiv.

—Mason Bissada

March 6, 2022 9:36 PM EST

Russia Shuts Off Communication From Ukrainian Nuclear Power Plant, IAEA Says

The International Atomic Energy Agency reported[https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/pressreleases/update-13-iaea-director-general-statement-on-situation-in-ukraine] Sunday Russian forces have switched off phone lines, emails and fax at the Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant, which Russia took control of last week, further threatening the stability of Ukraine’s largest nuclear power plant.

“Reliable communications between the regulator and the operator are a critical part of overall nuclear safety and security,” Director General of the IAEA Rafael Grossi said in a release Sunday.

The update, based on the IAEA’s communication with Ukraine’s nuclear regulator, said mobile phone communication was still available, “but with poor quality.”

The IAEA said the plant is now under the command of the Russian military leader that took the plant last week and alleged that plant management, made up of Ukrainian staff who have been working in inhumane conditions, must seek approval from the commander before taking any action.

March 6, 2022 7:41 PM EST

American Express Suspends Operations In Russia And Belarus, Joining Visa, Mastercard

American Express is suspending all operations in Russia in response to the country’s “unjustified attack on the people of Ukraine,” the credit card company announced Sunday in a release[https://about.americanexpress.com/all-news/news-details/2022/American-Express-Suspends-Operations-in-Russia-and-Belarus/default.aspx]. Globally issued American Express cards will no longer work at merchants or ATMs in Russia, and cards issued in Russia by Russian banks will no longer work internationally. The company said it is also ending all business operations in Belarus.

“We stand by our colleagues, customers, and the international community in hoping for a peaceful resolution to this crisis,” the company said.

American Express joins other major credit card companies Visa and Mastercard, along with dozens of other corporations, in a stance against Russia following its invasion of Ukraine. Visa and Mastercard released statements announcing their respective suspensions of service in Russia within 16 minutes of each other Saturday, according[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-europe-9c0554f52e25088ae6e7b492cb04e6d3] to the Associated Press.

“When it is appropriate, and if it is permissible under the law, we will…work to restore operations,” Mastercard announced in a release[https://www.mastercard.com/news/press/2022/march/mastercard-statement-on-suspension-of-russian-operations/], confirming its cards would no longer work in Russia, and cards issued by Russian banks will not be supported on the Mastercard network internationally.

“We are compelled to act following Russia’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, and the unacceptable events that we have witnessed,” Visa chairman and CEO Al Kelly said[https://usa.visa.com/about-visa/newsroom/press-releases.releaseId.18871.html] in the company’s release, announcing the same changes.

—Mason Bissada

March 6, 2022 5:02 PM EST

Putin Stands Firm In Call With Macron

Russian President Vladimir Putin told French President Emmanuel Macron during a Sunday phone call he plans to achieve his goals in Ukraine “through negotiation or war,” according to the AFP and New York Times, citing the the Élysée Palace.

The French presidency’s official readout[https://www.elysee.fr/emmanuel-macron/2022/03/06/entretien-telephonique-avec-le-president-de-la-federation-de-russie-m-vladimir-poutine-1] of the call didn’t mention this statement on Putin’s aims. The readout said Macron called for Russia to respect international humanitarian and nuclear law and expressed concern about reports of an imminent Russian attack on the Ukrainian port city of Odessa.

Macron is the latest leader to attempt desperate diplomacy with Putin, who spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett Saturday and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan Sunday.

Macron and Putin have maintained consistent dialogue leading up to and during Russia’s full invasion of Ukraine. A senior French official said[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/03/macron-putin-call-ukraine/] Thursday Macron left his most recent conversation with Putin believing Russia plans to overtake all of Ukraine and “the worst is yet to come.”

—Derek Saul

March 6, 2022 4:22 PM EST

Blinken: U.S. Discussing Ban On Russian Oil

The U.S. is in “active discussions” with its European allies to ban Russian oil imports, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Sunday. The move would be the latest designed to cut off Russia from the West economically, and petroleum is Russia’s primary export. The White House initially resisted a ban, though there is strong bipartisan support for the measure in Congress.

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/dereksaul/2022/03/06/us-in-active-discussions-to-ban-russian-oil-blinken-says/?sh=504340f35453].

—Derek Saul

March 6, 2022 2:19 PM EST

Evacuation From Mariupol Stopped For Second Straight Day

Attempts to evacuate an estimated 200,000 people out of the southeastern Ukrainian city of Mariupol besieged by Russian forces failed Sunday, the International Committee of the Red Cross said in a statement[https://www.icrc.org/en/document/ukraine-safe-passage-civilians-mariupol-halted-second-day-icrc-calls-parties-agree-specific]. Evacuation efforts failed Saturday, too, as both Russia and Ukraine accused[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-ukraine-blame-each-other-mariupol-evacuation-fails-again-2022-03-06/] each other of breaking a ceasefire. Mariupol is out of power and water, and mobile networks are down, according[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-06-22/index.html] to the city’s mayor. The Red Cross said the failed evacuations “underscore the absence of a detailed and functioning agreement between parties to the conflict,” calling on Russia and Ukraine to establish a clear agreement to allow for a safe evacuation route.

—Derek Saul

March 6, 2022 1:44 PM EST

Key developments: Zelensky Warns Of Odessa Bombing As Pope Calls For Humanitarian Aid

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said[https://twitter.com/kaitlancollins/status/1500453749743140871?s=20&t=46QoFTDmpZQTr-ZvwyCOjg] Sunday he believes Russia plans to bomb Odessa, a southern Ukrainian port city on the Black Sea home to about 1 million. “Artillery, bombs against Odessa. This will be a war crime. This will be historic crime,” Zelensky said[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-06-22/index.html] in a video posted to his Facebook, adding to prior allegations that Russia’s invasion constitutes war crimes, under investigation by[https://www.reuters.com/world/un-rights-body-approves-probe-into-alleged-russian-violations-ukraine-2022-03-04/] the United Nations.

Here are additional updates from Sunday morning:

* Addressing a Vatican City crowd Sunday, Pope Francis denied[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/pope-francis-says-ukraine-conflict-is-not-military-operation-war-2022-03-06/] Russia’s claim it launched[https://www.newyorker.com/news/dispatch/how-putin-wants-russians-to-see-the-war-in-ukraine] a “special military operation” in Ukraine, saying “This is not just a military operation but a war which sows death, destruction and misery.”

* The pope called[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/pope-francis-says-ukraine-conflict-is-not-military-operation-war-2022-03-06/] on allowing humanitarian aid into Ukraine and the “return to the respect of international law,” after Russian forces allegedly refused[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/04/kherson-ukraine-russia/] to allow the supply of humanitarian aid or the evacuation of civilians in Ukraine.

* A Russian missile attack destroyed the Vinnytsia airport in central Ukraine using eight missiles, Zelensky said[https://twitter.com/KevinRothrock/status/1500449834712584197?s=20&t=2E02K3HVtZtEWev6BK-_2A] during his Sunday speech, marking the latest Russian attack on Ukrainian infrastructure.

* Ratings agency Moody’s downgraded[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-06/moody-s-cuts-russia-s-rating-deeper-into-junk-territory-to-ca] Russia’s credit outlook to the second-lowest Ca rating — propelling it further into junk territory — explaining in a statement: “Moody’s view is that the risk of a default occurring has significantly increased.”

* Russian authorities arrested at least 1,950 antiwar protestors Sunday, according[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/06/world/ukraine-russia] to Russian human rights group OVD-Info, bringing the total protest arrests in Russia since the war began to over 10,000[https://ovdinfo.org/].

—Derek Saul

March 6, 2022 11:06 AM EST

More Than 1.5 Million Refugees Have Fled Ukraine, UN Says

More than 1.5 million refugees have been force to leave Ukraine since the start of the Russian invasion of the country, according to UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi tweeted[https://twitter.com/FilippoGrandi/status/1500395166624010249] on Sunday.

Grandi added that the situation has now snowballed into the fastest growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.

Refugees fleeing from Ukraine have crossed into several neighboring countries including Poland, Hungary, Moldova, Slovakia, Romania, and Russia. As of late last week, Poland had accepted more than half a million refugees from Ukraine—more than any other country.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 9:20 AM EST

South Korea Will Tighten Export Controls Against Belarus

The South Korean government on Sunday said[https://en.yna.co.kr/view/AEN20220306002700325?section=market/economy] that it will ban the export of certain strategic items to Belarus starting this week, due to its support for Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

“As we have concluded that the Republic of Belarus has been effectively supporting Russia's invasion of Ukraine, we have decided to implement the export ban on Belarus as well,” the South Korean Economy and Finance Ministry said.

Seoul noted that it will promptly notify the United States about this decision.

Last week, South Korea announced plans to ban exports to 49 Russian organizations and firms last week, including Russia's defense ministry. Seoul has also joined the U.S. and its western allies in suspending financial transactions with major Russian banks.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 7:12 AM EST

Surprised By Ukrainian Resistance, Russia Is Targeting Populated Areas: U.K. Defense Ministry

The Russian military has resorted to targeting populated areas in Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol after being surprised by the “scale and strength” of Ukrainian resistance, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500357239428763649] on the situation in Ukraine on Sunday.

The update notes that Russia’s supply lines continue to be targeted, slowing the speed of its advance.

The update adds that there is a “realistic possibility” that the Russians are attempting to disguise their fuel trucks as regular support vehicles to minimize losses.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 6:26 AM EST

Biden Speaks With Zelenskyy Again, Highlights Actions Undertaken To Raise Costs On Russia

U.S. President Joe Biden spoke with his Ukrainian counterpart on Saturday evening where he highlighted efforts undertaken by the U.S. government, its allies and partners, and the private industry “to raise the costs on Russia for its aggression in Ukraine.”

According to[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/05/readout-of-president-bidens-call-with-president-zelenskyy-of-ukraine-6/] a readout of the call published by the White House, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky welcomed the decision by Visa and Mastercard to suspend service in Russia.

Biden said his administration continues to surge security, humanitarian, and economic aid to Ukraine and he will work closely with Congress to secure additional funding for more of the same.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 6:14 AM EST

Ukrainian MMA Fighter Moroz Emotional After Dominant Victory At UFC 272

Ukrainian fighter Maryna Moroz received a huge ovation from the crowd at the T-Mobile Arena Las Vegas as she waved her country’s flag after pulling off a dominant submission victory against her opponent Mariya Agapova in a fight that lasted 3 minutes and 27 seconds.

Following her victory at the prelims of UFC 272 event Moroz was visibly emotional thanked[https://twitter.com/UFCEurope/status/1500281615402082309] the crowd for their support and said “This week was hard for me. I want to cry.”

“All this week I feel nervous, I cried. I tried to focus. Many people don't know, but it was really hard for me. I see in Ukraine how terrible the situation is. It was really my heart almost crying. But I did it. I focused, and I did fight,” she said during her post match interview.

Several Ukrainian athletes have vocally come out in opposition of Russia’s invasion of their country and some of them including boxer Oleksandr Usyk and tennis player Sergiy Stakhovsky have signed up to fight for the Ukrainian army.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 5:22 AM EST

Beijing Opposes Moves That 'Add Fuel To The Flames' Wang Yi Tells Blinken

Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken that Beijing opposes any adverse moves that would “add fuel to the flames” in Ukraine, the Associated Press reported[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-united-nations-europe-singapore-42fc449b3e3336d09660c273aa0d9f19].

Wang spoke with Blinken by phone on Saturday.

Wang reiterated Beijing’s calls for dialogue and negotiations to resolve the crisis in Ukraine and also urged U.S. and its Western allies to heed Russia’s concerns about the eastward expansion of NATO. The Chinese minister added that the U.S., NATO and the European Union should engage in “equal dialogue” with Russia.

According to a readout of the call previously released[https://www.state.gov/secretary-blinkens-call-with-peoples-republic-of-china-prc-state-councilor-and-foreign-minister-wang/] by U.S. State Department, Blinken told Wang that the “world is watching to see which nations stand up for the basic principles of freedom, self-determination and sovereignty.” Blinken also noted that the world was “acting in unison” to push back against Russia’s aggression, ensuring a high price for Moscow.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 3:37 AM EST

Germany And Israel 'Share A Common Goal' Of Ending Ukraine Invasion

In a statement[https://www.bundesregierung.de/breg-de/aktuelles/bundeskanzler-scholz-trifft-israels-premierminister-bennett-2010420] issued early on Sunday, the German government said its shares a common goal with the Israeli government of ending the war in Ukraine as soon as possible.The statement was issued after German Chancellor Olaf Scholz's met with Israel's Prime Minister Naftali Bennett in Berlin.

The focus of the 90-minute meeting between the two leaders were the results of talks held on Saturday between Bennett and Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow, the statement added.

— Siladitya Ray

March 6, 2022 1:10 AM EST

U.S. Eyes Deal In Which Poland Would Provide Warplanes To Ukraine In Exchange For F-16s

The United States is in discussions to supply Poland with F-16 fighter jets in return for the former Soviet Bloc country sending its aging MiG-29s to Ukraine, U.S. officials told Politico[https://www.politico.com/news/2022/03/05/white-house-deal-fighter-jets-ukraine-00014424] and the Wall Street Journal[https://www.wsj.com/articles/ukrainian-president-asks-congress-to-help-secure-russian-made-jet-fighters-11646511532?mod=djemalertNEWS] late Saturday, after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky made an impassioned plea on a video call earlier in the day with U.S. lawmakers for Russian-made warplanes to help his country fight off a Russian invasion.

An EU promise last week to provide used Russian fighter jets to Ukraine fell through[https://www.politico.com/news/2022/02/28/ukrainian-pilots-arrive-in-poland-to-pick-up-donated-fighter-jets-00012560] after member countries possessing the planes balked.

Poland has been updating its air force: starting in 2006 it acquired 48 F-16s that serve as its main frontline fighter, and in 2020 it inked a $4.6 billion contract to buy 32 F-35s. But it still has about two dozen old MiG-29 twin-engine fighters — a type that Ukraine’s air force also flies. Poland is reportedly asking the U.S. to sell it more F-16s to make up the difference if it hands the planes over to Ukraine.

To the surprise of many military experts[https://rusi.org/explore-our-research/publications/rusi-defence-systems/russian-air-force-actually-incapable-complex-air-operations], Russia has so far failed to establish air superiority over Ukraine, despite on paper possessing a far superior air force and air-defense systems. Ukraine still has a “significant majority” of its military aircraft available, a U.S. defense official said Friday.

But Ukraine still appears overmatched, and Zelenksy has repeatedly asked the U.S. and NATO to establish a no-fly zone over Ukraine, something Western officials have said is out of the question given the likelihood that would lead to a wider war with Russia. On Saturday, he reportedly told U.S. lawmakers, “if you can’t do that, at least get me planes.”

March 5, 2022 11:28 PM EST

Mastercard And Visa Suspend Operations In Russia Over Invasion Of Ukraine

Mastercard and Visa are suspending operations in Russia with its invasion of Ukraine stretching into a 10th day, the two companies said Saturday, deepening the country’s economic isolation following a wave of sanctions.

Mastercard said in a statement[https://www.mastercard.com/news/press/2022/march/mastercard-statement-on-suspension-of-russian-operations/] that cards issued by Russian banks will no longer be supported by the Mastercard network and that any Mastercards issued outside of Russia will not work in Russia or ATMs there.

Visa said in a statement[https://investor.visa.com/news/news-details/2022/Visa-Suspends-All-Russia-Operations/default.aspx] it will work with clients and partners in Russia to stop all Visa transactions in the coming days. It added that all transactions initiated with Visa cards issued in Russia will no longer work outside of the country and any Visa cards issued outside of Russia will no longer work in Russia.

Mastercard and Visa cards accounted for nearly 74%[https://www.wsj.com/articles/russian-consumers-cut-off-from-many-foreign-purchases-11646154897] of card payment transactions in Russia in 2020, according to the Nilson Report.

–Lisa Kim

March 5, 2022 7:05 PM EST

Russia Resumes Offensive In Southern Ukraine As U.K. Accuses It Of Using Ceasefire To Reset Forces

Russia has restarted offensive operations in Mariupol and Volnovakha, the two southern cities where Ukrainian and Russian officials arranged to allow civilians to evacuate through humanitarian corridors as part of a temporary ceasefire agreement that collapsed hours after it began, with the U.K.’s Ministry of Defense accusing Russia of abusing the agreement to reset its forces.

“Due to the unwillingness of the Ukrainian side to influence the nationalists or to extend the ceasefire, offensive operations have been resumed from 18:00 Moscow time,” Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, a spokesperson for Russia’s Defense Ministry, said in a statement to Russian news agency Tass. Konashenkov claimed “not a single civilian” was able to leave the two cities through the corridors because “nationalists” prevented them from leaving.

However, in an intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500159409976131584/photo/1], the U.K.’s Ministry of Defense alleged[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1500159409976131584/photo/1] Russia likely agreed to the ceasefire in Mariupol only to provide cover to reset some of its forces for a continued offensive attack without receiving “international condemnation.”

“By accusing Ukraine of breaking the agreement, Russia is likely seeking to shift responsibility for current and future civilian casualties in the city,” it said.

The evacuation process for children, women and the elderly to escape the fighting in the two cities in southern Ukraine was postponed[https://twitter.com/Pavlo_Kyrylenko/status/1500061621330362374] hours after it began, after Ukrainian officials said[https://www.facebook.com/100005295963148/videos/271886048436286/] Russia broke the agreement by shelling the cities and nearby areas along the evacuation routes.

— Anna Kaplan

March 5, 2022 6:16 PM EST

U.N. Counts 351 Civilian Deaths In Ukraine As Russian Attack Continues

The United Nations’ human rights office said[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28179&LangID=E] Saturday 351 civilians had died and 707 had been injured as of Friday since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine started last week, noting that the actual figures were likely “considerably higher.”

The figures include 329 adult deaths and 22 child deaths, and 671 adult injuries and 36 child injuries.

The U.N. has said the actual numbers were undoubtedly much higher given difficulties in reporting and corroborating casualties amid the ongoing fighting. The U.N. alleged "hundreds of civilian casualties” in Volnovakha, the Ukrainian government-controlled area of Donetsk.

Most civilian casualties continued to be caused by “ explosive[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/DisplayNews.aspx?NewsID=28179&LangID=E] weapons with a wide impact area,” including shelling from heavy artillery, multi-launch rocket systems and missiles and airstrikes, the U.N. said.

— Lisa Kim

March 5, 2022 5:53 PM EST

Zelensky Pleads For Planes, Russian Oil Embargo In Call With U.S. Lawmakers

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky urged U.S. lawmakers Saturday to supply Ukraine with warplanes to fight Russian forces and to embargo Russian oil, multiple[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-united-nations-europe-singapore-42fc449b3e3336d09660c273aa0d9f19] news[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/05/world/russia-ukraine] outlets[https://www.axios.com/volodymyr-zelensky-ukraine-russian-righter-jets-c7a0e94a-07a1-49bf-aebc-abb8e4d1ba63.html] report.

Zelensky spoke to more than 300 members of Congress and aides on a Zoom call and made a “desperate plea for Eastern European countries to provide Russian-made planes to Ukraine,” Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) said in a statement. Schumer said the warplanes are much needed, and that he “will do all I can to help the administration to facilitate their transfer.”

An EU promise last week to provide used Russian fighter jets to Ukraine fell through[https://www.politico.com/news/2022/02/28/ukrainian-pilots-arrive-in-poland-to-pick-up-donated-fighter-jets-00012560] after member countries possessing the planes balked.

Zelensky called for the U.S. to ban the import of Russian oil—a move the Biden administration is reportedly weighing[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-04/white-house-considering-ban-on-russian-oil-imports-to-u-s], amid concerns that it could drive up domestic prices. He also reiterated his desire for a no-fly zone over Ukraine, which Western leaders have rejected multiple[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/04/politics/blinken-stoltenberg-no-fly-zone-warning/index.html] times[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-3rd-2022/] this week due to the likelihood that it would drag them into a wider war with Russia.

Schumer reportedly pledged to Zelensky that lawmakers were working to pass a $10 billion aid package[https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2022/03/03/meeting-urgent-needs/] for Ukraine, which the Biden administration requested earlier this week. The package aims to deliver additional humanitarian, security, and economic assistance to Ukraine and its neighboring countries, according to the White House.

— Anna Kaplan

March 5, 2022 4:59 PM EST

State Department Urges U.S. Citizens To Leave Russia ‘Immediately’ As American Basketball Player Detained

The State Department warned U.S. citizens in Russia to depart immediately[https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories/russia-travel-advisory.html] Saturday – ramping up the level of alarm from a February 27 advisory[https://ru.usembassy.gov/security-alert-u-s-mission-russia/] in which it told Americans to “consider” leaving immediately – and continued to direct Americans not to travel to the country in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The State Department warned that Russian security officials could harass U.S. citizens while the U.S. Embassy has “limited ability to assist” Americans, and the sharply diminished number of flights into and out of the country.

A WNBA player was detained at Russia’s Sheremetyevo airport, near Moscow, after officials found vape cartridges containing hashish oil in her luggage, the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/05/sports/basketball/russia-brittney-griner.html] and USA Today[https://www.usatoday.com/story/sports/wnba/2022/03/05/brittney-griner-arrested-russia-drug-charges/9389748002/] reported on Saturday, citing the Russian Federal Customs Service. Russian news agency Tass identified the player as Phoenix Mercury center Brittney Griner, citing an anonymous law enforcement source.

The Times reports Griner could face up to 10 years in prison, and the WNBA said in a statement to USA Today her “her swift and safe return” is the organization’s main priority. Read more about her detainment here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/03/05/wnba-player-brittney-griner-reportedly-detained-in-russia-on-drug-charges/].

— Anna Kaplan

March 5, 2022 4:20 PM EST

Aeroflot Suspends International Flights, Except To Belarus

Aeroflot, Russia’s flagship carrier, is suspending all international flights from Monday, except to the country’s ally Belarus, it said in a statement[https://www.aeroflot.ru/ru-en/news/62292] Saturday, following a warning from Russia’s aviation authority that Russian airlines with foreign-leased planes should stop flying overseas due to the likelihood they could be seized.

The airline said[https://www.aeroflot.ru/ru-en/news/62292] the suspension is due to “additional circumstances impeding the operation of flights.”

The move follows the recommendation from Russia’s aviation authority that Russian airlines with foreign-leased planes halt international flights as they risk being seized after the European Union forbade leasing of jets[https://www.reuters.com/business/aerospace-defense/hundreds-russia-plane-leases-be-axed-after-eu-sanctions-2022-02-28/] to Russian airlines in its package of sanctions. The EU has given leasing companies until March 28 to end their Russian contracts.

A growing number of countries have closed their airspaces to Russian aircraft, including the United States, Canada and most European countries.

Boeing and Airbus have also halted supplying[https://www.theguardian.com/business/2022/mar/02/airbus-and-boeing-to-halt-supply-of-aircraft-parts-to-russian-airlines] aircraft parts and services to Russian airlines following the invasion of Ukraine.

— Lisa Kim

March 5, 2022 4:08 PM EST

Weaponless Kherson Residents Turn To Protests To Resist Russians After Army Retreats, Mayor Says

Armed resistance to Russian forces has ended in the strategically important southern Ukrainian city of Kherson, where the city’s mayor told CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-05-22/index.html] the local population was unarmed, and a large protest was staged Saturday morning, according to the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/05/world/russia-ukraine/kherson-protests-ukraine].

“We don’t have more weapons to resist, to put up an armed resistance,” said Mayor Ihor Kolykhaiev, who told CNN the army had retreated toward Nikolaev.

A senior U.S. defense official told reporters as recently as Friday the Pentagon could not independently verify reports[https://www.economist.com/europe/2022/03/02/a-regional-capital-in-ukraine-falls-to-russia-for-the-first-time] Russian forces had control of Kherson, as there were still clashes in and around the city.

Saturday morning, a crowd that Kolykhaiev estimated at 2,000 gathered in the city center to protest the Russian occupation of the city.

Kolykhaiev called for humanitarian assistance as “all city services are down,” including water and power. He noted logistical issues with receiving the aid, as the only route to receive supplies is through Crimea, which has been Russian-controlled since its annexation in 2014. The citizens of Kherson also only want to take aid from Ukrainians, according to Kolykhaiev.

“Russians want to send their humanitarian aid, but the people of Kherson are refusing it, because they are patriots and they don’t want aid from Russians,” he said. “So we are not receiving humanitarian aid at the moment.”

— Anna Kaplan

March 5, 2022 3:10 PM EST

Resistance Of Russian Invasion Of Ukraine Calls ‘Into Question’ Its Statehood, Putin Says

Russian President Vladimir Putin said Saturday that Ukraine is at risk of losing its statehood if officials continued to resist his invasion of the country, and denied that Russian conscripts are involved in the fighting.

Claiming there was a possibility of nuclear weapons being placed in Ukraine, Putin said, “Those from today's leadership should understand that if they continue doing what they are doing, they call into question the future of Ukrainian statehood. And if it happens it will be wholly and fully on their conscience,” Interfax quoted[https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/75628/] Putin as saying during a meeting Saturday with female crew members of Russian airlines.

In his first extended remarks since the war began, Putin claimed Russia would not need to conscript soldiers to help fight in the invasion, nor would the country need to impose martial law. There have been multiple reports[https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2022/03/01/russia-low-morale-ukraine-invasion/] from Russian soldiers and family members of servicemen[https://meduza.io/en/feature/2022/02/26/i-m-panicking-where-is-my-child] that conscripts are being put into action in Ukraine, though the military is not legally allowed to employ them in combat.

“Only professional military servicemen take part in this operation, officers and contract soldiers,” Putin claimed, according[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/05/world/russia-ukraine] to the New York Times. “Not a single conscript takes part in it, and we don’t plan to send them there.”

Putin said he did not plan to impose martial law in Russia, unless other countries became aggressive toward the country, including implementing a no-fly zone, which Ukrainian officials have repeatedly[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/04/world/europe/zelensky-nato-no-fly-zone-ukraine.html] called for. “The realization of that demand would bring catastrophic results not only to Europe, but to the whole world,” he said.

Western nations have rebuffed[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-3rd-2022/] the calls for a no-fly zone due to the likelihood that it would lead to a wider war with Russia.

In the meeting, Putin also attacked the sanctions[https://www.forbes.com/sites/annakaplan/2022/03/03/us-sanctions-7-russian-oligarchs-and-kremlin-press-secretary-peskov/] countries have imposed on Russia in retaliation for invading Ukraine, describing[https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/75630/] them as “like the declaration of war.”

— Anna Kaplan

March 5, 2022 2:06 PM EST

Temporary Ceasefire Collapses As Ukrainian Officials Say Russian Shelling Continues

Ukrainian officials said Russia had violated the terms of a temporary ceasefire agreement Saturday between the two countries to allow civilians to escape the fighting in two southern cities, Volnovakha and Mariupol. Iryna Vereshchuk, deputy prime minister, said in a video posted on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/100005295963148/videos/271886048436286/] that Russian forces began shelling Volnovakha around 11:45 a.m., CNBC[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/05/russian-state-media-declares-ceasefire-in-ukraine.html] and CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-05-22/h_a4e690df26ee2fc0d5fd0e078731cb1f] report.

“I hereby state that Russia has violated [the ceasefire] agreement, failed to fulfill its duty and shells the town of Volnovakha,” Vereshchuk said, according to a translation from NBC News[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/ukraine-russia-war-updates-temporary-cease-fire-mariupol-russia-says-rcna18831]. “Moreover, there has been fighting in the direction between Mariupol and Zaporizhia.”

Authorities also postponed evacuations from Mariupol to Zaporizhzhya around 12:45 p.m. due to attacks along the route, Pavlo Kyrylenko, governor of the eastern Donetsk region, said[https://twitter.com/Pavlo_Kyrylenko/status/1500061621330362374] in a tweet.

Oleg Nikolenko, a spokesperson for the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said in a tweet[https://twitter.com/OlegNikolenko_/status/1500103111435763713] the “ongoing Russian bombardment makes it impossible to open humanitarian corridors for safe evacuation of civilians.” “We call on Moscow to order Russian troops to cease fire immediately,” Nikolenko said.

Earlier on Saturday, Russia and Ukraine agreed to a temporary ceasefire so that civilians could evacuate through humanitarian corridors from the two cities. Mariupol has faced heavy bombardment this week, leading to supply shortages and utility outages. Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boychenko wrote[https://m.facebook.com/1547688482223955/posts/3178884925770961] in a Facebook post earlier this week Russian troops “deliberately destroyed” the city’s infrastructure, and that the city is working to restore heat, water and light for residents.

— Anna Kaplan

March 5, 2022 7:03 AM EST

Russia Declares 'Ceasefire' In 2 Southern Ukrainian Cities—And Will Open 'Humanitarian Corridors'

Russia declared a temporary “ceasefire” early Saturday so civilians in the Ukrainian cities of Mariupol and Volnovakha can evacuate through “humanitarian corridors,” the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/04/world/russia-ukraine?name=styln-russia-ukraine®ion=TOP_BANNER&block=storyline_menu_recirc&action=click&pgtype=LegacyCollection&variant=1_BlueLink&is_new=false] and Russian news agency Interfax[https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/75561/] reported, citing a statement from the Russian Ministry of Defense.

Mykhailo Podolyak, an advisor to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, tweeted[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1500012357099171843] Saturday morning “humanitarian evacuation corridors are being prepared for opening” in Mariupol[https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/2022/03/04/ukraine-russia-siege-tactics-mariupol/] and Volnovakha[https://www.theguardian.com/world/video/2022/mar/04/footage-shows-devastated-town-of-volnovakha-ukraine-video], two southeastern Ukrainian cities that have seen intense fighting in recent days. He said “the parties temporarily ceased fire in the area of ​​the corridors.”

Russia’s statement claimed the ceasefire will begin at 10 a.m. Moscow time, but didn’t specify how extensive or long-lasting it will be.

On Thursday, delegations from Russia and Ukraine tentatively agreed to open “humanitarian corridors” in certain cities. Podolyak told CNN on Friday these corridors—which could be used to evacuate residents of besieged cities and replenish food and medical supplies—will likely be temporary.

— Joe Walsh

March 5, 2022 4:13 AM EST

Singapore Unveils Rare Slate Of Sanctions Against Russian Banks And Tech Imports

Singapore will restrict military and high-tech exports to Russia and sanction four Russian banks, including VTB, the Singaporean government announced[https://www.mfa.gov.sg/Newsroom/Press-Statements-Transcripts-and-Photos/2022/03/20220305-sanctions] Saturday morning, an unusual move for a country that normally doesn’t impose sanctions on its own. Singapore is also prohibiting financial institutions from helping Russia’s Central Bank or the Russian government raise funds, and barring the use of cryptocurrency to evade sanctions.

Officials in Singapore first indicated[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/02/28/singapore-to-impose-sanctions-on-russia-including-bank-transactions.html] they will roll out sanctions against Russia on Monday. Singapore usually does not enforce sanctions against foreign countries unless they are approved by the United Nations Security Council, Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/asia-pacific/singapore-impose-appropriate-sanctions-restrictions-russia-2022-02-28/] and Bloomberg[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-02-28/singapore-to-sanction-russia-in-almost-unprecedented-move] noted earlier this week. But the government has argued Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is uniquely worrisome because, as a tiny island nation, Singapore views respecting borders as sacrosanct.

“While we continue to value good relations with Russia and the Russian people, we cannot accept the Russian government’s violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of another sovereign state. For a small state like Singapore, this is not a theoretical principle, but a dangerous precedent,” the government said in a statement Saturday.

Dozens of other countries have enacted financial penalties similar to Singapore’s. The United States and United Kingdom sanctioned[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2022/02/24/biden-announces-new-sanctions-on-russian-banks-and-tech-imports-following-ukraine-invasion/?sh=418464da5d8a] VTB—Russia’s second-largest bank—last week, and U.S., U.K. and European Union leaders plan to halt some technology exports to Russia.

— Joe Walsh

March 5, 2022 4:12 AM EST

Russia Reportedly Planning To Send 1,000 Additional Mercenaries Into Ukraine

Russia plans to send as many as 1,000 additional private mercenaries to Ukraine over the next few weeks, CNN reported Friday[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/04/world/russia-mercenaries-ukraine/index.html?utm_medium=social&utm_term=link&utm_source=twcnnbrk&utm_content=2022-03-05T02%3A58%3A55], citing an unnamed U.S. official—joining a corps of Russian mercenaries who are widely suspected[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/23/world/europe/russian-mercenaries-are-filtering-into-the-separatist-held-region-of-ukraine-european-officials-say.html] to have already entered Ukraine.

CNN reports the 1,000 extra mercenaries could work alongside the Russian military’s ground troops, who have faced morale problems amid resistance from Ukraine, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters earlier this week.

Before Russia invaded Ukraine last week, the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/23/world/europe/russian-ukraine-mercenaries.html] reported mercenaries from Russia’s secretive Wagner military contracting firm—known for its purported work in Syria[https://www.nytimes.com/2018/05/24/world/middleeast/american-commandos-russian-mercenaries-syria.html] and Africa[https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/27/world/asia/russia-mercenaries-central-african-republic.html] —had quietly entered separatist-run parts of eastern Ukraine. A senior U.S. defense official said Monday the Pentagon has seen “some indications” the Wagner group is present in Ukraine, but it’s unclear how many operatives are in the country.

— Joe Walsh

March 5, 2022 3:03 AM EST

Zelensky Advisor: Ukraine Working To Create 'Humanitarian Corridors'—But Trusting Russia Could Be Difficult

One day after Ukraine and Russia tentatively agreed[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesstaffreports/2022/03/04/live-ukraine-russia/?sh=12e5aaf01519] to create “humanitarian corridors” to access besieged Ukrainian cities, an advisor to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told CNN Friday evening “the work on the logistics is now in progress” to set up temporary routes to evacuate civilians and resupply certain cities with food and medicine.

Zelensky’s advisor Mykhailo Podolyak told CNN Russia hasn’t agreed to create permanent humanitarian corridors, but Ukraine hopes to establish temporary routes that could be free of fighting for several hours at a time.

Podolyak also acknowledged it will be difficult to trust Russia’s military to respect ceasefires near agreed-upon corridors because “its current tactics [are] aimed at spreading panic among people.” Russia has ramped up bombardments of cities like Kyiv and Kharkiv in recent days, destroying apartment complexes and endangering civilians. He suggested international organizations could act as mediators to monitor the status of any humanitarian corridors.

— Joe Walsh

March 5, 2022 1:06 AM EST

Samsung Is Latest Tech Company To Cut Off Exports To Russia

Samsung Electronics is halting shipments to Russia, the tech company told Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/technology/samsung-elec-says-shipments-russia-suspended-donating-6-mln-aid-2022-03-04/] and Bloomberg[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-04/samsung-suspends-shipments-of-phones-chips-to-russia?srnd=premium-europe] Friday, joining a litany of companies that have stopped selling their products in the country since Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an invasion of Ukraine.

Forbes has reached out to Samsung for comment.

Several other companies have distanced themselves[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/04/microsoft-airbnb-google-heres-the-growing-list-of-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-invasion/?sh=45df33722cd8] from Russia in recent days. Apple paused product sales[https://www.bbc.com/news/technology-60579641] in Russia on Tuesday, Microsoft took similar action[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/03/04/horrified-microsoft-suspends-product-sales-and-services-in-russia-amid-ukraine-invasion/?sh=57407e757477] on Friday, and platforms like YouTube and Facebook have imposed restrictions on Russian state-controlled media outlets.

— Joe Walsh

March 5, 2022 12:01 AM EST

CNN Stops Broadcasting In Russia Amid Kremlin Media Crackdown

CNN will halt broadcasting in Russia, the cable network said Friday, making it the latest Western news outlet to scale back its presence in the country amid tightening government restrictions while it prosecutes an invasion of Ukraine.

A CNN spokesperson told Forbes the network “will stop broadcasting in Russia while we continue to evaluate the situation and our next steps moving forward.” A source at CNN said the outlet doesn’t plan on pulling its staff out of Russia.

The Russian government has sought to tightly control how media outlets report on the war with Ukraine, passing a law that threatens journalists with prison sentences of up to 15 years if they report what the Kremlin deems to be fake information about the invasion. Two of the country’s only remaining independent broadcasters left[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/03/world/europe/russia-ukraine-propaganda-censorship.html] the airwaves[https://www.niemanlab.org/2022/03/russia-blocks-tv-rain-its-last-independent-tv-channel-and-tv-rain-airs-its-last-broadcast/] earlier this week amid pressure[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/02/media/journalism-crackdown-russia/index.html] from Russian authorities. Earlier Friday, access to Facebook[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesstaffreports/2022/03/04/live-ukraine-russia/?sh=68304b321519] and the BBC’s website was blocked, and the BBC said[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-60617365] it would suspend local reporting in Russia.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 11:52 PM EST

Zelensky Excoriates NATO For Rejecting No-Fly Zone Over Ukraine

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said NATO “gave the green light for further bombing of Ukrainian cities and villages” by refusing to implement a no-fly zone over his country, in a speech late Friday night translated by Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/business/aerospace-defense/nato-meets-ukraine-calls-no-fly-zone-hinder-russia-2022-03-04/]. Zelensky also called a summit of NATO countries earlier Friday “weak” and “confused,” pushing the alliance to take further action[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/index.html].

As Russia escalates its bombardment of Ukrainian cities, Zelensky has repeatedly urged Western leaders to force Russian warplanes to stay out of Ukraine’s airspace. The United States and its allies have categorically[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-3rd-2022/] rejected[https://twitter.com/PentagonPresSec/status/1498450940512382980] the idea[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/04/politics/blinken-stoltenberg-no-fly-zone-warning/index.html] and warned enforcing a no-fly zone would require Western militaries to confront and shoot down Russian aircraft, leading to the risk of a broader war between nuclear-armed powers. NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Friday[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/news_192795.htm] “we have a responsibility to ensure [the war] does not escalate and spread beyond Ukraine. That would be even more devastating and dangerous.”

Beyond the risks[https://warontherocks.com/2022/03/the-dangerous-allure-of-the-no-fly-zone/], some military experts argue[https://warontherocks.com/2022/03/the-dangerous-allure-of-the-no-fly-zone/] a no-fly zone’s impact on the war in Ukraine could be fairly muted, since most Ukrainian civilian deaths so far appear to have been caused by artillery fire and missile strikes rather than attacks from aircraft.

“Contrary to what so many in the commentariat seem to believe, a no-fly zone is not a military half-measure. It is a combat operation designed to deprive the enemy of its airpower, and it involves direct and sustained fighting,” the national security website War on the Rocks wrote.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 10:49 PM EST

White House ‘Looking At Options’ To Limit Russian Oil—But Blinken Finds ‘No Strategic Interest’ In Supply Cuts

The federal government is considering ways to reduce U.S. imports of Russian oil, Council of Economic Advisors Chair Cecilia Rouse said Friday, though the Biden Administration still appears hesitant to pursue a strategy that could cause prices to spike even higher.

Rouse said during a White House press briefing “we are looking at options that we can take right now if we were to cut the U.S. consumption of Russian energy, but what’s really most important is that we maintain a steady supply of global energy.”

However, Secretary of State Antony Blinken pushed back on the idea of restricting Russian oil Friday, telling reporters “there’s no strategic interest in reducing the global supply of energy.” He didn’t rule out the idea, but warned sanctions against Russian energy exports—a key part of Russia’s economy—could add fuel to the fire of the recent sharp rise in oil prices, an argument the Biden Administration has often articulated this week.

Earlier Friday, Bloomberg reported[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-04/white-house-considering-ban-on-russian-oil-imports-to-u-s] the Biden Administration has discussed the possibility of a ban on Russian oil with both federal staffers and the petroleum industry, citing unnamed sources. But oil is fungible, and Bloomberg reports the administration is concerned any Russian crude oil that the United States stops importing may just go to other countries, causing U.S. prices to increase without any tangible impact on Russia’s bottom line.

Last year, the United States imported around 72.6 million[https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/LeafHandler.ashx?n=PET&s=MCRIM_NUS-NRS_1&f=M] barrels of Russian crude oil, according to the U.S. Department of Energy’s statistics, a small fraction of the roughly 2.2 billion[https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/LeafHandler.ashx?n=PET&s=MCRIMUS1&f=M] barrels of crude oil imported into the U.S. from all countries in the same year, with Canada, Mexico and Saudi Arabia ranking as the top foreign sources[https://www.eia.gov/petroleum/imports/companylevel/] of oil. (Russia accounted for about 20%[https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/LeafHandler.ashx?n=PET&s=MTXIM_NUS-NRS_1&f=M] of the 861 million[https://www.eia.gov/dnav/pet/hist/LeafHandler.ashx?n=PET&s=MPEIMUS1&f=M] barrels of refined petroleum products the U.S. imported last year, but imports are small compared to domestic production.)

Even though sanctions from Western countries haven’t directly targeted oil imports, some of the other severe economic penalties imposed on Russia after it invaded Ukraine could disrupt the country’s energy sector. Russia has[https://www.marketwatch.com/story/why-russian-oil-cant-find-buyers-even-as-crude-nearly-touches-120-a-barrel-11646347974] reportedly[https://www.npr.org/2022/03/04/1084448619/russia-lowers-its-oil-prices-after-buyers-self-sanction] struggled[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/03/investing/russia-oil-sanctions-ukraine/index.html] to find buyers for its oil, as traders steer clear of the country to avoid violating financial industry sanctions.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 8:51 PM EST

About 100 People Believed Trapped In Rubble Of Destroyed Apartment Building Near Kyiv, CNN Reports

The Ukrainian State Emergency Service believes around 100 people are still trapped in the rubble of a heavily bombarded apartment building in an area north of Kyiv, but an official told CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/h_2dedc6db127c8e68f744ecd4c95720b8] rescue crews have been unable to reach them due to constant shelling from Russian forces.

Drone footage[https://www.bbc.com/news/av/world-europe-60608706] published Thursday showed large chunks of a multi-story apartment complex essentially leveled by shelling in Borodyanka just north of Kyiv, as Russian forces attempt to advance toward Ukraine's capital.

"We are ready to evacuate people as soon as there is an agreement on a 'green corridor,'" State Emergency Service spokesperson Viktoriya Ruban told CNN, appearing to refer to "humanitarian corridors" Russian and Ukrainian officials agreed to in principle during talks on Thursday.

The agreement appears to involve temporary ceasefires to evacuate survivors of besieged cities, though exact logistics have not been confirmed and no corridors have been set up yet.

March 4, 2022 8:13 PM EST

Russia Blocks Access To Facebook, Twitter

Russia blocked access to Facebook across the country Friday in what Russian regulators said was retaliation for the social media giant restricting access to Russian media, and soon after blocked Twitter as well, according to Interfax[https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/75547/]. Meta, Facebook’s parent company, restricted access to posts from state-sponsored media outlets like RT and Sputnik earlier this week, while Twitter took steps to limit the reach of tweets linking to Russian state-affiliated news sources.

Read more about the bans here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/nicholasreimann/2022/03/04/russia-bans-facebook-charging-it-with-discriminating-against-russian-media/?sh=66404ffe4116].

— Anna Kaplan

March 4, 2022 6:36 PM EST

U.S. Officials Say Russian Attack On Power Plant A ‘War Crime’ That Almost Caused ‘Nuclear Catastrophe’

U.S. ambassador to the U.N. Linda Thomas-Greenfield said[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/h_c98b4ad678b4c0a67060d81796e15057] Friday that Russia nearly caused a "nuclear catastrophe" during an overnight attack that sparked a fire in the administration building at Europe's largest nuclear power plant.

Thomas-Greenfield called Russia's decision to attack the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant "madness" that threatened the security of both Ukrainians and Russians if there had been a meltdown and release of radiation.

The State Department also condemned the attack in a statement to Forbes. “The intentional targeting of civilians or civilian objects, including nuclear power plants, is a war crime, and we are assessing the circumstances of this operation,” a State Department spokesperson said. “But — regardless of the legality — this action was the height of irresponsibility, and the Kremlin must cease operations around nuclear infrastructure.”

Russian forces now control the facility after intense fighting overnight. The fire has been put out and the International Atomic Energy Agency hasn't found any evidence radioactive material was released into the environment.

Ukrainian workers running the plant have reportedly[https://www.thedailybeast.com/zaporizhzhia-nuclear-staff-working-at-gunpoint-after-russian-seizure-of-plant-says-owner] been forced to remain on the job at gunpoint.

— Nicholas Reimann and Anna Kaplan

March 4, 2022 5:55 PM EST

State Department Tells U.S. Embassies In Europe Not To Retweet Kyiv Embassy’s ‘War Crime’ Tweet, Reports Say

The State Department sent a message Friday to U.S. embassies in Europe, asking for staffers not to retweet a tweet from the U.S. Embassy in Kyiv calling Russia’s attack on the Zaporizhzhya nuclear plant in Ukraine a “war crime,” NBC News[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/live-blog/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-nuclear-scare-power-plant-shelled-n1290843#ncrd1290884] and CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/h_e964009d3573fc564e6d3edcbe4c6679] report, citing an internal email.

“All – do not/not retweet Embassy Kyiv’s tweet on shelling of the facility being a possible war crime,” the message reportedly said. “If you have retweeted it – un-retweet it ASAP.”

The State Department did not comment on the email, but a spokesperson said in a statement to Forbes “the intentional targeting of civilians or civilian objects, including nuclear power plants, is a war crime,” and that the department is “assessing the circumstances” of the Russian operation.

NBC News reports[https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/live-blog/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-nuclear-scare-power-plant-shelled-n1290843#ncrd1290884] the State Department also sent a memo to its public affairs offices in Europe asking them not to endorse the message of the tweet. The U.S. Embassy Kyiv’s tweet[https://twitter.com/USEmbassyKyiv/status/1499708231903547394] said the shelling takes Putin’s “reign of terror one step further,” and had not been taken down as of 2:15 p.m.

— Anna Kaplan

March 4, 2022 5:28 PM EST

UN Confirms 331 Civilian Deaths In Ukraine—But Real Number Likely To Be Much Higher

The United Nations said[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/media.aspx?IsMediaPage=true] it had counted 331 civilian deaths and 675 civilian injuries in Ukraine since Russia’s invasion as of Thursday, adding the real number was likely to be higher.

The UN’s toll includes 312 adult deaths and 19 child deaths, and 644 injured adults and 31 injured children. It said the figures “could rise considerably further” as Russian attacks were delaying the verification of Ukrainian casualties, including the alleged "hundreds of civilian casualties” in the Ukrainian government-controlled area of Donetsk. Volnovakha was heavily damaged Thursday by Russian forces that used airstrikes and artillery shelling to attack the city, according[https://www.forbes.com/sites/katyasoldak/2022/03/03/thursday-march-3-russias-war-on-ukraine-news-and-information-from-ukraine/?sh=5509e47e3b5f] to Forbes Ukraine.

Most civilian casualties were caused by[https://www.ohchr.org/EN/NewsEvents/Pages/media.aspx?IsMediaPage=true] “explosive weapons with a wide impact area,” including shelling from heavy artillery, multi-launch rocket systems and missiles and airstrikes, the UN said.

The Ukrainian government puts the death toll far higher than the UN. Ukraine's emergency service said[https://www.reuters.com/world/more-than-2000-ukrainian-civilians-killed-during-russian-invasion-ukrainian-2022-03-02/] Wednesday more than 2,000 Ukrainian civilians had been killed since Russia’s invasion of the country last week.

–Lisa Kim

March 4, 2022 5:09 PM EST

Russian Forces Repelled From Mykolaiv In Southern Ukraine, Official Says

The Russian advance in southern Ukraine made its way to the city of Mykolaiv on Friday, but forces were pushed back from the city's center to its outskirts, according to regional governor Vitaliy Kim.

Kim said in a video message that most of the Russian machinery was "destroyed and kicked out of the city," according to a translation tweeted by former Ukrainian diplomat Olexander Scherba.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/olex_scherba/status/1499775219732561921&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

A U.S. official told reporters at a Pentagon press briefing Friday American intelligence had observed fighting near Mykolaiv.

Russian forces appear to be having the most success taking the southern portion of Ukraine, which is the site of Kherson, the largest Ukrainian city to fall so far in the war. Mariupol in southeastern Ukraine is reportedly without access to power or water amid a Russian siege. Capturing Mariupol would create a landbridge connecting Russian forces in Crimea to the Donbass region in eastern Ukraine.

Odessa, a major Black Sea port in southwestern Ukraine and the country’s third-largest city, remains under Ukrainian control.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 4, 2022 5:09 PM EST

Russian Forces Remain Stalled Outside Kyiv As ‘Vast Majority’ Of $350 Million U.S. Aid Package Reaches Ukraine

Russian troops remain about 15 miles north of Ukraine’s capital city of Kyiv, as Ukrainian attacks combined with a destroyed bridge have slowed their advance, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters Friday. “We certainly believe that the Ukrainians blowing up that bridge absolutely had an effect on stopping and curtailing the movement of that convoy,” the official said. “But we also believe that they have hit the convoy at other places as well in direct attacks.”

Another senior U.S. defense official said about $240 million worth of aid from a $350 million U.S. security assistance package approved last week has been delivered to Ukraine, and the rest should arrive within the next few weeks. It’s the largest presidential drawdown package in history, according to the State Department, and it contains equipment Ukrainian forces have already been trained on. A total of 14 countries have provided security assistance to Ukraine since the invasion began, according to the official, who declined to specify the countries by name.

Among other updates:

* The Pentagon has “no reason to doubt” claims that Russia has taken control of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, according to the official, after Russian shelling sparked a fire near the plant overnight, which the first official described as “recklessness.”

* There is no evidence of radioactive leakage from the facility, all of the fires are out and the U.S. Department of Energy is monitoring the situation.

* Russian forces remain about 6 miles outside of the cities of Chernihiv and Kharkiv, though due to the urban sprawl of Kharkiv, the distance “equates to really being on the outskirts of the city.”

* The U.S. sees Russian forces having more success in the south, and is not disputing reports that Russia has taken Kherson, though there have been clashes and conflicts near the city.

* Mairupol remains under Ukrainian control, though the city is under heavy bombardment and Russian troops are continuing to advance, leading to utility outages and supply issues.

* There is also fighting near the city of Mykolaiv, northwest of Kherson.

* About 92% of Russian forces assembled for the invasion have entered Ukraine, up from 90% on Thursday.

* More than 500 Russian missiles have been launched since the invasion began, up from about 480 on Thursday.

* The airspace over Ukraine remains contested – “a significant majority” of Ukraine’s aircraft remain available, the official said, and Ukrainian air and missile defenses remain effective.

— Anna Kaplan

March 4, 2022 3:58 PM EST

Historically Neutral Switzerland Announces New Sanctions Against Russia

The Swiss government on Friday announced[https://www.admin.ch/gov/en/start/documentation/media-releases.msg-id-87474.html] a new round of sanctions targeting Russia, including banning all transactions involving the Russian Central Bank.

The sanctions mainly impact Russia's ability to secure financing and conduct international trade, such as suspending the use of public financing for investments in Russia and prohibiting the export of goods for use in Russia's oil and aerospace industries.

Switzerland took up the sanctions in line with penalties already approved by the European Union, including freezing the assets of dozens of Russian oligarchs[https://www.politico.eu/article/eu-sanctions-major-russia-oligarchs-rosneft-transneft/] with ties to Vladimir Putin.

The country on Tuesday closed its airspace to Russian flights as part of an earlier round[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/01/business/switzerland-sanction-russia-freeze-assets-intl-hnk/index.html] of sanctions.

The Swiss government said in a statement it believes the sanctions are "compatible with Switzerland’s neutrality" while "due consideration is being given to humanitarian activities."

— Nicholas Reimann

March 4, 2022 3:28 PM EST

UN Security Council Calls Emergency Meeting After Attack On Nuclear Plant

The United Nations Security Council plans to hold an emergency meeting at 11:30 a.m. Friday in New York to discuss the Russian attack on the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, the largest nuclear power facility in Europe, according to multiple reports[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/h_b1123e014936c1d0ed16e82d5c4d38c2].

Russian forces have seized the plant after a battle with Ukrainians early Friday morning that included shelling, which caused a fire at one of the facility's buildings and prompted concerns the attack would lead to a catastrophic nuclear meltdown.

Fighting at the plant has since subsided and the International Atomic Energy Agency reported there was "no release" of radioactive material from the facility.

The U.S. Embassy in Ukraine tweeted Friday that Russia's attack on the plant constituted a "war crime."

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/usembassykyiv/status/1499708231903547394&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

— Nicholas Reimann

March 4, 2022 2:40 PM EST

Russia Says 'No Talk' Of Formalizing Agreement For Temporary Ceasefires

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22/h_38eaae7c5164d9ae2edf5508639faa32] Friday Russia has no plans at this point to sign any documents formalizing a tentative agreement that appeared to allow for temporary, localized ceasefires in Ukraine.

Ukrainian presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak tweeted Thursday that a second round of talks between Russian and Ukrainian officials yielded a "solution" to create "humanitarian corridors" allowing survivors the chance to safely evacuate from besieged cities through temporary ceasefires.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/podolyak_m/status/1499440266591232004&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

The agreement marked the first progress made so far in two rounds of negotiations between Russian and Ukrainian officials since the start of the war, but there wasn't any headway made on Ukraine's top two goals: a nationwide ceasefire and armistice.

Formal documents could provide more certainty to the tentative agreement made Thursday, though Russia has put little value in existing international agreements since invading its neighbor last week, and the nation is now under investigation[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-60597751] by the International Criminal Court for potential war crimes over shelling civilian targets.

Russian officials did acknowledge Thursday's agreement was very important, according to pool reports, and plans have been made for a third round of talks.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 4, 2022 2:30 PM EST

NATO Rejects Creating A No-Fly Zone Over Ukraine To Avoid Direct Conflict With Russia

NATO foreign ministers rejected the idea of establishing a no-fly zone over Ukraine on the grounds it would cause the war to spread beyond that country, the alliance’s secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg said[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gbGtUHyhSB4] at a press conference Friday,

“We are not part of this conflict,” Stoltenberg said, “and we have a responsibility to ensure it does not escalate and spread beyond Ukraine.”

Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte said[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/calls-nato-no-fly-zone-ukraine-irresponsible-lithuania-pm-says-2022-03-04/] Friday any demands for the alliance to implement a no-fly zone are “irresponsible” as it would require the alliance getting involved in military conflict.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has repeatedly[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-03-22/h_d51cf8cc136ccdce044815f8050366a8] urged the alliance to create a no-fly zone over the country as Russia escalates bombardment of major cities in Ukraine.

The U.S. has previously ruled out enacting a no-fly zone. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-3rd-2022/] Thursday at a press briefing that it “would require, essentially, the U.S. military shooting down Russian planes and causing a — prompting a potential direct war with Russia, something — the exact step that we want to avoid.”

— Lisa Kim

March 4, 2022 1:34 PM EST

'Worse Days' Likely To Come For Ukraine, NATO Chief Warns

Speaking at a meeting of NATO foreign ministers in Brussels Friday, NATO secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said[https://twitter.com/BBCWorld/status/1499730727541354498?s=20&t=G3jOjXPPEVXMMI7ihkOflw] things are likely to get worse for Ukraine in the near future, with Russian forces expected to bring in “heavier weaponry” as they continue attacks across the country. “The days to come are likely to be worse, with more death, more sufferings, and more destruction,” he said.

"We have seen the use of cluster bombs and we have seen reports of use of other types of weapons which would be in violation of international law," Stoltenberg said. Cluster bombs are widely condemned[https://www.hrw.org/news/2016/09/08/nations-condemn-use-cluster-bombs] in the international community due to the risk of civilian casualties in densely populated areas. Stoltenberg called on the International Criminal Court to make a decision to open an investigation into the use of these types of weapons in Ukraine.

Stoltenberg described the conflict as the “worst military aggression in Europe for decades” and called[https://news.sky.com/story/ukraine-russia-war-latest-news-putin-kherson-kyiv-kharkiv-invasion-live-updates-12541713] on Russian President Vladimir Putin to “stop this war immediately.” The chief reiterated that NATO is “not part” of the conflict but is committed to defending itself and ensuring hostilities do not spread beyond Ukraine. Stoltenberg said the alliance’s relationship with Russia has been “fundamentally changed” in the long-term as a result of the invasion.

– Robert Hart

March 4, 2022 1:13 PM EST

U.S. Accuses Russia Of War Crime After Attack On Nuclear Power Plant

Russia’s attack on Europe’s largest nuclear power plant in Ukraine is a “war crime,” the U.S. embassy in Kyiv said[https://twitter.com/USEmbassyKyiv/status/1499708231903547394?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1499708231903547394%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cnn.com%2Feurope%2Flive-news%2Fukraine-russia-putin-news-03-04-22%2Findex.html] on Friday. “It is a war crime to attack a nuclear power plant,” the embassy tweeted, after Russian forces reportedly seized control of the Zaporizhzhia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/04/zaporizhzhia-nuclear-power-plant-everything-you-need-to-know] power plant.

The embassy added: “Putin's shelling of Europe's largest nuclear plant takes his reign of terror one step further” and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky accused[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/04/russia-ukraine-nuclear-plant-fire-radiation-zaporizhzhia/] Russia of nuclear terrorism. In addition to Zaporizhzhia, Russia has also seized the Chernobyl site.

The accusation by a U.S. entity goes a step further than previous criticisms of Russian aggression in Ukraine, which have alluded to, but stopped short[https://edition.cnn.com/2022/03/02/politics/biden-ukraine/index.html] of, explicit accusations of war crimes. Russia has been accused of using prohibited weapons like vacuum bombs and cluster munitions in Ukraine and of intentionally targeting civilians.

A fire broke out at the plant overnight Friday when a Russian projectile hit the complex, sparking fears of a nuclear incident and international condemnation. Three Ukrainian troops were killed and two security staff at the plant injured, according to Ukraine’s state nuclear company and the UN’s nuclear watchdog, which said the projectile did not hit a reactor and no radioactive material had been released. However, the situation “remains very challenging,” said International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) chief Rafael Grossi.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/usembassykyiv/status/1499708231903547394&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

– Robert Hart

March 4, 2022 12:02 PM EST

UN Human Rights Council Backs Probe Into Russian Invasion Of Ukraine

The United Nations Human Rights Council on Friday voted[https://www.jpost.com/international/article-699342] overwhelmingly to create[https://twitter.com/trussliz/status/1499704214129463297?s=20&t=kD1Q3ZAI6A31R0Ts9APfow] a high-level investigation into alleged human rights violations committed during Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Thirty-two out of the council’s 47 members backed the probe, which aims to hold responsible parties accountable if violations have occurred. Russia—which denies committing any human rights violations like targeting civilians in Ukraine—was one of two countries to vote against the investigation. Eritrea also voted against establishing the probe, and remaining countries including India, Kazakhstan, Sudan and Cuba, abstained. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky praised the decision and said “Russian war criminals will be held accountable.”

States are elected to serve three year terms on the UNHRC by members of the UN’s General Assembly. The council’s inclusion of countries accused of human rights violations is controversial and widely criticized by Western governments. Russia is no exception and rights groups pointed[https://www.themoscowtimes.com/2020/10/14/russia-returns-to-un-human-rights-council-after-4-year-absence-a71746] to alleged war crimes before it was reelected in 2020. Russia’s membership on the council has become another flashpoint following its invasion of Ukraine, where it has been accused of targeting civilians, nuclear facilities and using prohibited weapons including cluster munitions[https://www.abc.net.au/news/2022-03-01/ukraine-ambassador-us-russia-used-vacuum-bomb-cluster-munitions/100870638] and vacuum[https://www.dw.com/en/is-russia-using-vacuum-bombs-in-ukraine/a-61001817] bombs.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/zelenskyyua/status/1499714107553030147&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

– Robert Hart

March 4, 2022 11:34 AM EST

More Russian Banks To Be Removed From SWIFT In New Round Of EU Sanctions, Irish Minister Says

Ireland’s foreign minister Simon Coveney said the next salvo of EU sanctions will take “more Russian banks” out of SWIFT[https://www.forbes.com/sites/alisondurkee/2022/02/24/what-is-swift-heres-how-this-banking-system-could-be-used-to-punish-russia-for-invading-ukraine/?sh=137507431108], a crucial part of the global financial system, according to RTE[https://www.rte.ie/news/2022/0304/1284332-ukraine-russia/]. Several Russian banks have already[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/02/26/us-and-allies-to-remove-some-russian-banks-from-swift-sanction-central-bank/?sh=1e0bf8ad165a] been cut off from SWIFT in earlier[https://www.reuters.com/business/finance/eu-excludes-seven-russian-banks-swift-official-journal-2022-03-02/] waves of sanctions and Coveney did not specify which banks are set to be barred.

Coveney said the bloc will be “significantly adding” to its sanctions on Russia today, which are about “isolating” the country on the international stage, and he expects it will ban imports like steel, timber, aluminum and potentially even coal, noting the latter could have an impact on already volatile fuel prices in Europe. Russian flagged ships will also likely be banned from entering EU ports, Coveney added.

"These are big decisions by the European Union that are going to have an impact on Ireland and EU countries,” Coveney said. “But they’re decisions that need to be taken to send very, very strong messages to Russia that this madness must stop."

– Robert Hart

March 4, 2022 10:58 AM EST

Attack On Ukrainian Nuclear Power Plant Demonstrates ‘Recklessness’ Of Putin’s War, NATO Chief Says

NATO Secretary General Jens Stontenberg on Friday condemned[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/opinions_192736.htm?selectedLocale=en] Russia’s “brutal” invasion of Ukraine and its attacks on civilians. He said Russian attacks on the Zaporizhzhia in Ukraine “demonstrates the recklessness of this war and the importance of ending it.” However, Stoltenberg stressed that NATO “is not part of the conflict,” despite support to Ukraine and “unprecedented” sanctions against Russia. “We don't seek war, conflict with Russia…. NATO is a defensive alliance,” he said.

Speaking at the same press conference, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken stressed that while NATO does not seek conflict, it is “ready for it… if conflict comes to us.” U.S. and European allies are set for a day of talks on Saturday.

– Robert Hart

March 4, 2022 10:17 AM EST

IAEA Says ‘No Release’ Of Radioactive Material After Attack On Europe’s Largest Nuclear Plant

Attacks on Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant have not damaged any of the site’s six nuclear reactors and there has been no release of radioactive material, said International Atomic Energy Agency head Rafael Grossi at a press conference Friday. Five of the plant’s reactors are offline, Grossi added, with the remaining reactor operating at 60% capacity. Safety systems were “not affected at all” in the attack, which hit an “adjacent” building. Two security personnel died in the attack, Grossi said.

Grossi added the situation is “fragile” and “unstable,” and offered to personally travel to Chernobyl, which is under the control[https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-us-canada-60514228] of Russian forces, in order to speak with Russia and Ukraine. The agency head stressed the initiative is about ensuring the safety of nuclear operations and has “nothing to do” with the political situation between Russia and Ukraine as this is beyond the IAEA’s remit. “I am not a self-appointed mediator.”

– Robert Hart

March 4, 2022 8:56 AM EST

BBC, Radio Liberty Restricted In Russia

Russia’s censorship of the war intensified Friday after the country’s communications regulator blocked access to the BBC’s local website and Radio Liberty.

According to GlobalCheck, which tracks site outages and availability, Twitter and Facebook were also restricted in Russia as of Friday morning, while Radio Liberty reports[https://www.rferl.org/a/russia-rferl-bbc-facebook-google-twitter-blocked/31735597.html] that Google’s Play Store and Apple’s App Store were also blocked.

The move comes a week after Russia partially blocked[https://rkn.gov.ru/news/rsoc/news74108.htm] access to Facebook, citing a violation of “the rights and freedoms of Russian citizens” and accusing the platform of “censorship.”

Russia’s domestic coverage of the war is largely sanitized and independent broadcasters[https://eeas.europa.eu/headquarters/headquarters-homepage/112128/russia-statement-high-representative-josep-borrell-media-censorship-and-crackdown-peaceful_en] have been taken off air[https://theintercept.com/2022/03/02/russian-tv-ukraine-war-conspiracy/] over the past week.

Russian state-backed channel RT came off air in the U.K. and EU Thursday and CNN reported the channel’s U.S. arm was shutting down[https://edition.cnn.com/2022/03/03/media/rt-america-layoffs/index.html] the same day.

– Isabel Togoh

March 4, 2022 8:09 AM EST

Stocks In Asia, Europe Drop

Stocks in Asia slid Friday and in pre-market trading in Europe as investors react to the ongoing impact of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Hong Kong’s Hang Seng index and Tokyo’s Nikkei were down more than 2%, while stocks in Shanghai fell almost 1%.

The drop comes after a blaze broke out at Europe’s largest nuclear plant in Zaporizhzhia, southeastern Ukraine, following shelling by Russian forces, but was later extinguished and no deaths were reported.

Benchmarks in London and across Europe were down around 2% in pre-market trading.

Moscow’s stock exchange will remain closed[https://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/russia-ukraine-latest-news-2022-03-04/card/russia-holds-off-again-on-reopening-stock-market-FMAptR8yuRRluLx6fVVI] for a fifth day Friday. On Thursday, the Kremlin admitted[https://edition.cnn.com/2022/03/02/business/russia-markets-economy-sberbank/index.html] that Russia’s economy was “experiencing serious blows” amid the impact of Western sanctions and as dozens of multinational firms pull out or halt operations in the country. Regulators in the U.S. along with the London Stock Exchange also halted trading with dozens of firms linked to Russia this week.

– Isabel Togoh

March 4, 2022 5:09 AM EST

Fire Extinguished at Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Plant, Ukraine Says

Emergency personnel have extinguished a fire that broke out at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant early Friday morning, with no casualties reported, the State Emergency Service of Ukraine announced on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/MNS.GOV.UA/posts/325786002922629?__cft__[0]=AZWDfNuXdl2M8oAkjdyHxmPhvmxwmRsffp6WQYh-vXZFd0NcLFMO9pHDpFHICjRztk5nQ-wKxly-PIeyniwxvSq7U_ShWIqGfqQpyzyS-w2ix5SOEQyNc10Mmt3BgA0g2moJcAZ-B5B0tVkCaWzLb6-r&__tn__=%2CO%2CP-R].

The fire was in a training building at the Zaporizhzhia plant, which is Ukraine’s largest nuclear power station. Ukrainian regulators told the International Atomic Energy Agency earlier Friday that radiation levels haven’t increased and the fire did not endanger[https://twitter.com/iaeaorg/status/1499571709774422017?s=20&t=DR8ttPmCkoza5udFQc4YwA] any “essential” equipment.

The fire broke out after Russian forces began approaching the plant, with heavy fighting reported in a town just miles away from the facility. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Russia’s military[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1499543775240196099] was “firing from all sides upon Zaporizhzhia.” The nuclear plant is located along the Dnieper River in the country’s south, which has faced an onslaught of invading Russian forces in recent days.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 5:06 AM EST

Airbnb Halts Operations In Russia

Short-term apartment rental service Airbnb is “suspending all operations” in Russia and allied nation Belarus, CEO Brian Chesky tweeted[https://twitter.com/bchesky/status/1499596215389863939?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet] Thursday, the latest company to pull out of the Russian market.

Airbnb has halted all new bookings in both countries, and will prevent users in Russia and Belarus from making reservations, the company told Forbes in a statement.

Chesky has been outspoken about the humanitarian crisis caused by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, offering[https://twitter.com/bchesky/status/1498214180674965504] earlier this week to house as many as 100,000 Ukrainian refugees free of charge. More than 1 million people fled Ukraine in the first week of Russia’s invasion, according to the United Nations.

Several other Western companies have distanced themselves from Russia over the last week, including petroleum giants BP and Shell. For more details on corporate responses to Russia’s invasion, click here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/03/ikea-spotify-and-hm-heres-the-growing-list-of-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-invasion/?sh=1ec136ec2880].

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 4:42 AM EST

U.K. Calls For UN Security Council Meeting Over Ukrainian Nuclear Plant Fire

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will ask for an emergency United Nations Security Council meeting “in the coming hours,” after a fire broke out at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant amid heavy Russian fighting early Friday morning, Johnson’s office said[https://twitter.com/10DowningStreet/status/1499578323692834822?s=20&t=IcrWw3wRjPNTD-gxmUsGrw].

Johnson says he spoke[https://twitter.com/10DowningStreet/status/1499578323692834822?s=20&t=IcrWw3wRjPNTD-gxmUsGrw] with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy about the “gravely concerning situation” at the power plant, and called on Russia to cease all attacks near the facility, echoing a similar message from U.S. President Joe Biden. The International Atomic Energy Agency says radiation levels haven’t increased since the fire began, citing Ukraine’s nuclear regulator, but warned fighting near the plant is extremely dangerous.

The UN Security Council has met to discuss Ukraine several times[https://www.un.org/press/en/2022/sc14809.doc.htm] in recent weeks, but Russia is one of five Security Council members with the ability to veto resolutions, which limits the body’s ability to respond definitively to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Last week, a resolution calling for an end to the war failed[https://www.un.org/press/en/2022/sc14808.doc.htm] after Russia wielded its veto power.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 2:33 AM EST

Biden Urges Russia To Stop Fighting Near Ukrainian Nuclear Plant After Fire Breaks Out

U.S. President Joe Biden spoke on the phone with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy late Thursday night, as a fire broke out at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant. In a readout, the White House said Biden “joined President Zelenskyy in urging Russia to cease its military activities in the area and allow firefighters and emergency responders to access the site.”

The fire began after Russian troops started fighting in a town just miles away from the Zaporizhzhia plant. The International Atomic Energy Agency said on Twitter that Ukraine’s nuclear regulator has reported “no change” in radiation levels, and the fire hasn’t impacted critical plant equipment, but an attack on one of the plant’s reactors could lead to “severe danger.”

U.S. Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm tweeted that[https://twitter.com/SecGranholm/status/1499577622417666048] American officials also haven’t observed elevated radiation levels, noting the Zaporizhzhia plant’s reactors are surrounded by “robust containment structures.”

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 2:09 AM EST

‘No Change’ In Radiation Levels After Fire Breaks Out At Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Plant, Ukraine Says

Ukraine’s nuclear regulator has observed “no change” in radiation levels after a fire broke out early Friday at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, the International Atomic Energy Agency tweeted[https://twitter.com/iaeaorg/status/1499562515340177416]. The fire also hasn’t impacted “essential” equipment, Ukrainian officials told the IAEA.

The fire at Zaporizhzhia—the largest nuclear plant in Ukraine—was reported after Russian troops began fighting in the nearby town of Energodar. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1499543775240196099] Russia is “firing from all sides upon Zaporizhzhia.”

The IAEA warned of[https://twitter.com/iaeaorg/status/1499557251627069450?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet] “severe danger” if one of Zaporizhzhia’s nuclear reactors is hit, and called for an end to the use of force near the plant.

— Joe Walsh

March 4, 2022 1:03 AM EST

Fire Reported At Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Plant As Russian Troops Approach

A fire has broken out at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant—Ukraine’s largest nuclear plant—amid intense fighting with nearby Russian forces, local and national officials said early Friday morning.

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1499543775240196099] Russia is “firing from all sides upon Zaporizhzhia,” causing a fire to start, and Dmytro Orlov—the mayor of nearby Energodar—confirmed the fire on social media, according to Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/markets/europe/top-wrap-1-europes-largest-nuclear-power-plant-fire-after-russian-attack-mayor-2022-03-04/]. Orlov and Kuleba didn’t offer further details on the extent of the fire.

Russian ground troops are fighting within several kilometers of the nuclear plant and are “moving directly towards” the site, Ukraine’s nuclear regulator told the International Atomic Energy Agency, a situation Ukrainian officials called “critical.” The IAEA said in a press release[https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/pressreleases/update-9-iaea-director-general-statement-on-the-situation-in-ukraine] the Russian military “broke through the block-post” outside the town of Energodar, and fighting is now ongoing in the town and on the road to the nuclear plant. On Wednesday, a crowd of civilians[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/03/zaporizhzhia-nuclear-plant-blockade-drone-video/] had blocked Russian troops from entering Energodar.

The Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant is the second-largest nuclear plant[https://www.forbes.com/sites/craighooper/2022/03/03/russia-about-to-take-6-nuclear-reactors-no-plan-to-safely-operate-them/?sh=33e3423164ac] in Europe, and one of the 10 largest in the world, with six pressurized water reactors. Last week, Russian forces also captured Chernobyl, the site of a massive nuclear disaster in 1986.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/podolyak_m/status/1499557725742805000&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

March 3, 2022 11:08 PM EST

U.S. Offers Temporary Immigration Protections To Ukrainians Amid Russian War

The U.S. Department of Homeland Security will offer Temporary Protected Status to Ukrainians who entered the United States by March 1, allowing them to temporarily remain in the country without fear of deportation, DHS said Thursday[https://www.dhs.gov/news/2022/03/03/secretary-mayorkas-designates-ukraine-temporary-protected-status-18-months]. The move comes as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has forced more than 1 million Ukrainians to flee their home country.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has also paused deportation flights to Ukraine, a spokesperson for the agency told Forbes earlier Thursday.

Temporary Protected Status allows people from countries devastated by wars or natural disasters to temporarily live and work in the United States, even after their current U.S. visa expires. TPS for Ukraine will last 18 months, DHS said, though the Biden Administration has the power to extend it. The Migration Policy Institute, a think tank, has[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/28/world/europe/biden-ukraine-visas.html] reportedly[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-03-22/index.html] estimated[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/28/world/europe/biden-ukraine-visas.html] there are about 30,000 Ukrainians in the United States who are neither U.S. citizens or permanent residents, making them potentially eligible for Temporary Protected Status.

Deportations of Ukrainians are fairly unusual: ICE removed just 106 Ukrainian citizens from the United States in fiscal year 2020, a tiny share of the agency’s 185,884 total deportations[https://www.forbes.com/sites/joewalsh/2020/12/23/ice-deportations-and-arrests-plummeted-in-2020-heres-why/?sh=60fe79d026a7] that year. Some 125 Ukrainians were deported in 2019 and 105 were deported in 2018.

A dozen other countries racked by conflict or natural disaster are currently designated for Temporary Protected Status, including Haiti and Syria.

— Joe Walsh

March 3, 2022 10:46 PM EST

Kherson Days Away From Running Out Of Food, City Official Says

Kherson, the southern Ukraine city surrounded by Russian troops, is “maybe three, four days” away from running out of food and medicine, the secretary of the city council, Galina Luhova, told[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/03/russia-ukraine-war-putin-news/] the Washington Post Thursday.

“We’re running out of medicines, we’re out of baby food, we are running out of diapers, and we are running out of first aid in hospitals,” Luhova told the Post by telephone.

The city requires a humanitarian corridor to allow civilians to safely evacuate the war-torn region, she said. Earlier in the day Ukrainian and Russian negotiators reached a tentative agreement[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1499440266591232004?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1499440266591232004%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fembedly.forbes.com%2Fwidgets%2Fmedia.html%3Ftype%3Dtext2Fhtmlkey%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935schema%3Dtwitterurl%3Dhttps3A%2F%2Ftwitter.com%2Fpodolyak_m%2Fstatus%2F1499440266591232004image%3Dhttps3A%2F%2Fi.embed.ly%2F1%2Fimage3Furl3Dhttps253A252F252Fabs.twimg.com252Ferrors252Flogo46x38.png26key3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935] to set up such corridors.

Another Kherson resident told[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-03-22/h_908c3139eb50f5ee8be88aa09b27c6f8] CNN earlier Thursday the city is low on insulin as pharmacies are being looted by Russian troops and others.

On Wednesday, the city’s mayor, Ihor Kolykhaiev, said the city had already fallen to the Russians, and that Russian soldiers aimed to establish a military government despite President Vladimir Putin’s claims that he had no intention of occupying Ukraine. Neither the Pentagon nor the Ukrainian Defense Ministry could could definitively confirm that the city was under Russian control as of Thursday morning.

March 3, 2022 9:57 PM EST

Kremlin-Controlled News Channel RT America Shuts Down

The American affiliate of Russian-government funded cable news network RT is suspending its operations and laying off most staff, CNN[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/03/media/rt-america-layoffs/index.html] and CNBC[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/03/russia-backed-cable-news-station-rt-america-shuts-down-amid-ukraine-invasion.html] reported Thursday, citing an internal memo from RT America’s production company T&R Productions.

RT Deputy Editor-in-Chief Anna Belkina said in a statement to Forbes the network is “sad and disappointed” that RT America is leaving the airwaves, citing “challenging external circumstances.”

RT has sought to build a U.S. audience for years, partnering with familiar American personalities like Larry King[https://www.nytimes.com/2016/09/19/business/media/moscow-joins-the-partisan-media-landscape-with-familiar-american-faces.html], William Shatner[https://www.nbcnews.com/pop-culture/celebrity/william-shatner-his-rt-show-billionaire-space-race-mortality-n1274683] and Ed Schultz[https://www.nytimes.com/2018/07/05/obituaries/ed-schultz-blunt-spoken-political-talk-show-host-dies-at-64.html]. The network has faced criticism for pushing inaccurate pro-Kremlin narratives, particularly since Russia invaded Ukraine[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/02/media/rt-propaganda-network/index.html]. In the last week, DirecTV promised to[https://www.axios.com/directv-rt-america-russia-ukraine-ef196f77-1929-4d94-9c42-2fccc915f7ed.html] remove RT America from its channel lineup, YouTube prohibited[https://www.reuters.com/technology/youtube-blocks-rt-other-russian-channels-generating-revenue-2022-02-26/] RT from monetizing its content and the European Union banned RT outright[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/eu-bans-rt-sputnik-banned-over-ukraine-disinformation-2022-03-02/].

— Joe Walsh

March 3, 2022 9:56 PM EST

U.S. Pauses Deportations To Ukraine

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has “paused” deportation flights to Ukraine, an agency spokesperson told Forbes on Thursday, as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine imperils civilians and forces over 1 million Ukrainians to flee.

“ICE will continue to monitor the ongoing situation and make operational changes as necessary,” the spokesperson said.

ICE removed just 106 Ukrainian citizens from the United States in fiscal year 2020, compared to 125 in 2019 and 105 in 2018.

— Joe Walsh

March 3, 2022 8:49 PM EST

Macron Says 'Vital To Maintain Dialogue' Even As Putin Refuses To Stop War In Ukraine

French President Emmanuel Macron tweeted Thursday afternoon he remains "fully determined" to continue to talk with Vladimir Putin after the Russian president told him Thursday morning he has no intention of halting his military offensive in Ukraine.

"I will continue my efforts and contacts. We must avoid the worst," Macron tweeted, while saying Putin "refused to stop attacks in Ukraine."

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/emmanuelmacron/status/1499461403798917124&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

According to the Washington Post[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/03/macron-putin-call-ukraine/], citing a French official, Macron was convinced after the 90-minute phone call that Putin intends for Russia to take over all of Ukraine, believing "the worst is yet to come."

The Kremlin said[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/putin-tells-macron-russia-will-achieve-its-goals-ukraine-2022-03-03/] in a statement Thursday that Putin informed the French president that Russia would keep up the war until Ukraine is completely demilitarized and it is certain "a threat to the Russian Federation will never emanate from its territory."

— Nicholas Reimann

March 3, 2022 6:25 PM EST

Russia Agrees To Allow ‘Humanitarian Corridors’—But No National Ceasefire In Ukraine

Russian and Ukrainian officials have reached a tentative agreement allowing residents of cities besieged by Russian forces to evacuate via “humanitarian corridors,” according to a Ukrainian official, which could involve temporary, local ceasefires[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/03/russia-ukraine-war-putin-news/?utm_source=alert&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=wp_news_alert_revere&location=alert&wpmk=1&wpisrc=al_news__alert-world--alert-national&pwapi_token=eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJjb29raWVuYW1lIjoid3BfY3J0aWQiLCJpc3MiOiJDYXJ0YSIsImNvb2tpZXZhbHVlIjoiNWEwMzUwM2JhZTdlOGEyZDhmODNjNjJiIiwidGFnIjoid3BfbmV3c19hbGVydF9yZXZlcmUiLCJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3d3dy53YXNoaW5ndG9ucG9zdC5jb20vd29ybGQvMjAyMi8wMy8wMy9ydXNzaWEtdWtyYWluZS13YXItcHV0aW4tbmV3cy8_dXRtX3NvdXJjZT1hbGVydCZ1dG1fbWVkaXVtPWVtYWlsJnV0bV9jYW1wYWlnbj13cF9uZXdzX2FsZXJ0X3JldmVyZSZsb2NhdGlvbj1hbGVydCZ3cG1rPTEmd3Bpc3JjPWFsX25ld3NfX2FsZXJ0LXdvcmxkLS1hbGVydC1uYXRpb25hbCJ9.kZcD-YBIGzcGzG-fNFYQxfG7PjSceDY-Ro4IDXRm8hU].

Ukrainian presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak tweeted the tentative deal was made during a round of talks between Russian and Ukrainian officials on Thursday, though he added no agreement was made on Ukraine’s top priorities—a nationwide ceasefire and armistice.

“The results Ukraine needs are not yet achieved,” Podolyak tweeted.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/podolyak_m/status/1499440266591232004&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

Russian officials called the agreements very important, according to CNN[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-03-22/index.html], citing pool reports from Moscow.

The two sides reportedly[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/mar/03/ukraine-news-russia-war-vladimir-putin-biden-latest-live-updates-kherson-kyiv-kharkiv-refugees-russian-invasion?page=with:block-6220fc818f08c1dd5f65a31e#block-6220fc818f08c1dd5f65a31e] agreed there will be a third round of talks.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 3, 2022 5:40 PM EST

U.S. Says 90% Of Russian Forces Are Now In Ukraine As Troops Remain ‘Largely Stalled’ In The North

Russia has directed about 90% of the combat power it assembled for its invasion across the border and into Ukraine, a senior U.S. defense official said during a press briefing Thursday. Ukrainian cities to the north and east remain under heavy bombardment a week into the invasion, though Russian forces are “largely stalled” in northern Ukraine.

Here are additional updates from the senior defense official:

* More than 480 Russian missile launches have been fired since the war began, with the majority coming from inside Ukraine, followed by Russia (more than 160), Belarus (more than 70) and the Black Sea (less than 10).

* The Pentagon cannot independently verify reports[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/02/world/europe/kherson-ukraine-russia.html] that the city of Kherson is under Russian control, as both sides are “still fighting.”

* Russian forces are on the outskirts of Kyiv to the north and northwest, and the 40-mile[http://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesstaffreports/2022/03/01/live-russia-ukraine-invasion/] military convoy remains stalled.

* The senior defense official said Russian troops appear to be trying to get to Kyiv “every single day” and are facing strong Ukrainian resistance, along with supply issues, as they intend to encircle the city.

* None of the Russian forces outside of Kyiv are closer than 25 kilometers, or about 15 miles, from the city.

* There is increasing bombardment in Chernihiv and Kharkiv, and there are indications Russian troops are “just outside the city” in Kharkiv.

* Russian forces are advancing on Mariupol from the north and from the coastline “with the apparent intention to isolate the city.”

* The airspace over Ukraine remains “contested,” and Ukrainian air defenses remain intact and effective.

— Anna Kaplan

March 3, 2022 5:32 PM EST

Russia Reportedly Considering Public Executions To Break Ukrainian Morale

Russia has drafted plans to crush the morale of the Ukrainian people in captured cities that include imprisoning political opponents and potentially public executions, according to Bloomberg[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-03/russia-attacks-cities-as-war-enters-second-week-ukraine-update?srnd=premium-europe], which cites a European intelligence official.

Russian soldiers have faced stiff resistance from Ukrainian troops as well as civilians who have taken up arms. Civilians have also attempted to stop Russian advances through tactics[https://www.wsj.com/video/watch-ukrainian-protesters-face-down-russian-military-vehicles/AB2949D5-BC2E-43EE-9EE1-566EA83FECCA.html] like laying on the ground to block military vehicles.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 3, 2022 5:02 PM EST

Lukoil, Russia's Second-Biggest Company, Calls For Peace Talks

Russia's second-largest company has requested peace talks to end the war in Ukraine, according to multiple[https://twitter.com/AFP/status/1499410431726731271?s=20&t=lxD8hi76XxLlcFDvUwqQfQ] reports[https://www.barrons.com/news/russian-oil-giant-lukoil-calls-for-halt-to-ukraine-war-bur-har-01646322607?refsec=afp-news].

Lukoil, which is led by Russian billionaire Vagit Alekperov[https://www.forbes.com/profile/vagit-alekperov/?sh=32c30a883a74], joined the calls for peace Thursday after boycott[https://www.cnn.com/2022/03/01/business/russia-lukoil-boycott/index.html] threats against its gas stations in the U.S., though most are owned by Americans as franchises.

The company's London-listed stock[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/03/london-listed-russian-stocks-are-collapsing-with-trading-now-suspended.html] has plummeted more than 99% since Russia invaded Ukraine last week.

Alekperov's net worth has declined to around $18.6 billion after peaking at nearly $25 billion last year, according to Forbes.

— Nicholas Reimann

March 3, 2022 3:30 PM EST

Ukraine And Russia Begin Second Round Of Ceasefire Talks

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky’s office said[https://twitter.com/ZekeJMiller/status/1499400187071979522] the second round of ceasefire talks with Russia began Thursday evening. Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Zelensky, said in a tweet[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1499396344464637969?cxt=HHwWooCslf_B9s4pAAAA] the key issues include an “immediate ceasefire, armistice and humanitarian corridors for the evacuation of civilians from destroyed or constantly shelled villages/cities.”

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=cfc0fb0733504c77aa4a6ac07caaffc7&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/podolyak_m/status/1499396344464637969&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D8804248494c144f5b4765c41f66c6ed5]

— Anna Kaplan

March 3, 2022 2:32 PM EST

Mariupol Mayor Says Russian Forces Created ‘Humanitarian Disaster’ In City

The mayor of Mariupol, a city in southeastern Ukraine that is surrounded[https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2022/world/europe/ukraine-maps.html?name=styln-russia-ukraine®ion=TOP_BANNER&block=storyline_menu_recirc&action=click&pgtype=LegacyCollection&variant=0_Control&is_new=false] by Russian forces, said Russian soldiers had destroyed bridges and created a “blockade,” trapping women, children and the elderly in the city. “We are being destroyed as a nation,” Mayor Vadym Boychenko wrote[https://m.facebook.com/1547688482223955/posts/3178884925770961] in a Facebook post. “This is the genocide of the Ukrainian people.”

Boychenko said Russian troops “deliberately destroyed” the city’s infrastructure for the past seven days, and that the city is working to restore infrastructure capabilities. Boychenko also called on international groups to create a humanitarian corridor to help get supplies to the city to aid the “humanitarian disaster.”

A spokesperson for the Ukrainian National Guard told[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-03-22/h_ca28121f96a8c301d7a87577f3e6cb99] CNN the situation in Mariupol “remains difficult,” but stressed that “the Ukrainian military is not going to surrender the city.”

— Anna Kaplan

March 3, 2022 2:22 PM EST

Biden Wants $10 Billion More In Aid For Ukraine, Report Says

The Biden administration will ask Congress to approve an additional $10 billion in aid for Ukraine, the Washington Post reports[https://www.washingtonpost.com/us-policy/2022/03/03/ukraine-covid-aid-white-house-request/], citing two anonymous sources familiar with the plans. The $10 billion request aims to address the growing humanitarian crisis in the country, supporting Ukraine’s defenses, protecting the country’s electrical grid and assisting other European allies, the Post reports.

Lawmakers have been working in recent weeks to create a long-term deal to fund the government, as the spending bill is set to expire[https://www.forbes.com/sites/zacharysmith/2022/02/17/senate-passes-last-minute-bill-to-prevent-government-shutdown/] on March 11. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said[https://www.c-span.org/video/?c5003841/senate-republican-leader-omnibus-spending-bill-talks-have-hit-snag] there had been a “snag” over Ukraine assistance, claiming Democrats were trying to take the money from funds they had planned to allocate to the Pentagon.

The Post reports the Biden administration’s new request may alleviate these concerns, as the funding would come from new emergency aid for Ukraine, not repurposed dollars for the Department of Defense.

— Anna Kaplan

March 3, 2022 1:33 PM EST

UN Nuclear Watchdog Urges Russia To Cease Action At Ukrainian Nuclear Sites

The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) passed a resolution condemning Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on Thursday and called[https://twitter.com/AFP/status/1499356191633383431?s=20&t=6bCVEUw-PwZUI6tPWFk29g] on Russia to “immediately cease actions” at Ukrainian nuclear sites, according to AFP and Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/iaea-board-deplores-russian-invasion-ukraine-only-two-votes-against-2022-03-03/]. Twenty six countries on the board of the UN’s nuclear watchdog supported the resolution, five abstained (India, Pakistan, Senegal, Vietnam and South Africa) and two (Mexico and Burundi) were absent. Just two voted against the resolution: Russia and China.

The resolution comes amid reports[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/03/russian-forces-surround-ukraines-biggest-nuclear-plant-sparking-un-concerns] Russian forces have surrounded Ukraine’s biggest nuclear plant—the largest in Europe—and a day after IAEA chief Rafael Grossi warned[https://edition.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-02-22/h_b5223142c78cee998ed02780fe44a605] about the dangers of war around nuclear facilities. Russian forces have already taken control[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/02/24/ukraine-russia-chernobyl-risk/] over the decommissioned Chernobyl power plant, the site of the world’s worst nuclear disaster.

– Robert Hart

March 3, 2022 12:07 PM EST

Formula 1 Cuts Ties With Russia Grand Prix

Formula 1 on Thursday cut ties with the Russian Grand Prix a week after cancelling[https://twitter.com/F1/status/1497181295532777475?s=20&t=784wWiz-8X8RlkWSzynmCA] the race this year.

In a statement[https://www.bbc.co.uk/sport/formula1/60601632] reported by the BBC, F1 said it cancelled its “contract with the Russian Grand Prix promoter meaning Russia will not have a race in the future.”

Read more[https://www.forbes.com/sites/masonbissada/2022/03/03/formula-1-cuts-ties-with-russia-heres-how-the-sports-world-has-reacted-to-the-ukraine-invasion/?sh=4e193a067418] about how the sports world has reacted to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

– Isabel Togoh

March 3, 2022 11:29 AM EST

IKEA Halts Russia Operations

Furniture giant IKEA temporarily halted its Russia operations Thursday, including closing its shops and stopping its sourcing from the country, as well as Belarus.

A statement from the companies in charge of IKEA’s stores and supply, reported by Reuters, read[https://www.reuters.com/business/ikea-temporarily-closes-its-stores-russia-halts-sourcing-russia-belarus-2022-03-03/] : “The war has both a huge human impact and is resulting in serious disruptions to supply chain and trading conditions, which is why the company groups have decided to temporarily pause IKEA operations in Russia.”

Read more about the growing list of firms[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/03/ikea-spotify-and-hm-heres-the-growing-list-of-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-invasion/?sh=4a4e34e62880] cutting ties with Russia.

— Isabel Togoh

March 3, 2022 11:05 AM EST

London Stock Exchange Suspends Trading With Dozens Of Russia-Based Firms

The London Stock Exchange halted trading Tuesday with more Russian-based firms, including Gazprom and Sberbank.

A statement by the LSE read[https://docs.londonstockexchange.com/sites/default/files/documents/n0622.pdf] : “Further to recent sanctions in connection with events in Ukraine, in light of market conditions, and in order to maintain orderly markets, the London Stock Exchange has suspended the admission to trading of the instruments...with immediate effect.”

The move follows Sberbank’s exit from Europe on Tuesday and a barrage of Western sanctions against Russia that has cracked down on financial institutions, Putin allies and oligarchs.

— Isabel Togoh

March 3, 2022 10:51 AM EST

French Government Seizes Yacht Linked To Rosneft Chief Igor Sechin

French authorities on Thursday seized a yacht they believe is linked to Russian oil baron Igor Sechin, a close ally of Vladimir Putin, in the port of La Ciotat. This seizure by France follows a similar move by German authorities, who seized[https://www.forbes.com/sites/giacomotognini/2022/03/02/germans-seize-russian-billionaire-alisher-usmanovs-mega-yacht/?sh=e7c4dc452ddd] a mega yacht owned by Russian billionaire Alisher Usmanov on Wednesday.

According to the French finance ministry the yacht was owned by an entity of which Sechin had been identified as the main shareholder.

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/brunolemaire/status/1499326925587767296&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

Read more here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siladityaray/2022/03/03/french-government-seizes-yacht-owned-by-rosneft-chief-igor-sechin/?sh=40b71df77684].

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 9:55 AM EST

Russian And Belarusian Athletes Banned From Winter Paralympic Games

Russian and Belarusian athletes have been banned from the Beijing 2022 Paralympic Winter Games, the International Paralympic Committee announced[https://www.paralympic.org/news/ipc-decline-athlete-entries-rpc-and-npc-belarus-beijing-2022] Thursday. The move comes a day after the sporting body faced widespread criticism and threats of boycotts following it’s initial decision[https://www.forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/02/winter-paralympics-russian-and-belarusian-athletes-to-compete-as-neutrals-in-beijing/?sh=38d701bc3545] to allow athletes from those countries to compete under a neutral flag.

The number of athletes, teams and national Paralympic committees threatening to boycott the Games over Russian and Belarusian involvement was jeopardizing the “viability” of the Games, IPC president Andrew Parsons said in a statement[https://www.paralympic.org/news/ipc-decline-athlete-entries-rpc-and-npc-belarus-beijing-2022] explaining the u-turn.

The “situation in the athlete villages is escalating” and has become “untenable,” putting the IPC in a “unique and impossible position” close to the Games’ launch on Friday, Parsons added.

Read more here[https://forbes.com/sites/roberthart/2022/03/03/russian-and-belarusian-athletes-banned-from-winter-paralympic-games-in-u-turn/?sh=714c609a4131].

— Robert Hart

March 3, 2022 9:45 AM EST

Biden Set To Meet Other Leaders Of The Quad Alliance Later Today

Leaders of the Indo-Pacific security alliance known as the Quad—including U.S. President Joe Biden—will hold a virtual meeting[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-united-nations-general-assembly-joe-biden-india-australia-6fd7660d92ad81512a231e81628d46a6?utm_source=Twitter&utm_campaign=SocialFlow&utm_medium=AP] on Thursday, the group’s first meeting since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

A statement[https://www.mea.gov.in/press-releases.htm?dtl/34924/Quad_Leaders_Virtual_meeting_on_3March_2022] put out by the Indian Foreign Ministry noted that the leaders in the meeting will “exchange views and assessments about important developments in the Indo-Pacific,” with no mention of the Russia-Ukraine situation.

The Quad—which Beijing has referred to as Indo-Pacific NATO—is made up of the U.S., India, Australia and Japan and is seen as counterbalance against China.

On the issue of Russia, however, the groups appears to be divided with Japan and Australia backing the U.S. and NATO’s condemnation of the invasion of Ukraine, while India has chosen to remain on the sideline and has abstained from key votes on the issue in the U.N.

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 8:51 AM EST

Oil Depot In Chernihiv Catches Fire After Being Struck By Shelling

Diesel tanks in an oil depot in the city of Chernihiv were hit by an airstrike on Thursday morning, Ukraine’s State Emergency Service said in a post on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/MNS.GOV.UA/posts/325211489646747].

The agency said it was still working to find out details of any casualties but noted that diesel tanks with a total capacity of 5,000 cubic meters have caught fire.

Photos shared by the agency showed massive clouds of thick black smoke billowing from a large tanker with firefighters at the scene.

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 7:49 AM EST

Russia Column Outside Kyiv Has Made Very Little Progress, U.K. Defense Ministry Says

The Russian military’s massive convoy of soldiers, vehicles and weapons remain over 30 kilometers (18 miles) away from the center Kyiv and have made “little discernable progress” in the past three days, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in its daily intelligence update[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1499278184407314437/photo/1] on the situation in Ukraine on Thursday.

The update claims that the Russian convoy continued to face “staunch Ukrainian resistance, mechanical breakdown and congestion.”

The update also notes that despite heavy Russian shelling the cities of Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Mariupol remain in Ukrainian hands.

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 6:51 AM EST

Spotify Closes Russian Office, Blames 'unprovoked attack on Ukraine'

Streaming giant Spotify shut down its Russian office indefinitely on Wednesday citing Moscow’s “unprovoked attack on Ukraine,” according to[https://www.reuters.com/technology/spotify-closes-its-office-russia-response-attack-ukraine-2022-03-02/] Reuters.

“Our first priority over the past week has been the safety of our employees and to ensure that Spotify continues to serve as an important source of global and regional news at a time when access to information is more important than ever,” Spotify said in a statement. The company also noted that it has reviewed thousands of pieces of content since the start of the war and has limited the discoverability of shows run by Russian state-affiliated media.

Spotify joins a growing list of tech companies that have taken action against Russia and its state-sponsored media following its invasion of Ukraine.

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 6:37 AM EST

U.S. State Department Criticizes Russia's Media Clampdown

The US State Department accused[https://www.state.gov/media-crackdown-in-russia/] Moscow of launching a “full assault on media freedom and the truth” as various independent news outlets in Russia faced a government crackdown.

Earlier this week, the Russian Prosecutor General blocked access to two independent media outlets, Radio Ekho Moskvy and Dozhd TV, accusing them of reporting "false" information about the invasion. This followed moves by the communications regulator Roskomnadzor last week to restrict access to major social media platforms including Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram.

“The people of Russia did not choose this war. Putin did. They have a right to know about the death, suffering and destruction being inflicted by their government on the people of Ukraine. The people of Russia also have a right to know about the human costs of this senseless war to their own soldiers.”- U.S. State Department Spokesperson Ned Price

The State Department called on Vladimir Putin and the Russian government to immediately “cease this bloodshed” and withdraw troops from Ukraine.

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 6:09 AM EST

New Delhi Denies Russian Claims That Indian Students Are Being Held Hostage In Ukraine

The Indian government on Thursday denied a Russian allegation that Indian students stranded in Ukraine were being held hostages and used as “human shields” by the Ukrainian military.

On Wednesday, following a telephone conversation between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Kremlin has issued a statement noting that Putin had warned Modi about Indians students being taken hostage.

On Thursday, however, Indian foreign ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi stated[https://twitter.com/MEAIndia/status/1499221560657252356] that India had not “received any reports of any hostage situation regarding any student.” Bagchi added that many Indian students were able to leave Kharkiv on Wednesday “with the cooperation of Ukrainian authorities.”

Click to access link.[https://embedly.forbes.com/widgets/media.html?type=text%2Fhtml&key=3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935&schema=twitter&url=https%3A//twitter.com/meaindia/status/1499221560657252356&image=https%3A//i.embed.ly/1/image%3Furl%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fabs.twimg.com%252Ferrors%252Flogo46x38.png%26key%3D3ce26dc7e3454db5820ba084d28b4935]

Earlier this week, shelling in Kharkiv claimed the life of one Indian student who had been standing in a queue to buy food. The student’s death led to widespread criticism of the Indian government by opposition politicians who accused it of failing to safely evacuate Indians from the war zone. According to New Delhi, more than 17,000 Indians have been evacuated from Ukraine as of Wednesday with a few thousand more remaining.

Despite its growing security partnership with the West, India has abstained from criticizing Russia’s invasion and has called for a diplomatic resolution to the situation. Amid growing tensions with its neighbor China both along its Himalayan mountain border and in the Indian Ocean, New Delhi has developed close security ties with the U.S. and its allies but still remains heavily reliant on Russian-made weaponry.

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 4:34 AM EST

OSCE Monitoring Mission Member Killed In Kharkiv Shelling

The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on Wednesday announced[https://www.osce.org/chairmanship/513280] that a member of its monitoring mission in Ukraine was killed during the shelling of Kharkiv a day earlier.

The victim, Maryna Fenina, was killed while she was out to get supplies for her family.

“In Kharkiv and other cities and towns in Ukraine, missiles, shells and rockets are hitting residential buildings and town centers, killing and injuring innocent civilians – women, men and children alike,” the agency said in its statement.

The OSCE “strongly condemned” the increased shelling of urban centers and once against urged Russia to immediately cease hostilities and “engage in a meaningful dialogue.”

The OSCE monitoring mission in Ukraine, made up of civilians, was established in 2014 following Russia’s annexation of Crimea.

— Siladitya Ray

March 3, 2022 3:24 AM EST

Moody’s And Fitch Downgrade Russia’s Debt To Junk

Credit rating agencies Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings both downgraded the Russian government’s debt to junk status Wednesday, following a similar move by Standard & Poors[https://www.wsj.com/livecoverage/russia-ukraine-latest-news-2022-02-26/card/russia-cut-to-junk-rating-by-s-p-ukraine-s-rating-lowered-grtPacmpCwsqrmnfKa2A] last week, as strict Western sanctions threaten to upend Russia’s economy.

Both companies announced six-notch decreases Wednesday: Moody’s[https://www.moodys.com/research/Moodys-downgrades-Russias-ratings-to-B3-ratings-remain-on-review--PR_463447] downgraded Russia from Baa3 to B3, and Fitch[https://www.fitchratings.com/research/sovereigns/fitch-downgrades-russia-to-b-on-rating-watch-negative-02-03-2022#:~:text=Fitch%20Ratings%20%2D%20N%2FA%20%2D,of%20this%20rating%20action%20commentary.] moved Russia from BBB to B.

The agencies cited tight international sanctions on Russian firms, particularly the United States and its allies’ joint decision[https://www.forbes.com/sites/lisakim/2022/02/26/us-and-allies-to-remove-some-russian-banks-from-swift-sanction-central-bank/?sh=65a171fa165a] last weekend to cut some Russian banks out of the SWIFT financial messaging system and ban[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-02-27/eu-approves-banning-all-transactions-with-russian-central-bank] transactions[https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0612] with the Central Bank of Russia. The restrictions on the Central Bank “will have a much larger impact on Russia's credit fundamentals than any previous sanctions” by effectively freezing a large share of Russia’s international reserves, Fitch[https://www.fitchratings.com/research/sovereigns/fitch-downgrades-russia-to-b-on-rating-watch-negative-02-03-2022] said.

The sanctions have imperiled Russia’s economy. The value of the ruble plunged[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/02/27/world/europe/ruble-russia-stock-market.html] earlier this week, and an executive at financial firm MSCI told Reuters[https://www.forbes.com/sites/jonathanponciano/2022/02/28/russia-stocks-crash-even-with-moscow-stock-exchange-closed-experts-call-market-uninvestable/?sh=27c8b1ab5a9a] on Monday the Russian market is “uninvestable.” The Moscow Stock Exchange has remained closed this week.

— Joe Walsh

March 3, 2022 2:15 AM EST

1 Million Refugees Have Fled Ukraine, UN Says

About 1 million people have fled Ukraine for neighboring countries since Russia began its invasion last week, the United Nations’ refugee agency estimated Wednesday, a massive exodus for a nation of about 44 million[https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.POP.TOTL?locations=UA].

The UN estimates 4 million people could ultimately leave Ukraine, though that figure may turn out to be even higher, according[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-war-live-updates-9c70fb215d15e0b054b5b2d40169f940] to the Associated Press.

“For millions more, inside Ukraine, it’s time for guns to fall silent, so that life-saving humanitarian assistance can be provided,” UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi tweeted[https://twitter.com/FilippoGrandi/status/1499156937644118022?s=20&t=2axMuIyCQh2bg4Tji3xRLQ] Wednesday afternoon.

Most refugees are crossing into neighboring countries to Ukraine’s west like Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Hungary and Moldova. Poland says it is taking in 50,000 refugees every day, according[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-60555472] to the BBC. Ukrainian officials have barred[https://www.dw.com/en/ukraine-president-orders-general-mobilization/a-60908996] men ages 18 to 60 from leaving the country, part of a “general mobilization” as the country’s military and residents fight Russian troops.

Some African and Indian students say they’ve been subjected to racism while attempting to leave Ukraine, CNN reported[https://www.cnn.com/2022/02/28/europe/students-allege-racism-ukraine-cmd-intl/index.html]. And racial discrimination has also been reported on the Polish side of the border, with right-wing nationalist groups harassing some refugees of color, ABC News reported[https://abcnews.go.com/International/extremists-harass-minority-refugees-arriving-poland-ukraine-witnesses/story?id=83203897].

— Mason Bissada

March 3, 2022 1:12 AM EST

UN Verifies 227 Civilian Deaths In Ukraine—But Real Number Is Probably Far Higher

The United Nations has confirmed[https://ukraine.un.org/sites/default/files/2022-03/Civilian%20casualties%20as%20of%2024.00%201%20March%202022%20ENG.pdf] 227 civilian deaths and 525 civilian injuries in Ukraine from the start of Russia’s invasion until Tuesday, though it said the real number is likely “considerably higher,” as international monitors struggle to verify casualties in an active warzone.

The United Nations’ count includes 212 adult deaths and 15 child deaths, as well as 497 injured adults and 28 injured children. Most of these casualties were caused by artillery shelling, rocket launches and airstrikes, the United Nations said, as Russia ramps up its aerial attacks on cities like Kyiv.

The government’s casualty counts have been far higher. Ukraine’s emergency service said Wednesday approximately 2,000 civilians have died, according to several[https://www.axios.com/ukraine-civilian-deaths-russia-invasion-a9879347-36ed-433a-ba43-6c80dc7d2699.html] media[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/02/world/europe/ukraine-civilian-casualties.html] outlets[https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/ukraine-russia-putin-news-03-02-22/h_0b4e5dae06f9a7948b4c6d22695849be], though that figure hasn’t been independently verified.

— Joe Walsh

March 3, 2022 12:18 AM EST

ICC Will Investigate Alleged War Crimes In Ukraine

The International Criminal Court will “immediately proceed” with an investigation into alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Ukraine, prosecutor Karim A.A. Khan announced Wednesday[https://www.icc-cpi.int/Pages/item.aspx?name=2022-prosecutor-statement-referrals-ukraine], after 39 countries referred the case to the Hague-based court.

The investigation will not only examine possible war crimes committed during Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, but will also look into crimes that may have been perpetrated during the conflict between the Ukrainian government and Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine starting in 2014.

Khan said[https://www.icc-cpi.int/Pages/item.aspx?name=20220228-prosecutor-statement-ukraine] Monday there is a “reasonable basis” to open an investigation into the situation in Ukraine, but he needed a referral from a party to the Rome Statute—the treaty that established the ICC—in order to begin his probe (Russia, Ukraine and the United States are not parties to the statute).

If the ICC decides to indict anybody for alleged war crimes, its ability to take legal action is somewhat limited, as the organization relies[https://www.icc-cpi.int/about/how-the-court-works] on individual countries to make arrests and transfer arrestees to its custody. Khan says the support of the international community will be “essential” to the investigation.

— Mason Bissada

March 2, 2022 11:00 PM EST

Oracle, H&M, EA Sports Are Latest Companies To Cut Ties With Russia

Technology company Oracle said Wednesday[https://twitter.com/Oracle/status/1499058658583490568] it has “suspended all operations” in Russia, and clothing retailer H&M has paused sales in Russia, the latest companies to distance themselves from the Russian market following the country’s invasion of Ukraine.

Meanwhile, EA Sports is removing the Russian national soccer team and Russian club teams from its FIFA-branded video games, it announced Wednesday. Two days earlier, the real-life[https://www.fifa.com/tournaments/mens/worldcup/qatar2022/media-releases/fifa-uefa-suspend-russian-clubs-and-national-teams-from-all-competitions] Russian national team and Russian club soccer teams were banned from competitions run by FIFA and the Union of European Football Associations “until further notice.”

For more details on corporate responses to Russia’s invasion, click here[https://www.forbes.com/sites/marisadellatto/2022/03/02/google-dell-ford-and-apple-heres-the-growing-list-of-companies-cutting-ties-with-russia-over-invasion/?sh=4fff6d5853d1].

— Joe Walsh

March 2, 2022 10:55 PM EST

U.S. Delivers Anti-Aircraft Stinger Missiles To Ukraine

The U.S. has delivered hundreds of anti-aircraft Stinger missiles to Ukraine over the past few days as part of the $350 million military aid package[https://www.state.gov/additional-military-assistance-for-ukraine/] President Joe Biden promised last week, according[https://twitter.com/jimsciutto/status/1499137668332101647] to CNN.

The U.S. is sending weapons paid for through the Foreign Assistance Act, according[https://www.reuters.com/world/biden-approves-350-million-military-aid-ukraine-2022-02-26/] to Reuters. Ukraine has also requested Javelin anti-tank weapons. The Pentagon told Reuters it would also be sending small arms, body armor, anti-armor and munitions to aid Ukrainian front-line personnel. The State Department said the U.S. has committed more than $1 billion in security assistance to Ukraine over the past year.

“It is another clear signal that the United States stands with the people of Ukraine as they defend their sovereign, courageous, and proud nation,” Secretary of State Antony Blinken wrote in a statement Saturday announcing the aid.

— Mason Bissada

March 2, 2022 10:18 PM EST

Key Developments: Ukraine And Russia Plan To Meet Amid Intense Fighting, U.S. Cancels Missile Test

* Ukrainian negotiators are set to meet[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesstaffreports/2022/03/02/live-russia-ukraine-invasion/?sh=50865415784e] with a Russian delegation, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky’s office told[https://twitter.com/nexta_tv/status/1499098959628881925?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1499098959628881925%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theguardian.com%2Fworld%2Flive%2F2022%2Fmar%2F02%2Fukraine-news-russia-war-kyiv-kharkiv-russian-invasion-vladimir-putin-joe-biden-latest-live-updates%3Fpage%3Dwith3Ablock-621fc6868f088d6b798daff4] the Eastern European news outlet NEXTA Wednesday.

* Russian troops have taken control of the southern Ukrainian city of Kherson, the New York Times[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/03/02/world/ukraine-russia-war] reported Wednesday, citing Kherson’s mayor and a senior Ukrainian official, marking the first major city to fall to Russia since the invasion started last week.

* Russia has continued its aerial attacks on the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, reportedly hitting[https://www.uz.gov.ua/press_center/up_to_date_topic/577692/] a railway station Wednesday, but Russian ground forces are largely stalled north of Kyiv amid logistical problems and intense Ukrainian resistance, a senior U.S. defense official told reporters.

* Russia's defense ministry announced[https://twitter.com/JDiamond1/status/1499068900503437319?s=20&t=mEByM2Yng3YsUeQqGuMgCg] via state-run media outlets Wednesday 498 troops have died and 1,597 have been injured in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, its first casualty update of the war—though Zelensky says nearly 6,000[https://www.cbsnews.com/live-updates/ukraine-russia-news-war-zelensky-putin-airstrikes-kyiv-kharkiv-mariupol/] Russian personnel have died.

* The United States has canceled an intercontinental ballistic missile test launch scheduled for this week to avoid escalating “heightened tensions” with Russia, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby announced Wednesday, three days after Russia put its nuclear weapons on high alert.

* Senior Chinese officials asked[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesstaffreports/2022/03/02/live-russia-ukraine-invasion/?sh=50865415784e] Russia not to invade Ukraine until after the 2022 Olympics in Beijing ended on February 20, the New York Times reports[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/03/02/us/politics/russia-ukraine-china.html], citing anonymous U.S. officials and an anonymous European official, who told the Times an intelligence report indicated the request came in early February.

* The United States has hit Belarus[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesstaffreports/2022/03/02/live-russia-ukraine-invasion/?sh=50865415784e] with the same export controls[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/02/fact-sheet-the-united-states-continues-to-impose-costs-on-russia-and-belarus-for-putins-war-of-choice/] that Russia is now facing, after U.S. officials said Belarus—a key Russian ally—is “enabling” the invasion.

— Mason Bissada

Forbes Media LLC

文件 FBCOM00020220317ei3f000uq


The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says Russia's advance in Ukraine has been stymied...
5801 字
2022 年 3 月 16 日 21:35 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says Russia's advance in Ukraine has been stymied by a lack of manoeuvrability, which has been "adeptly exploited" by the Ukrainian forces.

In its latest defence intelligence update, the MoD wrote on Twitter: "Russian forces are struggling to overcome the challenges posed by Ukraine's terrain.

"Russian forces have remained largely tied to Ukraine's road network and have demonstrated a reluctance to conduct off-road manoeuvre. The destruction of bridges by Ukrainian forces has also played a key role in stalling Russia's advance.

"Russia's continued failure to gain control of the air has drastically limited their ability to effectively use air manoeuvre, further limiting their options.

"The tactics of the Ukrainian armed forces have adeptly exploited Russia's lack of manoeuvre, frustrating the Russian advance and inflicting heavy losses on the invading forces."

Boris Johnson said there is "no way Ukraine is going to join Nato anytime soon" but stressed that the decision had to be for the country's president to take.

Speaking to broadcasters at the Emirates Palace hotel in Abu Dhabi, the Prime Minister said: "I talked to Volodymyr (Zelensky) again yesterday and of course I understand what he is saying about Nato and the reality of the position.

"And everybody has always said - and we've made it clear to (Russian President Vladimir) Putin - that there is no way Ukraine is going to join Nato anytime soon.

"But the decision about the future of Ukraine has got to be for the Ukrainian people, and Volodymyr Zelensky is their elected leader and we will back him.

"And the most important thing is that Putin's aggression, his absolutely barbaric attacks on Ukraine should stop and they should not be seen to have succeeded, and they won't succeed."

The Foreign Secretary said sanctions from the UK and other western nations were having a "debilitating affect on the Russian economy" but urged allies to go further.

Liz Truss, speaking to Sky News, said: "What we know is that Vladimir Putin's plans are not going according to plan.

"He is not making the progress expected, and we know the sanctions we've put on are working.

"They are having a debilitating affect on the Russian economy.... Those sanctions are really beginning to bite."

Ms Truss said further British sanctions should be expected, saying "we've got more individuals on our list" as well as companies to target, but called for allies to do more.

She noted that the European Union had sanctioned three Russian banks compared with the UK and US targeting 10 major banks, and said "we'd like to see them sanction even more banks", while also arguing that more sanctions could come "collectively" from the 141 countries that voted against Russia at the UN General Assembly.

Liz Truss said there was no guarantee sanctioned oligarchs like Roman Abramovich would be free to return to the UK after the Russian war with Ukraine ends.

The Foreign Secretary also said she did not think the conflict was "near the end", in comments made on Sky News.

Put to her that Mr Abramovich could return once Russian troops had withdrawn, Ms Truss said: "No, I haven't said that.

"Because I'm saying even if the war was to end - and I fear we are not near the end, at this stage - huge devastation has been caused, lives have been lost as a result of this war.

"And there will need to be a reckoning with all the people who supported Putin, including Abramovich."

She said the UK was working with allies "in the G7 and beyond" to ensure oligarchs have "nowhere where it is legitimate for them to live their lifestyles, have their yachts or have their planes".

The former head of MI6 said that only China can influence Putin to stop his invasion into Ukraine.

Sir Alex Younger, former head of the Secret Intelligence Service from 2014 to 2020, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Of all the people in the world that can assert influence on Vladimir Putin, who is in his bunker and who is obsessed by achieving greatness through the restoration of the Russian Empire..., of all the people that can talk sense to him, it's Xi (Jinping, the Chinese leader).

"Vladimir Putin needs Xi and of course Xi while he feels he has to align himself at the high level with what Russia is doing because of their new alliance, must be deeply disturbed by what is going on."

He added that the situation in Ukraine is "seriously compounding the economic problems that China face" and carries a "huge reputational risk" for China if they continue to associate themselves with the "murderous activities in Ukraine".

He added: "Putin does not have a reverse gear. He gambled.

"He has hit extraordinary difficulties early on but he's going to keep going and he has to, because he went into this war with a false premise, and he needs to be seen to be bringing something back from it."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said weapons from Western nations are still reaching Ukrainian forces.

He told reporters at Nato's headquarters in Brussels: "We are continuing to deliver weapons into Ukraine from many different directions and it is getting to the front line."

Asked about Poland's suggestion of a Nato peace mission to Ukraine, Mr Wallace said: "I think I'll look at the details first before I make any decisions about what happens.

"But it is absolutely the case that we have to continue to show - in action - our support to Ukraine and its freedoms and not just talk."

He added: "Coming here today, we should also remind ourselves how lucky we are. There is Ukraine, a country currently effectively under siege by an aggressive Russian armed forces - and that's why they wanted to join this alliance.

"I think we have to see what more we can do to give them that support."

Ukrainians are negotiating for peace with Russia with a "gun against their heads", according to the Foreign Secretary.

Liz Truss, speaking to BBC Radio 4's Today programme, said: "The first precursor to any successful peace talks has to be a ceasefire and Putin withdrawing his troops from Ukraine.

"It is very, very difficult for the Ukrainians to negotiate with a gun against their heads.

"And I am very, very concerned that Putin is playing a smoke-and-mirrors game of trying to claim that he is seeking peace while, at the same time, continuing with this appalling war he instigated and is not making the progress he thought he would."

Ms Truss said she thinks Nato membership for Ukraine is "not the real issue" and that it is a "smoke screen", arguing: "This is about recreating a greater Russia and essential subordinating Ukraine under Russian authority, as well as extending more broadly to other east European states.

"This is why it is so important we stop Putin in Ukraine, because it isn't just about Ukraine, it isn't just about Nato - it is about the desire to recreate the Soviet Union. He is clearly an extremely dangerous man."

The UK had "cumbersome" sanction legislation before changes were made this week, Liz Truss said.

Fielding questions on why Britain had taken longer than some of its allies to target individual wealthy Russians with Kremlin links, the Foreign Secretary told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "The specific issue here is that we have - or had - some very cumbersome legislation.

"We essentially had unlimited damages if oligarchs sued us, so that made it very difficult for the Government to build the evidence cases against these oligarchs.

"Since the invasion took place, we've put through emergency legislation to cut out these huge damages, which means we've been able to now sanction more individuals and more entities than either the US or the EU."

Ms Truss said the changes made by the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act, which received royal assent on Tuesday, "eliminated" the "huge risk" of the UK Government having to pay "very high damages" to Russian elites contesting British sanctions.

Kevin Foster, Home Office minister for safe and legal migration, told the Commons Home Affairs Committee 5,500 visas have now been granted under the Ukraine Family Scheme and 20,000 applications have been submitted.

The Home Office website said these figures are as of 4pm on Tuesday.

Conservative MP Adam Holloway accused the Government of making it "extraordinarily difficult" for Ukrainian women and children to reach the UK, calling the situation "utterly farcical".

He told the Home Affairs Committee: "I don't know how many people crossed the Channel yesterday, but I wonder what criminal record checks or checks for war crimes were carried out on them? I mean, are we having a kind of a bit of a double standard?

"We're completely failing to stop what are essentially economic migrants, mostly fit young men, and yet we're making it incredibly difficult for women and children to come here with enormous reputational damage to a government is doing really well overall."

In response, Kevin Foster, Home Office minister for safe and legal migration, said people arriving from France are detained and have their biometrics taken, with some exceptions for unaccompanied children and families, and "are subject to the very checks you've just talked about".

Sir Keir Starmer has reiterated his comments that "going cap in hand from dictator to dictator is not an energy strategy" as Boris Johnson continues his visit to the Gulf.

Speaking to reporters in Huddersfield, the Labour leader said: "The Prime Minister says we can't rely on Russia, so now he goes to Saudi Arabia.

"We need to make sure we've got security for our energy and that means lessening our imports and not going cap in hand frankly, from dictator to dictator."

Asked whether he would visit the same region if he was Prime Minister, Sir Keir said: "I've got nothing against measures to try and bring prices down in the short term but Liz Truss was saying only the other day, we've got to stop relying on malign actors and that's why they want to wean us off Russia, but you can't do that and go cap in hand to Saudi Arabia.

"What we need is an energy strategy that has security, less imports, rely on renewables here, ramp up onshore and offshore wind, get nuclear going much more quickly and have retrofit like we're seeing here in Kirklees, so we drive down the need for energy in the first place."

He added: "If there's one lesson we've learned in the last few weeks and months, it's that we need to stop this reliance, dependency, on oil and gas from overseas, Russia in particular, but you don't do that by jumping from Russia to Saudi Arabia and recreating the exact same problem."

On Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's comment that the country would not join Nato, Sir Keir Starmer said: "President Zelensky has been leading from the front in a really courageous way in Ukraine and we were all moved when he addressed Parliament last week.

"Obviously, it's a matter for him how he negotiates.

"I am concerned that what we've seen here is Russia's aggression against the sovereignty of Ukraine and it's very important that we all stand up for the principles here, but as to the precise negotiations, that's a matter for him."

Sir Keir Starmer has told the Government to "up its game" in supporting Ukrainian refugees, calling their approach "too narrow, too slow and too mean".

The Labour leader told reporters in Huddersfield: "The British public have been incredibly welcoming and generous. They've given generously to various schemes to support refugees, a number of thousands of people have said they'll take a refugee - if only the Government actually matched the ambition of the British public, because their approach has been too narrow, too slow and too mean.

"What I want to see from the Government is a realistic package of support for refugees arriving here, who will be traumatised, many of them will have family back in Ukraine that they're desperately worried about, with all sorts of medical needs, schooling needs and work needs.

"So thank you to the British public for their generosity. 'Up your game' is my message to the Government in relation for what they're doing for refugees."

Sir Keir added: "I don't think the Government has put in place the underlying support that's needed. I don't think they've been talking to local leaders, local government, local housing providers because, in the end, what we learned from the Afghan refugees coming last summer is you need that support package, because you're dealing very traumatised people who do have needs which require specialist help and assistance.

"The generosity of the British public is exactly what I would have expected, it's fantastic, but the Government needs to match that now with putting that support in to make sure that this is a realistic and viable option, and not one that just collapses in on itself."

The Home Affairs Committee was told that local authorities will receive £10,500 per refugee for the first year to support Ukrainians through education, English language support, safeguarding and social care.

Under current plans the Government is not asking councils primarily to help with accommodation, as it intends to rely on the more than 120,000 people who have expressed interest so far under the Homes For Ukraine scheme.

Labour MP Clive Betts asked: "Isn't there a potential real problem there? That if there is a concentration of refugees coming to certain areas, where there may already be enormous pressure on things like child mental health, school places, that it will simply not be possible to give them the sorts of services they actually need?"

The Lord Harrington of Watford, minister for refugees, replied: "I'm not turning my mind to that yet... it's a very valid point and please don't think I'm fobbing you off, but for the moment we just have to get these people in."

He added: "We're going to have to - we're going to have to find school places and we're going to have to find extra social workers."

The refugee minister has told MPs he expects "thousands of people" to arrive next week under the Homes for Ukraine sponsorship scheme, but warned it "may not be possible" for all accommodation being offered to be checked beforehand.

Asked if checks will be carried out by councils on accommodation under the Homes for Ukraine scheme before Ukrainians are housed in the UK, Lord Richard Harrington told the Commons Home Affairs Committee: "It may not be possible.

"I mean, I'm talking next week ... I'm expecting thousands of people to come but it will be their responsibility and, particularly where there's a possibility of vulnerability with children, this sort of thing, that would take priority.

"But if we started saying we're going to preview it, it's just not possible."

Asked by the committee if he could give assurances that Ukrainian refugees will not be housed in hotels, he replied: "I honestly can't give you that undertaking. I'd like to but it's not our intention. But if all else fails, it's our duty to make sure they've got a roof over their head and they're fed properly.

"It's not our plan, it's not our strategy. We've got thousands of people from Afghanistan staying in hotels. We've got thousands of asylum seekers. So it's not the plan but I can't give you 100% assurance because I just don't know."

Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab, opening Prime Minister's Questions, told the Commons: "I understand that four members of the Ukrainian parliament are here with us in the gallery today and I'm sure I speak for the whole House in saying that we stand in total solidarity with you."

Conservative MP Dean Russell (Watford) raised concerns over the Gambling Commission announcing that Czech operator Allwyn, owned by Czech businessman Karel Komarek and previously known as Sazka Entertainment, was its "preferred applicant" to run the National Lottery when Camelot's licence expires in 2024.

Mr Russell, who noted Camelot is a major employer in his constituency, told the Commons: "I do wonder, given the current situation in Ukraine, if (Mr Raab) considers it appropriate that the next licensee of the operator of the National Lottery is known to have a joint venture with Gazprom?"

Mr Raab replied: "I understand that Allwyn's owner Mr Komarek, who has long criticised the Putin regime, is in discussions with the Czech Republic government regarding the joint venture with Gazprom and removing its involvement."

People who have registered interest under the Homes For Ukraine scheme who have identified someone they can sponsor will be able to apply from Friday, the Home Affairs Committee heard.

MPs were told that there are lots of informal networks and charities which are identifying people and helping match them with sponsors.

Conservative MP Tim Loughton called for regular updates for the public about progress, "otherwise people will get very frustrated, as they did in some of the volunteering schemes in the pandemic signed up, and then they never got called on to do anything".

Lord Harrington of Watford, minister for refugees, replied: "I'm doing my best to make sure that does not happen... I want it to work. I believe when it works through, the real conduit for this will be those NGOs on the ground, and they'll become expert at it."

Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner pushed the Deputy Prime Minister on the appointment of Lord Lebedev to the House of Lords.

She said: "The right honourable member was foreign secretary on March 17 2020 when British intelligence reportedly warned against the granting of peerage to the Prime Minister's close friend and now Lord Lebedev of Hampton and Siberia. Forty-eight hours later the Prime Minister visited Lebedev at his home in London; details of that meeting have never been released.

"In July 2020 Lebedev's appointment as peer was announced. So can he tell the House what changed between the security warning and the appointment?"

Mr Raab said: "The honourable lady knows full well all individuals nominated for a peerage are done so in recognition of what their contribution is to society. And I should say, that includes those of Russian origin who contribute brilliantly to our nation, many of whom in this country are critics of the Putin regime.

"Life peerages are vetted by the House of Lords' appointments commission for matters of probity and frankly I think she should know better."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner pressed Dominic Raab on whether he has ever "overruled or ignored" direct advice from the British security services.

Ms Rayner said: "I'd like to thank all of the people who have been working tirelessly to bring British nationals home from Iran, our diplomatic staff, and our world leading British intelligence agencies.

"The role of the British intelligence today is critical in the face of Putin's aggression. The Deputy Prime Minister oversaw our foreign intelligence services as foreign secretary. So, can he confirm if at any time he overruled or ignored direct advice from the British security services?"

Mr Raab replied: "Can I say to the honourable lady, what she suggests is nonsense. She's talking about the House of Lords Appointments Commission. They have a vetting process. I have never overruled intelligence advice and I wouldn't comment on the details of it.

"What I would say, and would agree with her on the strength, the agility of the British diplomatic service, which time and time again, are the unsung heroes in returning British nationals - often less celebrated cases than this - but I think now is a great opportunity to recognise the heroic work they do."

Tory MP Adam Holloway asked if taxpayers' money will be used to fund the stay in the UK of working-age men who the Ukrainian government expect to remain and defend the country.

Lord Harrington of Watford, minister for refugees, said the UK cannot run a humanitarian mission and bar such men.

He told the Home Affairs Committee: "This is a mass movement of people. And the Ukrainian government will advise us on what they want to do, but just because they're there in Poland, doesn't mean they're deserters. I mean, there'll be all sorts of reasons for it.

"So I'm afraid it's not a satisfactory answer, but we can't start being the police officer for the Ukrainian government, and they've got enough problems on their mind to do it."

(corrected repetition, amends question number in par 2. First ran at 1231)

Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab said Labour would put security at risk.

Responding to Angela Rayner's fourth question in the Commons, he said: "The suggestion she's making is sheer nonsense. But if she wants to talk about national security then I remind her that she and her shadow cabinet colleagues not so long ago wanted the honourable member for Islington North (Jeremy Corbyn)... a man who wanted and talked about abolishing the Army, pulling out of Trident - she voted for that.

"Has there ever been a more ridiculous, reckless, naive moment to call for unilateral nuclear disarmament and pulling out of Nato?

"A Labour government would put at risk our security. We're doing everything we can to protect it."

Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner asked in the Commons if the Prime Minister "ever asked anyone to urge the security services to revise, reconsider or withdraw their assessment of Lord Lebedev of Hampton and Siberia".

Asking her fourth question during Prime Minister's Questions with Dominic Raab, she said: "What I do know better is the central duty of any Government is to keep the British people safe. There are now widespread reports that the Prime Minister did not accept warnings from our own intelligence services, granting a Russian oligarch, the son and business partner of a KGB spy, a seat here in this Parliament.

"It shouldn't matter if such a warning was about a close personal friend of the Prime Minister. It shouldn't matter if he gave the Prime Minister thousands of pounds of gifts. And it shouldn't matter how much champagne and caviar he serves.

"There is no ifs or buts when it comes to the safety of the British people. So I ask the Deputy Prime Minister, can he guarantee that the Prime Minister never asked anyone to urge the security services to revise, reconsider or withdraw their assessment of Lord Lebedev of Hampton and Siberia?"

Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner accused the Government of going "cap in hand from one dictator to another" by asking Saudi Arabia to produce more oil following the move to divest from Russian fossil fuels.

After facing heckles from the Government benches and a call for order by Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle at Deputy Prime Minister's Questions, the deputy leader of the opposition added: "The Government benches have a choice - they can accept Labour's plan to save working families hundreds of pounds on bills funded by a one-off levy on the soaring profits of energy companies.

"So I ask the Deputy Prime Minister - is their only plan to keep on begging?"

Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab replied: "Can I just gently say to her that when she was campaigning as the rest of them were to make the member of Islington North (Jeremy Corbyn) prime minister, this Prime Minister was foreign secretary, leading the response to the nerve agent attack on Salisbury."

After further calls for order for the Commons Speaker, Mr Raab added that Jeremy Corbyn had "sided with Putin" in the past, and quoted Ms Rayner's past words that Mr Corbyn was a "very strong leader" and could not wait for him to become Prime Minister.

The Government has led the way on Russian sanctions and by providing a "big-hearted response" to the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, Dominic Raab has said.

Asking her final question during Prime Minister's Questions, Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner said: "There is a war in Europe. There is a fuel energy crisis in Britain. Democracy is at risk. We must support the courageous efforts of President Zelensky and the Ukrainian people.

"These uncertain times require leadership with integrity. A leader that works with the security services, can be trusted to say the right thing for British diplomacy and provide security to the British people.

"Instead we have got this sorry excuse of a Government that is before us."

She accused the Government of "partying during lockdown" adding: "Can the Deputy Prime Minister look the British people in the eye and say this Government is doing their best?

Mr Raab replied that the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary had shown leadership with the "impact of the sanctions and the diplomatic effort" which had let to the "rouble plummeting".

He added: "We have also shown the big-hearted spirit of this Government and indeed this nation", by processing visas for Ukrainians and with the new humanitarian sponsorship scheme.

Conservative Claire Coutinho (East Surrey) called for recognition for service personnel for their role in "working with the Ukrainian armed forces in helping to shore up the eastern flank of Nato".

Speaking during PMQs, she said: "British servicemen and women have served under Operations Cabrit and Orbital since 2015 working with the Ukrainian armed forces in helping to shore up the eastern flank of Nato, which is now more important than ever.

"Would the Deputy Prime Minister join with me in putting on the record the gratitude of this House and consider what recognition we can give them for their service and for their role in history?"

Dominic Raab replied: "She's absolutely right. She's totally right to pay tribute to the professionalism, the dedication, the sacrifice of our armed service men and women every day to defend this country.

"She'll know that recognition for all military operations is kept under continuous review and I know that the Defence Secretary will have heard her very compelling suggestions."

It remains Ukraine's "absolute right" as a "free nation" to apply for Nato membership in the future, Conservative former leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith has said.

Sir Iain told the Commons: "Can I ask my right honourable friend that as the brilliant Ukrainian people fight and die on a daily basis for their rights of freedom and democracy, it's important therefore that we make something very clear and I wonder if he would do this.

"They have asked for membership of Nato for a significant period and Nato has chosen not to give it to them. My concern now is no matter what they decide, it remains their absolute right as a free nation and a free people to make such an application in the future, and noticing that Finland is talking about being a member, that we treat them in exactly the same way as we would an application from Finland."

Dominic Raab replied: "He will have heard what President Zelensky has said overnight in relation to this. But one of the things that we have always been crystal clear as a Government is that if there is a diplomatic offer and, I have to say we have a heavy measure of scepticism about whether Putin could ever fulfil such a deal, but if there is, it has to be done with the will and volition of the Ukrainian President and the Ukrainian people."

Dominic Raab told MPs the "Prime Minister is not just a very social individual" as a Labour MP asked him "what first attracted the Prime Minister to the billionaire Russian oligarchs?"

Speaking at PMQs, Labour's Matt Western (Warwick and Leamington) said: "I'm sure the Deputy Prime Minister will agree with me that when it comes to judging a person, it's often done by the company that they keep."

To laughter from some MPs in the Commons, Mr Western added: "Can he therefore tell us what first attracted the Prime Minister to the billionaire Russian oligarchs?"

Mr Raab replied: "I wasn't quite sure where he was going at the beginning of his question, but what I can tell him - the Prime Minister is not just a very social individual.

"He wants this country to be open, outward-looking to the world, but we were the Government and he was the Prime Minister and I was the foreign secretary that introduced the Magnitsky sanctions that put human rights sanctions, asset freezes and visa bans, not just on Russians where we have evidence of wrongdoing, but... many others. It was this Government, not the Labour Party."

Irish premier Micheal Martin has spoken to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.

Mr Martin, who is in Washington for St Patrick's Day celebrations, tweeted: "I told him the Irish people stand fully behind Ukraine.

"He thanked us for our continued humanitarian aid, shelter, global support and sanctions against Russia.

"He offered sympathy to the family of journalist Pierre Zakrzewski."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky tweeted that he had spoken to Irish premier Micheal Martin on Wednesday.

He tweeted: "Discussed countering aggression & horrific crimes of Russia against civilians."

Mr Zelensky said he offered his condolences over the death of Irish cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski, who was killed while working in Ukraine.

David Cameron called for a dedicated aid minister in the Cabinet as he said more could be done to support Ukraine with the humanitarian crisis.

The former prime minister was asked on Channel 4 News whether he would rule out putting a no-fly zone in place over Ukraine if he was in office, and said: "I'm afraid I would, you know, in our hearts, every shred of our being wants to do everything we can to help the Ukrainians in the struggle.

"And we are helping, we're helping with weapons, we're helping with training, we're helping with refugees. There's more we can do on humanitarian aid, but I think we have to be very clear with our friends and allies and people we care deeply about, we must be clear about what we can do. But I'm afraid we also have to be clear about what we can't do.

"That said, there are more things that we can do. Well, I think the process started under my premiership of sending more troops to frontline states in Nato, to Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania. Let's turn some of those into permanent bases.

"Let's do more on humanitarian aid. We achieved 0.7% of GDP in our aid payments. I'm sad we've got away from that. I hope we can get back there.

"Let's with the EU lead the donor conference, lead the aid effort. Let's have a dedicated aid minister in the Cabinet doing development. The Foreign Office ministers do a great job, but it'd be good to have someone who's 100% dedicated to humanitarian aid and development."

Former prime minister David Cameron said he regrets the "feeble" western response to Russia's invasion of Georgia in 2008.

Mr Cameron was asked on Channel 4 News whether he regretted his involvement with Russia, including a speech at the State University of Moscow in 2011 where he said Britain and Russia would be "stronger together".

He said: "What I regret is in 2008, when I was leader of the opposition, when Russia effectively invaded Georgia, I went to Tbilisi to show solidarity with President Saakashvili. And if you look at the western response to Georgia, it was feeble, there weren't sanctions, there wasn't pressure put in place.

"We should have done that in 2008 and we did behave differently in 2012 when Putin invaded Crimea, in 2014."

He said by 2014 the UK was leading the effort on sanctions, adding: "When I think back to that time, you know, we were trying to persuade... I mean, the French at that stage were selling warships to the Russians."

He said when he entered No 10 "there was a sense that, look, you had to try and find a way of working with these people".

"We had to work together over terrorism, we had to work together over climate change. We had to work together over banking regulations," he said.

"I thought we had to do business with Russia and its leadership, which at that time was more (Dmitry) Medvedev than Putin."

David Cameron defended the Conservative Party receiving money from Russian donors.

The former prime minister told Channel 4 News: "If the argument is that somehow Russian investment in Britain, or very small numbers of Russians supporting the Conservative Party, somehow changed our policy, I would say that it's complete nonsense."

He refused to be drawn on accusations against Boris Johnson regarding the elevation of Evgeny Lebedev to the House of Lords.

Mr Cameron said: "Look, that's for the Prime Minister to explain and to defend.

"The Lords Appointments Commission is an important body. I always listened to it very carefully. But I'm not here to start throwing bricks at the Prime Minister at this moment."

Refugee minister Lord Harrington, answering questions from peers about the Ukrainian sponsorship scheme, said: "When I was offered the job by the Prime Minister the only criteria I was given was in fact a security one; it's my job to make sure it's done as quickly as possible and as humanely as possible."

The Conservative peer stressed the importance of protecting national security, adding: "But that doesn't mean we're obsessed by it."

Lord Harrington said the Home Office team has more than 100 people and will be "double that by the weekend", adding of the application assessment process: "I've set the target of 24 hours - it may be more if they're so overwhelmed by it but I expect it to come down and down.

"The only reason for that delay is so that we can... it really boils down to criminal record checks from all the databases they've got, it's not more complex than that."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220316ei3g001jl


Czech Republic This Week - March 18, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 3 月 18 日, 16128 字, (英文)
Czech current account in 2021 records first deficit since 2013The Czech current account of the balance of payments recorded its first deficit since 2013. The deficit amounted to CZK51.1bn (€2bn) in 2021, after a revised surplus of ...

Czech Finance Minister: Total ban on trade with Russia not realistic]]
Aneta Zachova | EURACTIV.cz
241 字
2022 年 3 月 21 日 06:01 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
A total ban on trade with Russia proposed by Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is not realistic as the EU’s four sanction packages are working well, said Czech finance minister Zbyněk Stanjura.

“From what I have heard from fellow finance ministers from other countries, I do not think this proposal will get support,” Stanjura said. While the Czech government claims that it promotes the strictest sanctions against Russia, a complete ban on trade would mean the end of gas and oil imports from Russia – a move unacceptable for several EU countries, including Germany and Austria.

Further measures against Russia will be discussed at the European Council summit on 24 and 25 March.

In its latest package, the EU widened sanctions to more Russian and Belarusian oligarchs and banned exports of luxury goods, iron and steel, as well as investments in the Russian energy sector.

EU sanctions are landing a devastating blow to the Russian economy, said Czech National Bank Governor Jiří Rusnok. European and US sanctions will set the Russian economy back twenty years, he added.

Stanjura added that a fifth package of EU sanctions is being prepared. Czechia proposes to exclude all Russian banks from the SWIFT international payments system, as only seven banks are currently barred from the system. Stanjura also called on his EU counterparts to close ports to all Russian ships.

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220321ei3l0000c


Fiscal office freezes accounts of firms circumventing sanctions
376 字
2022 年 3 月 23 日 15:30 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, March 23 (CTK) - The Czech Financial Analytical Office (FAU) is dealing with several cases of circumventing the sanctions against Russian firms and individuals over the war in Ukraine and has frozen the accounts of such firms attempting to transfer several dozen million crowns, the Finance Ministry has tweeted[https://twitter.com/MinFinCZ/status/1506610901713051649].

The FAU has also filed a legal complaint in this respect. The police are investigating such cases, the ministry said without elaborating.

The National Organised Crime Centre (NCOZ) spokesman Jaroslav Ibehej confirmed to CTK that his squad had accepted one legal complaint from the FAU. "However, we will not release any details for the time being," he added.

The EU countries have so far agreed on four packages of unprecedented sanctions against Russia since the start of its invasion of Ukraine almost four weeks ago. The sanctions have a strong impact on the Russian economy. However, the EU sanctions have not yet affected exports of energy sources from which Russia has the highest incomes. On Monday, the EU foreign ministers did not reach consensus on the fifth sanction package, and its range should be defined at the EU summit in Brussels on Thursday.

Czech government politicians said in the past few days that the country was considering creating its own sanction list and would demand that the potential Russian and Belarusian subsidy recipients condemn the war crimes committed by Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Besides, Regional Development Minister Ivan Bartos (Pirates) has asked the European Commission (EC) for issuing a European order within the next sanction package to prevent Russian and Belarusian oligarchs from the access to subsidies and contracts.

According to the provisional sanction list[https://bit.ly/3iwwMY9] the Datlab firm released on Tuesday, there is a risk of 17 firms in the Czech Republic being linked to the persons from the anti-Russian sanction lists of the European countries, while another 66 firms are linked to the sanction lists of the United States.

The list, which Datlab calls unbinding, includes Strabag with a share of Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska, as well as the CKD Blansko and Skoda JS firms, for instance. However, the list is incomplete as a number of firm owners are concealed.

($1 = 22.389 crowns)

hol/dr/vok

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220323ei3n0000o


Govt counts up all refugee-related expenses to ask for EU money
479 字
2022 年 3 月 24 日 08:51 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, March 24 (CTK) - The Czech government will assess the costs the state has paid in connection to the migrant crisis triggered by the war in Ukraine and will seek EU sources to cover them, PM Petr Fiala (Civic Democrats, ODS) told reporters today before his departure for a NATO and EU summits in Brussels.

The sum of EU money earmarked for tackling the migrant crisis needs to be mounted, Fiala noted.

Until now, some 300,000 people have left Ukraine and sought shelter in the Czech Republic.

"We agreed at the government meeting on Wednesday that we will put together all expenditures related to the migrant crisis across various levels. This will be the task for the Finance Ministry," the PM said.

A team working under the Government Office will search for ways of how to get the money to cover these costs within the EU programmes, Fiala added. He said he expected that the EU countries would clearly declare at the summit they were ready to help the countries hit by the migrant wave and to pour further money into it.

Fiala reminded that over three million people had fled from the war in Ukraine in one month only.

The European Commission should prepare new programmes to curb the migrant crisis and be flexible in interpretation of the existing rules under which the countries in question may draw the EU money, he pointed out.

"We are convinced that we must discuss it in the EU that the sources need to be mounted," Fiala noted.

He is of the view that the summit will discuss tougher sanctions against Russia and rectify some loopholes that the sanction scheme shows for now. Talks about whether Russian banks are sufficiently disconnected from international finance markets are needed, too, he added.

Along with his Polish and Slovenian counterparts, Mateusz Morawiecki and Janez Jansa, Fiala is to propose concrete suggestions concerning sanctions that they gathered after the visit to Kyiv last week, he said.

Sanctions affecting the import of energy sources from Russia are not sufficiently prepared at this moment, Fiala said. "We do not have enough alternative sources. It is not only about oil, but about gas, too," Fiala noted, adding that he does not expect any quick solution in this field.

Speaking of the Polish plan to submit a request for sending a peacekeeping mission to Ukraine the country wanted to table at the NATO summit, Fiala said that Poland should be more specific in its proposition.

It is not unlikely that Russia will not agree with a peacekeeping mission, he said. Alternatively, it may not be a completely peacemaking mission as it would use military means to protect a part of the Ukrainian territory or the whole country, but that would be something else, Fiala added.

vok/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220324ei3o0000r


Europe must seek common position to become stronger - Lipavsky
589 字
2022 年 3 月 25 日 13:56 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, March 25 (CTK) - The outcome of the current EU summit on sanctions against Russia may create the impression that the things do not happen as fast as they should, but Europe is based on the principle that a common position needs to be found first to be reinforced, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said today.

Lipavsky (Pirates) made this comment in the context of the four previous sanction packages being adopted very quickly without any major disputes.

EU presidents and prime ministers threatened with further robust sanctions against Russia over the invasion of Ukraine. However, the have not reached a consensus concerning the embargo on imported energy from Russia either have they agreed on any other particular steps.

EU leaders say that Russia must stop committing war crimes and allow the people from the cities under fire to leave or get humanitarian aid. In their conclusions of the first summit day, EU leaders equally promised to create a solidarity fund for Ukraine and some extra help for refugees and the countries receiving them.

"At the moment, the summit has not reached any agreement, but negotiations need to carry on, we have to explain and advocate our position. This is actually happening. We will see in which moment Europe reaches another decision," Lipavsky said.

It is crucial to monitor financial flows into Russia, because the money Europe is sending there today keeps the regime of Russian President Vladimir Putin operational to some extent and allows to pursue the conflict, Lipavsky said.

"In the light that the first four sanction packages were adopted relatively fast and without any major debates, I can have the feeling that the affairs are not going as fast as they should. But Europe means the need of having a collective position and then it is all the more stronger," Lipavsky said.

Prime Minister Petr Fiala (Civic Democratic Party, ODS) said the European Commission would prepare another, fifth package of sanctions that would widen and specify the current measures.

He said the EC would unveil the package of sanctions in the nearest future.

The Czech Republic is insisting on the strictest sanctions, Lipavsky said.

"However, rather than speaking in advance publicly about concrete recipes and sanctions, there is the need of insisting politically on the principle that the financial flows going to Russia should be reduced," he added.

Most financial flows are created by the purchase of energy raw materials.

Lipavsky said he understood the demands of Poland and Baltic countries that are for the embargo on the deliveries of Russian gas and oil to the EU.

However, this is rejected by Germany, Hungary and the Netherlands for economic reasons.

"We can find various recipes and at the same time, Europe must behave responsibly towards the energy market," Lipavsky said.

When it comes to national measures such as the confiscation of the property of the Russian oligarchs they own in the Czech Republic, the Czech law does not have support for such steps, Lipavsky said.

"Unlike Russia where the basic principles are often not valid, the Czech Republic is a nation of the rule of law. Our position must arise from this," he added.

"On the other hand, this does not mean that the state is not looking for ways with which to limit the Russian influence and some influence groups here. We are working on this, too, but the reduction of such influences does not mean that property would be seized," Lipavsky said.

vok,pvr/dr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220325ei3p0000b


Property of sanctioned Russians worth hundreds of millions frozen in Czechia
468 字
2022 年 3 月 27 日 12:39 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, March 27 (CTK) - Czechia has frozen property worth hundreds of millions crowns belonging to Russian firms and individuals sanctioned by the EU over the invasion of Ukraine and the state is taking resolute steps, but is limited by the current legal framework which it wants to change, PM Petr Fiala said today.

Therefore, the government is preparing an amendment that would facilitate the procedure, Fiala (Civic Democrats, ODS) said in a regular discussion TV programme Questions of Vaclav Moravec.

It is complicated to freeze the property, because as part of larger companies, it is rarely isolated, he noted.

"We are strict, we have frozen property worth hundreds of millions crowns belonging to Russian oligarchs... And we are going to continue," Fiala said. However, this will require some legal changes that would allow for a stricter and more efficient attitude, he added. At present, the government is trying to define the changes.

In the past, President Milos Zeman sharply criticised sanctions against Russia, but after the attack against Ukraine, he said he supported the toughest measures against the Kremlin. In reaction to this position, Fiala said he was glad that the Czech political representation speaks in one voice amid this extraordinary and extreme situation.

The Czech Financial Analytical Office (FAU) is tasked to check whether the sanctions are being respected. This week, the FAU announced it was dealing with several cases of circumventing the sanctions against Russian firms and individuals over the war in Ukraine and has frozen the accounts of such firms attempting to transfer several dozen million crowns. The FAU has also filed a legal complaint in this respect. The police are investigating such cases.

The EU countries have so far agreed on four packages of unprecedented sanctions against Russia since the start of its invasion of Ukraine almost four weeks ago. The sanctions have a strong impact on the Russian economy. However, the EU sanctions have not yet affected exports of energy sources from which Russia has the highest incomes.

The European Commission is to present the fifth package soon. This package should expand and specify the current measures. At the same time, the union will focus on potential loopholes in the sanction scheme and rectify them, Fiala said at a EU summit on Friday.

He is of the view that Czechia plays a leading role in the EU when it comes to sanctions. He reminded that along with Poland and Slovenia, Czechia drafted a list of ten steps that these three countries consider necessary to put an end to the war in Ukraine. For instance, the suggested sanctions entail cutting Russia off the SWIFT international system and tougher sanctions concerning the whole business related to Russian oligarchs.

($1 = 22.520 crowns)

vok/dr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220327ei3r0000a


Czechia freezes assets of Russian citizens and companies on EU sanction list
131 字
2022 年 3 月 28 日 18:52 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czechia has frozen hundreds of millions of crowns worth of assets of Russian citizens and companies which are on the EU sanction list due to Russia´s invasion of Ukraine, said[https://ct24.ceskatelevize.cz/domaci/3460540-sledujte-premier-fiala-je-hostem-otazek-vaclava-moravce] Prime Minister Petr Fiala on Czech Television.

This procedure is, however, limited by current legislation. The government is therefore preparing to change the law to make it more vigorous and effective, Fiala stressed.

"These are not assets that are isolated; they are part of other people's property. When you intervene in a company, from the state's point of view, you have an obligation to secure the operation of that company," he said, adding that the Czech Republic is now taking all steps against Russian oligarchs consistently.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220328ei3s003xs


Czech media commentary survey
1262 字
2022 年 3 月 28 日 05:35 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, March 28 (CTK) - The war in Ukraine has turned the world upside down and it is impossible to assess the Petr Fiala government's first 100 days in office, but it is already clear it copes with a crisis much better than Andrej Babis's previous cabinet, Petr Honzejk writes in the Hospodarske noviny online version.

The Czech Republic belongs to the states that promote the toughest sanctions against Russia. The weapons supplies worth almost two billion crowns are more than decent in the light of the size and economic power of Czechia. The country has accepted almost 300,000 refugees. Last but not least, Fiala's (Civic Democrats, ODS) journey to Kyiv conveyed a clear message that Czechia will not leave Ukrainians alone. Overall, Czechia may be proud of itself after a long time again, partly thanks to the government.

Let us imagine the situation if Babis (ANO) and his government would have been still in power. There would have been fewer ordnance sent to Ukraine, the country would not have advocated sanctions with such adamant way and Babis would not have gone to Kyiv. Where do all these statements come from?

First, Babis already ruled with the support of pro-Russian Communists and occasional tolerance of even more pro-Russian Freedom and Direct Democracy (SPD). His biggest ally and friend abroad is Viktor Orban who refuses to let mere weapon supplies cross Hungary. Under Babis's rule, Czechia would probably have been a careful, whiny country standing aside and taking care of its own prosperity.

Fiala's government copes relatively well with the migrant crisis management, too. Refugees are accepted in an organised way and the opposition cooperated in pushing through the legal amendment adjusting refugee-related issues.The government seems to be listening to experts. Given that Babis did not cope with the coronavirus crisis and currently focuses more on complaints about the rising prices of petrol, it may be assumed that the situation would have been much worse if he had remained in office.

However, it should be said that the government performance in mitigating the social impact of the war, namely the sky-rocketing energy prices is rather weak. Babis and others say that the government has done nothing, which is not true that many steps it has taken show. In comparison with other EU states, it is not enough, however. Various countries, including France and Germany, are capping the oil prices and reduce VAT, which the Czech Finance Ministry is not going to do. It is a mistake, because it only feeds the speculations that the government takes care of Ukrainians, but not of the Czech people.

The danger for Fiala's government consists in the government stubborn determination to gradually reduce the budget deficit. However, this will be extremely difficult due to all the expenses related to the migrant crisis. More money will be needed for defence and healthcare, for instance. The pre-war economic growth is gone. Economic prospects are changing every day and they show no favourable development. The inflation has exceeded 10 percent and even though it increases tax revenues, it brings along social expenses, too. It is already clear that the state budget turned into nothing but figures on paper with no connection to reality.

The government may draw a lesson from it and start revisiting the budget scenarios now as they need to be harmonised with the new demographic, social and economic reality in the Czech Republic. Voters will certainly appreciate it more than the stubborn clinging to the ideas of massive savings, which would be nice, but belong to other times, Honzejk concludes.

Hungarian PM Viktor Orban is sitting on the fence when it comes to the Ukrainian issue and the voters seem to accept it, because his Fidesz Party became more popular before the April general election, Lubos Palata writes at the iRozhlas server.

Shortly before the Russian invasion of Ukraine started, Orban visited Russian President Vladimir Putin at the Kremlin. He was not alone as French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz went there, too. However, Orban was the only one who came to Putin, asking for support ahead of the forthcoming election in Hungary. Putin, today called a war criminal, gave it to him, along with a promise of cheaper gas supplies and of a ring railroad around Budapest carried out by the Russian national train operator.

Putin's war against Ukraine was probably a shock for Orban, too. He did not dare to block the first sanction package. Now, when it seems that tougher sanctions are needed, Hungary starts to slow down the West and the rest of the EU again. An end of Russian gas and oil supplies are out of question for him. The same goes for the Russia-sponsored and financed nuclear power plant construction.

Furthermore, Orban still plays his part in the Zakarpattia Oblast in west Ukraine. This area once belonged to Czechoslovakia, but it was part of the Kingdom of Hungary for more time and during the WWII, it belonged to Hungary, too. Orban said that the Russian aggression against Ukraine is not the war of Hungarians from the Zakarpattia Oblast. This plays into the hands of Russia whose agents supposedly promote the scenario of Hungarian expansion into the westernmost part of the country.

The saddest thing about Orban's sitting on the fence is that Hungarian voters not only accept it, but even appreciate it. "Orban's policy of supporting Ukraine as long as it makes no harm to Hungarian deals with Russia made the popularity of the Fidesz grow by several percentage points.

Those may be just the several points he needed to win over the united opposition. One may only hope that the election polls in Hungary are mistaken and the vote in early April will end up differently than it seems now. If Orban is re-elected, the Kremlin may have a reason to celebrate again, Palata writes.

The coronavirus epidemic has made Czechs a nation of walkers again as travelling across districts was limited and thus forests became a symbol of freedom and this rediscovered passion might be quite useful now because of its anti-depressant and thought-stimulating properties, Jan Stransky writes at the SeznamZpravy server.

It seems that the epidemic is slowly fading away, but people have not stopped walking. Many people are fond of their smart watch and rarely get fewer than 15,000 steps a day. Walks in nature make people better. Movement as such is obviously beneficial in many ways.

In recent years, more and more emphasis was put on its unexpected positive effect on human brain, more precisely on the mood, emotions and mental balance.

"We know that being in nature may bring along a positive contamination with an anti-depressant bacteria which naturally appears in soil. Upon a contact with human body, it can increase the serotonin production in the brain structures," psychiatrist Vladimir Kmoch told Czech Radio Plus.

"As a result, our stress axis is mitigated during our stay in nature, in other words the level of stress hormones such as cortisol drops," he added. Last but not least, nature influences human corporeal part, too - the immunity is changing and the person generally regenerates, Kmoch said.

Besides unconscious chemical processes, there is one more important motivation, Stransky writes. It was emphasised by the greatest tourist of all tourists, Friedrich Nietzsche, who said that all truly great thoughts are conceived by walking, Stransky concludes.

($1 = 22.520 crowns)

vok/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220328ei3s0000n


News
European countries expel dozens of Russian envoys
540 字
2022 年 3 月 29 日 17:07 GMT
Al Jazeera English
AJAZEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Al Jazeera English.
Belgium expels 21 Russian diplomats over alleged spying amid similar moves elsewhere in the European Union.

Click to view image[https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&tid=UA-1615344-99&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.aljazeera.com%2Fnews%2F2022%2F3%2F29%2Feuropeans-expel-dozens-of-russian-envoys-to-combat-espionage&cid=cGFydG5lci1pbmts&t=pageview&cd2=post-aje-1685800&cd3=cGFydG5lci1pbmts]

Several European countries have announced the expulsion of dozens of Russian diplomats suspected of espionage, in what appeared to be a coordinated action against the backdrop of Russia’s war in Ukraine.

The Netherlands said it was expelling 17 Russians who it described as intelligence officers masquerading as diplomats. Belgium said it was ejecting 21 diplomats from the Russian embassy.

Ireland told four senior Russian officials to leave the country because of activities deemed not “in accordance with international standards of diplomatic behaviour”.

The Czech Republic gave one Russian diplomat 72 hours to leave the country.

The expulsions come as relations between Russia and the West have plunged into a deep freeze following Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/3/29/no-handshake-as-ukraine-russia-envoys-meet-for-peace-talks].

Poland last week expelled 45 Russians who the government identified as intelligence officers using their diplomatic status as cover to operate in the country.

Dutch prepare for retaliation

The Netherlands on Tuesday said it took its decision in consultation with “a number of like-minded countries,” citing similar expulsions by the United States, Poland, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Montenegro.

“The cabinet has decided to do this because of the threat to national security posed by this group,” the Dutch foreign ministry said in a statement, adding that it had summoned Russia’s ambassador and informed him of the expulsion.

“The reason is that there is information … showing that the persons concerned, accredited as diplomats, are secretly active as intelligence officers,” said the Hague-based ministry in a statement.

“The cabinet has decided to do this because of the threat to national security posed by this group,” the statement added, saying the intelligence threat against the Netherlands remained high.

Dutch Foreign Minister Wopke Hoekstra said he was prepared for a retaliation from Moscow.

“Experience shows that Russia does not leave these kinds of measures unanswered,” he said. “We cannot speculate about that, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is prepared for various scenarios that may arise in the near future.”

Belgian Foreign Minister Sophie Wilmes told parliament that the move by Brussels was coordinated with the Netherlands and was not a sanction.

“Diplomatic channels remain open with Russia, the Russian Embassy can continue to operate and we continue to advocate dialogue,” she said.

Earlier on Tuesday, Russia said it expelled a total of 10 diplomats[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/3/29/russia-expels-10-diplomats-from-baltic-states-in-tit-for-tat-move] from the European Union’s three Baltic states of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in retaliation for those countries expelling Russian diplomats earlier this month.

The Russian Foreign Ministry said it was cancelling the accreditation of four Lithuanian diplomats, three Latvians and three Estonians and they would be required to leave the country. That corresponds to the number of Russian diplomats each country previously expelled.

On March 18, the three Baltic countries ordered the expulsion of 10 Russian embassy staff members in a coordinated action taken in solidarity with Ukraine.

Moscow called that move “provocative and entirely baseless”.

On March 18, Latvia and two other Baltic countries ordered the expulsion of 10 Russian embassy staff members in a coordinated action taken in solidarity with Ukraine [File: Toms Kalnins/EPA][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/h_54220737.jpg]

Al Jazeera International

文件 AJAZEN0020220329ei3t002xl


Ministries preparing regime of sanctions against Russian entities
377 字
2022 年 3 月 30 日 16:14 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, March 30 (CTK) - The Czech cabinet today tasked the ministries of finance, foreign affairs and industry and trade to work on preparing a regime of sanctions against Russian entities in Czechia in reaction to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) has told media.

The Czech law lacks a necessary instrument to enable the introduction of effective sanctions against foreign entities, Lipavsky said, adding that the preparation of such an instrument is among the tasks the cabinet assigned to the three ministries today.

He said the Foreign Ministry will speed up the drafting on the Magnitsky law, which enables to sanction gross violation of human rights.

The current Czech cabinet, appointed in mid-December, originally pledged to submit the bill until the end of 2023.

The Magnitsky Act originates in the USA of 2012. Based on a similar sanction regime, EU states, too, can freeze the property or bar the entry of those responsible for human rights violations since 2020.

Czechia does not have adequate possibilities in this respect now. "At the moment, there is no real legal instrument for Czechia to sanction a foreign entity effectively, based on a domestic political request," Lipavsky said.

"That is why we are preparing the Magnitsky law," he said.

The Industry and Trade Ministry, on its part, is working on the identification of problem owners and seeking ways to freeze their property, Lipavsky added.

Industry and Trade Minister Jozef Sikela (for Mayors and Independents, STAN) said that original lists of properties in Czechia already exist. "They have been checked and updated. In the first round, there are the lists where the [owners'] legal relation to the properties is provable, but there is also a number of properties controlled via various offshore firms and strawmen," Sikela said.

In reaction to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the EU, Britain and the USA, together with other partners such as Canada and Japan, have resorted to extraordinarily tough sanctions aimed against Russian politicians and businessmen, but also against banks, including the central one. They have suspended the exports of selected goods to Russia. In recent days, Western leaders made it clear that the sanction regime will be further extended.

rtj/dr/kva

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220330ei3u00009


Czech Republic This Week - April 1, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 4 月 1 日, 9430 字, (英文)
Czech economy records best result in 2021 in the past five yearsThe Czech economy in 2021 saw the best result since 2017, up by 3.3% year-on-year, according to a GDP estimate refinement of the Czech Statistics Office published on March 31.

Transitions Online-Politics-What Could Happen After the Elections A leading Hungarian analyst lays out five scenarios based on different...
Transitions Online, 2022 年 4 月 1 日, 4661 字, (英文)
The outcome of Hungary’s elections on 3 April will determine the country’s short-term stability and long-term political direction, toward either more autocratization or re-democratization. The elections will also be of strategic importance ...

The picture of a Ukrainian mother who scrawled contact details on her...
3701 字
2022 年 4 月 6 日 19:57 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The picture of a Ukrainian mother who scrawled contact details on her two-year-old daughter's back in case she and the rest of the family are killed in the conflict "strengthens the resolve for all of us", the Health Secretary has said.

Speaking on Sky News, Sajid Javid said: "What we are seeing unfolding now in Ukraine is absolutely appalling.

"These atrocities we are now sadly seeing almost daily on our TV screens, and the image you just talked of, when I first saw that image, I think yesterday, you know, it could have been my daughter, it could be anyone's daughter, their son, just to think that's what parents are having to do in Ukraine right now because the choice that Vladimir Putin has made, and we should never forget this as a choice.

"This was not a a war for any other reason than something that Vladimir Putin had just chosen to do. We will continue to help Ukraine in every way that we can, whether that's military support, whether it's with support of our sanctions on Russia and humanitarian support."

When asked if he would support a regime change in Russia, Mr Javid said: "It's ultimately up to the Russian people about the leadership of their country, but I do think the Prime Minister, our Prime Minister, was right yesterday to appeal directly to the Russian people in the way that he did."

Russia's war in Ukraine increasingly looks "like genocide that is plotted from the top", the former head of the British Army has said.

Lord Dannatt told Sky News: "The war crimes are stacking up to the point that it looks like a concerted effort to reduce the Ukrainian population, and that is getting very close to the definition of genocide.

"It's absolutely right and proper that all these war crimes are being chronicled and evidence is being gathered.

"It is looking to me increasingly like genocide that is plotted from the top. The top, therefore, must bear responsibility and maybe one day, even if not in a physical court but in a court of history, be condemned."

Lord Dannatt was unsure if Vladimir Putin or his senior generals would face trial, but added that it is still possible.

He told the programme: "If you think back to the early, dark days of the Bosnian civil war, it seemed inconceivable that Milosevic (former Serbian leader Slobodan Milosevic) and Karadzic (Bosnian Serb former leader Radovan Karadzic) would find their way into court, but they did.

"It became perfectly possible to trace what had happened on the ground all the way up to them through this concept of command responsibility such that they were convicted."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said that Russia is using hunger as a weapon in its war against his country.

Addressing a joint sitting of the Houses of the Oireachtas via a translator, he said: "This night, our territory was again hit by Russian missiles.

"They are destroying things that are sustaining livelihoods to people.

"They also have blocked all of our sea ports, together with the vessels that had already agricultural cargoes for exports.

"Why are they doing this? Because for them hunger is a weapon against us, ordinary people as an instrument of domination.

"Ukraine is one of the leading food-supplying country in the world with exports.

"This is not just about the deficit and the threat of hunger.

"There will be a shortage of food and the prices will go up, and this is reality for the millions of people who are hungry, and it will be more difficult for them to feed their families."

Volodymyr Zelensky has said that Russia needs to be held responsible for everything it has done in Ukraine.

Addressing a joint sitting of the Houses of the Oireachtas via a translator, he said: "The fact is that in the 42 days of the all-out Russian war at least 167 children were killed in Ukraine.

"We don't know yet all the atrocities of Mariupol and the victims in the areas of Ukraine.

"Fighting is still going and the fact is that as a result of Russian shelling 927 educational institutions were damaged, 258 hospitals, they even shot at 78 ambulances.

"They were targeting even churches and shelters that they knew for sure that there is nobody but women and children, and this is a fact.

"The country which is doing this is not doesn't deserve to be in the circle of the civil countries.

"It should be held responsible for everything they have done on Ukrainian soil, they have come to Ukraine as a colonising army, their state propagandists, their politicians are not even concealing what they want in the 21st century.

"They're looking at the country of the colonial empire, who allegedly has the right to subdue neighbouring people and destroy the foundations of independence, destroy their identity, everything that makes us Ukrainians."

Volodymyr Zelensky has said he cannot tolerate indecisiveness in sanctions against Russia.

He said: "Now when we're hearing new rhetoric about the sanctions against Russian opposition, I can't tolerate any indecisiveness after everything that we have gone through in Ukraine, after everything that Russian troops have done.

"Today, when the whole world knows about the crimes against our people, we still have to convince even some of the European companies to abandon Russian markets, we still have to convince Russia of foreign politicians that we need to cut any ties of global banks of Russian banks with the global financial system.

"We still have to convince Europe that Russian oil cannot feed Russian military machinery with new sources of funding."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Ireland has not remained neutral on the disaster that Russia has inflicted on his country.

In an historic address to the Irish parliament, he said: "From the very first days, you are supporting Ukraine and this is a fact.

"You did not doubt starting helping us, you began doing this right away and although you are a neutral country, you have not remained neutral to the disaster and to the mishaps that Russia has brought to Ukraine."

He said he was grateful to every citizen of Ireland and for the country's support of sanctions against Russia.

"Thank you for the humanitarian and financial support extended to our country and thank you for your caring about Ukrainian people who found shelter on your land," he said.

"Just think about it - 10 million Ukrainians have been left without shelter as of today by Russia, who had to leave their native cities because of this war. This is something we cannot come to grips with."

Volodymyr Zelensky said Russia had not abandoned its plans.

"They're still looking forward to subdue and occupy all of the Ukrainian people, we want to do our best to make sure that Russia will start looking for peace and leave us alone," he told the Oireachtas parliament in Dublin.

"So, please, I would like to ask you to show more leadership in our anti-war coalition, I'd like to ask you to convince EU partners to introduce even more rigid sanctions against Russia that would really make sure that the Russian war machine will stop."

Taoiseach Micheal Martin said he was certain that Ukraine would prevail in its war with Russia.

He told the Dail: "Russia will have to live with the shame of what they have done in Ukraine for generations. Those responsible will be held to account.

"We are with Ukraine and I am certain that, in the end, Ukraine will prevail.

"We are a militarily neutral country. However, we are not politically neutral in the face of war crimes. Quite the opposite.

"Our position is informed by the principles that drive our foreign policy - support for international human rights, for humanitarian law and for a rules-based international order. We are not neutral when Russia disregards all of these principles. We are with Ukraine.

"Ukraine's political, economic and humanitarian needs are now manifold and pressing.

"Our efforts, as a friend and as a partner of Ukraine, are aimed at using all the levers at our disposal to bring a just end to this war; applying international pressure on Russia; pursuing accountability for violations of international law; and meeting the humanitarian needs of those caught now in the midst of this terrible and immoral war. "

Micheal Martin said a situation like the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine had not been seen in Europe since the Second World War.

He said: "Thousands of people have been killed. Millions have been driven from their homes.

"This is a humanitarian crisis the likes of which Europe has not seen since the dark years of the Second World War. This war touches us all.

"That is why Ireland is supporting further EU sanctions at EU level - we need a sanctions regime that brings it home to Putin and his regime that he will not, he cannot, succeed.

"We want the strongest possible sanctions against the Russian Federation and we will pursue those.

"That is why we support the establishment of a Solidarity Trust Fund for Ukraine, agreed by EU leaders when we met in Brussels on March 24/25, to support the government of Ukraine now, and when the war is over, to support reconstruction.

"That is why I have welcomed and support Ukraine's application for EU membership. I welcome it again this morning in this House. It is the democratic right of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine to decide their political orientation."

Volodymyr Zelensky said a new relationship between Ireland and Ukraine had been forged.

He said: "The longer this aggression from Russia continues, the worse will be the consequences, not only for our continent, but neighbouring regions.

"Our courage has already turned the new age of relationship between Ukraine and Ireland.

"Our mutual understanding and mutual respect is already at a level where it becomes only the question of time for us to start living in our common European house.

"Thank you for the support of the accelerated procedure to provide membership in the EU to Ukraine.

"With your support, it will be even faster and beneficial to both nations.

"So, let's bring our efforts together. And let's show that Ukraine and Ireland jointly can do much more than what the biggest country of the world was trying to destroy."

Sinn Fein leader Mary Lou McDonald said Russia should be prosecuted for human-rights violations against Ukrainian civilians.

She said: "We have heard directly from President Zelensky in the most harrowing, most heartbreaking of terms.

"We have heard testimony of the vicious war crimes committed by the Russian military in Ukraine, and we have been set a challenge, and innocent civilians have been executed with their arms tied behind their backs.

"There have been horrific accounts of rape and torture, the brutalisation by the powerful of vulnerable ordinary citizens in their war-torn country.

"These are crimes against the Ukrainian people and these are crimes against humanity, and Russia must be held accountable for its barbarism and justice must be done.

"These human-rights violations and grave breaches of the Geneva Convention demand investigation by the International Criminal Court and prosecutions to follow."

Mary Lou McDonald said it was "long past time" that the Russian ambassador to Ireland should be expelled.

She said: "Yesterday, Lithuania became the first EU member state to expel its ambassador from Russia. They did this as an action to uphold human rights, to uphold justice.

"I commend them for it and I believe our country should follow suit.

"I believe this would be a most powerful action as a militarily neutral non-aligned state as we stand for human rights and justice, and I call on the government to act now.

"Of course, we must do more. The people of Ireland stand with Ukraine. We strongly support Ukraine's stated desire to join the European Union.

"We must respond to the humanitarian crisis by providing refuge to those fleeing for their lives and, of course, as an elected member of the UN Security Council, we must use every available avenue to press for the de-escalation of conflict for a ceasefire for dialogue and for a Russian withdrawal, and an end to this terrible war.

"Our island supports economic sanctions against Russia. We must intensify those, we should not have to convince anybody of the need to hit the Russian elites and oligarchs in every possible way."

(Corrected repetition: Amends to 'Ukrainian' in first par)

Boris Johnson has said the actions of Russian forces in the Ukrainian town of Bucha "doesn't look far short of genocide".

Speaking during a visit to a hospital in Welwyn Garden City, the Prime Minister said he was confident there would be more international sanctions imposed on Vladimir Putin's regime.

"I'm afraid when you look at what's happening in Bucha, the revelations that we are seeing from what Putin has done in Ukraine doesn't look far short of genocide to me," he said.

"It is no wonder people are responding in the way that they are. I have no doubt that the international community, Britain very much in the front rank, will be moving again in lockstep to impose more sanctions and more penalties on Vladimir Putin's regime."

Sir Mark Lyall Grant, former UK national security adviser and former UK permanent representative to the UN, said he expected "pledges of more military support".

He told BBC Radio 4's World at One programme: "Getting the balance right between military support for Ukraine which helps them in the fight against this Russian invasion and not giving Putin an excuse to escalate the conflict even further.

"I think we will see pledges of more military support of the sort of anti-tank weapons, perhaps also some anti-ship missiles, which haven't so far reached the theatre, and also surface-to-air missiles.

"When it comes to tanks and fighter aircraft ... Nato has so far been very reticent, but now that the Czech Republic appears to be deciding to send Russian-made tanks into the theatre, there may be some other Nato members who will press to do that as well."

He added: "Certainly, the evidence of war crimes and human rights abuses that have been uncovered in recent days has raised the level of outrage in the West and definitely increased the willingness to consider further supplies of weapons ... if Ukraine is now going to go on the offensive to try and take back territory that's being occupied by Russia in the east of the country, they are going to need slightly different type of weapons."

Asked if the UK should consider giving aid such as tanks and fighter aircraft, Sir Mark Lyall Grant, former UK national security adviser and former UK permanent representative to the UN said: "I think it's a very difficult decision for us to take.

"I think it probably makes more sense for the countries that have some previous Soviet equipment...to provide the weaponry and if necessary Britain and America could back fill those weapons in places like Poland and the Baltic states."

Former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Mary Robinson said "tackling impunity is now the vital point".

She told BBC Radio 4's World At One programme: "Well yes, possibly Russia should be suspended from the Human Rights Council, but more importantly the Human Rights Council is having an independent investigation into human rights abuses in Ukraine and I think tackling impunity is now the vital point. It is shocking to see the awful scenes from Bucha and so many other places."

She added: "Certainly I see no reason why that (Russia's suspension from the HRC) would not happen."

She added: "Genocide is again very, very difficult to prove, I think there is so much possibility of really ending impunity with war crimes, crimes against humanity and the crime of aggression, that would be my preferred route as a former high commissioner."

Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said the war in Ukraine could be "a long haul", with Vladimir Putin still intent on eventually taking control of the whole country.

"We have all seen the atrocities that have been committed in Bucha and other places in Ukraine," he said.

"This reveals the true nature of President Putin's war. Any targeting and killing of civilians is a war crime and therefore Nato allies are supporting international efforts to establish all the facts, to investigate and to make sure that perpetrators are punished."

Speaking as Nato foreign minister gathered in Brussels, he said Russia's forces were being moved out of northern Ukraine to redeploy into the Donbas region in the country's east "where we are expecting a major offensive".

"We have seen no indication that President Putin has changed his ambition to control the whole of Ukraine and also to rewrite the international order so we need to be prepared for a long haul."

Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg confirmed that some members of the alliance had sent heavy weaponry to Ukraine following reports the Czech Republic had supplied Soviet-era tanks to Kyiv.

Mr Stoltenberg told reporters: "Since the invasion allies have stepped up their support. I also expect that ministers when they meet today and tomorrow will discuss how they can further support Ukraine."

Speaking as Nato foreign ministers gathered in Brussels, he said: "I will not go into all details of exactly what kind of weapons, equipment allies are providing.

"But I can say that the totality of what allies are doing is significant and that includes also some heavier systems combined with lighter systems."

Sir Keir Starmer has said Labour will support any new sanctions the Government brings forward against Russia over its actions in Ukraine.

Speaking during a visit to Bacup in Lancashire, the Labour leader said the UK should provide the Ukrainians with all the support it can.

"That means military support to help them defend their cities and defend their country," he said.

"It means being absolutely clear with one voice that these war crimes, and they are war crimes, will end up with those responsible being hunted down.

"If the Government wants tougher sanctions it knows what it needs to do. Put a package before Parliament, we'll vote for it, it will go through very quickly."

The UK has imposed a sweeping set of sanctions on Russia in response to the atrocities committed in Ukraine.

Asset freezes have been imposed on Sberbank, Russia's largest bank, and the Credit Bank of Moscow.

All new outward investment to Russia has been banned and the UK has also committed to end all imports of Russian coal and oil by the end of the year, with gas to follow as soon as possible.

Imports of Russian iron and steel products will be banned and a further eight oligarchs have also been added to the sanctions list.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the package was "some of our toughest sanctions yet".

The UK's latest package of sanctions came as the US and European Union also acted against Russia.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "Our latest wave of measures will bring an end to the UK's imports of Russian energy and sanction yet more individuals and businesses, decimating (Vladimir) Putin's war machine.

"Together with our allies, we are showing the Russian elite that they cannot wash their hands of the atrocities committed on Putin's orders.

"We will not rest until Ukraine prevails."

Western officials have said they fear Russian atrocities against Ukrainian civilians as they may be widespread.

The Ukrainian authorities have said that more than 400 bodies of civilians have been discovered in towns round Kyiv which have been captured from the Russians.

One Western official said the comments in the Russian media calling for the "de-nazification" of Ukraine and comparing the country to the Third Reich had created a "toxic information environment".

"This is a phenomenon which we believe to be widespread," the official said. "That sort of environment and climate, I'm afraid, absolutely contributes to this sort of thing.

"When you combine that with a force which is failing and failing badly in an operation for which it was perhaps psychologically underprepared, it just a toxic mix.

"The responsibility for this lies with the perpetrators of the acts but it also lies with the Russian leadership. Not only did they order the invasion, they set the tone and the context for this operation as well."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the "appalling crimes" committed by Vladimir Putin's Russia would not go unpunished.

"Today the UK steps up its stringent package of sanctions on Putin's regime," he said.

"We will not let Russia's appalling crimes go unnoticed or unpunished. Ukraine must prevail."

The chairman of the Commons Defence Select Committee said the UK was not doing enough to help Ukraine.

Speaking to Channel 4 News, Tobias Ellwood said: "Britain has done well to support Ukraine prior to the war and providing weapons systems and indeed afterwards, but we're not doing enough to allow Ukraine to push Russia back, we're not doing enough to stop this sort of brutality.

"In fact, we've almost given a green light for this activity to take place through our hesitance, through our timidity, which is being exploited by Putin."

He said there was "nothing defensive" about the weaponry already provided to Ukraine, which he said he used while serving in the armed forces.

"There's nothing defensive about anti-tank weapons, there's nothing defensive about a rifle. These are offensive weapons and I can't believe we're still having semantic debates about this," Mr Ellwood said.

He said the UK could be providing a humanitarian corridor from the port of Odesa through to international waters.

"That would be a robust stance to take against Russia," Mr Ellwood said.

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220406ei46001b9


Transitions Online-Around the Bloc-New Wave of Sanctions Hits Russia Plus: Kyrgyz casinos, EU targets Orban, new prescriptions for Georgian...
Transitions Online, 2022 年 4 月 6 日, 1031 字, (英文)
The Big Story: Zelenskiy Tells UN to Do Something or Shut Down What happened: A new wave of international sanctions against Russia is in the works amid continuing reports of civilian massacres in Russian-occupied areas of Ukraine, AP ...

Ukraine: Czech tanks roll into Ukraine as NATO member sends warning to Putin
Rachel Hagan,Olivia Stringer,Emma Crabtree
5328 字
2022 年 4 月 7 日 05:13 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
FIGHTING vehicles and over a dozen tanks from the Czech Republic, a NATO country, are rolling into Ukraine destined for the front lines.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has been calling for measures to bolster their army and the first NATO country has answered his call. In a brutal blow to Putin and his forces, more than a dozen T-72 tanks and some BVP-1 infantry fighting vehicles have been sent to Ukraine in a shipment as a gift agreed with NATO allies. Zelensky said the tanks were needed to aid the besieged cities "that are now dying." Jana Cernochova, the Czech defence minister, told parliament: "I will only assure you that the Czech Republic is helping Ukraine as much as it can and will continue to help by military equipment, both light and heavy." Prague's decision will likely increase pressure on NATO allies to follow their lead and announcements on the delivery of more weapons are expected at the landmark summit between nations this afternoon.

THIS LIVE BLOG HAS NOW CLOSED.

KEY EVENTS Ten high-rise buildings on fire after shelling in Luhansk town13:15Truss makes fierce demands as leaders poised to announce more weapons12:10Russia says five British NGO's 'work to the detriment of Russia's security'09:58Global Ukraine update09:13Boris Johnson slams FIFA chief08:35The U.K. will impose new sanctions against Russia today07:53

06:11 Emma Crabtree

Vladimir Putin has initiated the next strategy for the invasion of Ukraine, after his troops “failed” to conquer the country in the initial plan, a former Air Vice-Marshal has said.

Outlining Putin’s plan, former Air Vice-Marshal Sean Bell explained that briefings from experts now suggested he would focus on the Donbas region to the east of the country.

At least 1,563 civilians have been killed since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began, according to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights .

The UN agency has recorded 3,776 civilian casualties in Ukraine so far with as many as 1,563 killed and 2,213 injured, it said in its latest update posted Wednesday.

Speaking about the Russian leader’s next move, Mr Bell said: “It looks like his initial plans of taking over Ukraine has failed. But what is his Plan B?

“MoD briefings and experts seem to reinforce the view that he is likely to focus in the east.

“Some of the troops are marching at Belgorod, ups, and north of Kyiv and were fully expecting that he will redeploy troops from Kyiv and also from Russia, and focus on the Donbas.”

05:04 Emma Crabtree

Joe Biden has been urged to “send the planes” by Nikki Haley after she blasted him over his inaction on Russian sanctions and claimed the US President could do more to ensure Ukraine emerges victorious against Russia.

Ms Haley, who served as US ambassador to the United Nations under Donald Trump, called on the 46th President to introduce sanctions against Russian energy companies as the leading Republican figure piled the pressure on Mr Biden.

The White House had announced new measures against Russian banks and elites on Wednesday in a new set of sanctions after Mr Biden condemned Vladimir Putin's troops for committing "major war crimes".

The ex-South Carolina Congresswoman said on Twitter: "It’s past time for Biden to get his act together and help Ukraine win.

"Send the planes, sanction the energy companies, and help Ukraine win this fight for freedom."

The US had previously been involved in a squabble about sending fighter jets to Kyiv after the Pentagon rejected proposals from Warsaw to provide the Ukrainian Air Force with MiG-29 aircraft.

However, Washington has provided a military assistance package worth over £600million, which includes javelin missiles and anti-aircraft systems.

The US has also banned all imports of Russian oil in a bid to syphon off money from the Kremlin's war chest.

President Biden said: "Responsible nations have to come together to hold these perpetrators accountable.

"And together with our allies and our partners, we're going to keep raising economic costs and ratchet up the pain for Putin."

04:05 Emma Crabtree

Emmanuel Macron has been criticised by Poland’s Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for negotiating with Vladimir Putin, who he likened to Adolf Hitler, Joseph Stalin and Pol Pot, as global condemnation poured out over the mass killings in Bucha.

Ukraine on Sunday accused Russian forces of carrying out a “massacre” in Bucha and Western leaders reacted with outrage to images of bodies strewn across the streets of the town.

However, in contrast to other EU leaders, Paris has advocated maintaining an open channel of dialogue with the Russian president on top of EU sanctions.

According to the Elysée Palace, Macron has spoken to Putin at least 16 times since the start of the year.

But the Polish PM has described Russia under Putin as a “totalitarian-fascist state” and called for strong actions “that will finally break Putin’s war machine”.

Mr Morawiecki said: “President Macron, how many times have you negotiated with Putin? What have you achieved?

“We don’t discuss, we don’t negotiate with criminals. All we should do is to fight them.

“Nobody negotiated with Hitler. Would you really negotiate with Hitler, Stalin or Pol Pot?”

02:25 Emma Crabtree

Nigel Farage has blasted EU hypocrisy over Ukraine as he laid bare the bloc is spending more importing Russian energy than it is sending aid to Ukraine.

The former UKIP leader said Brussels had spent $35 billion importing oil, gas and coal from Moscow while only sending $1 billion in aid to Kyiv, leading the former Brexit party leader to proclaim “thank goodness we’ve left”.

Mr Farage also argued that Brexit Britain “freed” from EU foreign policy has now “taken the lead” on sending aid to Ukraine.

He said: “Since the invasion EU countries have paid 35 billion dollars to Russia for oil, gas and coal and wait for it a grand total of 1 billion US dollars to Ukraine in the form of aid.

“In many ways Brexit Britain freed from the European Union, freed from the EU foreign policy has taken a lead.

“Which is why President Zelensky is constantly praising Boris Johnson’s efforts.“But for all the talk of sanctions, for all the talk of war crime trials, everything we hear from the leaders of France, Germany and Italy.

“I’m asking you the question: how hypocritical is the EU?

“It’s episodes like this that say to me thank goodness we’ve left.

“Common foreign policies emerging and common energy policies. I’m sure we can do it much, much better.”

Mr Farage added that despite threats of further sanctions against Moscow the Russian ruble has risen in value.

01:16 Emma Crabtree

Ted Cruz has been blasted after he told Fox News that US President Joe Biden was responsible for starting the war in Ukraine.

Speaking to Sean Hannity the Texas Governor claimed that Mr Biden started the war when he "waived" sanctions against the Nord Stream 2 pipeline.

Mr Cruz claimed that former President Donald Trump had also supported sanctions over the pipeline linking Russia and Germany.

He said: "Joe Biden caused this war with Ukraine. How did he do it?

"When he waived sanctions on Nord Stream 2, sanctions that I authored, that I wrote, that Donald Trump signed into law."

Mr Cruz went on to argue that the Nord Stream 2 project had been completed to “to let Putin get his gas to Europe”.

00:50 Emma Crabtree

Ann Widdecombe has slammed the United Nations for being ineffective and “toothless” following President Zelensky’s call to dissolve the organisation.

President Zelensky addressed the United Nations Security Council on Tuesday about the horrors in Bucha and other regions of Ukraine where war crimes have been committed.

In the powerful video address, he questioned the usefulness and value of the UN.

He said: “Please show how we can reform or change and work for peace.“Or if there is no alternative and no option, then the next option would be to dissolve yourself altogether.”

Mr Zelensky addressed the genocide in Bucha by Russian troops where the bodies of Ukrainian civilians littered the streets, some grossly tortured and others with their legs or hands bound with bullet wounds to the chest or head.

GB News host Dan Wootton asked Ms Widdecombe her thoughts on the claim that the UN is “toothless”.

The former MEP replied: “I think it’s a paper tiger quite honestly, talks a great deal, it’s a wonderful talk shop but when it actually comes to effective action, it can be remarkably toothless.

“I’m not saying it’s utterly useless, you have such things as UN sanctions, you can occasionally get something out of them, but it doesn’t stop wars.”

Ms Widdecombe later added: “It doesn’t actually stop anything when it’s up against a leader who is determined, which Putin is.”

00:12 Emma Crabtree

Good evening I’m Emma Crabtree, I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on Ukraine for the next few hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: emma.crabtree@reachplc.com

Twitter: @emmacrabtree98

22:24 Olivia Stringer

Two Belarusian citizens have been arrested in Poland on charges of spying for Minsk.

A regional prosecutor's office in Poznan, west Poland, said in a statement said: "The suspects heard charges of espionage on behalf of the Belarus intelligence services.

"They are suspected, among others, of conducting reconnaissance of military and civilian facilities of critical importance for the defense of the Republic of Poland."

Both face up to 10 years in prison.

21:46 Olivia Stringer

The UK is not doing enough to help Ukraine, the chairman of the Commons Defense Select committee has said.

Speaking on Channel 4 news, Tobias Ellwood said: "Britain has done well to support Ukraine prior to the war and providing weapons systems and indeed afterwards, but we're not doing enough to allow Ukraine to push Russia back, we're not doing enough to stop this sort of brutality.

"In fact, we've almost given a green light for this activity to take place through our hesitance, through our timidity, which is being exploited by Putin."

"There's nothing defensive about anti-tank weapons, there's nothing defensive about a rifle. These are offensive weapons and I can't believe we're still having semantic debates about this."

Mr Ellwood said the UK should provide a humanitarian corridor from the port of Odesa to international waters.

He said: "That would be a robust stance to take against Russia."

21:07 Olivia Stringer

As well as sanctioning Putin's daughters, the US will sanction the wife and child of Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov and 21 members of the Russian security council including former president Mebedov, US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken has said.

We are implementing sanctions on two of the largest Russian financial institutions, designating the adult children of President Putin, the wife and adult child of Foreign Minister Lavrov, and 21 members of Russia\u2019s National Security Council, including former President Medvedev.

20:40 Olivia Stringer

A total of 4,892 people were evacuated from Ukrainian cities through humanitarian corridors on Wednesday, Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk has said.

On Tuesday 3,846 people were evacuated.

19:40 Olivia Stringer

George Galloway has threatened legal action against Twitter for flagging his account as Russia state-affiliated media’.

The politician was a regular on the Russia Today news channel for many years.

In a tweet, he said: "Dear @TwitterSupport I am not “Russian State Affiliated media”. I work for NO #Russian media. I have 400,000 followers. I’m the leader of a British political party and spent nearly 30 years in the British parliament. If you do not remove this designation I will take legal action."

Dear @TwitterSupport I am not \u201cRussian State Affiliated media\u201d. I work for NO #Russian media. I have 400,000 followers. I\u2019m the leader of a British political party and spent nearly 30 years in the British parliament. If you do not remove this designation I will take legal action.

18:51 Olivia Stringer

Russian forces killed at least four civilians and injured four more at a humanitarian aid distribution site on Wednesday, local officials said.

The governor of Donetsk Pavlo Kyrylenko shared photos online of Vuhledar, the town where he said Russian artillery fire hit a humanitarian aid distribution point.

The photos show two women stretched out on the ground, another person with a serious leg wound and a fourth person with a bloodied leg, being helped into a rescue vehicle.

In an online post, the governor said: "The enemy cynically fired on civilians from Vuhledar, who had come to receive humanitarian aid. As a result of the shelling there are 4 dead and 4 wounded."

18:07 Olivia Stringer

Protesters in Berlin today staged a "die in" outside the Bundesag - lower house of parliament - as part of a protest to call for an immediate ban on Russian oil, coal and gas imports.

At the time of the protest, a debate focusing on the atrocities found in Bucha was taking place.

17:28 Olivia Stringer

Edinburgh has sent 3,000 sandbags to its twin city Kyiv to help protect historical monuments, memorials and statues.

The sandbags were donated to the Lord Provost by Falkirk Council, and the bags were then flown to Krakow, Poland, before being loaded onto a train to Kyiv.

Dorothy Reid, roads and grounds manager for Falkirk Council, said: "There's already a massive humanitarian effort going on, however, this seemed something that was a bit different, and we were really happy to offer a hand with.

"We hope that some of the city's historic landmarks can be protected with the sandbags and our small donation helps Kyiv and its citizens maintain its cultural identity."

16:54 Olivia Stringer

Joe Biden has highlighted in a tweet that the latest sanctions on Russia are due to the atrocities in Bucha.

I made clear that Russia would pay a severe and immediate price for its atrocities in Bucha. Today, along with our Allies and partners, we\u2019re announcing a new round of devastating sanctions. https://t.co/LVqTDIOSvz[https://t.co/LVqTDIOSvz]

16:27 Olivia Stringer

Two of Vladimir Putin's daughters, Maria Vorontsova and Katerina Tikhonovahave been targeted by a fresh wave of US sanctions on Russia.

In a statement, the White House said: "These individuals have enriched themselves at the expense of the Russian people. Some of them are responsible for providing the support necessary to underpin Putin’s war on Ukraine.

“We believe that many of Putin’s assets are hidden with family members, and that’s why we’re targeting them."

The White House also announced sanctions on Russia’s largest public and private financial institutions, Sberbank and Alfa Bank, and said all new US investment in Russia was now prohibited.

16:16 Olivia Stringer

The UK is set to ban exports of oil refining equipment in a bid to undermine Russia's ability to reduce energy and export it around the world.

As well as this, the UK has announced that it will end the import of Russian oil and coal by the end of the year and of gas imports as soon as possible thereafter.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "Our latest wave of measures will bring an end to the UK's imports of Russian energy and sanction yet more individuals and businesses, decimating Putin's war machine.

"Together with our allies, we are showing the Russian elite that they cannot wash their hands of the atrocities committed on Putin's orders.

"We will not rest until Ukraine prevails."

15:55 Olivia Stringer

Ukraine's ombudswoman has said that there are 400 people missing in the town of Hostomel, after 35 days of Russian occupation.

Lyudmyla Denisova quoted witnesses as saying that some of them has been killed.

She said: "More than 400 people have gone missing in 35 days of occupation in Hostomel. Witnesses say some were killed, but their whereabouts are still unknown."

She did not give any evidence for her assertion or say who the witnesses were or give any further details.

15:20 Olivia Stringer

NATO Secretary-General Jen Stoltenberg has said that the war in Ukraine could be a "long haul", and that Russia's main aim is still to capture the whole of Ukraine.

Speaking ahead of the summit in Brussels, he said: "We have all seen the atrocities that have been committed in Bucha and other places in Ukraine," he said.

"This reveals the true nature of President Putin's war. Any targeting and killing of civilians is a war crime and therefore Nato allies are supporting international efforts to establish all the facts, to investigate and to make sure that perpetrators are punished."

"We have seen no indication that President Putin has changed his ambition to control the whole of Ukraine and also to rewrite the international order so we need to be prepared for a long haul."

15:06 Olivia Stringer

Good afternoon, I'm Olivia Stringer and I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the conflict in Ukraine, for the next eight hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: olivia.stringer@reachplc.com

Twitter: @Livstringer_

14:45 Rachel Hagan

Ian Stubbs, the UK delegation to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe [OSCE] ) has criticised Russian delegates for repeatedly lying in the OSCE Forum for Security Co-operation and for shattering trust that underpins the European Security Architecture.

He said Ukraine has taken up the fight to defend their homeland and shown the world the meaning of bravery and courage.

He continued: "An out-manoeuvred and out-classed Russian military has taken its frustrations out on civilians, unleashing horrendous amounts of violence. This is a great moral stain upon the Russian military, and one which will never be forgotten.

"The Russian government’s attempt to redraw the map of Europe in blood, and conquer an independent and democratic state by force of arms is an attack on the security and freedom of Europe.

It is also an attack on the Euro-Atlantic Security Architecture that was designed to increase security and stability in the region and, through trust, help prevent such appalling acts."

14:40 Rachel Hagan

Mikhail Khodorkovsky, who is an active member of Russia's exiled opposition, said that a decision to send conscripts to Ukraine would be "politically extremely heavy".

He said that the Russian President would face a major political backlash were he to send high numbers of conscripted soldiers from cities into Ukraine.

However, Mr Khodorkovsky said that the scenario is possible, as "the value of human life in Russia, is not as high as one would like to see it be."

He continued: "Especially when we are talking about people who live in the North Caucasus or people who live in tiny villages and settlements.

"Knowing this, Putin is taking his soldiers specifically from those places.

"And he pays such money for their deaths, forcing their close relatives to keep their mouths shut."

Russia has denied that it is deploying conscripts in Ukraine but it has acknowledged that some troops were mistakenly sent to fight after a number of them were captured.

14:29 Rachel Hagan

Hungarian Secretary of State for International Communication and Relations, Zoltan Kovacs, quoted Hungarian Prime Minister Orban saying: "We don't have any difficulty paying in rubles, if the Russians ask us to, we pay in rubles."

Putin had previously demanded that payments for Russian gas from "unfriendly countries" be made in rubles.

Mr Orban's comments came after he secured a fourth consecutive term in power after a landslide election victory on Sunday.

Hungary, an EU member state, is heavily reliant on Russian energy and has so far avoided condemning Putin's invasion of Ukraine.

In his victory speech, Mr Orban described Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky as an "opponent" he had to overcome during the campaign.

14:01 Rachel Hagan

The German government has said that satellite pictures give strong counter evidence against Russian denials of involvement in civilian deaths in the Ukrainian town of Bucha.

Government spokesman Steffen Hebestreit said that the "evaluation of satellite images" led Berlin to conclude that "Russian declarations" of images of civilian deaths "were posed scenes or that they were not responsible for the murders are in our view not tenable".

13:45 Rachel Hagan

The 193-member UN General Assembly will vote tomorrow over suspending Russia from the Geneva-based UN Human Rights Council.A two-thirds majority of voting members in New York would suspend Russia for committing gross and systematic violations of human rights.

U.S. Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield said on a visit to Romania that Russia's membership was a "farce."

13:15 Rachel Hagan

Ten high-rise buildings are on fire in the town of Sievierodonetsk following Russian shelling, the Luhansk governor has said.

Serhiy Haidai, the govenor, said earlier on that he expected a full-scale offensive in the region in "approximately a few days" which could be worse than those seen in Mariupol, Bucha and Irpin.

His prediction may well be coming true.

No casualties have been reported yet.

12:15 Rachel Hagan

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has said that the atrocities in Bucha do not “look far short of genocide."

He continued: "I’m afraid when you look at what’s happening in Bucha, the revelations that we are seeing from what Putin has done in Ukraine, which doesn’t look far short of genocide to me, it is no wonder that people are responding in the way that they are.

“And I have no doubt that the international community - Britain very much in the front rank - will be moving again in lockstep to impose more sanctions and more penalties on Vladimir Putin’s regime.”

12:10 Rachel Hagan

A hugely anticipated and extraordinary NATO Foreign Ministers meeting is happening today in Brussels with members poised to announce further military support to Ukraine.

Western nations have renewed outrage at Putin's actions in Ukraine after a slew of executed bodies were found in suspected mass graves in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv.

Ahead of the meeting, Ms Truss urged France and Germany to clamp down on Putin's regime and issue new sanctions against Moscow. She said the only war to end the war was by “being tough."

She called for Western leaders to end Russian-controlled oil, coal and gas imports in Europe — something Germany is yet to promise. Jens Stoltenberg, NATO Secretary General, has pre-empted that further lethal and non-lethal support including anti-tank weapons and air defence systems will be heading to Ukraine.

He said: "At a time when authoritarian powers are pushing back on the rules-based international order, it is even more important for democracies to stand together."

11:21 Rachel Hagan

European Council President Charles Michel has said EU countries should consider offering asylum to Russian soldiers who abandon the battlefield.

He said: "If you want no part in killing your Ukrainian brothers and sisters, if you don't want to be a criminal, drop your arms, stop fighting, leave the battlefield."

Ukraine previously said it would offer money to Russians who chose to desert the war.

10:54 Rachel Hagan

In an address to the Irish Parliament, President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelensky urged Ireland's political leaders to convince other EU countries to impose tougher sanctions on the Kremlin.

He said: "They also have blocked all of our sea ports, together with the vessels that had already agricultural cargoes for exports.

"Why are they doing this? Because for them hunger is a weapon against us, ordinary people as an instrument of domination.

"Ukraine is one of the leading food-supplying country in the world with exports.

"This is not just about the deficit and the threat of hunger.

"There will be a shortage of food and the prices will go up, and this is reality for the millions of people who are hungry, and it will be more difficult for them to feed their families."

10:18 Rachel Hagan

Lord Harrington, the refugees minister, admitted on LBC Radio that the Home Office and the government has not been "geared up" to deal with the large number of refugee applications from Ukraine.

A caller on the radio show called the scheme a "disgrace", saying it was "a slow and bureaucratic process, with sending information to different places, waiting for an answer, sending it, waiting for an answer". To which Lord Harrington did not agree.

Lord Harrington said: "I promise you in my every waking hour – and you might say your waking hours are not good enough – that me and our very dedicated staff are here to deal with this.

"This is not your problem and you want it dealt with. I can but apologise, I'm trying to sort this out."

He said the situation was "embarrassing".

09:58 Rachel Hagan

The Russian Duma has asked for 14 NGOs to be declared "undesirable organisations", including British think tank Chatham House.

This includes five from the UK, seven from Poland and two from Germany.

The Duma said the goals the NGO's declare do not correspond to reality, and the NGOs themselves "work to the detriment of Russia's security."

09:33 Rachel Hagan

Pope Francis condemned the massacres in Bucha as he held up a Ukrainian flag.

He said at the end of his weekly audience: "Recent news from the war in Ukraine, instead of bringing relief and hope, brought new atrocities, such as the massacre of Bucha.

"Cruelty that is increasingly horrendous, even against civilians, defenceless women and children. They are victims whose innocent blood cries out up to heaven and implores: 'Stop this war!'"

09:13 Rachel Hagan

There has been a raft of global news updates from countries sending weaponry to Ukraine, sanctioning Russians and more...

So here is the latest:

Czech Republic government has sent T-72 tanks and BVP-1 infantry fighting vehicles to Ukraine.

French Prosecutors opened three investigations into potential war crimes committed by Russian soldiers against French nationals in Ukraine.

Italian Foreign Affairs Minister Luigi Di Maio announced the expulsion of 30 Russian diplomats from Rome, prompting the Kremlin to promise retaliation.

The Dutch government is currently stopping 14 yachts from leaving the country due to sanctions on Russia, including 12 that were under construction for Russian owners.

Danish wind turbine maker Vestas has withdrawn from operating their two facilities in Russia. It has stopped new activities in the country and plans to halt its four wind farm projects.

Canada has sanctioned nine more Russians including oligarchs: Vladimir Potanin , Leonid Michelson, Viktor Vekselberg, Kirill Shamalov, Dmitry Pumpyansky and his wife Galina, Vadim Moshkovich and Alexandr Vinokurov.

The US Treasury Department has stopped sharing tax information with the Russian government and has unveiled new actions targeting the use of cryptocurrencies in Russian ransomware attacks and other financial crimes. Russia will no longer be able to make payments on its debt using dollars held at U.S. banks.

08:56 Rachel Hagan

The operational update regarding the Russian invasion of Ukraine from the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence says that Russian forces are “regrouping troops and concentrating [their] efforts on preparing an offensive operation in the east of our country."

It says they believe the Russian goal is to establish "full control over the territory of” the Donetsk and Luhansk Oblasts.

Russian forces also are “trying to improve the position of units in the Tavriya and Pivdennobuzhsky operational areas.”

While they “continue to suffer losses", they are having staffing problems with combat units and support units.

It continues: "The enemy’s personnel were demoralized, which led to an increase in the number of desertions and the refusal of servicemen … to take part in the war on the territory of Ukraine.”

08:35 Rachel Hagan

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has slammed FIFA President Gianni Infantino over its stance on Russia.

In the letter, dated March 31, Johnson criticized Mr Infantino for inviting Russian delegates to the Congress and he branded the Russian Football Union “effectively a representative body” for the Kremlin.

The letter continued: “We would therefore urge you in the strongest possible terms to rethink your position on this matter, so that representatives of both the Russian Football Union, and also the Football Federation of Belarus, are unable to engage in future FIFA meetings and business.

“There is a clear need for football to continue to present a united front in the light of Russia’s abhorrent actions in Ukraine.

"Sport cannot be used as a platform to legitimise Russian aggression.”

08:09 Rachel Hagan

A monument of Taras Hryhorovych Shevchenko — also known as Kobzar Taras, or simply Kobza — has been shot at by Russian forces.

The decorated writer is considered the national poet of Ukraine.

The leader of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church, Archbishop Shevchuk once described him a “great prophet of the Ukrainian people.”

He said that the work of Shevchenko “has always helped us to regain our strength, and thus to realize God’s plan for our people.”

Bullets in the head. A monument to the \ud83c\uddfa\ud83c\udde6 poet Taras Shevchenko shot by \ud83c\uddf7\ud83c\uddfa occupiers in Borodyanka, Kyiv region. Genocide is not just thousands of victims. \ud83c\uddfa\ud83c\udde6 education is banned in occupied territories, \ud83c\uddfa\ud83c\udde6 books are burned. People can easily be killed for just one \ud83c\uddfa\ud83c\udde6 word. pic.twitter.com/dHcsbuuTcp

08:03 Rachel Hagan

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has urged Russians to not fall for Putin’s propaganda.

Speaking partly in Russian, he urged people to use VPN connections to access independent information about the war in Ukraine.

Mr Johnson said the crimes in Ukraine “betray the trust of every Russian mother who proudly waves goodbye to her son as he heads off to join the military” and were a “stain on the honour of Russia itself – a stain that will only grow larger and more indelible every day this war continues”.

He continued: “Don’t just take my word for it: all you need is VPN connection to access independent information from anywhere in the world.

“When you find the truth, share it. Your president stands accused of committing war crimes. But I cannot believe he is acting in your name.”

To the Russian people, look at what is being done in your name.

You deserve the truth. You deserve the facts. pic.twitter.com/sqDxvGnTnp

07:53 Rachel Hagan

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss will announce new sanctions today, Politico reports. The measures are going to be focused on energy and there will also be new restrictions aimed at Moscow’s military ambitions.

The EU has also prepared new measures including phasing out Russian coal deliveries, banning Russian vessels and trucks entering the EU and tougher sanctions on four key Russian banks.

07:47 Rachel Hagan

Good morning from London. I’m Rachel Hagan, I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the war in Ukraine. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: rachel.hagan@reachplc.com

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220406ei46001us


World news
Czech Republic delivers armaments to Ukraine – as it happened
Rebecca Ratcliffe (now); Dani Anguiano, Lauren Aratani, Léonie Chao-Fong, Martin Belam and Samantha Lock (earlier)
17962 字
2022 年 4 月 9 日 04:44 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2022. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
This blog is closed, you can find our the latest coverage of the Russia-Ukraine war in our new blog

block-time published-time 5.44am BST

This blog is now closed. You can keep following all the developments at our new live blog[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/09/russia-ukraine-war-latest-zelenskiy-calls-for-firm-global-response-to-war-at-kramatorsk-train-station-live].

block-time published-time 4.45am BST

Former Russian president Dmitry Medvedev has described economic sanctions imposed on the country as an “act of aggression” on the part of individual states and their unions.

Medvedev, who advises Vladimir Putin on national security matters and is among those subject to sanctions, said Russia had the right to defend itself within the framework of international law. Noone should doubt that it would use this right within the boundaries of what it “considers appropriate”, he said, in a message posted on Telegram.

Sanctions were aimed at weakening the Russian state and prompting uprising against the authorities, but such attempts would backfire, he said. Instead, sanctions would cause the public to rally around the current leadership, while deepening resentment towards those responsible for imposing sanctions, he added.

block-time published-time 3.20am BST

Poland on Friday summoned France’s ambassador over French President Emmanuel Macron’s reference to Poland’s prime minister as a “far-right anti-Semite” in a budding feud over Russia’s war on Ukraine, reports Associated Press.

Officials in Poland blamed the comments on campaign fervor ahead of this weekend’s presidential election in France.

More from AP:

The bitter exchange between Macron and Poland’s Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki appears as an unwelcome crack in the European Union’s unity forged amid outrage over Russia’s aggression on Ukraine.

In an interview published online by the French Le Parisien newspaper Thursday, Macron called Morawiecki a “far-right anti-Semite who bans LGBT persons.”

Macron, who is seeking a second term in Sunday’s vote, also claimed that Morawiecki has been trying to help French far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen.

Piotr Mueller, a spokesman for Poland’s right-wing government, said it was a “lie” to suggest that Morawiecki had anything to do with anti-Semitism and blamed Macron’s remarks on the emotions of a heated election campaign.

Poles are especially sensitive to accusations of anti-Semitism because of the Holocaust that Nazi Germany largely carried out in Poland.

The French leader’s remarks were in response to Morawiecki’s criticism of his talks with Russia’s leader Vladimir Putin in a still futile effort to end the bloodshed in Ukraine. Morawiecki said on Monday that no talks should be held with (war) criminals like Nazi Germany’s leader Adolf Hitler or the Soviet Union’s Joseph Stalin.

block-time published-time 2.46am BST

The Czech Republic has delivered tanks, multiple rocket launchers, howitzers and infantry fighting vehicles to Ukraine, among military shipments that have reached hundreds of millions of dollars, Reuters reports.

Ukraine has repeatedly called on the West to urgently supply more weapons, especially heavy equipment.

More from Reuters:

The Czech Republic - a former Soviet satellite as part of then Czechoslovakia - has spare equipment that Ukrainian forces are familiar with in storage as well as a defence industry focused on upgrades and trade in such weapons. It has been among the most active EU nations in backing Ukraine.

Defence sources confirmed to Reuters a shipment of five T-72 tanks and five BVP-1, or BMP-1, infantry fighting vehicles seen on rail cars in photographs on Twitter and video footage this week, but those were not the first shipments of heavy equipment.

“For several weeks, we have been supplying heavy ground equipment - I am saying it generally but by definition it is clear that this includes tanks, infantry fighting vehicles, howitzers and multiple rocket launchers,” a senior defence official said.

“What has gone from the Czech Republic is in the hundreds of millions of dollars.”

The sources declined to discuss numbers of weapons supplied.

The senior defence official said the Czechs were also supplying a range of anti-aircraft weaponry.

Independent defence analyst Lukas Visingr said short-range air-defence systems Strela-10, or SA-13 Gopher in Nato terminology, have been spotted on a train apparently bound for Ukraine, in line with a report in Czech weekly respekt.cz.

The Defence Ministry declined to comment on concrete military aid.

block-time published-time 2.29am BST

Zelenskiy calls for "firm" global response to railway station strike

Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy described the missile strike on a railway station in eastern Ukraine as a Russian war crime “for which everyone involved will be held accountable”.

In his nightly video address, Zelenskiy said five children were among 50 people killed when a missile hit Kramatorsk railway station on Friday.

“We expect a firm, global response to this war crime. Like the massacre in Bucha, like many other Russian war crimes, the missile strike on Kramatorsk must be one of the charges at the tribunal, which is bound to happen,” he said.

“All the efforts of the world will be aimed to establish every minute: who did what, who gave orders. Where did the rocket come from, who was carrying it, who gave the order and how the strike was coordinated,” he said.

Russia has denied responsibility.

Zelenskiy said 38 people were killed instantly, while a further 12 people died in hospital.

Zelenskiy also repeated his call for more weapons to be provided to Ukraine, and for sanctions against Russia to be intensified.

“The pressure on Russia must be increased. It is necessary to introduce a full energy embargo - on oil, on gas. It is energy exports that provide the lion’s share of Russia’s profits. Russian banks must also be completely disconnected from the global financial system,” he said.

Zelenskiy added that Ukraine had provided details of the military equipment it requires.

“Any delay in providing such weapons to Ukraine, any excuses can mean only one thing: the relevant politicians want to help the Russian leadership more than us Ukrainians,” he said.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.16am BST

block-time published-time 1.53am BST

Related: Russia-Ukraine war: what we know on day 45 of the invasion[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/09/russia-ukraine-war-what-we-know-on-day-45-of-the-invasion]

block-time published-time 1.35am BST

South African President Cyril Ramaphosa said he had a productive phone call with US President Joe Biden on Friday, in which they “shared views on the conflict in Ukraine”.

enltrI had a productive call with US President @JoeBiden[https://twitter.com/JoeBiden?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] earlier this evening. As part of deepening relations, we agreed to set up a team to strengthen trade, increase investment in infrastructure and work to tackle climate change. pic.twitter.com/NTris3xHfr[https://t.co/NTris3xHfr]

— Cyril Ramaphosa ???? (@CyrilRamaphosa) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/CyrilRamaphosa/status/1512506634836316170?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

South Africa was among the 58 countries that abstained from voting on the UN General Assembly resolution which suspended Russia from the UN Human Rights Council in response to Moscow’s invasion of and alleged rights abuses in Ukraine.

“We shared views on the conflict in Ukraine and agreed on the need for a ceasefire and dialogue between Ukraine and Russia,” Ramaphosa wrote on Twitter.

On Thursday, Ramaphosa criticised the UN Security Council as “outdated and unrepresentative,” he said, adding that it disadvantages countries with developing economies.

block-time published-time 1.03am BST

Some 6,665 people were evacuated through humanitarian corridors on Friday, according to the Kyiv Independent.

It reports that Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said 5,158 people were rescued from Mariupol and Berdiansk.

enltr??Vereshchuk: 6,665 people evacuated through humanitarian corridors on April 8.

Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said 5,158 people came from Mariupol and Berdiansk. Of those evacuated 1,614 were from Mariupol.

— The Kyiv Independent (@KyivIndependent) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1512564072088223748?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 12.53am BST

Amnesty International has said it will redouble its efforts to “expose Russia’s egregious human rights violations”, following the news that Moscow has closed the rights group’s local office.

In a statement Agnès Callamard, Amnesty International’s Secretary General, said:

The authorities are deeply mistaken if they believe that by closing down our office in Moscow they will stop our work documenting and exposing human rights violations.

We continue undeterred to work to ensure that people in Russia are able to enjoy their human rights without discrimination.

We will redouble our efforts to expose Russia’s egregious human rights violations both at home and abroad.

block-time published-time 12.50am BST

After a historic collapse in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the ruble has returned to pre-war levels, reports AFP.

However, analysts say that success is in many ways artificial and does not bode well for the health of the Russian economy.

More from AFP:

Sofya Donets, chief economist at Renaissance Capital, said the ruble recovery has been aided by an unprecedented trade surplus amid high energy prices.

Oil and gas, Russia’s main exports, keep flowing abroad, filling Russia’s coffers.

The United States has banned Russian oil imports and the EU adopted a ban on Russian steel imports but those penalties have largely spared key Russian exports.

“It only affects five percent of Russian exports, so it’s not that much,” said Donets.

Robust exports have been supplemented by harsh capital controls introduced by the central bank.

The West froze some $300 billion of Russia’s foreign currency reserves abroad, a move that Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has described as “theft”.

To counter the sanctions, exporting companies were forced to sell 80 percent of their export earnings to buy rubles.

Russians have also been barred from withdrawing more than $10,000 in foreign currency or taking more than that amount out of the country, and foreign investors have been banned from selling Russian assets.

Late Friday the central bank relaxed some curbs, saying that from April 18 it was scrapping the ban on buying dollars and euros introduced in early March.

The rapid ruble recovery does not equal a strong economy, however, analysts said.

Economists believe that the worst economic impact of the sanctions is still to come and expect Russia, which has relied heavily on imports of manufacturing equipment and consumer goods, to plunge into a deep recession.

block-time published-time 12.27am BST

Rebecca Ratcliffe here, taking over from my colleague Dani Anguiano.

Two UN agencies have called for “urgent action” to help an estimated 1,000 seafarers stranded in Ukrainian ports and waters with dwindling supplies.

According to the heads of the International Labour Organization and International Maritime Organization, more than 100 trading vessels are trapped, including in the besieged city of Mariupol, and on vessels in the Sea of Azov.

They warn:

As well as the dangers arising from bombardment, many of the ships concerned now lack food, fuel, fresh water and other vital supplies. The situation of the seafarers from many countries is becoming increasingly untenable as a result, presenting grave risks to their health and well-being.

The two agencies have called for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, International Committee of the Red Cross and Médecins Sans Frontières to assist in providing vital supplies.

block-time published-time 12.06am BST

Summary

Here are some of the key developments of the day:

* The US believes Russia used a short range ballistic missile in an attack on the Kramatorsk train station in east Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine], which killed at least 52 people, including five children. Russia has denied it is responsible for the attack.

* Some Russian military units have experienced major losses, a senior US defense official said, and the Pentagon estimates Russia’s combat power is somewhere between 80% and 85% of pre-invasion levels. The US defense department is expecting Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] to shift its focus on the Donbas region and eastern.

* International prices for food commodities, including grains and vegetable oils, reached all time highs last month amid Russia’s war in Ukraine. The conflict is causing massive disruptions, the United Nations said Friday, threatening millions of people in Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere with hunger and malnourishment.

* Russian troops have “forcibly deported” more than 600,000 Ukrainians, including about 121,000 children, to Russia, Ukraine’s human rights commissioner, Lyudmila Denysova, said. Denysova also said residents of the temporarily occupied city of Izyum in the Kharkiv region are being forcibly moved to Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-625066b88f083703c7bd8a6d#block-625066b88f083703c7bd8a6d].

* The European Commission’s president, Ursula von der Leyen, pledged to offer Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, a speedier start to his country’s bid to become a member of the EU. At a joint press conference with Zelenskiy,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-6250751a8f081f653cd8bfda#block-6250751a8f081f653cd8bfda] the European Commission chief said: “It will not as usual be a matter of years to form this opinion but I think a matter of weeks.”

* Forensic investigators have begun exhuming a mass grave in the Ukrainian town of Bucha, wrapping in black plastic and laying out the bodies of civilians who officials say were killed during the Russian invasion. Since Russian troops pulled back from Bucha last week, Ukrainian officials say hundreds of civilians have been found dead[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-62503cf98f081f653cd8bc66#block-62503cf98f081f653cd8bc66].

* Russia’s justice ministry has revoked the registration of 15 foreign organisations, including those of Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. In a statement,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-625068e58f0887d7b40d6b35#block-625068e58f0887d7b40d6b35] the ministry said the Russian units of the organisations “were excluded due to the discovery of violations of the current legislation of the Russian Federation”. Human Rights Watch said the move is proof the Russian government “has no use for any facts regarding the protections of civilians in Ukraine”.

block-time published-time 11.46pm BST

The attack on the Kramatorsk train station has killed at least 52 people and wounded dozens more, Ukrainian officials said.

Officials previously reported at least 50 people were killed in the strike on the station, which the city’s mayor said was filled with 4,000 people, most of them elderly, women and children, attempting to leave before fighting in the area intensified.

Photos showed a bloodied stuffed animal at the station as well as the dead covered with tarps and the remnants of a rocket with the words “For the children” painted on it in Russian.

block-time published-time 11.17pm BST

The British government, facing growing criticism, said on Friday it had issued 41,000 visas to Ukrainians as part of its efforts to help refugees of Russia’s war in Ukraine.

The government has said it is working as quickly as possible to help Ukrainians as part of what it described as the biggest and fastest refugee operation in its history.

Britain has set up two programs to help Ukrainians, one that allows refugees to stay with people who have offered accommodation and one for those with family who are already in the UK.

More from Reuters:

According to the latest figures, just under 80,000 applications have so been submitted. For the 36,300 made under the family scheme, 28,500 visas had been issued and 10,800 people had been admitted.

But for the “Homes for Ukraine” scheme, just 12,500 visas had been issued from the 43,600 applications. As of Tuesday, just 1,200 refugees had arrived in Britain under this scheme, according to the data.

Those involved, both Ukrainians and the Britons opening up their homes to refugees, have criticised it for being overly bureaucratic and complicated, meaning some refugees have been left in limbo for weeks waiting to travel to Britain despite having accommodation ready for them.

block-time published-time 10.44pm BST

A senior US defense official said some Russian units in Ukraine are depleted and that Russia’s combat power is somewhere between 80% and 85% of pre-invasion levels.

The Pentagon determined some Russian units that recently retreated from around Kyiv were heavily damaged and depleted, putting into question their combat utility.

“We’ve seen indications of some units that are literally, for all intents and purposes, eradicated,” the official said.

There are indications that Moscow has begun mobilizing some reservists and could be looking to recruit more than 60,000 personnel, the official said[https://www.reuters.com/business/aerospace-defense/us-believes-russia-used-short-range-ballistic-missile-railway-station-strike-us-2022-04-08/].

block-time published-time 9.56pm BST

The Pentagon believes Russia used a short range ballistic missile in an attack on the Kramatorsk train station in east Ukraine, which killed at least 50 people on Friday, a senior US defense official said.

The US military thinks a SS-21 Scarab missile was used in the strike, the official said. It is not yet clear whether cluster munitions were used.

“We are not buying the denial by the Russians that they weren’t responsible,” the official said.

enltrThe train station attacked today in Ukraine is a “major rail hub” with strategic value, given its location in eastern Europe, senior U.S. defense official says.

— Dan Lamothe (@DanLamothe) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/DanLamothe/status/1512513030625574916?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 9.30pm BST

This is Dani Anguiano taking over the liveblog from my colleague Lauren Aratani.

International prices for food commodities, including grains and vegetable oils, reached all time highs last month amid Russia’s war in Ukraine. The conflict is causing massive disruptions, the United Nations said Friday, threatening millions of people in Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere with hunger and malnourishment.

More from the Associated Press[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-health-europe-united-nations-fe2cc912195478f0dd861e6252c8f3b3] :

The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization said its Food Price Index, which tracks monthly changes in international prices for a basket of commodities, averaged 159.3 points last month, up 12.6% from February. As it is, the February index was the highest level since its inception in 1990.

FAO said the war in Ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine] was largely responsible for the 17.1% rise in the price of grains, including wheat and others like oats, barley and corn. Together, Russia and Ukraine account for around 30% and 20% of global wheat[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-europe-middle-east-lifestyle-30b9694f3167580d674355ddb6aabdd8] and corn exports, respectively.

Soaring food prices and disruption to supplies coming from Russia and Ukraine have threatened food shortages in countries in the Middle East, Africa and parts of Asia where many people already were not getting enough to eat[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-africa-middle-east-lebanon-d92b95380ba4a77dd94e9ea3e3a16f4f].

Vadym Prystaiko, Ukraine’s ambassador to the UK, has called for Nato and other international forces to play a more active role in the Black Sea to allow Ukrainian exports, mostly grains, to go out.

block-time published-time 8.54pm BST

The US defense department is expecting Russia to shift its focus on the Donbas region and eastern.

Ukraine, according to John Kirby, press secretary for the US Department of Defense. The US is looking to provide more supplies to the region, including weapons, ammunition and intel.

enltrKirby: With apparent focus of invasion shifting to Donbas & eastern Ukraine, DOD continues to look to provide Ukraine w/what can be most helpful in the region, whether weapons, ammunition, or intel. Potential for increased intensity and prolonged conflict, @PentagonPresSec[https://twitter.com/PentagonPresSec?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] notes.

— Andrew Clevenger (@andclev) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/andclev/status/1512513432142102530?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Kirby also said that the attack at the railway station in eastern Ukraine is “a piece of Russian brutality in the prosecution of this war’ and noted that Russia had claimed responsibility for the attack until it saw the civilian casualties.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.54pm BST

block-time published-time 8.31pm BST

Responding to Russia’s announcement that the government is closing the local offices of human rights organizations Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, Human Rights Watch says that the move is further proof that the government “has no use for any facts regarding the protections of civilians in Ukraine”.

“HRW has been working on Russia since the Soviet era, when it was a closed totalitarian state. We found ways of documenting human rights abuses then, and we will do so in the future,” the organization said in a statement. “As we did this, we called on Russia to return to the standards it is obligated to uphold under the UN human rights system. And we will continue to do this.”

enltrThe Russian government had already made it abundantly clear that it has no use for any facts regarding the protection of civilians in #Ukraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw].

This is just one small further proof of that.

— Human Rights Watch (@hrw) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/hrw/status/1512508299379462145?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.55pm BST

block-time published-time 8.03pm BST

A clip from earlier today of Maria Zakharova, Russia’s director of information and press department for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has gone viral for some bizarre comments she made about Ukrainians and borscht.

“They wouldn’t share the borscht recipe … It had to belong to one people, to one nationality,” Zakharova, referring to the beet soup. “They couldn’t bear the thought that every … housewife in the world would be able to cook it her way. This is what we are talking about. The xenophobia, the fascism, the extremism... ”

enltrBizarre comments by Maria Zakharova, the Russian MFA spox:

"Even cookbooks were banned [in Ukraine]. Why? Because they wouldn't share the borscht recipe... It had to belong to one people, to one nationality. They couldn't bear the thought that.. every housewife in the world

./1 pic.twitter.com/zqjBXIQzOI[https://t.co/zqjBXIQzOI]

— V. Cheianov, Esq. (@cheianov) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/cheianov/status/1512353533131173896?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.55pm BST

block-time published-time 7.42pm BST

Ukraine’s prosecutor general Iryna Venediktova said that prosecutors and forensic teams are working to examine bodies found in Bucha and on exhuming bodies from a temporary mass burial. Venediktova said that 164 bodies had been found in the Kyiv suburb, according to CNN.

enltrExhumation of bodies from the place of temporary mass burial began in Bucha. Prosecutors & forensic teams and examine each body.We already have over 100 pages of data about invaders, who occupied Bucha.Our current task is to identify all involved in the massacre. #RussianWarCrimes[https://twitter.com/hashtag/RussianWarCrimes?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] pic.twitter.com/OnDADna6Nh[https://t.co/OnDADna6Nh]

— Iryna Venediktova (@VenediktovaIV) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/VenediktovaIV/status/1512485449188712452?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.55pm BST

block-time published-time 7.18pm BST

This is Lauren Aratani taking over for Léonie Chao-Fong.

The US defense department said that some Russian military units have seen some serious losses, according to a senior US defense official , ABC News is reporting[https://twitter.com/MattSeyler/status/1512482018411614215?s=20&t=NLlySzgliOB1GJEM5C0Uxw].

“We’ve seen indications of some units that are literally for all intents and purposes eradicated,” the official said.

There has also been indications that Russia has been deploying reservists and are hoping to recruit 60,000 troops for mobilization.

enltrU.S. also sees indications Russians have begun mobilization of reservists, and are hoping to recruit upwards of 60k troops for this mobilization phase. "It remains to be seen how successful they'll be..and where those reinforcements would go, how much training they would get."

— Matt Seyler (@MattSeyler) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/MattSeyler/status/1512487904957841410?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.55pm BST

block-time published-time 7.00pm BST

Summary

It is 9pm in Kyiv. Here’s where we stand now:

* A Russian ballistic missile hit a crowded train station in the eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk, where 4,000 people were waiting to be evacuated, on Friday mid-morning. At least 50 people, including five children,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-62503ef58f0887d7b40d6860#block-62503ef58f0887d7b40d6860] were killed, according to the governor of Donetsk, Pavlo Kyrylenko. Russia has denied it was responsible.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-6250109a8f083703c7bd853e#block-6250109a8f083703c7bd853e]

* The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, accused Russian forces of deliberately targeting civilians and said no Ukrainian troops were at the train station when it was attacked.In a statement,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/08/kramatorsk-train-station-ukraine-russia-rockets] Zelenskiy said: “ This is an evil that has no limits. And if it is not punished, it will never stop.” The Ukrainian foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, also accused Russia of the “deliberate slaughter” of civilians .[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-62501b9e8f0887d7b40d6692#block-62501b9e8f0887d7b40d6692]

* The United Nations children’s agency Unicef’s Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] representative, Murat Sahin, condemned the rocket strike on Kramatorsk station in east Ukraine and demanded that “the killing of children must stop now”.In a statement,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-625048d18f081f653cd8bd1e#block-625048d18f081f653cd8bd1e] Sahin said the agency did “not know yet how many children were killed and injured in the attack, but we fear the worst”.

* Boris Johnson condemned the attack on fleeing civilians at the Kramatorsk train station, describing it as “unconscionable” in a joint press conference with the German chancellor, Olaf Scholz. Scholz said he agreed that Vladimir Putin “bears the responsibility for these war crimes”.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-625055548f081f653cd8bddb#block-625055548f081f653cd8bddb]

* Russian troops have “forcibly deported” more than 600,000 Ukrainians, including about 121,000 children, to Russia, Ukraine’s human rights commissioner, Lyudmila Denysova, said. Denysova also said residents of the temporarily occupied city of Izyum in the Kharkiv region are being forcibly moved to Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-625066b88f083703c7bd8a6d#block-625066b88f083703c7bd8a6d].

* The European Commission’s president, Ursula von der Leyen, pledged to offer Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, a speedier start to his country’s bid to become a member of the EU. At a joint press conference with Zelenskiy,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-6250751a8f081f653cd8bfda#block-6250751a8f081f653cd8bfda] the European Commission chief said: “It will not as usual be a matter of years to form this opinion but I think a matter of weeks.”

* Forensic investigators have begun exhuming a mass grave in the Ukrainian town of Bucha, wrapping in black plastic and laying out the bodies of civilians who officials say were killed during the Russian invasion. Since Russian troops pulled back from Bucha last week, Ukrainian officials say hundreds of civilians have been found dead[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-62503cf98f081f653cd8bc66#block-62503cf98f081f653cd8bc66].

* Russia’s justice ministry has revoked the registration of 15 foreign organisations, including those of Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. In a statement,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-625068e58f0887d7b40d6b35#block-625068e58f0887d7b40d6b35] the ministry said the Russian units of the organisations “were excluded due to the discovery of violations of the current legislation of the Russian Federation”.

* Russian forces abandoned “a lot” of tanks, vehicles, and artillery in a “hasty” withdrawal from northern Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] that may be a sign of a “collapse of the will to fight”, according to a western official. The official confirmed that there are no longer Russian units in northern Ukraine.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-6250601e8f083703c7bd89fc#block-6250601e8f083703c7bd89fc]

* Britain has added the Russian president Vladimir Putin’s daughters to its sanctions list, mirroring moves by the United States. An update to the UK sanctions list[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-624ffe4c8f083703c7bd8403#block-624ffe4c8f083703c7bd8403] announced asset freezes on Katerina Tikhonova and Maria Vorontsova, who were named in US sanctions on Wednesday as Putin’s two adult daughters.

That’s it from me, Léonie Chao-Fong, for today. I will now hand the blog over to my US colleague, Lauren Aratani, who will continue to bring you all the latest news from the war in Ukraine.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.05pm BST

block-time published-time 6.50pm BST

The European Commission’s president, Ursula von der Leyen, pledged to offer Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskiy a speedier start to his country’s bid to become a member of the EU, Reuters reports.

Von der Leyen handed Zelenskiy a questionnaire which will form a starting point for the EU to decide on membership for Kyiv.

The European Commission chief said:

It will not as usual be a matter of years to form this opinion but I think a matter of weeks.

Zelenskiy told journalists that the questionnaire would be ready in a week.

Zelenskiy receives a questionnaire to begin the process for considering his country’s application for European Union membership from Ursula von der Leyen. Photograph: Adam Schreck/AP

The EU must monitor Russian attempts to circumvent sanctions and impose stricter ones if necessary, she said at a joint briefing with Zelenskiy in Kyiv:

Russia will descend into economic, financial and technological decay, while Ukraine is marching towards the European future, this is what I see.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.05pm BST

block-time published-time 6.31pm BST

Residents of a village north of Kyiv have said that more than 300 people were trapped in a school basement for weeks by Russian occupiers, scrawling the names of the dead on a peeling wall.

Halyna Tolochina, a member of the Yahidne village council, struggled to compose herself as she went through the list, scribbled in black on the plaster either side of a green door, in the gloomy warren where she said she and hundreds of others were confined.

To the left of the door were the names of seven people killed by Russian soldiers. To the right were the names of 10 people who died because of the harsh conditions in the basement, she said.

“This old man died first,” Tolochina said, pointing at the name Muzyka D, for Dmytro Muzyka, whose death was recorded on 9 March. “He died in the big room, in this one.”

She said Muzyka’s body lay for a few days in a boiler room until, during a break in shelling, some people were allowed to take the dead to be buried in hastily dug graves in the village cemetery.

Reuters spoke to seven residents of Yahidne who said that in total at least 20 people died or were killed during the Russian occupation. No official death toll has been released by Ukrainian authorities.

Residents in the school basement a day after Russian troops left. Some villagers have continued to sleep there because their houses have been destroyed. Photograph: Olha Meniaylo/Reuters

Reuters was not able to independently verify the villagers’ accounts. Reporters saw one freshly dug grave in a field by the village, and two bodies wrapped in white plastic sheets.

The Kremlin did not respond to requests for comment on the events in Yahidne.

The accounts of what happened in the village add to growing testimony from Ukrainian civilians of suffering in the towns around Kyiv during the weeks of occupation by Russian forces.

Related: Over 300 villagers near Kyiv trapped in basement for weeks, say residents[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/08/yahidne-villagers-kyiv-ukraine-school-basement-russian-occupation]

block-time published-time 6.15pm BST

Bucha mayor Andriy Fedoruk, Ukrainian PM Denys Shmygal, European Commissionpresident Ursula von der Leyen and EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell in Bucha. Photograph: T Me/Denys_Smyhal/EPA Neighbours wait for a free food delivery in Bucha. Photograph: Rodrigo Abd/AP

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.06pm BST

block-time published-time 6.03pm BST

Russia to close Amnesty, Human Rights Watch offices

Russia’s justice ministry has revoked the registration of 15 foreign organisations, including those of Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, Reuters reports.

In a statement, the ministry said the Russian units of the organisations, which also included the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “were excluded due to the discovery of violations of the current legislation of the Russian Federation”.

block-time published-time 5.53pm BST

121,000 children 'forcibly deported' to Russia, Ukraine’s rights commissioner says

Russian troops have “forcibly deported” more than 600,000 Ukrainians, including about 121,000 children, to Russia, Ukraine’s human rights commissioner, Lyudmila Denysova, said.

In a statement posted on Facebook, Denysova said residents of the temporarily occupied city of Izyum in the Kharkiv region are being forcibly moved to Russia.

Denysova said:

This is not the first time Russian troops have used such tactics. After bringing the city to a critical situation, the enemy offers a conditional corridor to Russia, ostensibly to save people, leaving people no choice.

Currently, Russian media report that they have deported 615,000 people from Ukraine, including 121,000 children.

block-time published-time 5.29pm BST

The Guardian’s Shaun Walker has been visiting the village of Novyi Bykiv, close to the city of Chernihiv, 100 miles north of Kyiv.

Russian forces set up base in a local school, where they smashed up every classroom and stole all the computers, he writes.

enltrIn the Ukrainian village of Novyi Bykiv, the Russians set up their base in the local school. The whole place is totally wrecked now, just two years after it was renovated.

But the messages they left behind and the way they behaved are quite revealing. Thread: pic.twitter.com/qJ7YeaRDHN[https://t.co/qJ7YeaRDHN]

— Shaun Walker (@shaunwalker7) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/shaunwalker7/status/1512448621207298050?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

enltrThey painted over the faces on posters of Ukrainian historical /literary figures. pic.twitter.com/XHFFcpkoqS[https://t.co/XHFFcpkoqS]

— Shaun Walker (@shaunwalker7) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/shaunwalker7/status/1512448998346526725?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

enltrOn the class blackboards soldiers had left messages. “Slavic brothers, you’re being cheated”. And “sorry, we didn’t want this war”. And grotesquely given what was all around “let’s live peacefully”. Someone else had drawn a GRU bat. pic.twitter.com/kQGT2Ohl6S[https://t.co/kQGT2Ohl6S]

— Shaun Walker (@shaunwalker7) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/shaunwalker7/status/1512450329215971331?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.55pm BST

block-time published-time 5.20pm BST

Russian forces abandoned “a lot” of tanks, vehicles, and artillery in a “hasty” withdrawal from northern Ukraine that may be a sign of a “collapse of the will to fight”, according to a western official, PA news agency reports.

The western official confirmed that there are no longer Russian units in northern Ukraine, adding:

It has been a pretty hasty withdrawal by Russian forces and there’s a lot of Russian equipment which has been abandoned in that hasty withdrawal and that’s only going to exacerbate the challenge they have in terms of the refurbishment and reconstitution of their forces as they remove them both into Belarus and into Russia.

Abandoned and burned Russian tank in Hostomel, Kyiv region. Photograph: Jana Cavojska/Sopa Images/Rex/Shutterstock A Ukrainian service member walks near an abandoned Russian tank in the village of Vablya in Kyiv region. Photograph: Gleb Garanich/Reuters

They added:

Some of it’s kind of unclear as to why it’s been abandoned because you might have thought there is some of these vehicles are still usable and you think they would have been able to take and I think there’s something around the collapse of morale and the collapse of the will to fight.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.34pm BST

block-time published-time 5.07pm BST

Kramatorsk rail strike was a 'crime against humanity', prosecutor general says

Ukraine’s prosecutor general, Iryna Venediktova, said a deadly missile strike on a rail station packed with evacuees in the eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk was a “crime against humanity”, Reuters reports.

Venediktova said a pre-trial investigation has been launched into the Kramatorsk station attack.

block-time published-time 5.01pm BST

Summary

It is just past 7pm in Kyiv. Here’s where we stand now:

* A Russian ballistic missile hit a crowded train station in the eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk, where 4,000 people were waiting to be evacuated, on Friday mid-morning. At least 50 people, including five children,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-62503ef58f0887d7b40d6860#block-62503ef58f0887d7b40d6860] were killed, according to the governor of Donetsk, Pavlo Kyrylenko. Russia has denied it was responsible.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-6250109a8f083703c7bd853e#block-6250109a8f083703c7bd853e]

* The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, accused Russian forces of deliberately targeting civilians and said no Ukrainian troops were at the train station when it was attacked.In a statement,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/08/kramatorsk-train-station-ukraine-russia-rockets] Zelenskiy said: “ This is an evil that has no limits. And if it is not punished, it will never stop.” The Ukrainian foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, also accused Russia of the “deliberate slaughter” of civilians .[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-62501b9e8f0887d7b40d6692#block-62501b9e8f0887d7b40d6692]

* The United Nations children’s agency Unicef’s Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] representative, Murat Sahin, condemned the rocket strike on Kramatorsk station in east Ukraine and demanded that “the killing of children must stop now”.In a statement,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-625048d18f081f653cd8bd1e#block-625048d18f081f653cd8bd1e] Sahin said the agency did “not know yet how many children were killed and injured in the attack, but we fear the worst”.

* Boris Johnson condemned the attack on fleeing civilians at the Kramatorsk train station, describing it as “unconscionable” in a joint press conference with the German chancellor, Olaf Scholz. Scholz said he agreed that Vladimir Putin “bears the responsibility for these war crimes”.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-625055548f081f653cd8bddb#block-625055548f081f653cd8bddb]

* Forensic investigators have begun exhuming a mass grave in the Ukrainian town of Bucha, wrapping in black plastic and laying out the bodies of civilians who officials say were killed during the Russian invasion. Since Russian troops pulled back from Bucha last week, Ukrainian officials say hundreds of civilians have been found dead[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-62503cf98f081f653cd8bc66#block-62503cf98f081f653cd8bc66].

* Russian forces have now fully withdrawn from Ukraine’s north to Belarus and Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia], the UK’s Ministry of Defence said. “At least some of these forces will be transferred to East Ukraine to fight in the Donbas,” the report[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1512284278813597702?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1512284278813597702%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_c10&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theguardian.com%2Fworld%2Flive%2F2022%2Fapr%2F08%2Frussia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live] added.

* Britain has added the Russian president Vladimir Putin’s daughters to its sanctions list, mirroring moves by the United States. An update to the UK sanctions list[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-624ffe4c8f083703c7bd8403#block-624ffe4c8f083703c7bd8403] announced asset freezes on Katerina Tikhonova and Maria Vorontsova, who were named in US sanctions on Wednesday as Putin’s two adult daughters.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.09pm BST

block-time published-time 4.32pm BST

Boris Johnson has condemned the attack on fleeing civilians at the Kramatorsk train station, describing it as “unconscionable” in a joint press conference with German chancellor, Olaf Scholz.

Johnson said:

The attack at the train station in eastern Ukraine shows the depth to which Putin’s once vaunted army has sunk.

At least 39 people killed and dozens wounded on a train platform crowded with women and children.

It is a war crime indiscriminately to attack civilians and Russian crimes in Ukraine will not go unnoticed or unpunished.

Scholz said he agreed that Vladimir Putin “bears the responsibility for these war crimes”, adding:

I call upon Russia again to finally agree a ceasefire and withdraw its troops.

This war needs to stop immediately.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.55pm BST

block-time published-time 4.26pm BST

The 50-metre motor vessel, modest by oligarch standards, is covered in scaffolding and sitting under a hangar in dry dock, one of many such boats being refitted in the Dutch port of Vlissingen.

What sets the Aquamarine apart is that, until the day of the invasion of Ukraine, it belonged to Russia’s best-known businessman, Roman Abramovich[https://www.theguardian.com/world/roman-abramovich], a Guardian investigation has revealed. On 24 February, ownership of the yacht passed from a company previously controlled by Abramovich to a close associate of his, the Russian businessman David Davidovich.

The Aquamarine is the fifth yacht to have been recently linked to Abramovich, who was placed under sanctions by the UK and EU for his reported links to the Russian president, Vladimir Putin. His fleet includes two megayachts worth more than $1bn, which were scrambled to Turkey after Abramovich was blacklisted, and two smaller boats currently moored in the Caribbean.

Davidovich told the Guardian that he was the owner of Aquamarine as well as the Jersey-domiciled company MHC Jersey Ltd, which is registered as the owner of the yacht on the maritime database MarineTraffic.

“I can confirm that I am the owner of MHC Jersey Ltd and the Aquamarine yacht,” Davidovich said in a written statement.

Davidovich also said that he was the majority owner of the British Virgin Islands-listed Norma Investments, an investment vehicle that is listed as the only shareholder of Aquamarine’s owner MHC Jersey Ltd, according to Jersey public record.

Related: Abramovich-linked yacht in Netherlands changed hands on day of Ukraine invasion[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/08/abramovich-linked-yacht-in-netherlands-changed-hands-on-day-of-ukraine-invasion]

block-time published-time 4.09pm BST

Survivors of the Russian rocket strike on the train station in Kramatorsk said they saw “bodies everywhere” as they desperately searched for loved ones among the wreckage of today’s attack, AFP reports.

Hundreds of people were gathered at the station when the attack took place, waiting for evacuation out of east Ukraine as they had done at the same time for the last several days.

enltrThis was how Kramatorsk train station looked before the Russian rocket attacked. Crowds of civilians, including children, scrambling to flee the Donbas as Putin’s forces bear down on the eastern region. https://t.co/nSYXRZF65W[https://t.co/nSYXRZF65W]

— Christopher Miller (@ChristopherJM) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/ChristopherJM/status/1512370346669785091?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

One survivor, Natalia, was searching for her passport among the abandoned belongings as she told AFP:

I was in the station. I heard like a double explosion. I rushed to the wall for protection.

I saw people covered in blood coming into the station and bodies everywhere on the ground. I don’t know if they were just injured or dead.

The bodies of around 30 people, all dressed in civilian clothing, were grouped together and placed under plastic sheets next to a kiosk daubed with the colours of Ukraine’s flag outside the station.

Another woman was seen approaching the bodies, holding her phone to her ear and saying:

I’m looking for my husband. He was here. I can’t reach him.

A soldier at one of the three hospitals in the city told AFP that around 50 wounded had arrived from the scene.

He said:

Many of them will die because they have lost a lot of blood, and we don’t have enough blood.

block-time published-time 3.39pm BST

UN children’s agency ‘fears the worst’ over Kramatorsk station strike death toll

The United Nations children’s agency Unicef’s Ukraine representative, Murat Sahin, has condemned the rocket strike on Kramatorsk station in east Ukraine and demanded that “the killing of children must stop now”.

In a statement, Sahin said the agency did “not know yet how many children were killed and injured in the attack, but we fear the worst”.

Sahin said:

Kramatorsk train station has been the main route out for thousands of families evacuating from Donetsk oblast, which has seen some of the war’s worst destruction, to relatively safer areas in Ukraine.

A child’s toy left behind at the Kramatorsk train station where a Russian missile attack struck. Photograph: Seth Sidney Berry/Zuma Press Wire/Rex/Shutterstock

A Unicef team was delivering humanitarian supplies just a kilometre away from the train station when the attack took place, he added.

Civilians, particularly children, must be protected from harm. The killing of children must stop now.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.24pm BST

block-time published-time 3.15pm BST

Germany’s chancellor, Olaf Scholz, and the UK’s prime minister, Boris Johnson, are expected to hold a joint press conference in the next few minutes, following a meeting of the two leaders in Downing Street in London.

My colleague Nicola Slawson will be covering the press conference on our UK politics live blog[https://www.theguardian.com/politics/live/2022/apr/08/rishi-sunak-dismisses-scrutiny-of-wifes-non-dom-status-as-unpleasant-smears-uk-politics-live]. I will continue here with the news from the war in Ukraine, and the top lines that emerge in the UK.

Related: UK politics live: German chancellor Olaf Scholz and Boris Johnson to hold press conference[https://www.theguardian.com/politics/live/2022/apr/08/rishi-sunak-dismisses-scrutiny-of-wifes-non-dom-status-as-unpleasant-smears-uk-politics-live]

Boris Johnson and Olaf Scholz. Photograph: Anthony Harvey/Rex/Shutterstock

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.37pm BST

block-time published-time 3.01pm BST

Kramatorsk train station attack death toll rises to 50 – Donetsk governor

A quick snap from Reuters that Ukraine’s governor of Donetsk, Pavlo Kyrylenko, has said the death toll at Kramatorsk train station has risen to 50. That number includes five children.

The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, earlier said no Ukrainian troops were at the train station when it was attacked. The mayor of Kramatorsk said there were 4,000 people, most of them elderly, women and children, at the station at the time of the attack. Russia has denied it was responsible.

Luke Harding is in Kyiv for us, and here is his report: ‘Evil that has no limits’: Zelenskiy condemns Kramatorsk station attack[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/08/kramatorsk-train-station-ukraine-russia-rockets]

Related: ‘Evil that has no limits’: Zelenskiy condemns Kramatorsk station attack[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/08/kramatorsk-train-station-ukraine-russia-rockets]

* That is it from me, Martin Belam, from London for this week. I will be back on Monday. I’m handing you over to Léonie Chao-Fong again.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.27pm BST

block-time published-time 2.55pm BST

Russia has just announced that it is expelling 45 employees of the Polish embassy and consulate staff in retaliation for Poland’s actions. On 23 March, Poland’s interior minister Mariusz Kaminski has said his nation would expel “45 Russian spies pretending to be diplomats”.

In addition, Reuters reports Russia is expelling two Bulgarian diplomats from Moscow. Bulgaria had already recalled its ambassador from Moscow for consultations over “undiplomatic, sharp and rude” comments by the Russian ambassador to Sofia.

block-time published-time 2.52pm BST

Forensic investigators have began exhuming a mass grave in the Ukrainian town of Bucha, wrapping in black plastic and laying out the bodies of civilians who officials say were killed during a Russian invasion.

Ruslan Kravchenko from the prosecutor’s office in Bucha told Reuters they had exhumed 20 bodies, 18 of whom had firearms and shrapnel wounds. He said two women had been identified, one of whom had worked at a supermarket in the town centre.

“There are witnesses who can confirm that these people were killed by the Russian forces. Without any reason, they were just walking down the street or being evacuated,” he told Reuters. “Some of them were just speaking Ukrainian.”

Kravchenko said the forensic investigators would work to build up a picture of what happened to those buried in the mass grave, where the remains of corpses poked through the earth.

Since Russian troops pulled back from Bucha last week, Ukrainian officials say hundreds of civilians have been found dead. Bucha’s deputy mayor said more than 360 civilians were killed and around 260-280 were buried in the mass grave by other residents.

The figures have not been independently verified. The Kremlin said on Tuesday the allegations that Russian forces had executed civilians in Bucha were a “monstrous forgery”.

As part of their visit to Ukraine today, European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen and the EU’s top diplomatic official Josep Borrell visited the mass grave in Bucha, accompanied by Ukraine’s prime minister Denys Shmyhal.

Ursula von der Leyen visits Bucha with Josep Borrell and Denys Shmyhal. Photograph: Janis Laizans/Reuters

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.25pm BST

block-time published-time 2.37pm BST

Ukraine’s foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba has just tweeted to say he has had discussions with his counterpart from Bahrain, saying:

Spoke with foreign minister Dr Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani of Bahrain, who briefed me on results of his visit to Moscow. His message there was: Bahrain calls for peace. I informed on Russia’s war crimes, including the murderous missile strike on Kramatorsk train station.

enltrSpoke with Foreign Minister Dr. Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani of Bahrain, who briefed me on results of his visit to Moscow. His message there was: Bahrain calls for peace. I informed on Russia’s war crimes, including the murderous missile strike on Kramatorsk train station.

— Dmytro Kuleba (@DmytroKuleba) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/DmytroKuleba/status/1512423764658724867?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.45pm BST

block-time published-time 2.27pm BST

The German chancellor, Olaf Scholz, has arrived at 10 Downing Street in London, the official residence of the British prime minister, Boris Johnson, who greeted him.

Scholz arrives at 10 Downing Street. Photograph: Victoria Jones/PA

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.34pm BST

block-time published-time 2.15pm BST

The US embassy in Kyiv has paid no heed to any denials that Russian forces were behind the attack on Kramatorsk train station this morning. They have tweeted an image showing the aftermath of the strike, with the message:

The Russian missile attack on the Kramatorsk railway station, a hub for civilian evacuations, which left dozens of people killed and more than 100 injured, is one more atrocity committed by Russia in Ukraine. The world will hold Putin to account.

block-time published-time 2.12pm BST

There has been another set of diplomatic expulsions. This time Reuters reports it is Finland who are expelling two Russian diplomats, and they will discontinue the visa of another due to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

* It is Martin Belam back here on the blog for an hour – you can contact me at martin.belam@theguardian.com[mailto:martin.belam@theguardian.com]

block-time published-time 2.01pm BST

The number of people fleeing Ukraine has slowed but those now escaping have often spent weeks in “dire” conditions, the UN refugee agency said.

UNHCR said 4,382,316 Ukrainians had fled the country since the war began on 24 February, an increase of 62,822 on Wednesday’s figures. That figure includes 22,957 people who have gone to Russia since 29 March, following updated numbers from Moscow, AFP reports.

UNHCR spokesperson Matt Saltmarsh told reporters:

The war in Ukraine has triggered one of the fastest-growing displacement and humanitarian crises ever.

While the pace of arrivals is slowing, overall flows continue given the ongoing hostilities.

Agency staff had observed that newly arrived refugees were coming from various parts of the country, including the east, having spent weeks “hunkering down at home or in shelters in dire conditions”, he said.

People, mainly women and children, pass through Przemysl train station in Poland after fleeing from war-torn Ukraine on Thursday. Photograph: Jeff J Mitchell/Getty Images

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.09pm BST

block-time published-time 1.46pm BST

Russia has banned Chatham House from the country, declaring the London-based thinktank to be an “undesirable organisation” that presents a threat to Russia’s national security and constitutional order.

The decision was announced in a statement by the Russian prosecutor general on Friday.

The decision will ban Chatham House from any activities in Russia. The decision is also meant to have a chilling effect, preventing local organisations from maintaining ties with Chatham House or local media from citing the thinktank’s research.

Chatham House, also known as the Royal Institute of International Affairs, is a prominent UK policy institute with a dedicated Russia and Eurasia programme.

The “undesirable” label has been applied to numerous US non-governmental organisations such as the National Endowment for Democracy and International Republican Institute, as well as a number of UK-based NGOs.

Among them are the Khodorkovsky Foundation and several other NGOs tied to Mikhail Khodorkovsky, the exiled former oligarch who is now a top critic of Vladimir Putin.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.09pm BST

block-time published-time 1.26pm BST

Slovakia has given its S-300 air defence system to Ukraine to help it defend against Russia’s aggression, the Slovak prime minister, Eduard Heger, confirmed today, AFP reports.

In a statement posted on Facebook, Heger added that the move did not mean his country had joined the conflict with Russia:

I can confirm that the Slovak Republic has donated the S-300 air defence system to Ukraine, following Ukraine’s request for assistance.

The donation of the system does not mean that the Slovak Republic has become a part of the armed conflict in Ukraine.

enltrI would like to confirm that #Slovakia[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Slovakia?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] has provided #Ukraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] with an air-defence system S-300. #Ukrainian[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukrainian?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] nation is #bravely[https://twitter.com/hashtag/bravely?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] defending its sovereign country and us too. It is our duty to help, not to stay put and be ignorant to the loss of human lives under #Russia[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Russia?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] ’s agression.

— Eduard Heger (@eduardheger) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/eduardheger/status/1512386024399376389?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Slovakia’s defence “will be strengthened in the coming days by an additional missile defence system from our allies”, he added.

block-time published-time 1.06pm BST

Ukrainian servicemen stand next to a fragment of a Tochka-U missile with writing in Russian “for children” after Russian shelling at the railway station in Kramatorsk, Ukraine on Friday. Photograph: Andriy Andriyenko/AP

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.55pm BST

block-time published-time 12.56pm BST

‘Evil that has no limits’ – Zelenskiy condemns Russian strike on Kramatorsk train station

In a statement, President Volodymr Zelenskiy accused Russian forces of deliberately attacking civilians after a Russian rocket strike on Kramatorsk railway station in east Ukraine killed at least 39 people and wounded 87 others.

At least two children were among the dead, according to the head of Ukrainian railways. Kramatorsk Mayor Oleksander Honcharenko said about 4,000 people had been at the station at the time of the attack.

In a statement, the Ukrainian leader said:

Lacking the strength and courage to stand up to us on the battlefield, they are cynically destroying the civilian population.

This is an evil that has no limits. And if it is not punished, it will never stop.

In a later video address to Finland’s parliament, Zelenskiy said no Ukrainian troops had been at the station at the time of the attack.

Pavlo Kyrylenko, governor of Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk region, accused Russian forces of firing cluster munitions at the railway station, Reuters reports.

The governor shared a photograph showing several bodies lying on the ground beside piles of suitcases and other luggage adding:

The ‘Rashists’ (‘Russian fascists’) knew very well where they were aiming and what they wanted: they wanted to sow panic and fear, they wanted to take as many civilians as possible.

In an online briefing, Kyrylenko said:

If at the beginning they exclusively... targeted railway tracks, then now it’s not only tracks, but also firing a missile containing cluster munitions which are meant for people.

This is absolute confirmation that this (strike) was intended against civilians.

block-time published-time 12.38pm BST

Kramatorsk railway station[https://interactive.guim.co.uk/uploader/embed/2022/04/kramatorsk-map/giv-6562QqsRRuJQEl9L/]

block-time published-time 12.31pm BST

Russian strike on Kramatorsk station was 'deliberate slaughter' of civilians, Kuleba says

The Ukrainian foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, has accused Russia of the “deliberate slaughter” of dozens of civilians after a Russian rocket strike on the Kramatorsk railway station.

Kuleba wrote on Twitter:

Russians knew that the train station in Kramatorsk was full of civilians waiting to be evacuated. Yet they stroke it with a ballistic missile, killing at least 30 and injuring at least a hundred people.

This was a deliberate slaughter. We will bring each war criminal to justice.

Mykhailo Podolyak, a key adviser to President Zelenskiy, described the attack as “a deliberate act of intimidation”.

Podolyak tweeted:

The strike on the Kramatorsk railway station is a deliberate act of intimidation.

Dozens of dead and wounded civilians. Families with children who were trying to evacuate.

The world must understand: Russia is a state-terrorist. Buying its oil and gas is financing terrorism.

block-time published-time 12.20pm BST

Boris Johnson has moved to paper over differences with Germany on support for Ukraine, by hailing Berlin’s “principled determination” to end its dependency on Russian energy before a meeting in London with the German chancellor, Olaf Scholz.

It is the first meeting between the two men since the Social Democrat Scholz was elected to lead a three-party coalition government, and follows a week in which Germany[https://www.theguardian.com/world/germany] resisted British calls for the major economies to set out a timetable to end dependency on Russian energy.

In advance of the meeting with Scholz in Downing Street, the UK prime minister said:

I welcome his principled determination to end dependence on Russian energy. How we respond to Russia’s invasion will define the international order for years to come. We cannot let Putin’s crimes go unpunished.

Scholz has been criticised domestically and by Ukrainian politicians for not moving fast enough to wean Germany off its decades-old dependency on cheap Russian energy[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/04/pressure-mounts-germany-embargo-russian-energy-imports], and for being slow to back the transfer of the heavy weaponry Ukraine needs.

He has also been warned by German industrialists that an immediate gas embargo would lead to mass unemployment, a position largely shared by the Green party, his coalition partners.

Robert Habeck, the German economy and energy minister, has announced plans to stop importing oil and coal from Russia this year, and gas by mid-2024.

Related: Johnson hails German ‘determination’ over Ukraine before Scholz meeting[https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2022/apr/08/boris-johnson-hails-german-determination-over-ukraine-before-olaf-scholz-meeting]

block-time published-time 12.00pm BST

Death toll from Kramatorsk station strike rises to 39, governor says

At least 39 people were killed and 87 wounded in a Russian rocket strike on the Kramatorsk railway station packed with evacuees, regional Governor Pavlo Kyrylenko said, updating an earlier estimate of 30[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-624ff2738f083703c7bd83a9#block-624ff2738f083703c7bd83a9].

In an online post, the governor said many of the wounded were in a serious condition, Reuters reports.

Mayor Oleksander Honcharenko reportedly said hospitals cannot cope with the number of people wounded from the strike.

From Zaborona’s editor-in-chief, Katerina Sergatskova:

enltrThe mayor of Kramatorsk Olexander Honcharenko says after the Russian strike on the railway, hospitals can’t cope with the number of wounded.

“There are a lot of seriously injured people without arms and legs. They are being operated by 30-40 surgeons at the same time.”

— katerina sergatskova (@KSergatskova) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/KSergatskova/status/1512379454059859970?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said no Ukrainian troops were at the train station when it was attacked.

Speaking to the Finnish parliament, Zelenskiy said:

Russian forces hit the train station in Kramatorsk, (firing) on an ordinary train station, on ordinary people, there were no soldiers there.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.09pm BST

block-time published-time 11.43am BST

Russia denies responsibility for Kramatorsk station strike

The Kremlin has denied that Russia was involved in a missile strike on a railway station in Kramatorsk in eastern Ukraine, Reuters reports.

Speaking to reporters, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said the Russian armed forces had no missions scheduled for Kramatorsk on Friday.

Russia’s defence ministry has also denied that Russian forces were responsible for the strike, the Russian state-owned news agency RIA reported.

The Russian state-owned organisation quoted the ministry as saying that the missile was of a type used only by the Ukrainian military, and similar to one that hit the centre of the city of Donetsk on 14 March.

The Russian government has consistently denied[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/04/kremlin-reverts-to-type-in-response-to-alleged-war-crimes-in-ukraine] it has attacked civilians since the beginning of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.43am BST

block-time published-time 11.08am BST

Today so far

* A missile strike on Kramatorsk railway station in eastern Ukraine has left at least 30 people dead and more than 100 wounded, according to reports from Ukraine’s state train company. The mayor of Kramatorsk said there were 4,000 people, most of them elderly, women and children, at the station at the time of the attack. Russia has denied it was responsible.

* Ukraine has announced that today it is aiming to open 10 humanitarian corridors for civilian evacuations. Once again, civilians hoping to escape from Mariupol will have to use their own vehicles – there will be no convoy of buses.

* The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, said the situation in the town of Borodianka was “much worse” than in nearby Bucha.

* The Kremlin has admitted suffering “significant losses” of troops since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine, in a rare admission of how badly the war has gone for Moscow so far. In an interview with Sky News, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov asked whether the war had amounted to a humiliation for Russia given the number of troops lost. He replied: “We have significant losses of troops. And it’s a huge tragedy for us.”

* Russian forces have now fully withdrawn from Ukraine’s north to Belarus and Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia], the UK’s ministry of defence has said. “At least some of these forces will be transferred to East Ukraine to fight in the Donbas,” the report[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1512284278813597702?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1512284278813597702%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_c10&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theguardian.com%2Fworld%2Flive%2F2022%2Fapr%2F08%2Frussia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live] added.

* Russia says it has destroyed a training centre for foreign mercenaries in Ukraine, north of Odesa, without providing evidence.

* Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Zelenskiy, said any temporary truce with Russia would just be a war postponed for the future, and that Ukraine is working on the possibility of evacuating civilians from Mariupol by sea.

* The Ukrainian prime minister, Denys Shmyhal, said this year’s grain harvest was likely to be 20% less than last year because of a reduced sowing area after Russia’s invasion.

* Vadym Prystaiko, Ukraine’s ambassador to the UK, invited Peskov to come to Bucha to see for himself “if he has stomach to face these people” after Peskov denied Russian troops had committed any atrocities there. Ukraine is investigating 5,149 alleged cases of war crimes committed by Russian forces, the prosecutor’s office has revealed.

* Prystaiko also tried to reassure people that Ukraine would investigate any claims of war crimes against its troops, saying “We’re making this very clear to all our soldiers that there are some limits. ?he military are fighting. There are some limits. And each and every incident will be investigated.”

* The president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, and EU representative Josep Borrell are on their way to Kyiv. Von der Leyen shared a photo of herself stepping off a Ukrainian train alongside the caption “looking forward to Kyiv”.

* The UK has added the Russian president Vladimir Putin ’s daughters to its sanctions list, along with the daughter of Russia’s foreign minister Sergei Lavrov.

* UK prime minister Boris Johnson is set to meet the German Chancellor Olaf Scholz in London later today as they look to discuss how to help European countries wean themselves off Russian gas[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-624fbefc8f083703c7bd8247#block-624fbefc8f083703c7bd8247]

* The UK’s home office says that 12,000 people had arrived in the UK under the Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] visa schemes as of Tuesday.

* Nobel Prize winning newspaper editor Dmitry Muratov says he was attacked on a train in Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] on Thursday by an assailant who poured red paint on him.

* In diplomatic developments, Poland ’s ambassador to Russia has been summoned to the Russian foreign ministry. Japan has announced that it is expelling eight Russian diplomats, and Montenegro has ordered the expulsion of four Russian diplomats

That is it from me, Martin Belam, for now. I will be back later. I am handing you over to Léonie Chao-Fong for the next few hours.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.35pm BST

block-time published-time 10.49am BST

Kramatorsk mayor: 4,000 people were at Kramatorsk train station when it was struck

Reuters is quoting the mayor of Kramatorsk saying that about 4,000 people, most of them elderly, women and children, were at the railway station when it was hit by Russian rockets.

Russia’s defence ministry has just issued a denial via the RIA news agency that it attacked the station.

A general view shows personal belongings of victims and burnt-out vehicles after a rocket attack on the railway station in the eastern city of Kramatorsk. Photograph: Herve Bar/AFP/Getty Images

It is currently believed that at least 30 people were killed and 100 people wounded, according to figures issued by Ukraine’s state railway company.

block-time published-time 10.38am BST

Some images have been arriving over the newswires from the attack on Kramatorsk railyway station in eastern Ukraine.

In this picture, the remains of a rocket with the lettering “for our children” lie on an area of grass near to the station.

Reports say more than 30 people were killed and over 100 injured in a rocket attack on a train station in Kramatorsk in eastern Ukraine. Photograph: Herve Bar/AFP/Getty Images

This image shows the personal belongings of some of the victims and damage to the station after the attack.

The aftermath of a rocket attack on the railway station in the eastern city of Kramatorsk. Photograph: Herve Bar/AFP/Getty Images

Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, has shared a graphic 10-second clip of the aftermath of the attack on his official Telegram channel.

Reuters reports that Eduard Basurin, the commander of the separatists in Donetsk, has already decried reports of the attack to news agency Tass as a Ukrainian “provocation”.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.58am BST

block-time published-time 10.25am BST

UK's home office says 12,000 people have arrived under Ukraine visa schemes

The UK’s home office says that 12,000 people had arrived in the UK under the Ukraine visa schemes as of Tuesday.

About 10,800 people had arrived under the Ukraine family scheme, and 1,200 under the Homes for Ukraine sponsorship scheme, provisional data published on the department’s website shows.

About 79,800 applications have been received for both schemes and 40,900 visas had been granted, the UK government said.

PA Media quotes a pre-recorded interview with the UK home secretary, Priti Patel, which was broadcast on the BBC this morning. She said:

We are an independent third country and we want to give people the status and security of coming to our country along with the warm welcome. Yes, we want to welcome people, we are welcoming people. We have to ensure that they are protected and safeguarded in the United Kingdom as well.

Earlier on Sky News in the UK, the shadow attorney general, Emily Thornberry, criticised the government, saying the home office knew “that it was going to happen”, but then was not prepared for it.

What we’ve done in other cases, we have specialised schemes, so on Hong Kong or Afghanistan, we had special tailored schemes. We should have done the same with Ukraine. But instead we had the home office, kind of putting their fingers in their ears and saying ‘la la la la’. And as people were coming across the border, they were still resisting it. You will remember the Ukrainians being told you can pick fruit if you want to come into the UK. We should have had a proper scheme ready to go.

Updated at 10.59am BST

10.21am BST

UK sanctions President Vladimir Putin's daughters

Britain has added the Russian president Vladimir Putin’s daughters to its sanctions list, mirroring moves by the United States.

Reuters reports an update to the sanctions list announced asset freezes on Katerina Tikhonova and Maria Vorontsova, who were named in US sanctions on Wednesday as Putin’s two adult daughters.

The Foreign Office was also targeting the daughters of the Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, with travel bans and asset freezes.

PA Media quotes a foreign office statement that said: “The lavish lifestyles of the Kremlin’s inner circle will be further targeted from today as the UK sanctions the adult daughters of President Vladimir Putin and his foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov.

“Katerina Vladimirovna Tikhonova and Maria Vladimirovna Vorontsova, the daughters of President Putin, and Yekaterina Sergeyevna Vinokurova, daughter of foreign minister Sergei Lavrov, will be subject to travel bans and asset freezes.”

Updated at 10.59am BST

10.10am BST

Nobel Prize winning newspaper editor Dmitry Muratov says he was attacked on a train in Russia on Thursday by an assailant who poured red paint on him.

Muratov said that the incident happened on a train heading from Moscow to Samara. In a post to the Novaya Gazeta Europe’s Telegram channel he said the assailant shouted “Muratov, here’s one for our boys” and that as a result of the assault his eyes “are burning terribly”. He accompanied the post with a selfie taken in the bathroom compartment of a train.

Novaya Gazeta Europe is a newly launched project by the staff at Novaya Gazeta, which was Russia’s leading independent newspaper. It announced 28 March that it was suspending operations [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/28/russian-news-outlet-novaya-gazeta-to-close-until-end-of-ukraine-war] for the duration of what it referred to as “the special operation” in Ukraine. That is the term that Russian authorities insist domestic media outlets must use for the war on Ukraine.

The shutdown came after the paper received a second formal warning from the Russian media regulator Roskomnadzor. Novaya Gazeta removed much of its war reporting from its website after Russia passed a law threatening jail terms of up to 15 years for information deemed to be “fake” by Russian authorities.

Longtime editor Muratov shared the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize with Maria Ressa[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/dec/10/journalists-maria-ressa-and-dmitry-muratov-receive-nobel-peace-prize], a journalist from the Philippines. Novaya Gazeta was established by Muratov and colleagues in 1993, and it investigated corruption inside and outside Russia, as well as the long wars in Chechnya. Six of the paper’s reporters and contributors have been murdered for their work. In 2021 Novaya Gazeta said its offices in Moscow had been targeted with a “chemical attack”.

10.02am BST

Some diplomatic developments being reported by Reuters here – the Polish foreign ministry says that Poland’s ambassador to Russia has been summoned to the Russian foreign ministry.

On 23 March Poland’s interior minister Mariusz Kaminski said Poland had “expelled 45 Russian spies pretending to be diplomats.” At the time Russia vowed to retaliate.

At the same time, Japan has announced that it is expelling eight Russian diplomats, saying it was in response to Russia’s actions in Ukraine, including the killing of civilians. The eight diplomats included several trade officials but not the ambassador, Mikhail Galuzin, foreign ministry officials said.

AFP, meanwhile, is reporting that Montenegro has ordered the expulsion of four Russian diplomats, citing “violation of diplomatic norms.”

The diplomats have to leave the Balkan nation within a week, the ministry said in a statement, without elaborating further.

The Pobjeda daily newspaper reported that the diplomats were expelled over their “subversive activities,” quoting a government source as saying that a “red line has been crossed.”

Podgorica had previously expelled one Russian diplomat after Russia invaded Ukraine in February.

9.52am BST

A little more from Vadym Prystaiko, Ukraine’s ambassador to the UK. He was asked on Sky News earlier this morning how optimistic he was for an end to the war. He said:

We’re making this, we’re trying to build up a very, very uneasy very, very difficult compromise. And so many Ukrainians are not happy with the attempts of the government to find some ground with Russia. People, in most of the cases, don’t even understand how can we sit at the table with those who are just killing each and every day our people. But that’s the nature of any war. They will have to come to an end and we will.

He was speaking before the news of the attack on Kramatorsk train station broke.

Earlier, Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukraine’s president, said any temporary truce with Russia would just be a war postponed for the future, and Ukraine does not need this.

9.32am BST

30 people killed, more than 100 wounded in Russian strike on train station in eastern Ukraine – reports

Ukraine’s state railway company say that more than 30 people have been killed and more than 100 were wounded after two Russian rockets struck Kramatorskrailway station in east Ukraine.

The Donetsk governor, Pavlo Kyrylenko, said thousands of civilians were at the station trying to evacuate to safer areas of Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] when it was hit.

Reuters report that three trains carrying evacuees were blocked in the same part of Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] on Thursday after an airstrike on the line, according to the head of Ukrainian Railways.

Updated at 10.00am BST

9.24am BST

'Dozens' of civilians feared killed or wounded in Russian missile strike on Kramatorsk train station – Donetsk governor

Reuters is carrying a little more detail on the reported strike on Kramatorsk railway station in east Ukraine. They cite Ukraine’s Donetsk governor, Pavlo Kyrylenko, who says that thousands of civilians were at the station trying to evacuate to safer areas of Ukraine. Quoting police and rescue workers, he said dozens were feared killed or wounded in the rocket strike.

9.13am BST

While people in the east of Ukraine are still under Russian bombardment and attempting to flee, the situation is now different in Kyiv, with Russian forces having retreated from the areas around Ukraine’s capital. Consequently people are now queuing at Przemysl station in south-eastern Poland to return to Kyiv. Here are a couple of pictures of the scenes last night.

Updated at 9.15am BST

9.06am BST

Two Russian rockets have struck railway station in eastern Ukraine, causing casualties – reports

Two Russian rockets have struck a railway station in Kramatorsk in eastern Ukraine, causing casualties, Ukraine’s state railway company has said. Reuters reports the station is used to evacuate civilians from areas under bombardment from Russian forces.

Three trains carrying evacuees were blocked in the same region of Ukraine on Thursday after an air strike on the line, according to the head of Ukrainian Railways.

The report of the attack has not been independently verified. This is a photograph of scenes at the station yesterday, with people queuing for trains in large numbers. Kramatorsk is in Donetsk Oblast.

Updated at 9.17am BST

9.01am BST

Ukraine’s ambassador to the UK, Vadym Prystaiko, was asked on British TV about reports of potential war crimes being committed by Ukrainian forces, referring specifically to a video that appears to show Ukrainian soldiers shooting Russian prisoner of war[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/07/video-appears-to-show-ukrainian-soldiers-shooting-russian-prisoners-of-war]. He was asked on Sky News what level of committment Ukraine had to investigating itself. He said:

We’re making this very clear to all our soldiers that there are some limits. ?he military are fighting. There are some limits. And each and every incident will be investigated.

However, he went on to attempt to draw a distinction between the allegations levelled at Russian forces and those made against Ukraine’s military. He said:

On a separate note, we’re talking about civilians, and Russians are killing, raping, just our civilian people. There are differences. All of us hate the war as it is, with people killing each other, but there is a difference, when you kill and shoot at military when you’re fighting, and when you kill innocent civilians.

Updated at 9.30am BST

8.53am BST

Also during his television interview in the UK, Vadym Prystaiko, Ukraine’s ambassador to the UK, responded to Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov ’s denials that any war crimes have been committed. He described it as “nothing unexpected.”

He said “That’s the first appearance to the wider TV audience on the world stage, but the message is the same. ‘We have to defend ourselves by killing and coming to Ukraine’. At least he recognised that they’re losing soldiers left and right.”

Prystaiko suggested that if Russia was so sure that alleged atrocities in Bucha and elsewhere were faked, there was a simple option:

They can join the international investigation effort. They can come with anybody else and check it. If he has stomach to face these people. He can come to Bucha himself and check it and see it.

8.47am BST

Ukraine's ambassador to the UK calls for Nato ships in the Black Sea

Vadym Prystaiko, Ukraine’s ambassador to the UK, has appeared on Sky News in the UK, and called for Nato and other international forces to play a more active role in the Black Sea, saying:

We have to unlock the Black Sea. Russians block the sea for us. That’s our own sea. We need this for humanitarian assistance to come in Ukraine.

And we actually have it so to allow Ukrainian exports – mostly grains – to go out. We are responsible for a significant chunk of food security around the globe. Many nations in Africa are fed because of Ukrainian grain. And this grain is stuck in our silos, it can’t be exported, it can’t be sent anywhere.

He suggested it would not be such a big shift of current policy, saying:

Nato ships in the Black Sea. They’re welcome in our sea. And there are members of Nato. Three of the main members of Nato [are] within the basin: Turkey, Romania and Bulgaria. So they’re already there. It’s not a big deal. We need to have somebody to reinforce the effort, yes, to come, and be invited to Odesa, all the way in.

Yesterday, Turkey called a videoconference for countries bordering the Black Sea. Turkey said the defence ministers of Bulgaria, Georgia, Poland, Romania and Ukraine joined the call, which discussed mines floating in the sea and regional security. Turkish military diving teams have so far detonated three separate floating naval mines in the Black Sea, while Romania has also defused a stray mine in its waters since the war on Ukraine started.

Updated at 9.12am BST

8.29am BST

Russia says it has destroyed a training centre for foreign mercenaries in Ukraine, north of Odesa. The claim has been reported by Russian news agency Tass via Reuters. It has not been independently verified.

8.28am BST

In the UK, opposition party Labour’s shadow attorney general, Emily Thornberry, has been appearing on Sky News. In response to Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov ’s denials that any war crimes have been committed, she said “I think they’re very good at fake news.”

She said:

We just have to carry on telling the truth. But more importantly, gathering the information so that when the time comes, we can take out prosecutions against the relevant people. We must hold them to account for the war crimes that they’ve obviously committed. And I mean, the truth is, the evidence that we have at the moment is just the tip of the iceberg. My fear, you know, because we’re only seeing it from the towns and villages where the Russians have withdrawn. There are many other towns and villages where the Russians are still in occupation.

In terms of prosecuting those responsible for some of the images that we have seen emerging from Ukraine, despite Russia’s withdrawal in 2016 from the international criminal court statute[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2016/nov/16/russia-withdraws-signature-from-international-criminal-court-statute], Thornberry said “where there’s a will”, adding:

Remember, people couldn’t believe that we would ever be able to hold the murderers in Yugoslavia to account, and yet we did in the end, and we got most of the major players, stood trial rightly, and now behind bars.

Updated at 9.11am BST

8.19am BST

Ukraine PM: grain harvest likely to be 20% less than last year

The Ukrainian prime minister, Denys Shmyhal, said this year’s grain harvest was likely to be 20% less than last year because of a reduced sowing area after Russia’s invasion. He said there was a shortage of fuel for farmers but Ukraine knew how to keep them supplied. Reuters reports he also said Ukraine had large stocks of grain, cereals and vegetable oil, and could feed its population.

Updated at 9.12am BST

8.11am BST

Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, has been speaking and Reuters is carrying the following key lines:

* He says that Russian forces “have no advantage” on warfronts.

* He said negotiations with Russia continue online constantly but the mood changed after the events in Bucha.

* He suggested that any temporary truce with Russia would just be a war postponed for the future, and Ukraine does not need this.

* Podolyak says Ukraine is working on the possibility of evacuating civilians from Mariupol by sea.

Updated at 9.10am BST

7.50am BST

Fabrice Pothier, a former Nato director of policy planning, has been interviewed on Sky News in the UK. He said that Nato needed to do more, saying:

It’s possible and it’s necessary because the choice here is whether we are entering a very long war of attrition, with entire cities in the Donbas and eastern Ukraine being basically wiped out and civilians obviously killed by the thousands, or whether we are trying to help Zelenskiy finish this war on terms that are actually acceptable to him and the Ukrainian population.

Asked about the reported large losses of Russian troops, Pothier said from Brussels that in some ways Russia admitting this was unavoidable, because “the dead Russian soldiers have to come back home.”

However, he made the point that there was also some propaganda value for the Kremlin in losses. He told viewers:

There’s also this kind of Putin narrative of idolising violence, and the sacrifice of violence, and that the ‘special operation’ requires special sacrifices. Clearly he’s saying that to his population on the economic sanctions.

And now they seem to be developing the narrative that yes, there are many soldiers die, but it’s worth it. So never underestimate the Kremlin capacity to turn something terrible into actually a kind of positive narrative to sustain the propaganda.

Updated at 9.09am BST

7.38am BST

Lithuania’s ambassador to Ukraine has returned to Kyiv after Russian forces withdrew from the Ukrainian capital, becoming one of the few diplomats to return to the city.

“I have just walked through the embassy door,” ambassador Valdemaras Sarapinas told Agence France-Presse on Thursday. “Political and moral support is very important for the Ukrainians,” he added.

Like many others[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/13/it-is-past-time-to-leave-ukraine-western-diplomats-flee-kyiv], the diplomat left Kyiv as a result of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and had worked since from the western city of Lviv.

Sarapinas’s return came a day after Turkey announced it had moved its embassy in Ukraine back to Kyiv after having temporarily relocated it to Chernivtsi near the Romanian border.

Poland and the Holy See were among the few who had maintained their representation in the city.

Sarapinas said the city was “certainly” different following the Russian troop withdrawal from areas around the capital. “Two weeks ago, it was a dead city... Now there is life,” he said.

7.30am BST

There is a quick snap from Reuters that the governor of Ukraine’s Luhansk region says that Russia is accumulating forces, but they have not broken through Ukrainian defences in the east of the country.

7.24am BST

Conservative MP Tobias Ellwood, who is chair of the commons defence select committee, has been on Sky News in the UK. He responded to Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov’s denials that any war crimes have been committed, saying:

It was important for us to hear the diet of news that the Russian people are experiencing. We must brace ourselves, I think, for more horrors to be revealed. More war crimes to be exposed as Russian troops withdraw. But the spokesperson Dmitry Peskov was very, very clear, this is far from over. And there is another dark chapter soon to follow.

He criticised Nato for being too slow to support Ukraine with equipment and for having “simply daft arguments about whether weapons systems are indeed defensive or offensive”.

He said that the alliance might have given them enough weapons not to lose, but “not enough to ensure that they win”.

He suggested that the west had been “too easily spooked by the Kremlin rhetoric” and deterred from acting more decisively, saying “we need to have better confidence and understanding of the escalatory ladder, as we did during the Cold War.”

He added:

What we should take away from that Peskov interview is the fact that Putin is very secure in his job. He’s not scared of any war crimes. He’s not scared of breaching the Geneva Conventions. In fact, he’s taken advantage of the West’s timidity. We’ve given him space to conduct these horrors and that needs to stop.

He urged Nato to take stronger action so that Ukraine can defend Odesa, observing that:

Odesa is a critical port in the south. If that falls, Ukraine will become landlocked. Vital grain exports that we all depend on will not be able to get out. But more importantly, Putin will be able to declare a win.

Updated at 7.37am BST

7.08am BST

Ukraine has announced that today it is aiming to open ten humanitarian corridors for civilian evacuations. Reuters reports that once again, civilians hoping to escape from Mariupol will have to use their own vehicles – there will be no convoy of buses.

* This is Martin Belam taking over the blog in London for the next few hours. You can email me at martin.belam@theguardian.com[mailto:martin.belam@theguardian.com]

7.08am BST

Ukraine is investigating 5,149 alleged cases of war crimes committed by Russian forces, the prosecutor’s office has revealed.

#RussianWarCrimes[https://twitter.com/hashtag/RussianWarCrimes?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] pic.twitter.com/l5DHchEWRF[https://t.co/l5DHchEWRF]

— ???? ???????????? ????????? (@GP_Ukraine) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/GP_Ukraine/status/1512305536443854848?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

7.03am BST

Today so far

* The President of the European Commission and EU representative Josep Borrell appear to be on their way to Kyiv this morning. Ursula von der Leyen shared a photo of herself stepping off a Ukrainian train alongside the caption “looking forward to Kyiv”.

* Boris Johnson is set to meet the German Chancellor later today as they look to discuss how to help European countries wean themselves off Russian gas[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/08/russia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live?page=with:block-624fbefc8f083703c7bd8247#block-624fbefc8f083703c7bd8247] following the attack on Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine]. Johnson will host Olaf Scholz at Downing Street on Friday, with a press conference planned for the afternoon, PA Media reports.

* Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said that the situation in the town of Borodyanka was “much worse” than in nearby Bucha, where Russian forces’ suspected killings of civilians received global condemnation. Ukraine’s prosecutor general, Iryna Venediktova, added: “Borodyanka is the worst in terms of destruction and in terms of the uncertainty about [the number of] victims.”

* The Kremlin has admitted suffering “significant losses” of troops since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine, in a rare admission of how badly the war has gone. In an interview with Sky News, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov asked whether the war had amounted to a humiliation for Russia given the number of troops lost. He replied: “We have significant losses of troops. And it’s a huge tragedy for us.”

* Russian forces have now fully withdrawn from Ukraine’s north to Belarus and Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia], the UK’s ministry of defence has said. “At least some of these forces will be transferred to East Ukraine to fight in the Donbas,” the report[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1512284278813597702?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1512284278813597702%7Ctwgr%5E%7Ctwcon%5Es1_c10&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theguardian.com%2Fworld%2Flive%2F2022%2Fapr%2F08%2Frussia-ukraine-war-latest-news-zelenskiy-says-borodyanka-much-worse-than-bucha-johnson-to-meet-scholz-live] added.

* The Sumy region in north-eastern Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] is now free of Russian forces, according to the city’s mayor. Dmytro Zhyvytsky said the region is free of Russian forces but explosions may still be heard as rescue service workers dispose of ammunition left by the Russian military in an update[https://t.me/Zhyvytskyy/1535] posted to his official Telegram channel.

* The European Union approved an embargo on Russian coal imports and the closing of the bloc’s ports to Russian vessels over the Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] war. The measure will take effect from mid-August.

* In addition to the sanctions, the EU also backed a proposal to boost its funding of arms supplies to Ukraine by 500 million euros, taking it to a total of 1.5 billion euros.

* Britain is preparing to announce a fresh package of military aid [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/07/uk-and-ukrainian-ministers-meet-to-plan-next-round-of-military-aid] for Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/07/uk-and-ukrainian-ministers-meet-to-plan-next-round-of-military-aid] and has demonstrated new missile systems and armoured vehicles that it believes can help Kyiv in the next phases of fighting.

* The World Health Organization (WHO) said it had confirmed more than 100 attacks on health services in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine], as it called for humanitarian access to the besieged city of Mariupol.

* The United Nations general assembly voted to suspend Russia from the UN human rights council over reports of “gross and systematic violations and abuses of human rights” by invading Russian troops in Ukraine. Ninety-three countries voted in favour of the US-led motion[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/07/russia-ukraine-war-nato-foreign-ministers-to-meet-as-zelenskiy-dismisses-fresh-sanctions-live-news?page=with:block-624f08fa8f0887d7b40d5d7e#block-624f08fa8f0887d7b40d5d7e], while 24 countries voted against and 58 countries abstained.

* The prospect of Finland and Sweden joining Nato was part of the discussion between foreign ministers from the military alliance in Brussels this week, a senior US State Department official said.

* Russia has imposed sanctions on Australian and New Zealand citizens, including their prime ministers, the Russian foreign ministry announced.

* Fox News correspondent Benjamin Hall, who was wounded in Ukraine during an attack that killed two of his colleagues, said on Thursday that he had sustained serious injuries but felt “pretty damn lucky” to have survived.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/08/fox-news-reporter-injured-in-kyiv-attack-says-he-is-pretty-damn-lucky-to-be-alive]

6.47am BST

The President of the European Commission and EU representative Josep Borrell appear to be on their way to Kyiv this morning.

Ursula von der Leyen shared a photo of herself stepping off a Ukrainian train alongside the caption “looking forward to Kyiv”.

Similarly, Borell shared a snap writing: “Going to Kyiv”.

Looking forward to Kyiv. @JosepBorrellF[https://twitter.com/JosepBorrellF?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] @eduardheger[https://twitter.com/eduardheger?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] pic.twitter.com/YFAgGr5Tlc[https://t.co/YFAgGr5Tlc]

— Ursula von der Leyen (@vonderleyen) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/vonderleyen/status/1512303926032359428?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

?? ????? ?? ?????!

Going to Kyiv. #StandWithUkraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithUkraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] @vonderleyen[https://twitter.com/vonderleyen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] @eduardheger[https://twitter.com/eduardheger?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] pic.twitter.com/Lw8UaQUZgB[https://t.co/Lw8UaQUZgB]

— Josep Borrell Fontelles (@JosepBorrellF) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/JosepBorrellF/status/1512304450194579459?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

6.44am BST

Kremlin admits 'significant losses' of troops

In case you missed our earlier report[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/08/russia-laments-tragedy-of-troop-deaths-as-zelenskiy-warns-of-atrocities-in-borodyanka], Russia has given the most sombre assessment so far of its invasion of Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine], describing the “tragedy” of mounting troop losses.

Moscow has previously acknowledged its attack has not progressed as quickly as it wanted, but on Thursday Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov lamented the rising death toll.

In an interview with Sky News, Peskov was asked whether the war had amounted to a humiliation for Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] given the number of troops lost.

Peskov replied:

We have significant losses of troops. And it’s a huge tragedy for us.

He did not specific a casualty toll. In late March, Russia said it had lost 1,351 soldiers, with another 3,825 wounded. By contrast, a senior Nato official estimated[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/03/24/russia-troops-casualties-nato-ukraine/] in late March that between 7,000 and 15,000 Russian soldiers had been killed in four weeks of fighting in Ukraine.

"We have significant losses of troops".

Vladimir Putin's press secretary Dmitry Peskov says it's a "huge tragedy to us" to have lost Russian troops during the war in Ukraine. https://t.co/X3flQUBL0r[https://t.co/X3flQUBL0r]

?? Sky 501, Virgin 602, Freeview 233 and YouTube pic.twitter.com/PGHoFvdewb[https://t.co/PGHoFvdewb]

— Sky News (@SkyNews) April 7, 2022[https://twitter.com/SkyNews/status/1512111219028733955?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

6.34am BST

Sumy free of Russian forces, mayor says

The Sumy region in north-eastern Ukraine is now free of Russian forces, according to the city’s mayor.

Dmytro Zhyvytsky said the region is free of Russian forces but explosions may still be heard as rescue service workers dispose of ammunition left by the Russian military in an update[https://t.me/Zhyvytskyy/1535] posted to his official Telegram channel.

“If you hear explosions (and there have been many in recent days) - it’s rescuers and explosives. They are neutralising the ammunition left by the Russian military on our land,” he said, adding that the region is still not safe.

“There are a lot of mined and unexplored areas. Do not drive on the roadsides and do not use forest roads. Do not approach destroyed equipment,” he said.

??Sumy region completely free of Russian forces.

Sumy Oblast Governor Dmytro Zhyvytsky announced on Facebook that the region is clear of Russia's forces, but that explosions may still be heard as rescue service workers dispose of ammunition left by the Russian military.

— The Kyiv Independent (@KyivIndependent) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1512263053777195030?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Updated at 6.39am BST

6.22am BST

More devastating images are surfacing highlighting the destruction inflicted on the northern Ukrainian town of Bucha.

Buildings lie destroyed and in disrepair, soldiers walk by children playing amid the wreckage of war in the streets and firefighters are seen cleaning debris of a collapsed building in search of the dead bodies of those killed by collapsed buildings.

6.07am BST

EU approves embargo on Russian coal imports

The European Union has approved an embargo on Russian coal imports and the closing of the bloc’s ports to Russian vessels over the Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] war.

The measure will take effect from mid-August, a month later than originally planned, following pressure from Germany to delay, reports Reuters news agency.

That package also includes a 10 billion euro ban on exports to Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia], including high-tech goods, and the freezing of several Russian banks’ assets.

The French presidency of the European Council said the sanction was estimated to be worth 4bn euros ($4.4bn) per year.

EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that, if not natural gas, oil would follow soon.

The new coal sanction had to be agreed by all 27 member states and there had been concerns from some members about the impact. The EU nations import 45% of their coal from Russia, worth 4 billion euros a year.

In addition to the sanctions, the EU also backed a proposal to boost its funding of arms supplies to Ukraine by 500 million euros, taking it to a total of 1.5 billion euros.

It is the first time the Europeans have targeted the Russian energy sector, on which they are heavily dependent.

In addition to the sanctions, the EU also backed a proposal to boost its funding of arms supplies to Ukraine by 500 million euros, taking it to a total of 1.5 billion euros.

“Once swiftly approved this will bring to 1.5 billion euros the EU support already provided for military equipment for Ukraine,” European Council chief Charles Michel tweeted, also thanking EU diplomatic chief Josep Borrell for proposing the extra funding.

5.55am BST

Johnson and Scholz to discuss reducing dependence on Russian gas

Boris Johnson is set to meet the German Chancellor as they look to discuss how to help European countries wean themselves off Russian gas following the attack on Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine].

The prime minister will host Olaf Scholz at Downing Street on Friday, with a press conference planned for the afternoon, PA Media reports.

Johnson is expected to offer assistance to Berlin, which is still heavily reliant on Russian gas, to reduce its dependence on Moscow’s energy exports in a bid to starve Vladimir Putin’s war machine of funds.

It comes after UK foreign secretary Liz Truss, following a meeting of Nato counterparts in Brussels on Thursday, said she hoped to see “more countries” commit to banning Russian energy imports.

The UK has pledged to end all imports of Russian coal and oil by the end of 2022, with gas to follow as soon as possible.

Germany has faced criticism from Ukraine and other European nations, including Poland, with claims it has been too slow to phase out Russian energy.

Robert Habeck, the German economy and energy minister, has announced plans to stop importing oil and coal from Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] this year, and gas by mid-2024.

Updated at 5.57am BST

5.43am BST

Situation in Borodianka 'much worse' than Bucha, Zelenskiy says

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said on Thursday that the situation in the town of Borodianka was “much worse” than in nearby Bucha, where Russian forces’ suspected killings of civilians received global condemnation.

Officials believe more than 300 people were killed by Russian forces in Bucha, 35km north-west of the capital Kyiv, and around 50 of them were executed.

Moscow has denied targeting civilians and says images of bodies in Bucha were staged by the Ukrainian government to justify more sanctions against Moscow and derail peace negotiations.

“ The work on dismantling the debris in Borodianka began... It’s much worse there,” Zelenskiy said in a late-night national address.

The town is about 25 km from Bucha.

Zelenskiy did not provide any further detail or evidence that Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] was responsible for civilian deaths in the town.

Earlier on Thursday, Ukraine’s prosecutor general, Iryna Venediktova, said 26 bodies had been found under two ruined buildings in Borodianka.

She did not say if the authorities had established the cause of death, but accused Russian troops of carrying out airstrikes on the town, which is being searched by Ukrainian authorities after Russian troops occupying it withdrew.

Speaking in a televised briefing, Venediktova said:

Borodianka is the worst in terms of destruction and in terms of the uncertainty about [the number of] victims.”

On Tuesday, Venediktova said the number of victims in Borodianka would be higher than anywhere else, but did not provide further details.

Updated at 2.35pm BST

5.36am BST

Russian forces fully withdrawn from Ukraine’s north, UK MoD says

Russian forces have now fully withdrawn from Ukraine’s north to Belarus and Russia, the UK’s ministry of defence has said.

The latest intelligence report, released just after 6am, reads:

In the north, Russian forces have now fully withdrawn from Ukraine to Belarus and Russia. At least some of these forces will be transferred to East Ukraine to fight in the Donbas.

At least some of these forces will be transferred to East Ukraine to fight in the Donbas.

Many of these forces will require significant replenishment before being ready to deploy further east, with any mass redeployment from the north likely to take at least a week minimum.

Russian shelling of cities in the east and south continues and Russian forces have advanced further south from the strategically important city of Izium which remains under their control.”

Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 8 April 2022

Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/lrfW1pqwQe[https://t.co/lrfW1pqwQe]

???? #StandWithUkraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithUkraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] ???? pic.twitter.com/WPHtWTQEnp[https://t.co/WPHtWTQEnp]

— Ministry of Defence ???? (@DefenceHQ) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1512284278813597702?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

5.33am BST

Fox News correspondent 'pretty damn lucky' to survive attack in Ukraine

We have a little more detail on the Fox News correspondent who was wounded in Ukraine.

Benjamin Hall said he sustained serious injuries in the attack that killed two of his colleagues but felt “pretty damn lucky” to have survived.

Benjamin Hall was riding in a vehicle with Fox News cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski and Ukrainian journalist Oleksandra “Sasha” Kuvshynova last month when it was struck by incoming fire near Kyiv. Zakrzewski, 55, and Kuvshynova, 24, were killed.

“To sum it up, I’ve lost half a leg on one side and a foot on the other. One hand is being put together, one eye is no longer working, and my hearing is pretty blown,” Hall said in a Twitter post along with a photo of himself on a stretcher, wearing an eye patch.

Its been over three weeks since the attack in Ukraine and I wanted to start sharing it all. But first I need to pay tribute to my colleagues Pierre and Sasha who didnt make it that day. Pierre and I traveled the world together, working was his joy and his joy was infectious. RIP pic.twitter.com/gbHduLmd5e[https://t.co/gbHduLmd5e]

— Benjamin Hall (@BenjaminHallFNC) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/BenjaminHallFNC/status/1512233745063063595?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

“But all in all I feel pretty damn lucky to be here - and it is the people who got me here who are amazing!,” Hall said.

In an earlier tweet, his first since the attack, Hall paid tribute to his two fallen colleagues.

Zakrzewski was a veteran war-zone photographer who had covered multiple conflicts for Fox News, including in Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria. Based in London, he had been working in Ukraine since February.

Kuvshynova had been helping Fox’s crews navigate Kyiv and the surrounding area while gathering information and speaking with sources.

To sum it up, I've lost half a leg on one side and a foot on the other. One hand is being put together, one eye is no longer working, and my hearing is pretty blown… but all in all I feel pretty damn lucky to be here - and it is the people who got me here who are amazing! pic.twitter.com/HNjO6PbdGf[https://t.co/HNjO6PbdGf]

— Benjamin Hall (@BenjaminHallFNC) April 8, 2022[https://twitter.com/BenjaminHallFNC/status/1512237398125686790?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Related: Fox News reporter injured in Kyiv attack says he is ‘pretty damn lucky’ to be alive[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/08/fox-news-reporter-injured-in-kyiv-attack-says-he-is-pretty-damn-lucky-to-be-alive]

Updated at 6.04am BST

5.16am BST

Summary

Welcome back to our live coverage of the war in Ukraine.

I’m Samantha Lock and I will be bringing you all the latest developments. Here is a comprehensive rundown of where the situation currently stands:

* Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said that the situation in the town of Borodianka was “much worse” than in nearby Bucha, where Russian forces’ suspected killings of civilians received global condemnation. Ukraine’s prosecutor general, Iryna Venediktova, added: “Borodianka is the worst in terms of destruction and in terms of the uncertainty about [the number of] victims.”

* Ukraine’s prosecutor general, Iryna Venediktova, said 26 bodies had been found under two ruined buildings in Borodianka, a town about 25km west of Bucha. She did not say if the authorities had established the cause of death, but accused Russian troops of carrying out airstrikes on the town[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/07/russia-ukraine-war-nato-foreign-ministers-to-meet-as-zelenskiy-dismisses-fresh-sanctions-live-news?page=with:block-624f25bd8f0887d7b40d5ef5#block-624f25bd8f0887d7b40d5ef5], which is being searched by Ukrainian authorities after Russian troops occupying it withdrew.

* The Kremlin has admitted suffering “significant losses” of troops since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine, in a rare admission of how badly the war has gone. The Kremlin spokesperson, Dmitry Peskov, said he hoped the besieged city of Mariupol would be “liberated from nationalistic battalions” sooner rather than later[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/07/russia-ukraine-war-nato-foreign-ministers-to-meet-as-zelenskiy-dismisses-fresh-sanctions-live-news?page=with:block-624f1d6f8f083703c7bd7dd9#block-624f1d6f8f083703c7bd7dd9].

* Zelenskiy highlighted the bravery of his nation in his latest late-night national address[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/buti-smilivimi-ce-nash-brend-budemo-poshiryuvati-nashu-smili-74165]. “Being brave is our brand,” he said, while calling for bolder sanctions on Russia. He also claimed Russian troops were preparing “elaborate propaganda scenarios” to make it look like civilians they had killed in Mariupol were killed by Ukrainian soldiers.

* Boris Johnson is set to meet the German Chancellor as they look to discuss how to help European countries wean themselves off Russian gas following the attack on Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine]. Johnson will host Olaf Scholz at Downing Street on Friday, with a press conference planned for the afternoon, PA Media reports.

* Britain is preparing to announce a fresh package of military aid [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/07/uk-and-ukrainian-ministers-meet-to-plan-next-round-of-military-aid] for Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/07/uk-and-ukrainian-ministers-meet-to-plan-next-round-of-military-aid] and has demonstrated new missile systems and armoured vehicles that it believes can help Kyiv in the next phases of fighting.

* The European Union approved an embargo on Russian coal imports and the closing of the bloc’s ports to Russian vessels over the Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] war. The measure will take effect from mid-August.

* In addition to the sanctions, the EU also backed a proposal to boost its funding of arms supplies to Ukraine by 500 million euros, taking it to a total of 1.5 billion euros.

* Ukraine is bracing for a renewed Russian offensive on its eastern front, as Russian forces withdraw from the shattered outskirts of Kyiv to regroup and intensify their attacks across the Donbas region. Ukrainian presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said the besieged southern city of Mariupol was holding out[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/07/russia-ukraine-war-nato-foreign-ministers-to-meet-as-zelenskiy-dismisses-fresh-sanctions-live-news?page=with:block-624ea5148f081f653cd8ac5e#block-624ea5148f081f653cd8ac5e] and that he believed the Russian efforts to surround Ukrainian troops in the east would be in vain. The mayor of Dnipro, a city in central-eastern Ukraine, urged women, children and elderly people to leave. Similar calls were made by authorities in the Luhansk region, east of Dnipro.

* The mayor of Mariupol, Vadym Boichenko, says more than 100,000 people still urgently need to be evacuated from the city. Speaking on national television, he described the situation in the Russian-besieged Ukrainian port city as a humanitarian catastrophe.

* The World Health Organization (WHO) said it had confirmed more than 100 attacks on health services in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine], as it called for humanitarian access to the besieged city of Mariupol.

* The United Nations general assembly voted to suspend Russia from the UN human rights council over reports of “gross and systematic violations and abuses of human rights” by invading Russian troops in Ukraine. Ninety-three countries voted in favour of the US-led motion[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/07/russia-ukraine-war-nato-foreign-ministers-to-meet-as-zelenskiy-dismisses-fresh-sanctions-live-news?page=with:block-624f08fa8f0887d7b40d5d7e#block-624f08fa8f0887d7b40d5d7e], while 24 countries voted against and 58 countries abstained.

* Russia will probably renew its attack on Kyiv if it succeeds in taking full control of the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, the deputy chief of staff of Ukraine’s ground forces, Oleksandr Hruzevych, said. The Ukrainian deputy defence minister, Hanna Malyar, earlier warned that Russian forces were biding their time[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/07/russia-ukraine-war-nato-foreign-ministers-to-meet-as-zelenskiy-dismisses-fresh-sanctions-live-news?page=with:block-624ee1198f081f653cd8af2e#block-624ee1198f081f653cd8af2e] as Moscow ramped up intelligence operations there and learned how best to fight Ukrainian troops.

* US defence secretary Lloyd Austin contradicted these claims, saying he believes Russian President Vladimir Putin has given up on conquering Kyiv after his forces were beaten back by the Ukrainian military.

* General Mark Milley, chairman of the US joint chiefs of staff, said the war would be a “long slog” at the US Senate armed services committee in a hearing in Washington DC.

* Nato’s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, said allies had agreed to strengthen support for Ukraine, and were providing “a wide range” of weapon systems, as well as cybersecurity assistance and equipment to protect against chemical and biological threats . There was no sign Vladimir Putin intended to pull back[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/07/ukraine-calls-for-weapons-weapons-weapons-from-western-allies], he added.

* The prospect of Finland and Sweden joining Nato was part of the discussion between foreign ministers from the military alliance in Brussels this week, a senior US State Department official said.

* Ukraine’s foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, called for more heavy weaponry from western allies and “ruinous” sanctions against Moscow, warning: “Either you help us now – and I’m speaking about days, not weeks – or your help will come too late[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/07/ukraine-calls-for-weapons-weapons-weapons-from-western-allies], and many people will die.”

* German intelligence agencies have intercepted radio messages from Russian soldiers discussing the killings of civilians in Ukraine,according to reports. Two separate communications are said to have been intercepted in which Russian soldiers describe how they question soldiers as well as civilians, and then proceed to shoot them, the Washington Post cited an intelligence official as saying[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/apr/07/russia-ukraine-war-nato-foreign-ministers-to-meet-as-zelenskiy-dismisses-fresh-sanctions-live-news?page=with:block-624ed06d8f083703c7bd79a9#block-624ed06d8f083703c7bd79a9].

* Russia has imposed sanctions on Australian and New Zealand citizens, including their prime ministers, the Russian foreign ministry announced.

* Fox News correspondent Benjamin Hall, who was wounded in Ukraine during an attack that killed two of his colleagues, said on Thursday that he had sustained serious injuries but felt “pretty damn lucky” to have survived.

Updated at 2.36pm BST

2022-04-08T04:16:22Z2022-04-09T07:05:07Zhttps://media.guim.co.uk/2a9b34b9b9f470835e0f8d2fd9d1c5efde77d9a5/2_105_1034_620/500.jpgPeople’s[https://media.guim.co.uk/2a9b34b9b9f470835e0f8d2fd9d1c5efde77d9a5/2_105_1034_620/500.jpgPeople’s] belongings are seen at Kramatorsk railway station after a rocket attack.Zelenskiy receives a questionnaire to begin the process for considering his country’s application for European Union membership from Ursula von der Leyen.Residents in the school basement a day after Russian troops left. Some villagers have continued to sleep there because their houses have been destroyed.Bucha mayor Andriy Fedoruk, Ukrainian PM Denys Shmygal, European Commissionpresident Ursula von der Leyen and EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell in Bucha.Neighbours wait for a free food delivery in Bucha.Abandoned and burned Russian tank in Hostomel, Kyiv region.A Ukrainian service member walks near an abandoned Russian tank in the village of Vablya in Kyiv region.A child’s toy left behind at the Kramatorsk train station where a Russian missile attack struck.Boris Johnson and Olaf Scholz.Ursula von der Leyen visits Bucha with Josep Borrell and Denys Shmyhal.Scholz arrives at 10 Downing Street.People, mainly women and children, pass through Przemysl train station in Poland after fleeing from war-torn Ukraine on Thursday.Ukrainian servicemen stand next to a fragment of a Tochka-U missile with writing in Russian “for children” after Russian shelling at the railway station in Kramatorsk, Ukraine on Friday.A general view shows personal belongings of victims and burnt-out vehicles after a rocket attack on the railway station in the eastern city of Kramatorsk.Reports say more than 30 people were killed and over 100 injured in a rocket attack on a train station in Kramatorsk in eastern Ukraine.The aftermath of a rocket attack on the railway station in the eastern city of Kramatorsk.Nobel Peace Prize-winning newspaper editor Dmitry Muratov takes a selfie after he said he was attacked on a Russian train by an assailant who poured red paint on him.Ukraine’s ambassador to the United Kingdom Prystaiko.People queue for the train to Kiyv at the railway station in Przemysl, late 7 April.People queue for the train to Kiyv at the railway station in Przemysl.Civilians gather at the train station to be evacuated from combat zones in Kramatorsk on 6 April.Destroyed Russian military equipment seen in Trostyanets, Sumy.The view from Trostyanets train station, which was used as a military position by Russian soldiers in the Sumy region.A view of a damaged building in Ukraine seen after Russian troop’s withdrawal.A family buried near the church in Bucha, Ukraine.Soldiers walk by children playing amid the wreckage of war in the streets of Bucha.Children play in the debris.Firemen seen cleaning debris of a collapsed building in search of the dead bodies of those killed by collapsed buildings.Two men walk along by wagons loaded with coal at the Zlobino railway station in Russia’s Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk.German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Britain’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson are set to meet to discuss how to help European countries wean themselves off Russian gas.A mass grave seen in Bucha, Ukraine, after the Russian retreat from towns near Kyiv revealed scores of civilian deaths.

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020220408ei48000gr


Zprávy
Companies connected to Putin in the Czech Republic will end. The government is preparing sanction laws
Pavel Otto
E15 CZ
183 字
2022 年 4 月 11 日
NEWTON Business News
NEWBU
3
英文
© NEWTON Media 2022
New special laws enabling the Czech authorities to sanction companies and individuals with ties to the regimes in Russia and Belarus are being prepared by the government. He will submit them by mid-year. The Czechia is one of the few countries in the European Union that does not have similar national standards in place. In addition to preventing access to public funds, blocking assets and real estate, or even expropriating them, is at stake. This would probably also apply to shares in domestic strategic companies. Restrictions will also apply to exports by Russian-owned companies or those financed by Russian banks.

...ové speciální zákony umožňující českým orgánům sankcionovat firmy a fyzické osoby s vazbami na režimy v Rusku a Bělorusku chystá vláda. Předloží je do poloviny roku, řekl serveru E15 ministr financí...

You do not have access to the full text of the item. If you would like the full version, please contact our customer support team - help@newtonmedia.eu.

Newton Media, a.s.

文件 NEWBU00020220411ei4b00009


FIFA warned court of World Cup chaos if Russia played
By GRAHAM DUNBAR
AP Sports Writer
572 字
2022 年 4 月 12 日 22:19 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
GENEVA (AP) — Letting Russia try to qualify for the World Cup risked doing “irreparable and chaotic” harm to the competition, FIFA successfully argued at sport’s highest court.

The legal debate between FIFA and Russia’s soccer federation was published Tuesday by the Court of Arbitration for Sport, [https://www.tas-cas.org/fileadmin/user_upload/8708_Reasoned_OPM__publication_.pdf] explaining why its judge denied an urgent Russian request to freeze a ban that excluded its teams from the men’s and women’s World Cups.

The interim ruling[https://www.tas-cas.org/fileadmin/user_upload/CAS_Media_Release_8708_prov.measures.pdf] in Russia’s appeal on March 18 — pending a full appeal hearing likely due at CAS in the weeks ahead -- ensured the men’s team could not play Poland six days later in the World Cup qualifying playoff. Poland was given a bye and advanced to the tournament in Qatar by beating Sweden in the playoff final.

Poland, Sweden and the Czech Republic — which lost to Sweden — had all stated they would refuse to play Russia in light of the country’s war on Ukraine.

That three-nation boycott of Russia weighed heavily on the urgent CAS ruling, which sided with FIFA’s stated need to “guarantee the smooth running of its flagship competition.”

Though FIFA competition rules typically punish federations whose teams refuse to play scheduled games, soccer’s world body agreed with Poland, Sweden and the Czechs.

“Those decisions are both fully understandable and cannot be criticized from either a legal or moral point of view,” FIFA lawyers said in a submission to the court.

FIFA said it could foresee that other member federations would also refuse to play Russia if the team advanced to the World Cup, saying the consequences for the tournament "would be irreparable and chaotic.”

“Having considered all these factors, FIFA must act to guarantee the efficient organization and smooth running of its competitions.” the governing body said.

Lawyers for the Russian soccer federation argued the ban by the FIFA Council was “a disguised disciplinary sanction” where the right to be heard was denied.

The ruling was made by a single member of the CAS management board, Corinne Schmidhauser, the president of the appeals division.

The Swiss lawyer had to decide if the potential damage done to Russia’s soccer team outweighed the damage to FIFA as a competition organizer.

Schmidhauser noted that “should (Russia’s) men’s national team be allowed to play, their opponents would forfeit the game and the matches would not even take place.”

“The integrity of FIFA competitions would be severely damaged,” the former Olympic skier judged.

She also doubted whether “in light of the worldwide outrage and condemnation provoked" by events in Ukraine, the security of players and officials could be ensured if Russia played games even in a neutral country.

Schmidhauser concluded Russia is now effectively out of the World Cup because FIFA did not offer to reinstate the team in the event of its federation winning at the full appeal hearing.

However, Russia's ultimate World Cup status in 2022 should be a final decision for the panel of three judges who will soon hear the case on its full merits.

FIFA is among several governing bodies of Olympic sports now facing appeal hearings at CAS as Russian officials challenge bans on their teams and athletes.

___

More AP soccer: https://apnews.com/hub/soccer[https://apnews.com/hub/soccer] and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports[https://twitter.com/AP_Sports]

Eds: UPDATES: With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220412ei4c00sh2


Central Europe torn on severing Russian energy supplies
418 字
2022 年 4 月 12 日 15:24 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Former communist countries in Central Europe were split Tuesday on whether to sever vital Russian energy supplies as their foreign ministers met near Prague.

The diversification of energy imports has become a hot issue across the European Union since oil- and gas-rich Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.

In 2021, Russia supplied 45 percent of the EU 's coal imports, 25 percent of its oil imports and around 45 percent of its gas imports.

Hydrocarbons are Russia's most important exports, and the EU is its biggest customer.

On the bloc's eastern flank, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have vowed to minimise their energy dependence, a legacy of four decades of communist rule in the region during the Soviet era.

But Hungary, whose Prime Minister Viktor Orban won a fourth straight term this month, has taken a more cautious approach.

"We have one clear red line which is the energy security of Hungary," Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said after meeting his Austrian, Czech, Slovak and Slovenian counterparts at a castle.

Szijjarto, from Orban's Fidesz party, said Hungary had backed all of the EU 's sanction packages since the invasion but added that "we cannot sign up to" oil or gas sanctions.

"We have been working a lot on diversification in the past, we are going to work on diversification in the future as well, but we will always guarantee the safe supply of energy of Hungary," he told reporters.

Slovak Foreign Minister Ivan Korcok said his country was ready to forego Russian oil and gas but underscored it would take time.

"We want to decouple from that... Nevertheless, the reality is we cannot do it overnight."

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky vowed to speed up the debate as his country takes over the rotating EU presidency in July as "Russian income from the trade with the EU must be minimised".

The Czech state-run power group CEZ said Tuesday it would replace a Russian nuclear fuel supplier for its two plants with US and French suppliers as of 2024.

CEZ chose US-based Westinghouse and France's Framatome in a tender and snubbed its current supplier TVEL , a unit of the Russian state-run Rosatom group, to "minimise the risk of a potential supply failure".

Regional economic powerhouse Poland, which did not take part in the meeting Tuesday, hopes to free itself from Russian gas by next year, and eventually from Russian oil as well.

frj/amj

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220412ei4c00c45


Ombudsman receives 7,988 motions in 2021, 10,000 so far in 2022
535 字
2022 年 4 月 13 日 10:40 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds KWs Russia, Ukraine, fighting. Adds paras 2, 8-10 with more details.

Brno, April 13 (CTK) - The Ombudsman's Office in Brno received 7,988 motions in 2021, 62 more than in 2020, and most of them concerned social security, healthcare, construction issues and the military, too, while 10,000 complaints have been presented in 2022 so far, Ombudsman Stanislav Krecek told a press conference today.

Krecek presented the 2021 annual report of his office. He noted that the society shows certain tensions.

In 2021, the Ombudsman's Office found out 630 faults in decisions of state authorities. In 17 cases, the relevant body refused to remedy the flaws and the ombudsman used his sanction power and published the affair.

Some 70 percent of the motions fell into the competencies of the ombudsman who could thus deal with them.

"The number of motions is on the rise, some people turn to us with motions beyond our field, such as civil issues. However, we give some advice to these people, telling them who they should address, but we cannot intervene in these cases, though," Krecek said.

The ombudsman stated that the times amid the coronavirus crisis and the situation in Ukraine are challenging. He is of the view that the government focuses mainly on foreign policy.

"A part of the public thus has an impression that its rights are not as protected as they should be. Since the beginning of the year, we have received already 10,000 motions," Krecek said.

In the motions related to the migrant crisis, people point to some refugees being not treated equally. In general, Krecek is of the view that there are more and more people who believe that their rights are not protected sufficiently, many people call any inequality and injustice a discrimination, which is not always true.

"We do not consider it as a discrimination, we deem it a normal, appropriate way of helping the people in need," Krecek said.

On the one hand, he welcomed the high number of motions as he believed it shows the trust people have in the ombudsman. On the other, it proves some tensions in the society.

Last year, Krecek launched 849 examination procedures, 56 out of them started from his own initiative. In total, 840 examination procedures were accomplished last year and the office uncovered either faults of authorities or discrimination in 633 cases.

Most mistakes, almost 500, were rectified subsequently and further 100 were corrected later. In 17 cases, the authorities refused any wrongdoing and the ombudsman reported the affair to a supervising body or released the whole issue to the public.

Among the sanctioned state offices, there was for instance the Labour Ministry. The ombudsman is of the view that it did not cooperate in problem solving related to several applications for care allowance or a necessary medical aid. The ombudsman repeatedly warned the ministry of incomplete and unconvincing health check reports. The ministry refused to carry out medical re-examinations as a possible remedy. The ombudsman argues that the repeated medical checks proved efficient for instance in cases of disability pensioners.

vok/dr/pvr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220413ei4d0000p


CE Noticias Financieras English
Germany does not sanction Czech tycoon for driving at 414 km/h
281 字
2022 年 4 月 22 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
BERLIN (AP) - Prosecutors in a German city have decided not to press charges against a Czech millionaire who drove a high-powered sports car down a German autobahn at a speed of at least 414 kilometers per hour (257 miles per hour).

On Friday, German news agency dpa reported that prosecutors in the city of Stendal reviewed footage of the stunt and concluded that Radim Passer had not broken the law when he drove his Bugatti Chiron at extreme speeds on a stretch of autobahn between Berlin and Hannover.

In a post at the bottom of the video, which was uploaded to social media, Passer wrote that it was recorded last year on a straight 10-kilometer (6-mile) stretch with three lanes and "all-around visibility."

"Safety was a priority, so the circumstances had to be safe to be able to do it," he said.

There is no speed limit on more than two-thirds of Germany's road network, attracting foreign drivers who want to drive at breakneck speeds not allowed in their own countries.

Still, German authorities can prosecute drivers who drive recklessly, regardless of speed. However, prosecutors in Stendal told dpa that they believed Passer had not endangered anyone because he had chosen the best time and conditions for the maneuver.

The recent rise in fuel prices and Russia's war against Ukraine have reignited debate in Germany about imposing a universal speed limit to help the country wean itself off its dependence on Russian energy, but the pro-business Free Democratic Party, which runs the Transport Ministry, rejected the idea.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220422ei4m00kvh


Czechia freezes Russian property worth one billion - minister
357 字
2022 年 4 月 24 日 13:22 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, April 24 (CTK) - The Czech Republic has frozen Russian property in its territory worth nearly one billion crowns, Finance Minister Zbynek Stanjura (Civic Democrats, ODS) said in a discussion programme that Czech Television (CT) broadcast live today.

If this property is labelled as possible support for the war crimes of Russia, it may even be confiscated in future, he said. Te Czech government is checking the possibilities to confiscate the frozen property and one of them is the passage of special laws, Stanjura said.

Due to the war in Ukraine, EU countries have frozen property worth 900 billion crowns (37 billion euros).

European Commission Vice-President Vera Jourova said the EU plans to give the Eurojust agency for criminal justice cooperation a stronger mandate for the investigation of war crimes in Ukraine.

The freezing of Russian property is a part of the sanctions imposed on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine. The owners cannot do anything with the frozen property. Commissioner for Justice Didier Reynders recommended that this property is confiscated if the owners are connected with the Russian regime and if they support the Russian aggression in Ukraine.

Czech Minister for Legislation Michal Salomoun (for Pirates) said a Czech sanction list that is punishing the supporters of the Russian regime in Czechia more than the current EU sanctions has been prepared, but it has not been approved yet.

Stanjura said the frozen Russian property includes finances of a member of the Russian State Duma and of his family. If the connection between the owners and the Russian aggression in Ukraine is proved, this money may be confiscated based on the present legislation.

Salomoun said the passage of a Czech version of the Magnitsky Act that would impose sanctions on Russian representatives responsible for support for the war crimes. The Czech government is to deal with the bill in May and this law would deal with further freezing, not with confiscating, he said.

Salomoun said legislation on the confiscations may be passed on the European level and then applied also in Czechia.

($1 = 22.485 crowns)

kva/dr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220424ei4o0000g


Commissioner Jourova expects new package of anti-Russia sanctions
505 字
2022 年 4 月 24 日 12:48 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, April 24 (CTK) - European Commissioner Vera Jourova expects the EU to agree on the sixth package of sanctions against Russia next week, she said in a discussion programme of Czech Television (CT) today.

Apart from sanctions imposed on Sberbank, the biggest Russian bank, EU countries are discussing an embargo on energy imports over the war conflict in Ukraine. Jourova said the debates on limits to oil imports are more lively as some of the countries are very dependent on them.

But Jourova pointed out that the most important is to maintain unity in the European stance on Russia, and Slovak Prime Minister Eduard Heger and Czech Finance Minister Zbynek Stanjura agreed with her in the CT discussion programme.

Stanjura (Civic Democrats, ODS) said Czechia supports as hard steps as possible, however, it is crucial to maintain unity. "An agreement is more valuable than whether it is exactly what the Central European states asked for," he said.

Heger recalled that dependence on Russian oil and gas is very high, but with regards to the brutality of the war in Ukraine it is necessary to force Russian President Vladimir Putin to withdraw from Ukraine.

Jourova said more people and entities are to be put on the sanction lists. If this happens, it will be possible to confiscate their property in Europe. She said EU countries kept negotiating about the next steps to be taken.

Stanjura said if Czechia fills all its gas containers before the next winter season, it will have enough gas for the heating of households. He said he is negotiating together with other EU countries about new sources of gas for firms.

People in Europe will not be lacking food, but the conflict in Ukraine, which is a big exporter of corn may have impact on the food crisis in Africa and therefore on migration and the security situation in Europe, said EC Vice-President for Values and Transparency Jourova who represents Czechia in the Commission.

Czech Senate foreign, defence and security committee head Pavel Fischer (unaffiliated) said when discussing possible sanctions it is necessary to have in mind not to let the war become even bigger next year.

On Wednesday, members of the European Parliament foreign affairs committee agreed that the EU should introduce stricter sanctions against Russia because the present measures did not lead to the stopping of the Russian aggression in Ukraine. A part of them called for a quick end of Russian gas and oil imports. This step does not have the required unanimous support in the EU, however.

The five packages of economic sanctions that the EU has introduced since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine in late February so far aim at Russian banks, transport, industry or exports of important products and materials including coal. A complete economic embargo is supported especially by the countries of the eastern flank of the EU, while mainly Germany, Hungary and Austria are against it for economic reasons.

kva/dr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220424ei4o0000h


Omnipol buying Aircraft Industries from Russian owner
474 字
2022 年 4 月 27 日 12:19 GMT
CTK Business News
CTK
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
adds new info throughout

Prague, April 27 (CTK) - Omnipol is buying Aircraft Industries, formerly Let Kunovice, from a Russian owner and the Czech company producing civilian aircraft L410 and L410 NG will have a Czech owner after 14 years, Omnipol told CTK today.

The price was not disclosed.

The Russian owner and Omnipol agreed on the sale of 100 percent of Aircraft Industries to OMPO Holding on April 21, 2022, Omnipol said.

The company found itself in serious financial trouble following the imposition of sanctions on Russia, its key market, said Omnipol.

Omnipol, providing top solutions for the defence and security sectors, and Aircraft Industries signed a cooperation agreement last November, which should help the latter company replace Russian supplies with supplies to other countries. New contracts are likely to be concluded in the coming months.

Aircraft Industries, based in Kunovice, southern Moravia, has so far produced more than 8,000 planes and exported them to 60 countries, said Omnipol.

Aircraft Industries has been a renowned aircraft manufacturer since 1936, which is why in the current crisis situation Omnipol took it for granted to do its outmost to rescue the company, said Omnipol president Jiri Podpera.

He said that Omnipol also has a minority stake in a company owning Aero Vodochody Aerospace, the producer of the aircraft L-39NG.

Omnipol's subsidiaries are ERA and Mesit. The group employes more than 2,800 people, with about 400 employees engaged in research and development of new products.

Turnover of Omnipol topped Kc1bn in 2020, with export to 60 countries making up over 60 percent of the figure. Pre-tax profit amounted to Kc53.5m.

Aircraft Industries head Ilona Plskova said the company had long been cooperating with some units of Omnipol and that the takeover by the group will "further strengthen our mutual activities."

Aircraft Industries delivered 15 planes to customers two years ago, its sales rising by Kc300m yr/yr to Kc2.282bn. Profit surpassed Kc271m. Business results for 2021 are not yet available. The company employs almost 1,000 people including Ukrainians, Russians and Belarusians.

Apart from the aircraft production, the company also runs an international airport in Kunovice used by private jets, and it has established the Aviation High School.

iROZHLAS.cz[https://www.irozhlas.cz/ekonomika/oligarchove-rusko-let-kunovice-l-410-sankcni-seznam-usa-rusko_1803050600_jgr] reported previously that Aircraft Industries was indirectly owned by entrepreneur Iskander Makhmudov, who is on the sanction list of the Russian oligarch billionaires.

According to business daily Hospodarske noviny, Russian company Ostov has been the aircraft maker's owner over the past two years. Board chairman is Oleg Melyukhov and Russian billionaire Andrei Kozitsyn is listed as a beneficiary owner. Kozitsyn has a share in UGMK, the second largest copper producer in Russia that bought into the aircraft company in 2008.

According to daily Lidove noviny, UGMK is controlled by Makhmudov.

vr/er

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTK0000020220427ei4r0000g


Czechia imports 6.8m tonnes of crude oil in 2021, half coming from Russia
387 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 14:21 GMT
CTK Business News
CTK
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, May 4 (CTK) - Czechia imported 6.8 million tonnes of crude oil in 2021, 10.8 percent more yr/yr, half of the total volume coming from Russia, according to data from the Industry and Trade Ministry.

In the period from 2010, Czechia imported the biggest amount of 7.8 million tonnes in 2017, while the lowest volume of 5.3 million tonnes was imported in 2016.

At present, crude oil is transported to the Czech Republic either via the Druzhba pipeline from Russia or via the TAL pipeline from Terst, Italy, to Vohburg, Germany, and subsequently by the IKL pipeline to the central storage tank in Nelahozeves, central Bohemia.

A total of 48.8 percent of crude oil was transported to Czechia via Druzhba last year, while the remainder of oil imports flew via IKL.

Kazakhstan came second after Russia in crude oil imports to Czechia, supplying 1.2 million tonnes.

Crude oil flows to the Czech Republic also from Algeria, the USA, Libya, Norway and Nigeria.

The European Commission (EC) has proposed to ban Russian oil imports to the EU entire by the end of this year. In order for the sanction to come into force, all member states have to approve it unanimously.

The Czech Republic is prepared to support the ban if it gets a postponement by two to three years until the capacity of the oil pipelines that can transport oil to Czechia is increased, PM Petr Fiala told reporters after his cabinet's meeting today.

The Czech government is trying to achieve a postponement of the ban by two to three years, and then it will be ready to back the sixth package of EU sanctions against Russia, Fiala added.

The neighbouring Slovakia has a similar stance as the Czech Republic. Economy Minister Richard Sulik said Slovakia agreed with the embargo on Russian oil imports, but it would demand a three-year transition period.

It would take 30-40 days to ensure additional and sufficient deliveries of oil from alternative suppliers outside Druzhba, Industry and Trade Minister Jozef Sikela said. Such a period would be covered by the reserves of the State Material Reserves Administration (SSHR) that would be sufficient for about 94 days.

tam/er

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTK0000020220504ei5400008


Czech PPF exits Russian grain assets
262 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日 05:15 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czech PPF Group is rapidly exiting RAB Agro assets in Russia's Voronezh region, Kommersant daily reported citing unnamed sources. PPF is reportedly selling 66,000 hectares of sowing lands worth an estimated RUB7bn to Zemelny Reserv, allegedly affiliated with ex-Minister of Agriculture Alexander Tkachev.

As followed by bne IntelliNews, sowing lands and other grain/agro assets are expected to remain highly attractive in Russia once sanction-related operational challenges are overcome.

Analysts surveyed by Kommersant note that the Rostov region and regions in the centre of Russia have a slightly higher concentration of agricultural land than in the south. The development of crop farming in the central part of the country was facilitated by a strong concentration of livestock assets and demand for feed. Central Russia is also less prone to drought and still benefits from access to Russian southern ports.

According to Kommersant daily, PPF Group acquired 100% of RAB Agro in 2011 from British RP Capital, Cargill Venture Holding and Israeli businessmen Ron Izaki, Igor Heifitz and Gad Bittan. In 2011 RAB controlled 164,500 ha of land in several regions, gradually selling off the assets.

It was PPF’s only agro asset in Russia and reportedly the Czech group has been looking for buyers for the past few years, as it "may not have lived up to its high expectations" even prior to the Ukraine invasion.

PPF earlier reportedly started to dump commercial real estate in Russia, handing over more than 200ha in Moscow to the ICT Group of Alexander Nesis.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220505ei55000ul


Czech Republic: Vitkovice Steel stops deliveries due to sanctions
M-Brain
56 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日
Esmerk Eastern European News
ESMKEU
英文
Copyright 2022. M-Brain
NewsNow, 05 May 2022, online:- Czech steel maker Vitkovice Steel is stopping deliveries due to the effects of the recent EU sanction package against Russia. The package will delay slab supply to the steel mill. The stoppage is expected to last for ten to 12 business days.

M-Brain Insight Oy

文件 ESMKEU0020220516ei5g0000z


2ND LEAD Hungary, Slovakia and Czechs to get more time to ban Russian oil By Doris Pundy and Ciarán Sunderland, dpa
383 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 10:20 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Brussels (dpa) - Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are to have more time to ban Russian oil imports in new European Commission proposals for an embargo, diplomatic sources have told dpa.

Hungary and Slovakia are to get until the end of 2024 to phase out Russian oil imports via pipelines. The Czech Republic is to have until the end of June 2024 to comply with the embargo, unless a new pipeline is finished sooner.

The extended deadlines for the three central European countries are included in the latest commission draft for a sixth package of sanctions on Russia submitted to representatives of the 27 EU member states to scrutinize in Brussels on Friday.

The European Union is to phase out Russian crude oil within six months, and refined products by the end of the year, under original commission plans which included an exemption for Hungary and Slovakia until the end of 2023.

Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are heavily dependent on Russian oil imports and struggled to secure alternative oil supplies ahead of the proposed ban due to a lack of sea access.

Speaking to a Hungarian radio station on Friday morning, Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orbán called the initial sanction proposal "an atom bomb being dropped on the Hungarian economy."

Orbán insisted that his country's initial 2023 deadline was too short to make sure Hungary would receive enough oil and avoid soaring prices.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said it is "difficult" yet achievable to find alternative supplies for the landlocked countries and to guarantee supply security.

Speaking at a media event in Frankfurt, von der Leyen said the ongoing talks in Brussels are "moving in the right direction."

"I am confident that we will also get this [sanctions] package on track. If it takes one day longer, then it takes one day longer," von der Leyen said, commenting on the timeline of the negotiations.

Talks in Brussels will continue on Friday afternoon, diplomats told dpa, aiming to agree on a new sanctions by the weekend at the latest.

All 27 EU member states need to agree for new Russia sanctions to come into force.

# Notebook

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220506ei56003h1


Czech Republic This Week - May 6, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 6 日, 9173 字, (英文)
Czech state budget deficit up to CZK100bn in AprilThe Czech state budget deficit rose to CZK100.1bn (€4bn) at the end of April, up from CZK59.1bn posted in March, the finance ministry said in its press release. In year-on-year terms, the ...

3RD LEAD EU talks over Russian oil ban drag on over exemptions dispute By Doris Pundy, Ciarán Sunderland and Laura Dubois, dpa
558 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 17:28 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Brussels (dpa) - Talks in Brussels on new EU sanctions on Russia stalled on Friday due to a dispute over exemptions from an oil ban for Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, diplomatic sources told dpa.

Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic received extra time to ban Russian oil imports in revised European Commission proposals for a sixth package of sanctions on Russia.

The extended deadlines for the central European countries were included in the latest commission draft submitted to representatives of the 27 EU member states to scrutinize.

Difficulties arose over planned exemptions from the ban with Bulgaria continuing to demand more time and threatening to veto the sanctions on Russia, according to a report by the Bulgarian private TV station Nova.

Sofia is yet to receive backing from the commission for inclusion in the exemptions as Bulgaria is considered to have more options to secure alternative oil supplies, diplomatic sources said.

Hungary and Slovakia are to get until the end of 2024 to phase out Russian oil imports via pipelines. The Czech Republic is to have until the end of June 2024 to comply with the embargo, unless new supply channels are set up sooner.

Proposals may still change in the course of negotiations. Hungary continues to demand more time as well as financial supports to phase out Russian oil, EU diplomats said.

A ban on the transport of Russian oil by EU ships continues to meet resistance from Greece, Malta and Cyprus who are wary of the effects on their shipping industry, according to EU diplomats.

Other proposed sanctions target Sberbank, Russia largest bank, two other banks, state-owned media such as RTR Planeta, Russia 24 and TV Centre and a ban on providing professional services to the Kremlin.

The European Union is to phase out Russian crude oil within six months, and refined products by the end of the year, under original commission plans that included an exemption for Hungary and Slovakia until the end of 2023.

Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are heavily dependent on Russian oil imports and may struggle to secure alternative oil supplies ahead of the proposed ban due to a lack of sea access.

Speaking to a Hungarian radio station on Friday, Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orbán called the initial sanction proposal "an atom bomb being dropped on the Hungarian economy."

Orbán said that his country's initial 2023 deadline was too short to make sure Hungary would receive enough oil and avoid soaring prices.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said it is "difficult" yet achievable to find alternative supplies for the landlocked countries and to guarantee supply security.

"I am confident that we will also get this [sanctions] package on track. If it takes one day longer, then it takes one day longer," von der Leyen said, commenting on the timeline of the negotiations.

Talks in Brussels are to resume over the weekend, diplomats told dpa. All 27 EU member states need to reach agreement on the sanctions on Russia, before the measures can come into force.

# Notebook

## Note to editors - releads with talks continuing into the weekend; adds Bulgaria veto threat; adds Greece, Malta, Cyprus caution, removes part von der Leyen quote.

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220506ei56007sl


Czechia to get exception to oil embargo until mid-2024 - server
431 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 10:15 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds paras 8-9 with comments of Fiala, Sikela.

Brussels, May 6 (CTK) - The European Commission (EC) proposed Czechia gets an exception to imported Russian oil that would be valid until mid-2024, while Slovakia and Hungary would enjoy the exception until the end of 2024, Reuters news agency wrote today, referring to its diplomatic sources.

The adjusted proposal of new sanctions against Russia reckons with an end of the Russian oil imports by the end of 2022. Ambassadors of the EU member states started to discuss the proposal this morning.

In an attempt to convince hesitating EU countries to back the new sanction package, the EC came up with several other concessions including support for investments into the oil infrastructure.

Within the sixth sanction package, the EC proposed a complete ban on the imports of Russian oil to the EU by the year's end on Wednesday. According to the previous plan, Slovakia and Hungary would get a year exception because they are the most dependent on the Russian oil.

Budapest and Bratislava refused to support the EC proposal and asked for a considerably longer transition period.

The Czech Republic asked for some more time to secure a sufficient reserve from the TAL Transalpine oil pipeline leading from Trieste in Italy, too.

Under the updated EC proposal, Czechia would have time to stock up by June 2024. The embargo may be imposed before this deadline if the TAL capacity increases and Czechia manages to stock up.

Czech PM Petr Fiala (Civic Democrats, ODS) said that the proposed exception goes in the right direction. Czechia pursues a constructive debate in this, Fiala told CTK today and declined to assume any particular details.

Industry and Trade Minister Jozef Sikela (for Mayors and Independents, STAN) said that Czechia may have sufficient oil reserves from other than Russian sources by the end of 2024. He added that Czechia is ready to contribute to the increase of the TAL oil pipeline capacity with more than its current 5 percent share. At present, there are discussions that the whole extra capacity of the pipeline would be to the profit of the Czech Republic, he added.

The new proposal plans that the EU will support investments into the new infrastructure and mitigate the impact of the oil embargo.

The changes also concern the planned ban on transport of Russian oil in tankers from EU countries, which would affect mainly Greece. The new proposal extended the original one-month transition period to three months.

vok/dr/kva

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220506ei560000d


CE Noticias Financieras English
EU tries to agree on sanctions against Russian oil on Sunday
502 字
2022 年 5 月 7 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The ambassadors of the European Union will meet this Sunday to try to move forward the sixth package of sanctions against Russia for the war in Ukraine, which provides for a ban on oil imports from this country, although with a transition period and exceptions to the most dependent partners.

The capitals continued this Saturday with contacts at a technical level to overcome the reluctance of countries such as Hungary, Slovakia or the Czech Republic, although no meeting at ambassadorial level was convened during the day, which is scheduled for this Sunday.

According to diplomatic sources, the meeting will be "a priori at noon" with the objective of resolving the differences that persist on crude oil and "confirming" that there are no problems on the rest of the elements of the package.

With respect to oil, the same sources insist that "there is no political blockage", but it is necessary to look for "alternative" formulas to guarantee the supply of the hydrocarbon to countries which are dependent on crude oil sent by pipeline, a matter which "is not easy".

Talks on the rest of the retaliation package against Moscow, such as the exclusion of Swift from Sberbank or the new sanctioned individuals, are progressing "well", the same sources explain.

Being highly dependent on crude imports from Russia, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are asking for a longer transition period to divest themselves of their oil, even though Brussels has proposed an exception for Budapest and Bratislava that would give them one year longer than the rest to achieve this, until December 31, 2023.

Although it was not originally included in this special treatment, Prague has also publicly requested a postponement of two, or even three years, to disengage from Russian crude.

The EU executive's proposal, presented on Wednesday, aims to ban Russian oil imports into the EU six months after the sanctions come into force, while for refined oil the deadline is extended to eight months.

The sanctions would also veto any possible technical assistance, direct or indirect, and any intermediation services, including financial and insurance, that are related to the ban on Russian oil.

In addition, to prevent Russian oil tankers from circumventing the sanctions, the text calls for a ban on the transport of Russian oil in all its forms, including "ship-to-ship" cargo transfers from Russian vessels to other flagged cargo vessels.

On the financial front, Brussels proposes to add to the list of Russian banks excluded from the international Swift transaction system Sberbank, the country's largest, as well as the Agricultural Bank of Russia, wholly owned by the State, and the Moscow Credit Bank.

Brussels has also proposed to sanction individuals, such as the Russian colonel known as "the Butcher of Bucha" or the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, and some twenty companies linked to the Ministry of Defense or the Russian Army, as well as three media outlets.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220507ei570081w


CE Noticias Financieras English
Day 74 of invasion: EU fails to reach agreement on ban on Russian crude oil purchases
513 字
2022 年 5 月 8 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The countries of the European Union (EU) were unable to reach an agreement on Sunday to ban oil imports from Russia in response to the war in Ukraine, because of the difficulties posed for some partners by their dependence on crude oil from Moscow.

The meeting of the EU-27 ambassadors to the EU began at about midday and lasted for an hour and a half, diplomatic sources explain, without the European capitals managing to unblock the reserves of countries such as Hungary, Slovakia or the Czech Republic.

The oil embargo continues to be the main difficulty in moving forward with the bloc's sixth retaliation package against the Kremlin, despite the fact that the European Commission's original proposal contemplates a generic withdrawal period until the end of the year and gives Hungary and Slovakia an extra year because of their dependence on imports of Russian crude oil by pipeline.

During the last hours "very important progress" has been made on "most of the elements" that make up the package, but "work remains to be done" to reach an agreement, the same sources specify.

In particular, on the guarantees sought by Budapest, Bratislava and Prague to ensure a sufficient supply of this hydrocarbon when they renounce Russian crude, on which they are very dependent through imports by pipeline.

The European club's objective, therefore, is to continue contacts "at all levels" at the beginning of next week in order to reach an agreement on the sixth package of sanctions "as quickly as possible".

The EU executive's proposal, presented on Wednesday, aims to ban Russian oil imports into the EU six months after the entry into force of the sanctions, while in the case of refined oil the deadline is extended to eight months.

In the case ofHungary and Slovakia, they would enjoy a longer period, until December 31, 2023, but both countries find it short and they were also joined by the Czech Republic, which asked for three years.

In any case, the sanctions would also veto any possible technical assistance, direct or indirect, and any intermediation services, including financial and insurance, related to the ban on Russian oil.

In addition, to prevent Russian oil tankers from circumventing the sanctions, the text calls for a ban on the transport of Russian oil in all its forms, including"ship-to-ship" cargo transfers from Russian vessels to other flagged cargo vessels.

On the other hand, Brussels proposes to add to the list of Russian banks excluded from the international Swift transaction system Sberbank, the largest in the country, as well as the Agricultural Bank of Russia, wholly owned by the State, and the Moscow Credit Bank.

Brussels has also proposed to sanction individuals, such as the Russian colonel known as "the Butcher of Bucha" or the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, and some twenty companies linked to the Ministry of Defense or the Russian Army, as well as three media outlets.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220508ei580052h


Ministry welcomes that Aircraft Industríes has Czech owner again
319 字
2022 年 5 月 9 日 17:24 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, May 9 (CTK) - The purchase of the Aircraft Industries firm from its Russian owner is an important step to get rid of reliance on Russia in arms forces and arms industry, Czech Defence Minister Jana Cernochova said after talks with Omnipol, Aircraft Industries and Aero Vodochody Aerospace representatives today.

Thanks to the change of the owner of Aircraft Industries, deliveries of spare parts will not be a potential security risk anymore, Cernochova said. "I am glad that Aircraft Industries is in Czech hands again. Stability of the deliveries can be secured and the know how maintained in the Czech Republic," she said.

Aircraft Industries, seated in southeast Moravia, has nearly 1,000 employees and makes transport aircraft L410 and L410 NG. The Czech military uses several of these planes.

The Defence Ministry said the firm was recently owned by Russian businessman Iskander Makhmudov, who was put on the sanction list after the Russian aggression in Ukraine.

On April 21, Omnipol and the Russian owner agreed on the sale of Aircraft Industries and the OMPO Holding company has become the new owner.

Defence Ministry and Omnipol representatives today talked about the purchase of Aircraft Industries and the security of the deliveries of the military material, said Jakub Fajnor, from the ministry’s press section.

The ministry noted that Aircraft Industries with its Russian management focused especially on the Russian market. It also appreciated that Omnipol Group previously entered Aero Vodochody in which it has a minority stake.

"After the rescue of the key firm Aero Vodochody, this is another activity of Omnipol seeking to maintain and develop the domestic market," Fajnor said.

Omnipol deals with aircraft industry and defence and security electronics. Its daughter companies ERA and Mesit have advanced technologies concerning mainly passive surveillance systems of air, land or naval targets, military communication and aircraft equipment.

kva/dr/rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220509ei5900005


More Russians, Belarusians get humanitarian visas since invasion
654 字
2022 年 5 月 9 日 11:22 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, May 9 (CTK) - The number of Russian and Belarusian holders of the Czech humanitarian visas has significantly increased since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and mainly human rights advocates, independent journalists and activists receive the visas, Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said today.

He did not give a precise number of the humanitarian visas the Czech Republic has issued, though.

The five party government composed of Together (Civic Democrats/ODS, Christian Democrats/KDU-CSL and TOP 09) and their coalition partners Pirates-Mayors and Independents/STAN decided shortly after the Russian attack against Ukraine that it would suspend the visa issuance to Russian nationals except for humanitarian cases. Later, this suspension was applied to Belarusians, too.

"After a relatively short time, we expanded the humanitarian reasons to family reunification, family members as ell," Lipavsky (Pirates) said.

"By far, not all Russians and Belarusians approve the war against Ukrainians. It is our duty to support them, regardless whether they stay in Russia and Belarus or they were forced to flee," Lipavsky added.

The Foreign Ministry discusses with the Interior Ministry further operation of the Russian media and NGOs in the Czech Republic. "It is a legal issue, it is not that easy," Lipavsky said.

He discussed the topic with Interior Minister Vit Rakusan (STAN) last week. This afternoon, Lipavsky is to meet representatives of some Czech NGOs.

Lipavsky is of the view that the Czech Republic has the asylum procedure tool that provides international legal protection, but other systemic solutions may be still sought, too.

Belarusian politician, opposition leader and activist Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya will visit Czechia this week. On Tuesday, she will meet Lipavsky and lower house chairwoman Marketa Pekarova Adamova (TOP 09).

"On this occasion, we are drafting a document for the Prime Minister (Petr Fiala , ODS) that will also entail a support for platform for an adequate representation of the Belarusian democratic opposition in Prague. We are looking for a way of how to help persecuted Belarusian students, too," Lipavsky added.

Lipavsky also said that in June, he would table to the government a draft of the Magnitsky Act to ensure a better enforcement of human rights protection. The cabinet has planned to deal with it by the end of 2023, but the Russian invasion sped it up, he said.

"It will be a sanction mechanist against people who breach human rights, commit acts of terrorism. The law will cover cyber crimes, too, and after the Russian aggression, we have included the act of state aggression as well, Lipavsky said.

If approved, the legislation will enable the government to freeze some further property and the Czech Republic will not be dependent on sanctions adopted by the EU . Minister in charge of legislation Michal Salomoun (for Pirates) is currently dealing with the draft, Lipavsky said without further details.

He added that a law usually allows for property freeze for some particular reasons, while other sanctions may reduce entry of individuals into the country, for instance.

In 2009, Russian tax lawyer Sergei Magnitsky died in a Moscow prison after investigating a large fraud involving Russian police and judicial officials. He was accused of committing the fraud himself by Russian officials and detained. After almost a year of imprisonment, he died under unclear circumstances.

Magnitsky was hired by Bill Browder , a prominent American-born businessman working extensively in Russia after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Browder then published the case and lobbied American officials to pass legislation sanctioning Russian individuals involved in corruption. He led the campaign targeting those involved in Magnitsky's death. The US Congress under then president Barack Obama eventually approved the act that bans the Russian representatives involved in human rights infringement and those who might have contributed to Magnitsky's death from entering the country.

Lipavsky said Browder had accepted his invitation to the Czech Republic.

vok/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220509ei590000d


Czech Republic: Minister says Aircraft Industries acquisition important
M-Brain
91 字
2022 年 5 月 10 日
Esmerk Eastern European News
ESMKEU
英文
Copyright 2022. M-Brain
CIJ Europe - Construction & Investment Journal, 10 May 2022, online:- Czech Defence Minister Jana Cernochova has said that the acquisition of Aircraft Industries from its Russian owner is an important step in the Czech Republic getting rid of its dependence on Russia in the arms industry. The Czech military uses several aircraft manufactured by Aircraft Industries, which has almost 1,000 employees. Iskander Makhmudov, the Russian owner of the company, was put on the sanction list after the Russian aggression in Ukraine.

M-Brain Insight Oy

文件 ESMKEU0020220511ei5b0001b


EDITORIAL
2022 Václav Havel European Dialogues: Online speech by VP Jourová
1427 字
2022 年 5 月 11 日
Insight EU Issue Monitor Posts (IEU-P)
DPAEUM
英文
Copyright 2022. Comecon Media GmbH
Prague, 10 May 2022

“Check against delivery”

Ladies and gentlemen,

It is a pleasure to participate in this year’s event, although I am sorry I cannot be with you in person.

History has yet again accelerated. After Covid we are faced with unprovoked aggression of Putin’s Russia on Ukraine. In times like this, I think the world really needs leaders like Havel. A big picture of Havel hangs in my office. And I consult him very often.

I appreciate that this year you suggest discussing truth and democracy.

Let me start from bringing one thought of Vaclav Havel from his first presidential address in 1990. He recalls there how on the plane to Bratislava he had time to look out of the window. And he said: “The view was enough for me to understand that for decades our statesmen and political leaders did not look or did not want to look out of the windows of their planes. “

This is, to me, a powerful reminder about the virtue of democratic politicians. It is our duty and obligation to look around, talk to people and understand their situation, their concerns and their problems. And most of all, to be honest. Not to paint the grass green, like authoritarian leaders like to do, but to tell the people the truth.

So, what do I see today, when I talk to people in the Czech Republic and other European countries?

First of all, I hear stories of a terrible war. I hear the story of Matev – an 8 year old shot by Russians, together with his mother Margerita, as they tried to escape the hell of Bucha.

I also hear about the troubles here at home. A family is trying to cope with an energy bill that doubled since last year. An older lady double-counting her change to make sure she can afford her usual groceries, as food prices are increasing.

All these are individual truths of the people facing challenges of every day.

And democracy, if we want people to have faith in it and support it, must find answers to these challenges.

I have expressed many times my conviction that the key ingredient of a democratic society is trust. Trust in one another; trust in the democratic institutions; trust that the state authorities are not there to oppress us, but to serve us.

This trust is eroded today. For many reasons. Both external and internal.

If we want to fix this, we must start by being honest about it and also accept responsibility for this state of affairs.

But I also see reasons for hope. Let me mention two of them:

First of all, Europe has a new impetus and is acting both on the European and national level. Unity for biting sanctions against Russia, cooperation on energy security, enabling compensations for gas prices and promoting tax reductions on basic products. Also national governments raising to the challenge, for instance Czech government providing military help to Ukraine and support to refugees.

And a strong international alliance with partners such as US but also G7 and beyond.

The second reason for hope is a less obvious one. We already have what Ukrainians are fighting for. We have free and fair elections. We have peaceful transition of power. We can criticise our politicians and not go to jail for this. We have anti-corruption bodies and courts we can turn to. We, the people, can decide who we put in charge and who we want to get rid of in the parliament.

This is the essence of democracy. Of course, not all those elements are perfect. And they will never be. Our annual rule of law report shows the positives and areas for improvements in every country.

Democracy is a journey. It will go – I have no doubts about it through stormy waters. The big question is if we use the calm weather to get ready for the storm.

And, in fact, this is the essence of my work in Brussels. In 2020 I have proposed a European Democracy Action Plan. A first of its kind plan to strengthen all elements of our democracies. It is about electoral resilience, support to the media, countering disinformation and promoting active civil society.

I would like to discuss with you one aspect of this plan, namely countering disinformation due to its strong relation with truth. In the wake of Russia’s war in Ukraine we see what disinformation can be used for. Putin uses it first to prepare the ground for the invasion and now to justify it. We hear about ‘denazification’, about ‘special military operation’, about ‘security risk’ to Russia from Ukraine.

And what we see now while in the pandemic the disinformation served as a poison; now in war, it is used as a weapon against us.

But we also see that digitalisation, the social media, has been massively used to spread and amplify disinformation. It is increasingly difficult to see who is saying what and why. Yet, new technologies should be tools for emancipation, not for manipulation.

When I say this, some people argue, or rather shout: ‘Jourová – you want to censor the Internet!’

So, let me repeat: Freedom of speech is the most cherished value of democracy. I said many times: ‘I don’t want to see a Ministry of Truth’. To bring in Vaclav Havel again: “Follow the man who seeks the truth; run from the man who has found it”.

This is why our actions don’t focus on assessing the content. It’s about ending the Wild West and bringing rules to the online world. Rights need to be respected online as they are offline. Online platforms will have obligations and accountability. And we are opening up their black-boxes. We have a new law, the Digital Services Act, and we are overhauling the anti-Disinformation code.

For instance, we are stopping platforms and websites from making money from disinformation. They must design and deliver better ways to deal with manipulation, bots and fake accounts.

We are also enhancing the EU’s and Member States’ capacity to address foreign disinformation, developing new instruments that will allow for imposing costs on perpetrators.

We must not stay idle when Russia’s state-sponsored outlets, not media, spread war propaganda. This is why we have taken the unprecedented decision to sanction Sputnik and RT – two outlets that are the information arm of Putin’s regime.

This brings me to the role of the media in democracy and in seeking the truth.

Media are an essential pillar of democracy. Why? Because they are very good in discovering the lies, hence they help us to judge what is true and what is false.

They are our eyes under Russian bombs and threats. They show us what Russia does not want us to see.

Which is the underlying goal in all the actions I have just laid out to you: that citizens have the power to make informed decisions.

And we will not leave the media without support. We are now preparing the Media Freedom Act that will enshrine, for the first time in EU law, common safeguards to protect media pluralism and the editorial independence of the media.

Ladies and gentlemen,

Both truth and democracy can be very philosophical concepts. No one holds a monopoly for the truth. Noone holds a monopoly for true democracy.

But I am absolutely certain that democracy cannot exist without truth. And democracy is the best place for truth to flourish.

I am also certain that for democracy to be successful, we need common values, like freedom of speech, independent courts and a free press. Without values democracy will be like an empty shell that crumbles under the pressure from those who seek to weaken us.

Therefore I want to end this speech with an appeal to all of you. Democracy is not strong with the strength of its leaders alone. Democracy is strong with the strength of its people. We all have a role to play to uphold democratic principles and values, and I don’t mean here only attending elections.

It is also about the respect we have for political opponents or for those who disagree with us, both online and offline.

Ladies and gentlemen,

Democracy is not given once and for all. It is on us to protect, to nourish, to change and adapt it. I count on you that we can do it in truly democratic way.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/SPEECH_22_2983]

Comecon

文件 DPAEUM0020220511ei5b0000c


Czech Republic slams Hungary for refusal to back sanctions on Russian energy
Ahmet Gencturk |
241 字
2022 年 5 月 17 日
Anadolu Agency
ANATOL
英文
© Copyright Andolu Ajansi
ANKARA

The Czech Republic slammed Hungary on Tuesday for its refusal to back sanctions on Russian energy.

“The decision and approach of Hungary’s government not to support any sanctions that target Russian energy exports is unacceptable,” Foreign Minister Jan Lipasky wrote on Twitter.

He was referring to Hungary’s veto on a EU proposal to ban Russian energy which is intended to hamper Russia’s ability to finance its war against Ukraine,

Hungary’s decision come at a time when “Europe needs to be united more than ever,” he added.

Meanwhile, state-run Radio Prague International reiterated that the ban on Russian oil proposed by the European Commission in early May would be its harshest sanction yet in response to Moscow’s military operation in Ukraine.

While the embargo is planned to take effect in 2023, Hungary and Slovakia have been given an exemption until the end of 2024, and Czechia until mid-2024, it added.

At least 3,668 people have been killed and 3,896 injured in Ukraine since Russia began its war Feb. 24, according to UN estimates. The true toll is believed to be much higher.

More than 6.2 million people have fled to other countries, with 7.7 million people internally displaced, according to the UN refugee agency.

Czech Republic slams Hungary for refusal to back sanctions on Russian energy[https://cdnuploads.aa.com.tr/uploads/Contents/2022/05/17/thumbs_b_c_7524f3df7bddaf898740e74c3383a87d.jpg]

Anadolu Agency

文件 ANATOL0020220518ei5h0002b


Lipavsky, Kasoulidis discuss energy, Cyprus dispute
297 字
2022 年 5 月 18 日 16:58 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, May 18 (CTK) - Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) met his Cypriot opposite number Ioannis Kasoulidis in Prague today and their agenda entailed energy security, presentation of Cypriot projects concerning gas in the exclusive economic zone of the country and the Cyprus issue, too, Lipavsky had said.

"Cyprus is an important partner for energy security of the whole Europe and this naturally has in impact on the Czech Republic, too," Lipavsky said.

The politicians discussed the Cypriot issue. After the Greek coup and the following Turkish military invasion in 1974, Cyprus has been split in two. In the north, there is the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus that is recognised only by Turkey, while the Republic of Cyprus in the south belongs to EU member states since 2004.

Kasoulidis said his effort materialised in the form of a package meant to reinforce trust. The package entails several security measures. Lipavsky said Czechia wanted to support the Cypriot initiative during its presidency of the Council of the EU.

Kasoulidis and Lipavsky talked about the invasion of Ukraine as well. The former noted that the security structure in Europe has been violated. He equally mentioned the third EU sanction package and a point of it that concerns airspace closure for Russian aircraft. Turkey did not decide to take this step, therefore this sanction is not efficient, Kasoulidis said.

Cyprus will lose 20 percent of tourism, because these are Russian clients. The country is aware of the fact that some sacrifice must be made to make Russia stop attacking Ukraine, he added. Nevertheless, EU states should not face a bigger loss than Russia, though.

It is the first visit of a Cypriot foreign minister in the Czech Republic since 2011.

vok/dr/pvr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220518ei5i00006


Magnitsky Act needed to confiscate Russian property - minister
365 字
2022 年 5 月 19 日 16:04 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, May 19 (CTK) - The Czech government wants to deal with confiscation of Russian property for the sake of war reparations to Ukraine after the Magnitsky Act is enacted, the Minister for Legislation and Chairman of the Government Legislative Council, Michal Salomoun (for Pirates), told journalists today.

Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) wants to present the Magnitsky Act in June.

In its policy statement, the government suggested the enactment of the Magnitsky Act so that the protection of human rights can be better exacted by the end of 2023, but the Russian invasion of Ukraine has made the government speed up the drafting of the bill, Lipavsky said.

"Now it is being planned to adopt the Magnitsky Act on the freezing of the property on the national level, as suggested by Lipavsky, for the sake of sanctions," Salomoun said.

"Only after it is passed following a discussion of the final wording of the legislation, we will deal with possible confiscations that are to follow it up," he added.

At its Wednesday meeting, the government was informed about the analysis of legal chances to confiscate the property frozen on the basis of international or internal sanctions.

Lipavsky said the Magnitsky Act would serve as a national sanction mechanism against the persons who violate human rights or commit terrorist acts.

The law will cover cyber crime and after the Russian aggression against Ukraine, the Foreign Ministry included in it the act of state aggression.

If passed, government decisions will be sufficient to freeze some property in the Czech Republic and in this, the Czech Republic will not only depend on the EU sanctions.

The freezing of Russian property is a part of the sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. Its owners cannot deal with the frozen property.

At the end of April, Finance Minister Zbynek Stanjura (Civic Democratic Party, ODS) said the Czech Republic had frozen the Russian property worth almost one billion crowns.

If the property is described as a possible support to Russia's war crimes, its confiscation may be in the game in the future, he added.

($1 = 23.468 crowns)

pvr/dr/rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220519ei5j0000d


Czech Republic This Week - May 20, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 20 日, 6471 字, (英文)
EC forecasts Czech economic growth down to 1.9% in 2022The European Commission downgraded its forecast for the Czech economy this year from 4.4% (February estimate) to 1.9%, below the EU average.

PM Fiala criticises new sanction package release before agreement
546 字
2022 年 5 月 30 日 14:16 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, May 30 (CTK) - Czech PM Petr Fiala (Civic Democrats, ODS) criticised the EU talks about the sixth package of anti-Russian sanctions before his departure for an EU summit today, saying a goal should not have been released prior to being agreed on in detail.

He mentioned that the united approach of all member states was so far important during the talks about anti-Russian sanctions adopted to date.

In the case of the sixth package, a high dependence of some countries on supplies from Russia was not taken into consideration, Fiala said.

He stressed he hoped that the summit would bring the talks to a successful end.

In some cases, the Czech Republic needs a deadline to prepare for the transition, he added.

"Essential certainties for inhabitants are being talked about now. We cannot afford to be short of some of the oil products," Fiala said.

The European Commission (EC) drafted the sixth package of sanctions against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine at the beginning of May. Its fundamental parts should be a full ban on Russian oil imports as of 2023. Budapest stood up against it and did not accept even the postponement of the ban that should be given to it along with the Czech Republic and Slovakia.

The effort of the EU countries to agree on details of the embargo on Russian oil, which had been negotiated for almost a month, failed today, during the last few hours ahead of the summit.

The EU heads of state and government should support the ban on oil imports with a temporary exception for transport by oil pipelines according to the proposed summit conclusions tonight. However, an agreement on the final form of the sanction package is expected only after the summit, diplomatic sources told CTK.

Hungary has still objections to the gradual termination of oil imports from Russia.

Fiala today refused to comment on details from the latest talks.

The Czech Republic is negotiating about the extension of the Transalpine Pipeline (TAL) in order to have a sufficient capacity in case it could not use oil from Russia.

Fiala said today the talks had moved to a more working level. The pipeline shareholders are now sending comments on the required extension of its capacity, on the basis of which further steps can be taken, he noted.

Brussels has now proposed to ban only the imports of Russian oil in tankers, in which about three-quarters of oil imports flow from Russia. So far the embargo will not apply to the Druzba pipeline supplying oil mainly to the trio of the above mentioned countries, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. However, the Hungarian government of Viktor Orban is not yet willing to nod to this proposal accommodating towards another Hungarian demand. Budapest argues with it own economic interests.

On the contrary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have a positive stance on the proposal after some of their objections were taken into consideration, diplomats said. Both countries had problems with the demand that the modified oil products imported by pipelines cannot be sold to other countries, which would prevent mainly the Czech Republic from buying products from refiners in the neighbouring countries.

hol/dr/pvr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220530ei5u00008


Foreign Policy
Fico: Winner of EU Summit in Brussels Was Viktor Orban
269 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 15:53 GMT
TASR - Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky
TASR
英文
© 2022
Bratislava, May 31 (TASR) - The winner of the Brussels summit on sanctions against Russia was Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who managed to secure an exemption for supplies of Russian oil via the Druzhba pipeline, said Smer-SD chair Robert Fico on TASR TV on Tuesday.

The multi-year exemption will apply not only to Hungary, but also the Czech Republic and Slovakia. "Orban, not [Slovak Prime Minister Eduard] Heger, managed to secure the exemption for Slovakia where supplies of Russian oil via the Druzhba pipeline are concerned," claimed Fico.

The ban on Russian oil supplies via tankers is a sanction that will "certainly cause pain" to Russia, although Moscow still has the option to sell the resource on alternative markets. "But on behalf of the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, Viktor Orban was very right to put up a fight and make sure that the Druzhba pipeline will go on," stated Fico.

According to the Smer-SD chair, Prime Minister Eduard Heger (OLaNO) was attempting at the beginning to convince the Hungarian prime minister to accept the EU's original proposal. "Heger, who has no real political power, attempted to persuade a man who has been consistent since the outset and enjoys the kind of mandate that Heger can't even dream of," said Fico.

Late on Monday (May 30), EU leaders concluded a deal on introducing a partial oil embargo against Russia. The embargo applies only to Russian oil transported by sea and allows temporary exemptions for supplies via pipelines to several countries, including Hungary and Slovakia.

Tlacova Agentura Slovenskej Republiky - Slovakia

文件 TASR000020220531ei5v001b9


EU summit LIVE: Gleeful Orban declares 'victory' over EU and mocks Brussels after oil row
Francesca Edwards,Olivia Stringer,Tara Fair
8375 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 19:54 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
VIKTOR ORBAN has declared "victory" over the EU as a compromise was reached on the sixth package of EU sanctions against Putin.

The Hungarian leader was opposed to a complete ban on Russian oil but agreed to a compromise that would allow Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic to continue being supplied via the Soviet-era Druzhba pipeline that runs through Ukraine. Following a two-day summit of EU leaders, Mr Orban declared via a social media post a "victory report from Brussels." Appearing to mock the EU, he added: “The father is a man, the mother is a woman, petrol is 480." This is a reference to the ruling Hungarian party's message that Hungary is fighting Brussels to safeguard traditional gender norms. The “480” references Hungary's legal price cap on fuel.

FOLLOW BELOW FOR LIVE UPDATES...

KEY EVENTS Huge EU rift opens as nations slap down Eastern block on Russian gas ban17:08EU announces new ban on Russian oil imports to cripple Putin's war machine 07:40'This is a good sign'- Scholz14:32Orban blames EU for delay14:23Ukraine accused EU of 'hypocrisy to great extent'12:19

20:48 Olivia Stringer

Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi has said that all major EU countries except Italy are against Ukraine joining the EU.

However, he added: "Ukraine’s rapid move towards the EU cannot be ruled out. And it seems to me that the European Commission also agrees with this view."

19:56 Olivia Stringer

Berlin will give Greece infantry fighting vehicles so that Athens can pass on Soviet-style weapons to Ukraine, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Tuesday.

Following a two day summit of EU leaders in Brussels, he said: "We will provide Greece with German infantry fighting vehicles.

Mr Scholz gave no details on the kind of infantry fighting vehicles it will give to Greece or what kind of weapons Greece will pass on to Kyiv.

He said: "The defence ministries will work out the details and quickly implement this agreement.

18:57 Olivia Stringer

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte has said that a seventh package of EU sanctions on Russia "will happen" but added: “it’s difficult for me to predict how long it will take.”

Mr Rutte said he did not want to "speculate" on whether the next round of sanctions would include further fossil fuels sanctions.

Commenting on the drawn-out talks on the sixth package, he said: “I think what we can learn from the sixth package is that it’s best to first have a discussion on technicalities and then to decide on the exact size and makeup of the whole sanctions package itself.”

18:19 Olivia Stringer

The West risks alienating African nations if it cannot stabilise global food supplies, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi said on Tuesday.

Mr Draghi warned that Russia is already spreading propaganda in Africa that food shortages are the result of Western sanctions.

He said: “Winning the battle of food security for Africa is also important from a strategic point of view … because the thesis that is spread is that a possible famine would depend on sanctions,” he said. “When we know that sanctions depend on the war.”

Many African countries, he added, “are not on the side of the West, you have seen their votes at the United Nations — most of them have abstained. So what the alliance would like to do is to bring them to our side.

“If you lose the war on food security, there will never be any hope that these countries can come to the side of the alliance because they will naturally feel betrayed, then whose fault is this is the least relevant issue for them.

So “beyond the humanitarian consequences, which are tragic, there are the strategic consequences which are very, very serious."

17:49 Olivia Stringer

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has said that the reconstruction of Ukraine following the war will be a "very big task" for the next few years, that must not be underestimated.

Mr Scholz said the EU will work with international organisations and experts to develop the best solutions.

He stressed the need to involve “many international organizations that can develop, with the greatest expertise, a concrete way forward” for Ukraine, which was suffering from “a great pile of debt and great destruction.”

17:28 Olivia Stringer

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has welcomed the new package of EU sanctions, however, he criticised the "unacceptable" delay between the fifth and sixth sanctions packages.

In an address to EU leaders on Monday, Mr Zelensky said that 74 children had died in the 52 days since the last package of EU sanctions.

Today, he added: "When over 50 days have passed between the 5th and 6th sanction packages, the situation is not acceptable for us."

17:08 Olivia Stringer

A huge rift has opened up on the second day of the EU Summit as nations slap down the eastern block on a Russian gan ban.

On Monday night, the EU announced that an agreement had been reached to ban Russian oil to the EU.

The agreement, that will immediately impact 75 percent of oil imports from Russia and stop 90 percent by the end of the year, is being celebrated as a victory in Brussels. The EU is now divided on whether the bloc should go further and target Russian gas next.

Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer has dismissed the possibility that the EU would go after Russian gas next after sanctioning Russian oil. He said: “Gas behaves very differently from oil in terms of security of supply — it is much easier to compensate for oil." But Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has said it is important that Russian gas is part of the next package.

16:56 Olivia Stringer

Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo has called for an EU price cap on gas following today's summit.

Mr De Croo said that a price cap would help the EU hide a "stick behind the door" so that prices do not become“speculative and detached from reality.”

He described the move towards a price cap as an unwelcome necessity.

He said: “I'm not a proponent of having to use [price caps] either, but it's a bit like defence: I'm not a proponent of using the army either, but you have to have it ready."

16:28 Olivia Stringer

Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi has called the EU summit "reasonably successful" while acknowledging compromises had to be made to get a deal on a Russian oil emabrgo.

Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi gave an upbeat assessment of the summit, while acknowledging leaders were forced to make some compromises to get a deal on a ban on Russian oil.

Asked by POLITICO whether the summit had been successful, Draghi replied: “Yes, yes. It was reasonably successful.”

“We reached lots of objectives. We managed to have the embargo on oil. We were quite united on that. It was a difficult decision. Some countries that are landlocked were given an exemption but all this would account for less than 10 percent of the oil embargo.

“We managed to discuss the electricity market, the possibility of a price cap. The Commission will have a mandate to study this issue. We discussed defense and we discussed food security. So it was a good summit.”

16:14 Olivia Stringer

Hungarian President Viktor Orban has declared via a social media post a "victory report from Brussels.

He said: “The father is a man, the mother is a woman, petrol is 480."

This is a reference to the ruling Hungarian party's message that Hungary is fighting Brussels to safeguard traditional gender norms.

The “480” references Hungary's legal price cap on fuel.

15:42 Olivia Stringer

French President Emmanuel Macron has said he is not ruling out more sanctions on Russia after a sixth package of EU sanctions was agreed upon following a two-day summit in Brussels.

Speaking to reporters following the summit, Mr Macron also said he hoped that soon an agreement could be reached with Russia to get more exports of grain out of Russia.

He said: "I hope that the next few days or weeks will make it possible to resolve this situation".

15:20 Olivia Stringer

The EU will keep working to make sure it closes any loopholes in Russian sanctions, Ursula vo der Leyen has said.

She added that the global food crisis is solely the fault of Russia as the EU has not put any sanctions on food.

She said: "The only reason we are struggling now is because of this brutal war."

15:14 Olivia Stringer

Germany has already managed to reduce its dependence of Russian oil from 35 per cent to 12 percent , Ursula von der Leyen has said.

She said that this shows that just by working hard to finish contracts and look for alternative contracts, the EU can wind down its tolerance on Russian oil.

15:06 Olivia Stringer

The best option for getting grain out of Ukraine is a maritime corridor, Chares Michel has said.

He said the EU supports the UN in their attempts to get grain out of Ukraine.

Mr Michel added that the EU is also looking at ways to facilitate alternative routes, however, he said this will be more expensive and more difficult.

15:04 Olivia Stringer

Good afternoon, I'm Olivia Stringer and I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the EU summit for the next eight hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: olivia.stringer@reachplc.com

Twitter: @Livstringer_

14:33 Tara Fair

The EU is a political and economic union of 27 countries that trade with each other and allow citizens to move easily between the countries to live and work.

The UK joined the EU, then known as the EEC , in 1973.

A referendum was held June 23 2016 to decide whether the UK would remain inside the EU.

The Leave side won by nearly 52 percent to 48 percent - 17.4 million votes to 16.1 million.

14:23 Tara Fair

Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades said he briefed EU leaders at the summit about the “latest illegal actions by the Turkish occupying forces in Cyprus, inter alia, in the fenced-off area of Varosha.”

He said: “Despite United Nations and European calls, Turkey continues to create new faits accomplis, inter alia, at the expense of prospects of resuming negotiations.

“Reiterated my proposal for confidence building measures that can build trust and pave the way for restarting meaningful talks, aimed at a viable solution."

He called for EU assistance to make this possible and expressed full solidarity with the Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis “amid Ankara’s recent inflammatory rhetoric.”

14:03 Tara Fair

EU leaders are set to discuss the bloc's military capabilities after concluding their debate about a looming global food crisis.

The conversation comes just days after Germany agreed on a giant €100billion investment fund to boost its own chronically under-financed armed forces.

13:39 Tara Fair

The African Union chair, President of Senegal Macky Sall, has thanked the EU for their efforts during the joint discussion on global food security.

He said: "On behalf of the African Union, I thank the European Leaders who associated me with the European Council meeting to discuss solutions to the food crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, which is impacting Africa.

"The AU will continue its consultation with the EU."

Au nom de l\u2019Union Africaine, je remercie les Dirigeants Europ\u00e9ens qui m\u2019ont associ\u00e9 \u00e0 la r\u00e9union du Conseil europ\u00e9en pour \u00e9changer sur les solutions \u00e0 la crise alimentaire engendr\u00e9e par la guerre en Ukraine, qui impacte l\u2019Afrique.L\u2019UA poursuivra sa concertation avec l\u2019UE.

13:12 Tara Fair

French President Emmanuel Macron has warned world leaders not to fall into the Russian "disinformation trap" as they meet to discuss food security.

Meanwhile, Senegalese President Macky Sall stressed the need to counter a Russian propaganda campaign blaming Western sanctions for food export blockages.

An EU official told Politico the two leaders made their points during a session on food security.

The official recalled Mr Macron saying Europe and Africa should “be vigilant not to fall into the trap” of Russian disinformation, calling for strong coordination between the EU and the African Union.

12:47 Tara Fair

Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal has thanked EU leaders after they agreed to ban the purchase of most Russian oil.

He said he was "grateful" for the development.

#EUCO agreed a 6th package of sanctions, which will allow a ban on oil imports from russia. Grateful to @EUCouncil, @vonderleyen & @eucopresident for support of \ud83c\uddfa\ud83c\udde6! The sanctions will impact 75% of russian oil imports just now. And 90% will be banned by the end of the year.

12:35 Tara Fair

Poland is working hard to increase the export capabilities of Ukraine amid a looming food security crisis, according to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki.

He said: “I showed Polish capabilities, I showed how much Poland is doing to increase the export capabilities from Ukraine and how much more we could do, especially if we are supported by EU partners."

12:09 Tara Fair

The President of the European Council, Charles Michel has accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of "using food as a weapon of war".

He said the Kremlin was destroying crops, blocking tonnes of grain and risking global famine.

"The EU is sparing no efforts to free Ukraine's exports over land and exploring alternative sea routes," Mr Michel insisted.

Thanks @Macky_Sall for joining #EUCO to address food security #AUEU

Russia is using food as weapon of war.

Destroying crops, blocking tonnes of grain, risking global famine.

EU is sparing no efforts to free #Ukraine's exports over land and exploring alternative sea routes. pic.twitter.com/InTkQfiQ6c

11:48 Tara Fair

The Irish Prime Minister has accused Vladimir Putin of attempting to create a global food crisis.

Micheal Martin said there is “no doubt” the Russian President was trying to create this problem and said the EU would be discussing this issue on Tuesday morning.

There are concerns among European countries, Mr Martin said that “if you combine the impact of the war with drought in the Horn of Africa, we are facing into very challenging times around food security and famine across the Middle East and Africa.”

The Irish prime minister warned: “A significant humanitarian crisis still awaits us in respect of the food dimension.”

11:29 Tara Fair

The new sanctions on Russian oil will push the EU to accelerate renewable energy projects, according to Irish Prime Minister Micheál Martin.

He noted countries must now establish offshore wind capacity “much sooner” than they had previously anticipated.

Ireland has focussed on developing its offshore wind energy capacity since Russia invaded, Mr Martin said.

He hopes this move will eventually end the dependence on imported fossil fuels.

11:16 Tara Fair

The African Union chair, President of Senegal Macky Sall, has addressed the leaders on the second day of the EU Summit.

The leaders will today discuss food security after reaching an agreement on a Russian oil ban on Monday.

At #EUCO @eucopresident now invited @Macky_Sall chair of @_AfricanUnion to address #EU27 leaders on food security. pic.twitter.com/ZdTzq942sn

10:58 Tara Fair

A Ukrainian official has slammed the EU for its reluctance to introduce sanctions on Russia.

In a tweet, the advisor, Mykhailo Podolyak, said: “Russia must not win, but we won’t give heavy weapons – it may offend.

"Putin must lose but let’s not impose new sanctions.

"Millions will starve, but we’re not ready for military convoys with grain.

"Rising prices are not the worst that awaits a democratic world with such a policy.”

\ud83c\uddf7\ud83c\uddfa must not win, but we won\u2019t give heavy weapons - it may offend Rf. Putin must lose but let\u2019s not impose new sanctions. Millions will starve, but we\u2019re not ready for military convoys with grain. Rising prices are not the worst that awaits a democratic world with such a policy.

10:41 Tara Fair

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán sent a message to Hungarians overnight that he has succeeded in protecting their oil price reductions.

Mr Orbán boasted in a video posted to social media that a deal to ban Russian oil included exemptions that would allow Hungary to stick to its old supply routes.

This exemption is intended to be temporary and EU leaders have vowed to return to this issue.

But Mr Orban is celebrating the deal as a victory for his administration.

10:24 Tara Fair

Latvia’s Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš has said the EU is "determined" to stop the flow of money to Vladimir Putin's war machine.

He said: “Three months after the start of the war, we have gone sanction after sanction after sanction, ever tighter ever tighter, notwithstanding the fact that the sanctions also negative never negatively affect us, European Union's member states.

“We're still determined to stop the flows of money to Moscow and the unity is there.”

10:10 Tara Fair

Mark Rutte has interrupted Brussels' oil celebration to point out that Viktor Orban "had a point" after the EU announced it would ban 90 percent of Russian oil imports by the end of the year - with Hungary exempted.

On Monday night, the EU announced that an agreement had been reached to ban Russian oil to the EU.

The agreement, that will immediately impact 75 percent of oil imports from Russia and stop 90 percent by the end of the year, is being celebrated as a victory in Brussels.

Hungarian Prime Minister Mr Orban has been issued an exception for pipeline imports without a deadline and a provision that would allow Hungary to buy oil via shipments if pipeline supplies are cut off.

Dutch Prime Minister Mr Rutte said: “I think to have the whole picture we have to acknowledge that they are in a difficult position because they are using Russian oil. And because their refineries are only working on this particular crude [oil].

"So, in that sense, I think they have a point.”

10:06 Tara Fair

Latvia’s Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš urged EU countries to keep passing progressively harsher energy sanctions on Russia, hours after leaders agreed to a near-embargo on Russian oil.

He said: “The stronger the sanctions, the quicker the war will end.

“Once again, I have argued from February 24 that we need immediate and full energy sanctions on oil, coal and gas.”

09:51 Tara Fair

Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer has dismissed the possibility that the EU would go after Russian gas next after sanctioning Russian oil.

He said: “Gas behaves very differently from oil in terms of security of supply — it is much easier to compensate for oil.

“Therefore, the gas embargo will also not be discussed in a next sanctions package.”

EU leaders late Monday agreed to ban Russian oil purchases, after negotiating a carve-out for pipeline oil that flows to landlocked countries.

09:47 Tara Fair

Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer has said the sanctions are "painful" for the EU, but is "nothing compared with the suffering in Ukraine.

Mr Nehammer said the oil sanctions are “a measure that will certainly be painful for the member states.”

“But we must be realistic.

“The pain we are suffering is nothing compared to what the Ukrainian people are suffering.”

09:37 Tara Fair

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has urged the EU to go after Russian gas in its next sanction package.

Ms Kallas said: “We discussed it briefly already yesterday, but gas is of course much more difficult than than oil already was.

“All the next sanctions will be more difficult because so far they have only hurt Russians.

“But now they’re also having effects on Europeans, and that’s why it’s much more politically difficult.

“I think that the gas has to be in the seventh package, but I’m realistic as well.

“I don’t think it will be there.”

09:16 Tara Fair

The Prime Minister of Belgium has said after banning most of Russian oil, the EU should stop sanctioning Russian energy.

Alexander De Croo argued Monday that the bloc had reached its limit in terms of sanctions.

He said: “In my view, this is the end of the road, especially in the area of sanctions in the field of energy.

“Besides, today's decisions should be about how we can better control energy prices so that we don't have the same problems this winter.”

“That should be the priority.”

08:59 Tara Fair

EU diplomat Josep Borrell has defended the bloc's deal to bar Russian oil with an exception for Hungary.

Mr Borrell argued that the concessions, which carved out Russian pipeline oil deliveries to landlocked countries, was a “reasonable way out to the discussion.”

Between the now-agreed-to ban on Russian oil delivered by ship and pledges from Germany and Poland to cut off Russian pipline oil, the EU will effectively eliminate 90 percent of Russian oil imports by year's end, Mr Borrell noted.

Asked whether the new package will actually weaken Russia, Mr Borrell said: “Certainly, we cannot prevent Russia to sell their oil to someone else.

"We're not so powerful. We are the most important client for Russia. They will have to look for another one. And certainly they will have to decrease the price.”

08:46 Tara Fair

The EU "should not stop here" with sanctions against Russia, according to Latvian Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš.

Mr Kariņš tweeted that a “significant step has been taken to hinder Russia’s ability to finance the brutal war,” but added that “we should not stop there – pressure on Russia should be continued.”

Significant step has been taken to hinder Russia's ability to finance the brutal war. Tonight we agreed on the sixth package of #EU sanctions including oil embargo. We should not stop there - pressure on Russia should be continued. #EUCO

08:33 Tara Fair

EU chief Ursula von der Leyen has said she is "very glad" that European leaders have reached a new agreement "in principle" on banning oil imports from Russia.

"I am very glad that the leaders were able to agree in principle on the sixth sanctions package," she said.

"Council should now be able to finalise a ban on almost 90 percent of all Russian oil imports by the end of the year. This is an important step forward. On the remaining 10 percent, on these we will soon return to the issue of these remaining 10 percent of pipeline oil."

I am glad that tonight leaders agreed in principle on the sixth sanctions package. This is an important step forward.

We also agreed to work on a mechanism to provide Ukraine with a new, exceptional macro-financial assistance package of up to \u20ac9 billion. https://t.co/La3bZl6JNp[https://t.co/La3bZl6JNp]

08:22 Tara Fair

Poland's Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki praised the leaders' decision on a Russian oil ban, stressing that without this agreement it would be “difficult to talk about an effective fight against Putina's war machine.”

“In spite of pessimistic announcements, our diplomacy and the diplomacy of the European Commission and a couple of other governments worked well,” he said.

08:08 Tara Fair

Volodymyr Zelensky has slammed the length of time it has taken the EU to agree on another sanctions package.

The last package was introduced nearly two months ago.

In an address to the Ukrainian people, he said he was grateful to Charles Michel, the President of the European Council, for "trying to find the necessary compromises" to make the measures possible.

He said: "Russia must feel a much higher price for its aggression.

"The key point is, of course, the oil. I believe that Europe will have to give up Russian oil and oil products in any case.

"Because this is about the independence of Europeans themselves from Russian energy weapons.

"And the sooner this happens, the more complete the abandonment of Russian oil will be, the greater the benefit will be for Europe itself in the end."

08:00 Tara Fair

French President Emmanuel Macron claims the fresh sanctions brought in by the EU shows the bloc's solidarity with Ukraine.

On Twitter, he said: "Russia has chosen to continue its war in Ukraine.

"Tonight, as Europeans, united and in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, we are taking new decisive sanctions.

"We have decided to stop importing 90 percent of Russian oil by the end of 2022."

Russia has chosen to continue its war in Ukraine. Tonight, as Europeans, united and in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, we are taking new decisive sanctions. We have decided to stop importing 90% of Russian oil by the end of 2022.

07:47 Tara Fair

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte has claimed Viktor Orban "had a point" when he pushed back against the EU over a Russian oil ban.

The comment comes as the EU announced it had reached an agreement to ban Russian oil to the EU.

The agreement, that will immediately impact 75 percent of oil imports from Russia and stop 90 percent by the end of the year, is being celebrated as a victory in Brussels.

Hungarian Prime Minister Mr Orban has been issued an exception for pipeline imports without a deadline and a provision that would allow Hungary to buy oil via shipments if pipeline supplies are cut off.

Dutch Prime Minister Mr Rutte said: “I think to have the whole picture we have to acknowledge that they are in a difficult position because they are using Russian oil. And because their refineries are only working on this particular crude [oil].

"So, in that sense, I think they have a point.

"It is true that [Orban] very much pleaded for an exemption temporarily for Hungary, but also for the Czechs and Slovaks.

"But at the same time, they have this issue where we always acknowledged that there was a problem with the fact [that] they are very much dependent on Russian oil.

"We agreed tonight that we'll come back to the next European Council.

"Of course, we have to assess how much time it takes for countries like Hungary to rebuild their refineries and what is reasonable in terms of the time-lapse.”

07:40 Tara Fair

The President of the European Council, Charles Michel, has announced an agreement had been reached to ban Russian oil to the EU.

He said this will immediately impact 75 percent of oil imports from Russia which is funding the war in Ukraine.

On Twitter, he said: "Maximum pressure on Russia to end the war."

The deal would see 90 percent of imports stop by the end of the year.

This sanctions package includes other hard-hitting measures:

de-Swifting the largest Russian bank Sberbank,

banning 3 more Russian state-owned broadcasters,

and sanctioning individuals responsible for war crimes in #Ukraine#EUCO

07:13 Tara Fair

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told EU leaders that 74 Ukrainian children have died since the last set of EU sanctions were imposed on Russia, as he urged them to swiftly approve a sixth round of sanctions.

EU leaders are meeting in Brussels on Monday and Tuesday with the main item on the agenda being the proposed ban on Russian oil.

In a videoconference, Mr Zelensky said he does not blame the EU for the atrocities occurring in Ukraine but hopes that they can come to a swift agreement on the next round of EU sanctions.

He said: "On April 8, the 44th day of this war, the EU’s fifth sanctions package was introduced. And 52 days have passed since then. What happened during this period?

“Then, as of April 8, there were 169 children on the list of those killed by the Russian occupiers in Ukraine. As of today, 243 children.

“Of course, I want you to understand me: I’m not blaming any of you.

“The blame for everything that is happening is only on the Russian state.

"But I am convinced that it is obvious to each and every one of you that there should be progress in sanctions for this aggression.

"And for us, it is very necessary. It will help us a lot!”

He added: “I am grateful to everyone who promotes the sixth sanctions package and tries to make it effective. However, unfortunately, for some reason, it is not there yet.”

07:11 Tara Fair

Good morning from London. I’m Tara Fair, I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the EU Summit. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: Tara.fair@reachplc.com

Twitter: @TaraFair_

22:05 Olivia Stringer

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has asked EU leaders why Ukraine is still not recognised as a terrorist state.

During his address to EU leaders via videoconference, Mr Zelensky recalled European Council President Charles Michel's recent visit to Ukraine, during which Michel and Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal had to take shelter after a missile attack set off air raid sirens.

Mr Zelensky said: "Mr President Michel, you were recently in Odesa and were forced to take shelter due to a missile attack.

"Mr. President has felt for himself what I am talking about now. And if this was felt even at such level, why is Russia still not recognized as a terrorist state? A state sponsor of terrorism?”

21:21 Olivia Stringer

Irish Europe Minister Thomas Byrne has said he is reasonably confident that EU leaders could come to an agreement on Russian oil sanctions on Monday night.

Mr Byrne said he spoke with Irish leader Micheal Martin during a break in the summit and heard there was a “very constructive mood in the meeting” and “people want to get this done.”

Mr Byrne admitted that some countries "certainly have issues" with the proposals.

However, he insisted: “I think people want to get it done in the best possible way.”

20:23 Olivia Stringer

Discussions on what happens to pipeline oil should take place at leaders' level since the issue is very political, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban told EU leaders, according to two diplomats.

This remark contradicts those made by other EU officials who have insisted questions related to sanctions on Russian oil imports are mainly technical at this stage and could be resolved by specialist officials.

Mr Orban is still holding out against the current compromised package of sanctions - even though it includes an exemption on Russian oil coming via pipeline.

If Orban insists that the matter can only be resolved by leaders, the issue will have to wait until the next EU summit on June 22 and 23.

19:53 Olivia Stringer

74 Ukrainian children have died since the last set of EU sanctions on Russia, President Zelensky said in a videoconference with EU leaders.

Mr Zelensky called on the EU to act faster to impose further sanctions on Russia.

He said: “On April 8, the 44th day of this war, the EU’s fifth sanctions package was introduced. And 52 days have passed since then. What happened during this period?”

“Then, as of April 8, there were 169 children on the list of those killed by the Russian occupiers in Ukraine. As of today, 243 children,” the president told the EU chiefs.

“Then, as of April 8, 928 educational institutions were destroyed: kindergartens, schools, universities. As of today: 1,888.”

“Of course, I want you to understand me: I’m not blaming any of you.

“The blame for everything that is happening is only on the Russian state. But I am convinced that it is obvious to each and every one of you that there should be progress in sanctions for this aggression. And for us, it is very necessary. It will help us a lot!”

He added: “I am grateful to everyone who promotes the sixth sanctions package and tries to make it effective. However, unfortunately, for some reason, it is not there yet.”

19:13 Olivia Stringer

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has urged EU leaders to approve the sixth round of sanctions against Russia in a video address to the summit, an EU official has said.

The official said that Zelensky also urged EU leaders to find a way to unblock exports of grain from Ukraine.

Zelensky warned that Putin is having success in Asia and Africa blaming the blockade on Ukraine.

He also noted that Ukraine has completed the questionnaire to become a candidate for EU membership and expects a swift response from the bloc.

18:51 Olivia Stringer

Danish energy company Ørsted today said it has no plans to pay for Russian gas in rubles as Russia has demanded.

A company statement read: “We have no legal obligation under the contract to do so, and we have repeatedly informed Gazprom Export that we will not do so.

The statement added that because of this, there is a risk that Gazprom will stop supplying gas to Ørsted.

It added: "In Ørsted’s view, this will be a breach of contract.”

18:11 Olivia Stringer

Greece’s Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has urged his colleagues to reopen a debate on capping the price of natural gas in order to lower EU energy prices.

He said: “All European member states are currently facing very high energy prices, the result of excessively high gas prices, prices which — as I have said many times — are not justified by the laws of supply and demand."

Mr Mitsotakis added that he would be bringing up Turkey’s “recent intense provocativeness and its impact on the stability of the Eastern Mediterranean", during the meeting.

Tensions over disputed territory have been recently flaring up between the two countries.

He said: “Greece faces these challenges with confidence and determination,” he said. “We are a country that has international law on its side, we have strong allies and of course, we have invested even more in our deterrent capacity so that we do not allow anyone to challenge our sovereignty and sovereign rights.”

17:52 Olivia Stringer

Slovak Prime Minister Eduard Heger said he will back the EU's proposed ban on Russian oil if Slovakia can obtain oil from its neighbours in case of supply disruptions.

He said: “We are fully supporting the alternatives for Russian oil and gas — on the other hand, we need the help of our partners.

“We've always been a reliable partner in transiting oil and gas.

“Now, in case of an emergency, we'll need the same from the partners around us who have access to the sea.”

Mr Heger added that he had spoken to Hungarian leader Viktor Orban ahead of the summit.

He said: “I expressed to him that unity is very important, I was trying to get him on board.

“I also … emphasized that the money given for Russian oil and gas is financing the Russian aggression in Ukraine.”

17:32 Olivia Stringer

Irish Premier Micheal Martin has said he urges Hungarian PM Viktor Orban to support the latest package of EU sanctions.

Mr Martin said he is fully supportive of the sanctions and will be using the EU summit to make his position clear.

17:22 Olivia Stringer

Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has asked whether the EU has done all it could to stop the war in Ukraine.

He said: "We have to ask ourselves a question if we have done everything to end this war as soon as possible and end in a victorious way."

Mr Morawiecki said that Poland's "basic demand" is that the EU stops buying Russian oil.

He added: "We’re trying to build a consensus around it.

“We understand that there are countries that don’t have access to the sea and that’s why they are dependent on pipelines. We have special solutions for them.”

17:14 Olivia Stringer

Dutch gas trader GasTerra announced its refusal to comply with Russia's decree mandating that Russian gas payments be transferred to rubles via Russian bank accounts.

A company statement read: “In response to GasTerra’s decision, Gazprom declared to discontinue supply with effect from 31 May 2022.

“The cessation of supply by Gazprom means that, between now and 1 October 2022, the date on which the contract ends, approximately 2 billion [cubic meters] of contracted gas will not be delivered … GasTerra has repeatedly urged Gazprom to respect the contractually agreed payment structure and supply obligations, but to no avail.”

The Netherlands’ Minister for Energy and Climate Rob Jetten said “the government understands GasTerra’s decision not to agree to Gazprom’s unilaterally imposed payment terms. This decision has no consequences for the physical delivery of gas to Dutch households. GasTerra has bought extra gas in preparation for this situation. Therefore, it is expected that there will be no consequences for physical deliveries of gas to the Dutch business sector either. However, the government will continue to monitor the situation closely in the coming period.”

16:58 Olivia Stringer

If the latest package of EU sanctions on Russia does not include a Russian oil embargo, it will be hard to trigger other elements of the package, a senior European Commission official said on Monday.

The official said: "It is true - if there was no agreement on it either today or in the next days ... we would have difficulties with the rest of the package.

"But since we're confident that over time there will be a solution, I don't see a reason to think that one could split it or it would even make sense to split it."

16:34 Olivia Stringer

The future of Hungarian families is "at stake" due to the proposed ban on Russian energy, Hungarian President Viktor Orban said in a Facebook post.

16:25 Olivia Stringer

It is important that there is both fairness and competitiveness in the EU, President of the European Commission Ursula vo der Leyen has said.

Speaking ahead of the meeting of the European Council, she said: "It is in fact very important that there is fairness for everyone as well as competitiveness for everyone. Esp when it comes to the issue of oil and the issue of Russian oil. And this is exactly the issue we haven’t solved yet.

Different proposed solutions are on the table. But we haven’t reached this step, that we are able to take a joint position. I am confident that we will be able to find a solution. Whether during the council - the probability isn’t very high- or afterwards, one thing is clear: we will revisit the issue of replacements for oil via the sea route, which has already been clarified, and the issue of pipeline oil from Russia.

16:07 Olivia Stringer

Latvian Prime Minister Arturs Krisjanis Karins has said that talking with Putin makes little sense as he is not interested in making concessions.

Speaking ahead of today's EU Council summit, he said that if the EU continues to supply Ukraine with weapons and isolate Russia's economy and Putin realises he is losing to war, that is when he will talk.

Krisjanis Karins added that he has no sympathy with Hungarian Prime Minister Orban stating that a ban on Russian oil would be hard for Hungary as he said a ban would be difficult for Latvia as well.

15:55 Olivia Stringer

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has stressed the importance of moving away from Russian fossil fuels.

Speaking ahead of the EU council meeting, she said: "It is very important and in the Union we agree that we need to get out of fossil fuels from Russia. First, it is bad for our climate but secondly and much more importantly it fills Putin’s war chest and therefore we have to do everything to get rid of the fossil fuels from Russia.

"This means on the one hand we have to be independent, on the other sanctions against fossil fuels. We have already done so when it comes to coal, we are now working on oil, but above all else find other reliable providers worldwide. For this we are building a common purchasing platform, which is a good thing.

"And the most important topic: massive investments in renewable energy. It is the future, makes us independent, creates good jobs here in Europe and they are good for the climate."

15:43 Olivia Stringer

Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda has suggested using the assets of sanctioned Russian oligarchs to pay for the rebuilding of Ukraine.

He added that the EU must use "all the instruments in our hands" to stop Putin.

He said he hopes the EU will come to an agreement on the current package of sanctions today and can move on to the seventh package.

15:29 Olivia Stringer

Finnish PM Sanna Marin has said that the EU needs to be united over Russian sanctions and said it is important that Russian sanctions are hard enough that they affect Russia's economy.

She added that Finland is on board with all of the sanctions the EU has proposed.

15:23 Olivia Stringer

The EU is getting too bogged down with the problem of Russian oil imports and is forgetting the bigger picture, Latvia's Prime Minister has said.

Speaking ahead of today's EU summit Krišjānis Kariņš said:" “We're getting a little bogged down in all of the details and we're forgetting the big picture,” he said. “The Ukrainian people are fighting for their independence.”

“What we’re dealing with is not normal politics, each country's self-interest: We are in a situation where a European country is being attacked.”

15:11 Olivia Stringer

The EU will find a compromise on the proposed embargo on Russian oil,Luxembourg's Prime Minister Xavier Bettel said on Monday.

Speaking to reporters ahead of today's European council summit, he said: "We will always find a compromise. There are still talks going on. As long as there are talks, I am hopeful.

15:07 Olivia Stringer

Good afternoon, I'm Olivia Stringer and I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the EU council summit for the next eight hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: olivia.stringer@reachplc.com

Twitter: @Livstringer_

14:46 Francesca Edwards

Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins criticised leaders saying the EU is "forgetting the big pictures".

NR Karins"It's only money, the Ukrainians are paying with their lives. "We can and we must support them, if only out of self-interest because only when Russia is defeated can we in Europe feel safe."

14:39 Francesca Edwards

Asked what the future will look like with a Russian oil ban, Olaf Scholz said "you shouldn’t count your chickens before they hatch."

The German Chancellor added: It looks like everybody is discussing this constructively and well with each other.. but what I perceive is that there are talks which are led with the willingness to come to an understanding and this is a good thing."

14:32 Francesca Edwards

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said it is "important" for him that today marks a "special fund" being formed for the German Armed forces.

He said: " It is a good thing that we are all coming together here in Brussels to do what we have been showing in the past weeks, which is to act united and to discuss our policies together which we are developing against the Russian aggressions, against the Russian attack on Ukraine.

"This is a good sign that Europe has so far managed to stand together like this and I am very confident that we will continue to do this in the future.

"Something that is especially important for me is that today will also be the day on which it can be said that in Germany a special fund for our Bundeswehr is formed

14:23 Francesca Edwards

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has blamed the "irresponsible behaviour of the commission" for the issues surrounding banning Russian oil imports.

Mr Orban said leaders are in a "difficult position" blaming the bloc.

"What is a problem for us, and why we have to fight today, is that if something happens to the Russian oil coming by pipeline... if there is no oil coming, then we should have the right for purchases by sea," Orban said. "This is the guarantee we need."

14:10 Francesca Edwards

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said he expects the European Union to reach a consensus on an oil embargo against Russia, but did not give a time frame when it might happen.

"Everything I hear sounds like there could be a consensus - and sooner or later there will be", he told reporters as he arrived for an EU summit in Brussels.

He added: "I strongly believe that we will be able to discuss a good solution together today or tomorrow. I have already reported that everything here points to us coming together, nobody can predict whether this will in fact be the case but everything I can hear points to there possibly being agreement and sooner or later there will be agreement."

14:07 Francesca Edwards

European leaders are "not there yet" on reaching an agreement for the sixth package of sanctions against Russia, Ursula von der Leyen said.

The European Commission President said the bloc has "one success and this is the solidarity of the European Union".

Speaking at the EU summit Ms von der Leyen said they have "basically solved all the issued but one" citing the issues surrounding banning Russian oil.

She added "I have not too high expectations that we're going to solve within the next 48 hours, but they're after my call is very clearly on the member states. The key to success was and is solidarity with Ukraine and unity in the European Union."

13:49 Francesca Edwards

European Union member states should be able to reach an agreement on an import ban for Russian oil under certain conditions on Monday, Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov said, several hours before the start of the summit.

"I think it will pass with certain derogations", Petkov said about plans for an embargo on Russian oil imports.

"Overall it should pass, depending on some individual characteristics and criteria that member states may have."

13:28 Francesca Edwards

European leaders have arrived in Brussels for the two-day summit.

The member states are aiming to reach an agreement on banning Russian oil.

"The European Council agrees that the sixth package of sanctions against Russia will cover crude oil, as well as petroleum products, delivered from Russia into Member States, with a temporary exception for crude oil delivered by pipeline," the latest draft conclusions, seen by Reuters, said.

"The European Council therefore urges the Council to finalise and adopt it without delay, ensuring fair competition and a level playing field in the EU Single Market, and solidarity among Member States in case of sudden interruptions of supply," the draft said.

13:00 Francesca Edwards

Spain is breaking EU ranks as one of its MEPs has tabled an "alternative plan" that could deal a hammer blow to Vladimir Putin.

Spanish MEP Luis Garicano has put a plan forward to punish Moscow.

He claims his plan is more effective than wasting time mulling over tactics to try and get Hungarian President Viktor Orban on board.

Mr Garicano slammed the EU in an op-ed for Politico entitled “Putting an end to Europe’s hide-and-seek: the oil tariff”, arguing that the bloc is “prolonging Putin’s war”.

READ MORE HERE.

12:36 Francesca Edwards

Volodymyr Zelensky will directly address EU leaders on Monday.

It comes amid his continued calls for the bloc to impose more sanctions on Russia and expand its military support to Ukraine.

Over the weekend the Ukrainian president said the country's success "depends on the partners, on their readiness to provide Ukraine with everything necessary to defend freedom".

He continued: "And I expect good news on this already next week".

12:19 Francesca Edwards

Ukraine accused the EU of "hypocrisy to a great extent" over its failure to agree on more sanctions against Russia.

A senior official said the EU should return to its core roots and principles.

“Basically what we are doing is we are now bringing the EU back to where it started as a peace project,” the senior Ukrainian diplomat said. “So to generate peace, to generate security, in a broader sense, they [should] take responsibility.”

Ukraine continues to call for more sanctions against Russia and for the EU to provide military support.

12:00 Francesca Edwards

European leaders will not decide on imposing a cap on gas prices on Monday, the European Commissioner for Economy said.

"If this is agreed among member states, the Commission will act very quickly to analyse this possibility," Paolo Gentiloni told reporters at the Foreign Press Association in Rome.

He said it would be difficult to make any predictions regarding the timing of a decision.

11:55 Francesca Edwards

Good afternoon I'm Francesca Edwards, I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the EU Summit for the next eight hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: francesca.edwards@reachplc.com

Twitter: @FrankieLEdwards

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220530ei5u002mq


Slovak refiner Slovnaft warns of impending fuel shortage in Central Europe]]
Michal Hudec
295 字
2022 年 6 月 6 日 06:23 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Slovak oil refiner Slovnaft says it cannot guarantee fuel supplies to its traditional export destinations in Central Europe under the terms of the EU’s new Russia sanction package, the company has said.

Last week EU leaders agreed[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-leaders-back-partial-russian-oil-ban/] on a Russian oil embargo for oil coming via the Druzhba pipeline, a condition pushed for by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and backed by  Slovak Economy Minister Richard Sulík who argued that the two country’s need more time to adjust because of their high dependence on Russian imports.

However, according to the embargo’s full text published on Friday (3 June), the three-year exemption will not cover exports to other EU countries.

While Slovnaft, a subsidiary of Hungarian fossil fuel giant MOL, can continue refining Russian oil it cannot be exported to other member states after February 2023, though exports to Czechia can continue until December 2023.

According to the company’s leadership, this will force Slovnaft to import its oil from other countries from next year if its refinery is to run at full capacity, which will have radical negative effects on fuel supplies in the region.

“We will not be able to guarantee market supply in the Central European region. The current wording of the sanctions will not allow us to export key products to our traditional markets such as the Czech Republic, Austria and Poland,” said Slovnaft spokesman Anton Molnár.

“The current sanctions proposal does not give Slovnaft the originally requested three-year timeframe to make technological adjustments and logistical support for the import and processing of alternative crude oil. We are not aware of the reasons for changing the three-year period to eight months,” Molnár added.

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220606ei660000n


Insight EU monitoring - Your Daily Premium Digest
26446 字
2022 年 6 月 8 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2022. Comecon Media GmbH
A full-text overview of today's most important posts on our Insight EU portal

DAILY DIGEST

PREMIUM

www.ieu-monitoring.com[http://www.ieu-monitoring.com]

* Czech Republic: Eurojust supports fraud investigation with sale of used cars

* Charles Michel to the EP plenary session: Back Ukraine and confront Russia

* ECR: EU Parliament adopts Witold Waszczykowski’s Eastern Partnership report

* Finance: EU Commission updates equivalence decisions for five non-EU jurisdictions

* WhatsApp under scrutiny by EU Commission and Consumer Protection Cooperation

* Freeze and Seize Task Force: EU State tax authorities step up tax enforcement

* Joint statement by the defence ministers of the Northern Group

* Verkhovna Rada Speaker Stefanchuk: Grant Ukraine EU candidate status

* EU Parliament grants new powers to Europol

* EEAS: High Representative Josep Borrell announces senior appointments

* Türkiye: Government reacts to the EU Parliament’s 2021 Report

* Russian war crimes in Ukraine: EU supports ICC investigation with €7.25m

* Ramstein Legacy: fighters and SBAMD units in large-scale exercise

* WMO: More countries must urgently reduce climate risks

* Protecting EU Institutions against Cyber Threats – EU Commission answer

* Cost of Withdrawing Cash in the EU – EU Commission answer

* EU Commission proposes soft Refugee Relocation Mechanism

* EU Climate Mission: 118 regions and local authorities joining

* EU President von der Leyen on the potential approval of Poland’s recovery plan

* EU Rules on removing terrorist content online enter into force

* Portugal: EU Commission approves €453.25m in favour of SATA Group

* EU Commission appoints new Director of its International Partnerships department

* EU Commissioner Urpilainen discusses cooperation with the United Arab Emirates

* Key strategic significance: MEPs adopt report on Indo-Pacific region

* MEPs: Turkey moves persistently further away from EU values and standards

* EU budget 2023: EU Commission proposal and first reactions

* EU Commission welcomes trilogue deal on gender balance on corporate boards

* BusinessEurope and US Chamber of Commerce: Priorities for the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference

* Lithuania: IMF Staff Article IV Concluding Statement

* CER: Why would anyone use a central bank digital currency?

Czech Republic: Eurojust supports fraud investigation with sale of used cars[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security/czech-republic-eurojust-supports-fraud-investigation-with-sale-of-used-cars/379467/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 11:57 pm

The Hague, 8 June 2022

Authorities in the Czech Republic and Romania have halted a fraud scheme allegedly involving the sale of used cars, depriving close to 200 victims of approximately EUR 1.6 million. During an action day, 17 places were searched and 4 suspects were arrested in both countries. Eurojust supported the action day and assisted the authorities in setting up and funding a joint investigation team[https://www.eurojust.europa.eu/judicial-cooperation/eurojust-role-facilitating-judicial-cooperation-instruments/joint-investigation-teams] (JIT) into the case.

The Prague police started investigations into the scam in 2019, after complaints by victims, who had paid deposits for the purchase of an imported used vehicle, which was never delivered. The fraudsters offered second-hand cars from abroad for sale on various professionally set up websites and asked customers for deposits between EUR 4 000 and EUR 8 000. The fraudsters told customers this amount was necessary to get the car through customs so it could be transported from the Czech border.

In reality, the vehicles on offer were not for sale at all. The Prague police identified a trail to Romania and found that the fraud was being orchestrated by three Romanian and Czech suspects. At a later stage, the scammers were joined by accomplices, who had set up false profiles of German companies, whose bank accounts were used for the payment of the deposits. The alleged fraudsters are suspected of forgery and money laundering.

For sales purposes, 28 fake identities of Slovenian vehicle owners were set up, pretending they wanted to sell their car. In another instance, fake identities of a Czech couple allegedly living in Germany were used, stating they wanted to sell their car to profit from a German subsidy for a new electric car. These false internet profiles of sellers made the scheme look very credible.

Apart from funding and assisting with the setting up of the JIT, Eurojust provided judicial support during the action day and helped with its preparations.

During an action day, 17 places were searched in Romania and the Czech Republic. In Romania, six suspects were charged, two of whom were arrested. In addition, a Czech European Arrest Warrant was executed resulting in the arrest of one suspect. Authorities froze assets – such as luxury cars, real estate, cash and jewellery – worth over EUR 600 000.

In the Czech Republic, one suspect was arrested.

The operation was carried out in both countries by:

* Czech Republic: Municipal Public Prosecutor’s Office (PPO) Prague; Prague police

* Romania: Directorate for Investigating Organized Crime and Terrorism (DIICOT) Vâlcea; PPO attached to the Craiova Court of Appeal; Service for Combating Organized Crime, Vâlcea

Source: Eurojust

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security/czech-republic-eurojust-supports-fraud-investigation-with-sale-of-used-cars/379467/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Charles Michel to the EP plenary session: Back Ukraine and confront Russia[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security/charles-michel-to-the-ep-plenary-session-back-ukraine-and-confront-russia/379464/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 11:55 pm

Brussels, 8 June 2022

Two days ago, I was at the UN Security Council to express our common European commitment to condemn Russian atrocities and to reaffirm our support for Ukraine.

The Russian ambassador did not like what I said, and he walked out because he refused to look the truth in the eye. But we won’t stop telling the truth. We won’t stop acting to back Ukraine and to confront Russia with the facts.

Russia is using food as a weapon of war, stealing grain, blockading ports and turning farmlands into battlefields. There are over 20 million tons of grain, wheat and corn stuck in Ukraine. This is disrupting global food security, driving up prices, and causing global famine.

During our European Council meeting, we focused on the logistical solutions to get these products to global markets, including working with Ukraine — and EU member states — to establish alternative transport routes.

Global hunger is everyone’s business, so it requires a coordinated, comprehensive and global approach, and we are working with the G7, the African Union and all our other partners.

In New York, a few days ago, I met with Secretary-General Guterres to discuss global food security and our common efforts to get the blocked grain out of Odesa. The Kremlin is weaponising food supplies and surrounding their actions with a web of lies, Soviet-style. We must join forces to call out these fabrications as pure fiction, particularly for the global South. These are Russian ships and Russian missiles that are blocking the export of crops and grain; Russian tanks, bombs and mines are preventing Ukraine from planting and harvesting.

Let’s be clear: there are no EU sanctions on Russian agricultural products. And I say to all countries affected by this food crisis: don’t be fooled by the Kremlin’s propaganda, don’t be instrumentalised by Russia.

We also reached a landmark agreement on Russian oil. This embargo will cover 90% of oil imports from Russia into the EU by the end of the year. This is a remarkable achievement and it will be extended to all pipeline oil as soon as possible.

Two months ago, in this House, I said that sooner or later, measures on hydrocarbons would be needed, and we did it. This shows that we are and we remain united and committed to piling the pressure on Russia.

Ukraine urgently needs liquidity: five billion euros a month just to keep the country running. So we discussed how we can work with our international partners to get the Ukrainian government the money it needs.

We agreed to provide up to nine billion euros to Ukraine in macro-financial assistance and we also addressed Ukraine’s reconstruction: right now and in the future, the EU must be, and will be, a leader in driving this forward. We discussed a Ukraine reconstruction platform — together with the Ukrainian government, the EU and member states, and all our international partners and friends.

Russia is brutally destroying Ukraine and it is only fair that Russia — the aggressor —should pay to rebuild the country. We agreed to look into the possibility of confiscating assets of sanctioned Russian individuals and entities, in line with EU and international law. This could help finance Ukraine’s reconstruction.

Russia’s war has bolstered our ambition for a strong, coordinated European defence. In March, in Versailles, we agreed to strengthen our security and to increase our sovereignty. We want to have defence capabilities that match today’s threats and we agreed to urgently replenish member states’ stocks of equipment sent to Ukraine, and in the medium and long term, to reinforce our European defence technology and industrial sector, including SMEs.

This means better coordinating our purchases and pooling spending for joint procurement. Member states’ lack of cooperation on defence is costing tens of billions of euros per year. Only 11% of member states’ defence investments are spent collaboratively and we are missing huge opportunities for real savings, for economies of scale, and for ensuring that our armed forces are more interoperable.

A more capable EU will strengthen NATO and increase global security.

We also discussed energy prices, including the possibility of trying to lower the gas price by capping it, together with our international partners. Different views remain on the feasibility and we have therefore asked the Commission to analyse this.

We are also working to phase-out Russian fossil fuel imports. To become more energy independent, we will act in four key areas. First, we will diversify the fuels we use and the sources they come from; second, we will speed up the deployment of renewables and the permitting procedures; third, we will do more to save energy and promote energy efficiency; and finally, we will invest in infrastructure, interconnections and renewables. But our discussions showed that much work remains on the financing aspects of the Commission’s proposals and the Council will now take work forward in these different areas.

If we want to be a geopolitical power, we must act as a geopolitical power. This means taking care of ourselves but also taking care of others. By being together, we can use that power to become more sovereign and more prosperous, more influential.

We are united and committed to back Ukraine and to build our common future.

Thank you.

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/european-council/2022/05/30-31/]

Source: European Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/06/08/report-by-president-charles-michel-to-the-european-parliament-plenary-session/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Report+by+President+Charles+Michel+to+the+European+Parliament+plenary+session]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security/charles-michel-to-the-ep-plenary-session-back-ukraine-and-confront-russia/379464/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

ECR: EU Parliament adopts Witold Waszczykowski’s Eastern Partnership report[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ecr-eu-parliament-adopts-witold-waszczykowskis-eastern-partnership-report/379468/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 10:21 pm

Strasbourg, 8 June 2022

During the ongoing plenary session in Strasbourg, the European Parliament adopted ECR Rapporteur Witold Waszczykowski’s report on “Security in the Eastern Partnership area and the role of the common security and defense policy” by an overwhelming majority. 490 deputies voted for the report, 59 were against and 38 abstained.

Presenting his report, Mr Waszczykowski noted that when he started working on the report, there were many indications that its assumptions would be significantly limited by those who wanted to let Putin save face and make more deals with Russian energy giants. “The invasion launched on February 24 made some of the MEPs present in this House open their eyes. This is reflected in the report negotiated by our groups politically”, he said.

Mr Waszczykowski highlighted some of the most important points contained in the report. He emphasized the need to duplicate efforts to rearm Ukraine. “Our eastern neighbours are fighting not only for their freedom, but also for a peaceful future for Europe. Russia must be defeated, not convinced by phone calls”, the MEP emphasized.

Mr Waszczykowski, who is the former head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Poland, pointed to the need to strengthen cooperation in the field of security, also with other Eastern Partnership countries. He recalled that Russia still occupies the territories of Georgia and Moldova, which at the operational level means, inter alia, increasing the presence of military and civilian personnel in the EU mission.

“We underline the importance of digital issues and cooperation in the fight against Russian hybrid activities. The development of the Three Seas Initiative is also extremely important, as it is an important element of the stabilisation and security of the region – logistical support and arms supplies to Ukraine through the territory of, inter alia, the Polish people speak for themselves here”, Mr Waszczykowski said.

He also called for Ukraine to be included in the EU’s common market as soon as possible and for Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova to be granted the status of candidate countries, and stressed the key importance of NATO and endorsed the intensification of the alliance’s cooperation with the Eastern Partnership countries.

As noted by Waszczykowski, Russian aggression should be viewed in terms of a smoke screen for the ineptitude and corruption of the Russian elite, and the declared source of legitimacy for their rule. “Merely getting rid of Putin will not bring lasting peace in Europe, because he would be immediately replaced by someone who might be even worse, further detached from reality and more competent”, he argued.

Summing up, Mr Waszczykowski stressed that the guidelines in the report aimed at restraining Russia’s influence in the Eastern Partnership are a step in the right direction. ”The policy proposed in the text should be continued for many years after chasing Russians from the occupied territories of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova. We cannot allow Russia to rebuild its war machine and provide us all with another repetition of history”, Mr Waszczykowski concluded.

Source – ECR (via e-mail)

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ecr-eu-parliament-adopts-witold-waszczykowskis-eastern-partnership-report/379468/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Finance: EU Commission updates equivalence decisions for five non-EU jurisdictions[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finance-eu-commission-updates-equivalence-decisions-for-five-non-eu-jurisdictions/379458/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 10:08 pm

Brussels, 8 June 2022

The European Commission has today adopted three decisions[https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/derivatives-emir-regulation-eu-no-648-2012/amending-and-supplementary-acts/implementing-and-delegated-acts_en] determining that the legal and supervisory frameworks for central counterparties (CCPs) in Chile, Malaysia and Indonesia are equivalent to the requirements applicable under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR).

Today’s decisions allow Chilean, Malaysian and Indonesian CCPs (those supervised by the Indonesia Financial Services Authority) to apply for recognition by the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA). Once recognized, such CCPs will be able to provide central clearing services in the EU to EU clearing members and trading venues.

In addition, the Commission amended today the existing equivalence decisions for CCPs from South Africa and India. These amendments were required because there have been certain changes to the legal and supervisory frameworks in both jurisdictions since the Commission’s initial decisions. This allows for the continuation of the recognition of CCPs from both countries.

These decisions and the amended decisions are in the EU’s interest. They will facilitate EU clearing members’ access to these foreign CCPs and to clearing products denominated in local currencies. If these equivalence and recognition decisions are not taken, EU banks will be faced with higher costs. CCPs are bodies that operate between the buyer and seller of a derivative contract, becoming the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer. Their use was encouraged by the G20 following the financial crisis, to reduce risk in derivatives trading. Derivatives markets are global in nature.

The European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR)[https://ec.europa.eu/info/business-economy-euro/banking-and-finance/financial-markets/post-trade-services/derivatives-emir_en] provides a framework for the recognition of non-EU central counterparties. That framework ensures that non-EU CCPs that comply with requirements that are equivalent to those laid down in EMIR may offer central clearing services in the European Union. To ensure that its equivalence decisions remain adequate, the Commission reviews them where necessary.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finance-eu-commission-updates-equivalence-decisions-for-five-non-eu-jurisdictions/379458/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

WhatsApp under scrutiny by EU Commission and Consumer Protection Cooperation[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/whatsapp-under-scrutiny-by-eu-commission-and-consumer-protection-cooperation/379462/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 09:49 pm

8 June 2022

The EU Commission and consumer protection authorities urge WhatsApp to keep consumers better informed about its data policies and updates to its terms of service

Today, the Consumer Protection Cooperation (CPC) Network and the European Commission sent an additional letter to WhatsApp urging the company to take action to address outstanding concerns over its updates to its terms of service and its privacy policy and to clearly inform consumers of their business model.

In particular, WhatsApp is encouraged to show how it plans to communicate any future updates to its terms of service, and to do so in a way that consumers can easily understand the implications of such updates and freely decide they want to continue using WhatsApp after these updates. The company is also asked to clarify whether it derives revenue from commercial policies relating to user data.

Didier Reynders, Commissioner for Justice, said:

“WhatsApp must ensure that users understand what they are agreeing to and how their personal data is used for commercial purposes, in particular to offer services to commercial partners. . I repeat that I expect WhatsApp to fully respect EU rules which protect consumers and their fundamental rights”.

A first letter was sent in January 2022, as several updates to the terms of service made in 2021 were problematic for consumers. In response, WhatsApp has demonstrated that it provides users with the necessary information about these updates, including through in-app notifications, or its help center.

However, the information is provided by WhatsApp in an insistent manner and is deemed insufficient and confusing to users. WhatsApp now has one month to demonstrate to consumer protection authorities that its practices comply with EU consumer law. More information on how the Commission works with consumer authorities to investigate and tackle breaches of EU consumer law can be found here.

The Commission has recently published a report presenting an overview of the past actions of this network, which includes a forward-looking examination of market trends affecting consumer rights and on which the CPC network will focus its activities over the next two years.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/whatsapp-under-scrutiny-by-eu-commission-and-consumer-protection-cooperation/379462/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Freeze and Seize Task Force: EU State tax authorities step up tax enforcement[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/freeze-and-seize-task-force-eu-state-tax-authorities-step-up-tax-enforcement/379459/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 09:44 pm

Brussels, 8 June 2022

The Commission and Member State tax authorities have set up a subgroup on tax enforcement in the ‘Freeze and Seize’ Task Force[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_1828] steered by Commissioner Reynders to step up their efforts against sanctioned Russians and Belarusians individuals and companies, as well as their associates.

This subgroup will help unearth possible tax crimes and recover unpaid taxes, while facilitating the implementation of EU sanctions. In particular, it will check for the presence of sanctions-listed persons and entities in tax files; intensify or undertake new tax audits or investigations regarding such persons and entities; share information on those persons and entities with each other and with third countries within the boundaries of existing tax law frameworks; increase screening efforts on tax refunds and repayments to avoid any circumvention of the asset and fund freezes laid down in EU sanctions regulations; and ensure a high level of vigilance regarding any intermediary acting for such persons and entities in view of the already existing prohibition to offer certain services to trusts and similar legal arrangements. The ‘Freeze and Seize’ Task Force was set up by the Commission in March to ensure the efficient implementation of the EU sanctions against listed Russian and Belarussian individuals and companies across the EU.

The Task Force coordinates actions by EU Member States, Eurojust, Europol and other agencies as regards the seizing and, where national law allows for it, the confiscation of assets of Russian and Belarussian oligarchs. It is also looking into how to use any confiscated assets to help rebuild a stronger Ukraine for the next generation, an initiative discussed and supported by the EU leaders in the European Council conclusions of 30-31 May 2022[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/05/31/european-council-conclusions-30-31-may-2022/].

So far, the frozen assets of Russian oligarchs amount to €10 billion, in addition to €196 billion worth of blocked transactions. In May, the Commission proposed to strengthen the implementation of the EU sanctions[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3264] by adding the violation of EU sanctions to the list of EU crimes and by reinforcing the current rules on asset freezing and confiscation.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/freeze-and-seize-task-force-eu-state-tax-authorities-step-up-tax-enforcement/379459/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Joint statement by the defence ministers of the Northern Group[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/joint-statement-by-the-defence-ministers-of-the-northern-group/379455/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 09:22 pm

Published 08 June 2022

The ministers of defence of the Northern Group met in Reykjavík, Iceland, on 8 June, and gave the following statement.

Today we, the Ministers, discussed the implications of Russia‘s invasion of Ukraine, which we condemn in the strongest possible terms. Russia‘s invasion has inflicted immeasurable destruction and suffering on the Ukrainian people, and is a threat to the security of Europe and the North Atlantic area. We stand with Ukraine and will continue to support Ukraine both militarily and politically against Russia‘s brutal and illegal aggression.

Today we also discussed the implications of global challenges to security in the northern regions, including the High North. We underline our strong political unity and cohesion in the face of threats to the security of our region. We will continue to strive to protect our common values of democracy, rule of law, freedom and human rights. We underline that the sanctity of internationally recognised borders is a bedrock principle of international relations. Any erosion of this principle represents a grave danger to a system that is based on international law and rules-based order.

The Ministers of Defence of the Northern Group warmly welcome the sovereign decisions by Finland and Sweden to apply for NATO membership. This will improve our collective defence and enhance security and stability in Northern Europe. Denmark, Estonia, Germany, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, and the United Kingdom welcome Finland and Sweden’s applications and will work for fast national ratification processes.

Source – Swedish Government: Link[https://www.government.se/statements/20222/06/joint-statement-by-the-ministers-of-defence-of-the-northern-group-8-june-2022/]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/joint-statement-by-the-defence-ministers-of-the-northern-group/379455/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Verkhovna Rada Speaker Stefanchuk: Grant Ukraine EU candidate status[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/verkhovna-rada-speaker-stefanchuk-grant-ukraine-eu-candidate-status/379438/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 07:48 pm

Brussels, 8 June 2022

In his address to MEPs on Wednesday, the Speaker of the Ukrainian Verkhovna Rada (parliament) Ruslan Stefanchuk called on the EU to endorse his country’s membership application.

Welcoming Mr Stefanchuk to the hemicycle in Strasbourg, Parliament’s PresidentRoberta Metsola[https://the-president.europarl.europa.eu/en/] underscored Ukraine’s “fight for freedom, for democracy, for the values that bind us as Europeans, is our fight. What Ukraine has had to endure was unthinkable a few months ago, but your people have inspired the world.”

President Metsola added that the European Parliament will continue to actively support Ukraine’s efforts to be granted EU candidate status. “We know how important it is to send a clear signal that Ukraine’s place is within our European family. To tell everyone that Ukraine is Europe,” she said.

Mr Stefanchuk outlined how the initial Russian assault on Ukraine had shocked his country and the entire world, but that Ukrainians had quickly realised what they needed to do: unite against the aggressor.

Praising President Metsola for being one of the first European leaders to visit Ukraine following the outbreak of the war, he also thanked European countries for their response to the Russian aggression, for welcoming Ukrainian refugees, and for standing with the people of Ukraine in these dark times. At the same time, he raised the prospect of more action in the event of the war continuing, including further EU sanctions, even as they start to negatively impact European economies. “Because the price for defeat will be way bigger,” he said.

In addition, Mr Stefanchuk also expressed his deep wish for the European Union to strongly support his country’s desire to be granted EU candidate status. Ukraine and its people need this powerful message from Europe, he underlined, while pointing out that any other political signal would only benefit Russian President Vladimir Putin and his regime. He also thanked the European Parliament for its strong support for his country.

You can watch his address again here[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/plenary/en/debates-video.html].

Source: European Parliament[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220603IPR32131/ruslan-stefanchuk-urges-eu-to-grant-ukraine-candidate-status]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/verkhovna-rada-speaker-stefanchuk-grant-ukraine-eu-candidate-status/379438/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Parliament grants new powers to Europol[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security/eu-parliament-grants-new-powers-to-europol/379429/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 07:46 pm

Brussels, 8 June 2022

On Wednesday, the European Parliament plenary gave its final green light to granting new powers to Europol.

With 470 votes in favour, 118 against, and 16 abstaining, MEPs endorsed the deal reached in March[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220309IPR25168/europol-reform-deal-on-new-powers-to-propose-schengen-information-system-alerts] by Parliament and Council negotiators on strengthening the mandate of Europol, the EU’s police agency.

Under the new rules, Europol will be able to propose to member states alerts on third-country nationals that should be added to the Schengen Information System (SIS), so that front-line officers in member states can have access to alerts on foreign terrorist fighters and other persons of interest. Under certain conditions, Europol could also use information sourced from third countries in the alerts it proposes.

The current package of Europol reform proposals also included a second file, which MEPs endorsed[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220429IPR28234/parliament-backs-giving-more-powers-to-europol-but-with-supervision] during the May session in Strasbourg.

Next steps

The legal text now needs to be formally adopted by the Council, before it is published in the EU’s official journal and enters into force.

Source: European Parliament[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220603IPR32160/europol-new-powers-on-schengen-information-system-sis-alerts-approved-by-meps]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security/eu-parliament-grants-new-powers-to-europol/379429/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EEAS: High Representative Josep Borrell announces senior appointments[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eeas-high-representative-josep-borrell-announces-senior-appointments/379431/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 07:44 pm

Brussels, 8 June 2022

Josep Borrell, High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, announced the nomination of 31 Heads of Delegations of the European Union.

They will be formally appointed following receipt of respective agréments from their host countries:

Christiane HOHMANN has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Albania. She is currently Ambassador of Germany to Estonia and formerly served as German Ambassador to Bosnia and Herzegovina.

Gabriel VISENTIN has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Australia. He is currently Special Envoy of the European Union for the Indo-Pacific. He served previously as Head of the EEAS Division for Parliamentary Affairs.

Petra PEREYRA has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Botswana and the Southern African Development Community (SADC). She is currently Head of Unit for Communication in the Directorate-General of the European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations of the European Commission. She previously served as Team leader for West Africa in the same Directorate-General.

Jorge TOLEDO ALBIÑANA has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to China. He is currently Ambassador of Spain to Japan. He formerly served as Secretary of State for European Affairs in the Spanish Government.

Francesca DI MAURO has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Côte d’Ivoire. She is currently Head of Unit for Western Africa in the International Partnerships Directorate-General within the European Commission. She also served as Head of Unit for Eastern and Central Africa in the same Directorate-General.

Vesna Bastistic KOS has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to the Council of Europe(Strasbourg). She is currently Permanent Representative of Croatia to the United Nations and other international organisations in Geneva. She previously served as Director-General for multilateral issues in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia.

Sylvie TABESSE has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation and the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD). She is currently Head of the EU Delegation to Haiti and also served as the Head of the EEAS Inspection Division.

Gianluca GRIPPA has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Eritrea. He is currently Adviser to the EEAS Africa Managing Directorate. He also served as Head of the EU Delegation to the Dominican Republic.

Pawel HERCZYNSKI has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Georgia. He is currently EEAS Managing Director for CSDP and Crisis Responseand also served as Director for Security and Defense Policy in the EEAS. Prior to that he served as Ambassador of Poland to the Political and Security Committee (PSC).

Artis BERTULIS has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Guinea Bissau. He is currently Ambassador of Latvia to India and Sri Lanka, and also served as Ambassador to Italy, Albania, Malta, San Marino,and as Latvia’s Permanent Representative to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).

Jolita PONS has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Guinea Conakry. She has served as Head of the Political section of the EU Delegation to Russia and previously as Head of the Political Affairs, Press and Information section of the EU Office to Hong Kong.

René VAN NES has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Guyana, for Suriname, and with responsibility for Aruba, Bonaire, Curaçao, Saba, Saint Barthélemy, Sint Eustatius and Sint Maarten. He was Head of the EEAS Division Conflict Prevention and Mediation Support, and he also served as Deputy Head of the EEAS Division Integrated Approach – Methodology and Implementation.

Stefano GATTO has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Haiti. He is currently Senior Inspector for Delegations in the EEAS Inspection Division. He also served as Head of the EU Delegation to Guatemala.

Jean-Eric PAQUET has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Japan. He is currently Director-General for Research and Innovation within the European Commission. He formerly served as Deputy Secretary-General in charge of policy coordination and better regulation within the European Commission.

Marilyn JOSEFSON has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to the Kyrgyz Republic. She is currently Head of the EU Delegation to Tajikistan and previously served as Head of Office of former EEAS Secretary-General Helga Maria Schmid.

Isabelle DELATTRE has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Madagascar. She is currently Head of Unit for Southern Africa, Indian Ocean in the International Partnerships Directorate-General within the European Commission. She also served as Deputy Head of the EEAS Division for Regional Affairs, ASEM and Indo-Pacific.

Antonino MAGGIORE has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Mozambique. He is currently Ambassador of Italy to Zambia, Malawi and the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA). He also served as Head of Division for the OSCE in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Italy.

Salvador PINTO DA FRANCA ROUX has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Niger. He is currently Head of the Political, Press and Information section of the EU Delegation to Mali. He also served as Deputy Head of Mission, Head of Political section at the Portuguese Embassy in Egypt.

Riina KIONKA has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Pakistan. She is currently Head of the EU Delegation to South Africa. She previously served as Chief Foreign Policy Advisor to the former President of the Council of the European Union Donald Tusk.

Izabela MATUSZ has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Panama. She is currently First Counsellor in the Department of the Americas in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Poland, and has previously served in the Cabinet of the Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs.

Jacques FRADIN has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Papua New Guinea. He is currently Head of the EEAS Division for Integrated Strategic Planning for CSDP and Stabilisation. Previously, he was Head of the Africa and Europe sections in the EEAS Crisis Management Planning Directorate.

Roland GALHARAGUE has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Russia. He is currently Ambassador of France to Malaysia. He also served as Director responsible for Russia, Ukraine, Caucasus and Central Asia countries in the Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs of France.

Belén CALVO UYARRA has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Rwanda. She is currently seconded from the EEAS to the Cabinet of the Spanish Minister of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation and is responsible for Africa and Development Cooperation. She also served as Head of the Political, Press and Information section of the EU Delegation to South Africa.

Jean-Marc PISANI has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Senegal. He is currently Head of Division for Horn of Africa, East Africa at the EEAS, and also served as Head of the EEAS Division for Conduct of Operations.

Sandra KRAMER has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to South Africa. She is currently Director for Africa in the Directorate-General International Partnerships within the European Commission. She also served as Director for Coordination and Administration in the Cabinet of the former President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker.

Timo OLKKONEN has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to South Sudan. He is currently Head of the EU Delegation to Zimbabwe. He also served as Ambassador of Finland to Zambia, Zimbabwe, Malawi and COMESA.

Aidan O’HARA has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Sudan. He is currently Head of the EU Delegation to Djibouti. He also served as Director of the European Union Division in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ireland.

Raimundas KAROBLIS has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Tajikistan. He is currently Vice minister at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Lithuania. He also served as Minister of Defence of Lithuania.

Marc FIEDRICH has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Timor-Leste. He is currently Acting Director of the Service for Foreign Policy Instruments within the European Commission. Earlier in his career, he was also posted in the EU Delegation to Venezuela.

Jan SADEK has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Uganda. He is currently Head of the EU Delegation to Botswana. He also served as Ambassador of Sweden to Ethiopia and Djibouti, and Special Representative to the African Union and IGAD.

Jobst VON KIRCHMANN has been nominated as Head of the EU Delegation to Zimbabwe. He is currently Head of the EU Delegation to Ivory Coast, and also served as Head of Unit of Southern Africa, Indian Ocean in the International Partnerships Directorate-General within the European Commission.

The EEAS has also nominated4 new Deputy Heads of Delegation of the European Union:

Raffaella IODICE has been nominated as Deputy Head of the EU Delegation to Afghanistan. She is currently Head of Unit for Asia, Latin America, Caribbean and Pacific in the International Partnerships Directorate-General within the European Commission. She also served as Head of Unit for Middle East and Gulf, Central Asia, South Asia in the same Directorate-General.

Florence LIOU has been nominated as Deputy Head of the EU Delegation to Morocco. She is currently Deputy Head of the EEAS Division for Rights, Obligations and Medical Cell. She also served as Deputy Head of the EEAS Division for Maghreb.

Plamena HALACHEVA has been nominated as Deputy Head of the EU Delegation to Serbia. She is currently Policy coordinator in the Citizens, Equality, Democracy and Rule of Law Unit of the Secretariat-General within the European Commission. She also served as Policy and Political Desk for Kosovo in the Neighbourhood and Enlargement Negotiations Directorate-General within the European Commission.

Sara REZOAGLI has been nominated as Deputy Head of the EU Delegation to Thailand. She is currently First Counsellor, Head of Political Section of the Embassy of Italy in China. She also served as Head of Southeast Asia and Ocean Unit in the Directorate-General for Global Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation of Italy.

Source: EEAS[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/eeas-high-representative-josep-borrell-announces-senior-appointments-3_en]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eeas-high-representative-josep-borrell-announces-senior-appointments/379431/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Türkiye: Government reacts to the EU Parliament’s 2021 Report[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/turkiye-government-reacts-to-the-eu-parliaments-2021-report/379419/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 07:12 pm

Ankara, 8 June 2022

The European Parliament’s (EP) 2021 Report on Türkiye, which is of a resolution, was adopted at the Plenary Session, on 7 June 2022.

While the need to strengthen the relations between Türkiye and the EU through mutual efforts is evident, we do not accept and reject the EP’s biased and unrealistic assessments in the report, which ignore this need through a shallow and non-visionary approach.

Our first and foremost expectation from the EP is not to be a tool on the agenda of narrow-minded circles and to display an encouraging attitude towards EU institutions in order to revitilise the accession process. Unfortunately, the EP has adopted the exact opposite stance so far. In fact, such an attitude by the EP, which even shows tolerance towards members of terrorist organizations settling and propagating terrorism within its premises, is not surprising. Thus, the EP has lost both its credibility and trustworthiness before the Turkish public opinion.

Therefore, allegations in the report regarding our country concerning democracy, rule of law and human rights, and the unfounded arguments on the Aegean, Eastern Mediterranean and Cyprus issues, which reflect one or two EU members’ narrow-minded efforts to serve their own interests, are null and void for us.

Our expectation from the EU is the fulfillment by all EU institutions of their obligations towards Türkiye, and in this context, the revitalization of the accession process, acceleration of the Visa Liberalization Dialogue, launch of negotiations to update the Customs Union, increase of the cooperation in the fight against terrorism and specifically activation of the Voluntary Humanitarian Admission Scheme in the context of migration cooperation.

Instead of encouraging steps to be taken on these issues, this report, which evaluates Türkiye from a shallow perspective, provides yet another example of the EP’s attitude, which is detached from reality, ideological and biased, and thus only damages the EP’s reputation.

Source: Turkish Government[https://www.mfa.gov.tr/no_-190_-avrupa-parlamentosu-nun-2021-turkiye-raporu-hk.en.mfa]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/turkiye-government-reacts-to-the-eu-parliaments-2021-report/379419/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Russian war crimes in Ukraine: EU supports ICC investigation with €7.25m[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/russian-war-crimes-in-ukraine-eu-supports-icc-investigation-with-e7-25m/379441/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 07:07 pm

Brussels, 8 June 2022

Today, the European Commission has launched a new project, under its Foreign Policy Instrument, to support the investigation capacities of the International Criminal Court (ICC) with €7.25 million. This project, which was first announced by HRVP in Kyiv[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/ukraine-high-representative-borrell-visited-kyiv-reinforce-eu-support_en], is part of the EU’s efforts to fight impunity for international crimes globally. In particular, it will help the ICC to scale up its investigation capacity to respond to the ongoing investigations into war crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine.

High Representative/Vice-President of the European Commission, Josep Borrell, stated:

“There can be no impunity for the crimes committed under Russian occupation. The International Criminal Court’s investigations are crucial to ensure accountability and justice for the heinous crimes committed in Ukraine.”

Commissioner for Justice, Didier Reynders, said:

“One thing is clear: a global response is necessary to ensure that those responsible for the atrocities committed in Ukraine are brought to justice. We are closely cooperating with the International Criminal Court to make sure that there is no impunity for the perpetrators of war crimes.”

The EU supports the investigation launched by the ICC Prosecutor. On 25 April, Eurojust and ICC agreed to join forces and for the Court to participate in the EU’s Joint Investigation Team. The information on possible war crimes and crimes against humanity is currently being collected to enable investigation and adjudication by relevant actors in the future to ensure that those responsible for war crimes and other atrocities are held accountable.

This crisis response measure will provide targeted support to the Office of the Prosecutor of the ICC to further scale up the Office’s data storage and processing infrastructure and to build up additional analytical and forensic capacity for new types of evidence, including digital.

Background

The European Union is committed to make Russian decision-makers accountable for the gross violations of international law and international humanitarian law in Ukraine. Following reports of the atrocities committed in Bucha, in Ukraine, President von der Leyen spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/statement_22_2268], agreeing to ensure a close cooperation. President von der Leyen tasked Commissioner for Justice, Didier Reynders, to follow-up and support the coordination of the EU efforts to investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Ukraine.

In this context, it is crucial to ensure safe storage of evidence outside Ukraine as well as to support the investigations and prosecutions by various European and international judicial authorities. The Commission proposed to amend the Eurojust Regulation to give the Agency the legal possibility to preserve and share evidence on war crimes. The proposal was agreed by the European Parliament and the Council on 19 May.[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3180]

The European Union Advisory Mission (EUAM) that was already in Ukraine before the war, will help the Ukrainian Prosecutor General in providing training and donating equipment to ensure safe investigation and collection of evidence to be presented in front of the International Criminal Court. The EU is also looking into additional ways of supporting the investigation of the ICC.

The Ukrainian General Prosecution Office, 13 EU Member States and the Office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC) have opened investigations on war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in Ukraine. The Ukrainian prosecution office has established a dedicated homepage[https://warcrimes.gov.ua/], requesting citizens to register and document such crimes. An EU Joint Investigation Team (JIT) was set up with Poland, Lithuania and Ukraine, supported by Eurojust[https://www.eurojust.europa.eu/news/eurojust-supports-joint-investigation-team-alleged-core-international-crimes-ukraine] and Europol. Eurojust and the International Criminal Court (ICC) agreed on 25 April[https://www.eurojust.europa.eu/news/icc-participates-joint-investigation-team-supported-eurojust-alleged-core-international-crimes] to join forces and for the Court to participate in the Joint Investigation Team. Recently, Estonia, Latvia and Slovakia[https://www.eurojust.europa.eu/news/estonia-latvia-and-slovakia-become-members-joint-investigation-team-alleged-core-international] became members of the JIT too. Other Member States are expected to join the JIT. The Genocide Network, hosted at Eurojust, has started training sessions for judicial authorities in the Member States and in Ukraine to enhance case building for core international crimes. The EU also stands ready to support the investigations, for instance with expertise such as forensic experts, equipment or training possibilities.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_3543]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/russian-war-crimes-in-ukraine-eu-supports-icc-investigation-with-e7-25m/379441/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Ramstein Legacy: fighters and SBAMD units in large-scale exercise[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ramstein-legacy-fighters-and-sbamd-units-in-large-scale-exercise/379401/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 12:33 pm

Ramstein, 7 June 2022

Fighters and Surface Based Air and Missile Defence (SBAMD) units from Allies and Partners have come together in Poland and the Baltic States to take part in Ramstein Legacy 22, June 6-10.

Given the current security situation following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, large-scale training exercises like this are, now, more important to NATO than ever.

Exercise Ramstein Legacy is Allied Air Command’s principal Integrated Air and Missile Defence (IAMD) exercise taking place across Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. The exercise includes 17 Allied and Partner nations and will integrate Allied SBAMD units under NATO Command and Control.

The NATO IAMD system is a collaborative effort and a key defensive component of the Alliance’s joint air power, which aims to ensure the stability and security of NATO’s airspace by coordinating, controlling, and exploiting the air domain.

“Given the current security situation following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, large-scale training exercises like this are, now, more important to NATO than ever,” said General Jeff Harrigian, Commander Allied Air Command. “We will leverage this opportunity to increase multi-domain interoperability and unit readiness. Ramstein Legacy enhances our ability to defend Alliance territory and is a clear expression of NATO’s commitment to regional security and stability,” he added.

Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine, there has been an increased use of missiles, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) and combat aircraft close to the borders of NATO nations. This increases the air and missile threat to NATO territory and populations, primarily due to miscalculation or loss of guidance or control. Exercises like Ramstein Legacy 22 provide Allied units the opportunity to practice NATO Tactics, Techniques and Procedures in a realistic multi-domain scenario.

Ramstein Legacy 22 is a long-planned activity to exercise NATO Command and Control of Allied IAMD capabilities. The activities are conducted in compliance with international laws and standards. It is a clear expression of NATO’s commitment to readiness which enhances and promotes regional security and stability.

Source: NATO[https://ac.nato.int/archive/2022/Ramsteinleagacyaridefence]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ramstein-legacy-fighters-and-sbamd-units-in-large-scale-exercise/379401/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

WMO: More countries must urgently reduce climate risks[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/wmo-more-countries-must-urgently-reduce-climate-risks/379398/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 12:23 pm

Geneva, 7 June 2022

More countries must urgently adopt and improve early warning systems to reduce risks from an increasing number of climate hazards and other disasters across the world, a UN forum has concluded. This reaffirms the importance of one of WMO’s top priorities – to ensure universal access to early warning services in the next five years.

The Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction (GPDRR)[https://globalplatform.undrr.org/news/un-disaster-summit-concludes-bali-agenda-resilience-prevent-world-facing-15-disasters-day-2030] called on countries to “Think Resilience” and to improve preventative measures and ‘stop the spiral of increasing disaster impact and risk.’

It took place from 25 to 27 May in Bali, Indonesia – a nation confronted with volcanic eruptions, earthquakes and tsunamis as well as weather and climate-related hazards. It was preceded by a Multi Hazard Early Warning conference[https://public.wmo.int/en/media/news/multi-hazard-early-warning-conference-scaling-action] (MHEWC-III) co-sponsored by WMO, together with the Indonesia Meteorological, Climatological and Geophysical Agency (BMKG) and a wide range of partners.

Multi-hazard early warnings

More than 750 people attended MHEWC-III. It provided the first opportunity to discuss the call by António Guterres, UN Secretary-General, for early warning systems to cover every person on the planet within five years[https://public.wmo.int/en/resources/world-meteorological-day/world-meteorological-day-2022-early-warning-early-action]. He has tasked WMO with drawing up a plan to be presented by the forthcoming UN Climate Change negotiations, known as COP27 in Egypt in November.

“We need to do more, especially for the most vulnerable, to incorporate disaster risk in how we live, build, and invest. Communities need to be equipped to adapt and build resilience against multiple risks and climate change impacts,” UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina M. Mohammed told the closing session of the Multi-Hazard Early Warning Conference[https://globalplatform.undrr.org/multi-hazard-early-warning-conference-iii].

“Despite important achievements in scaling up early warning systems globally, significant gaps remain. One-third of the world’s people, mainly in least developed countries and small island developing states, are still not covered by early warning systems. In Africa, the numbers are even starker: 60 per cent of people lack coverage. This is simply unacceptable. We must boost the power of prediction for everyone and build their capacity to act,” said Ms Mohammed.

Ten-point Action

MHEWC-III took stock of progress in the implementation of the Sendai Framework and identified a number of gaps and related needs and priorities:

1. Since 2015, 95 of the 120 countries reporting progress against Sendai Target G, indicated they had multi-hazard early warning systems in place. However, less than half of LDCs and one third of SIDS reported having a multi-hazard early warning system.

2. The accountability of governments was stressed to ensure access to people-centered early warning systems and enabling anticipatory early action through impact forecasting. Inclusive governance mechanisms and cooperation is required along with the integration of early warning into disaster risk reduction planning and climate change adaptation strategies.

3. The need for adequate hazard, exposure, vulnerability and impact data was referred to multiple times. 53% of countries that reported through the Sendai Framework Monitor indicate that they do not have accessible, understandable and usable disaster risk information that is fit-for-purpose. Data needs to be findable, accessible, interoperable, and reusable.

4. Modern Information Communications Technology (ICTs) offer opportunities to improve and tailor early warning data and services that can facilitate preventive and anticipatory action. Further efforts are required to raise awareness about the benefits of the use of novel ICTs and the common alerting protocol to reach those at risk with multiple types of messages and in different formats linking to National Emergency Telecommunication Plan (NETP).

5. Highlighting the necessity of public-private engagement, there was a strong commitment to work with private sector actors, including local businesses, SMEs and social enterprises.

6. Participants, particularly from African countries, referred to the lack of robust observation networks which underpin early warning systems. The Global Basic Observing Network (GBON)[https://public.wmo.int/en/programmes/wigos/gbon] and the Global Ocean Observing Systems (GOOS)[https://public.wmo.int/en/programmes/global-ocean-observing-system] can further enhance observation systems, whilst the Systematic Observations Financing Facility[https://alliancehydromet.org/soff/] aims to provide technical and financial support to sustain data generation and exchange.

7. The ever-growing need for effective, inclusive and gender-responsive early warning systems and actions and its urgency, was reiterated, in accordance with the goal of “Leaving no one behind.”

8. Early warning systems remain most effective when they are localized and people-centered. Ideally, they integrate local and indigenous knowledge systems and embrace the concepts of cascading risks and nature-based solutions.

9. Targeted development and humanitarian cooperation, and sustained and flexible financing, is essential to strengthen early warning systems.

10. Better analytical tools are needed to provide evidence of the value of early warning systems in reducing human, economic and infrastructure losses in order to justify investment.

Climate Risk and Early Warning Systems Initiative

The poor remain particularly vulnerable to hazards.

Progress and challenges in saving lives, assets and livelihoods through increased access to early weather warnings and risk information in more than 44 Least Developed Countries and Small Island Developing States was showcased during the release of the annual report[https://public.wmo.int/en/media/news/climate-risk-and-early-warning-systems-initiative-brings-message-of-hope] of the Climate Risk and Early Warnings Systems Initiative (CREWS)[https://public.wmo.int/en/climate-risk-and-early-warning-systems-crews].

The CREWS Trust Fund has invested over US$ 75 million in projects in LDCs and SIDS – and has mobilized an additional US$ 270 million from public funds of other development partners. WMO implements projects funded through the CREWS Trust Fund.

“We need to scale up support for those on the frontlines of the climate crisis,”said UN Assistant Secretary-General for Climate Action Selwin Hart[https://twitter.com/CREWSinitiative/status/1529441057364221953].

“Initiatives like CREWS deliver concrete results to those who need it most. One in three persons in a SIDS or LDC and six out of ten persons in Africa don’t have access to early warning systems. We have to collaborate and cooperate like we’ve never done before,” he said.

Mortality and economic losses

The need for multi-hazard early warnings was highlighted by a WMO report in 2021 that showed that a disaster related to a weather, climate or water hazard occurred every day on average over the past 50 years – killing 115 people and causing US$ 202 million in losses daily.

The number of disasters has increased by a factor of five over the 50-year period, driven by climate change, more extreme weather and improved reporting. But, thanks to improved early warnings and disaster management, the number of deaths decreased almost three-fold.

According to the WMO Atlas of Mortality and Economic Losses from Weather, Climate and Water Extremes (1970 – 2019[https://library.wmo.int/index.php?lvl=notice_display&id=21930#.YS9CMNMzZBx]), there were more than 11 000 reported disasters attributed to these hazards globally, with just over 2 million deaths and US$ 3.64 trillion in losses.

Source: WMO[https://public.wmo.int/en/media/news/think-resilience]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/wmo-more-countries-must-urgently-reduce-climate-risks/379398/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Protecting EU Institutions against Cyber Threats – EU Commission answer[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/digitization/protecting-eu-institutions-against-cyber-threats-eu-commission-answer/379396/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 12:11 pm

EN

E-001437/2022

Answer given by Mr Hahn on behalf of the European Commission

(7.6.2022)

Brussels, 7 June 2022

On 22 March 2022 the Commission proposed new rules to establish common cybersecurity measures across the EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies (COM(2022)122 final). The proposal aims to bolster their resilience and response capacities against cyber threats and incidents, as well as to ensure a resilient, secure EU public administration, amidst rising malicious cyber activities in the global landscape.

The proposed Cybersecurity Regulation, if adopted by the European Parliament and the Council, would create a framework for cybersecurity risk governance, management and control across all EU institutions, bodies and agencies and it would require them to implement a baseline of cybersecurity measures addressing the identified risks. It would lead to the creation of a new interinstitutional Cybersecurity Board, boost cybersecurity capabilities, and stimulate regular maturity assessments and better cyber-hygiene. It would also extend the mandate of the Computer Emergency Response Team for the EU institutions, bodies, offices and agencies (CERT-EU) as a threat intelligence, information exchange and incident response coordination hub and as a central advisory body. Moreover, it will provide CERT-EU with a stable resourcing model in order to fulfil its role.

The legislative process towards the adoption of the new regulation is currently ongoing in the European Parliament and in the Council.

Source: European Parliament[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/E-9-2022-001437-ASW_EN.pdf]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/digitization/protecting-eu-institutions-against-cyber-threats-eu-commission-answer/379396/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Cost of Withdrawing Cash in the EU – EU Commission answer[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/business/cost-of-withdrawing-cash-in-the-eu-eu-commission-answer/379394/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 12:05 pm

EN

E-001440/2022

Answer given by Ms McGuinness

on behalf of the European Commission (7.6.2022)

1. Article 3(1) of Regulation (EU) 2021/12301 on cross-border payments (CBPR2) requires that charges levied by a payment service provider on cross-border payments in euro, including automated teller machine (ATM) withdrawals, be the same as those they levy for corresponding national payments of the same value in the Member State where the consumer has their account. This means that charges applied in cross-border situations shall not exceed charges applied in the country where the consumer has the account.

2. Surcharges applied on ATM withdrawals are not necessarily a breach of EU law, as the Regulation only requires that ATM charges be equalised between domestic and cross-border payments, not that they are prohibited. The Commission has no evidence which would indicate that the equalisation rule of Regulation (EU) 2021/1230 is improperly applied and enforced. The Commission considers that, as long as the principle of equality of charges is respected, the level of charges may be left to the market and to the free competition between payment service providers.

3. To ensure uniform application and interpretation of the principle of equality of charges, the Commission services published, in early 2020, frequently asked questions and a note on the application of the Regulation with regard to direct charging of cardholders for cross-border ATM withdrawals.

Source: European Parliament[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/E-9-2022-001440-ASW_EN.pdf]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/business/cost-of-withdrawing-cash-in-the-eu-eu-commission-answer/379394/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commission proposes soft Refugee Relocation Mechanism[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security/eu-commission-proposes-soft-refugee-relocation-mechanism/379392/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 11:55 am

Brussels, 7 June 2022

In the context specifically of the activation of the Temporary Protection Directive to offer immediate support to people fleeing the war in Ukraine, the Commission has set up a Solidarity Platform. This aims at coordinating support to Member States in need, and help organise the transfers of people within the EU from Member States under most pressure to Member States that have reception capacity.

As part of the comprehensive approach set out in the New Pact on Migration and Asylum, in its proposal for an Asylum and Migration Management Regulation, the Commission sets out the mechanisms to determine mandatory solidarity contributions that should be made by EU Member States to other Member States that are under migratory pressure, subject to disembarkations following search and rescue operations, or in a situation of migratory crisis. Solidarity is mandatory but flexible, as Member States choose how to contribute.

Depending on circumstances, solidarity measures can take the form of relocation of asylum applicants or beneficiaries of international protection, return sponsorship, or capacity building and operation support measures, including in the external dimension. The proposal includes a distribution key based on gross domestic product and population. The proposal does not amount to a relocation mechanism with mandatory quotas.

Source: European Commission[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/E-9-2022-001168-ASW_EN.pdf]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security/eu-commission-proposes-soft-refugee-relocation-mechanism/379392/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Climate Mission: 118 regions and local authorities joining [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sustainability/climate/eu-climate-mission-118-regions-and-local-authorities-joining/379376/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 08, 2022 11:49 am

Brussels, 7 June 2022

On Tuesday, the European Commission announced the first 118 regions and local authorities that will participate in the EU Mission for Adaptation to Climate Change[https://ec.europa.eu/info/research-and-innovation/funding/funding-opportunities/funding-programmes-and-open-calls/horizon-europe/eu-missions-horizon-europe/adaptation-climate-change-including-societal-transformation_en], the so-called Mission Adaptation, which will support the European Green Deal [https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal_en]and the EU Climate Adaptation Strategy[https://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/adaptation/what_en].

These regions and local authorities signed the Mission Charter yesterday at the Committee of the Regions’ first forum of the EU Mission Adaptation to Climate Change[https://cor.europa.eu/en/events/Pages/forum-mission-adaptation-climate-change-7-june-2022.aspx]. A further 17 private companies, service centres, research networks and local action groups active in improving climate resilience will endorse the Charter and become friends of the Mission. The 118 signatories come from 18 Member States, with 6 more parties coming from countries associated or potentially associated with Horizon Europe[https://ec.europa.eu/info/research-and-innovation/funding/funding-opportunities/funding-programmes-and-open-calls/horizon-europe_en], the EU’s research and innovation programme.

From deadly heatwaves and devastating droughts to wildfires and coastlines eroded by rising sea levels, climate change is already taking its toll in Europe. They affect not only the environment and economy, but also the health of Europeans. The frequency and severity of climate and weather extremes is increasing so we need to speed up solutions that build climate resilience. The Mission Adaptation aims to support at least 150 regions and communities in accelerating their transformation towards climate resilience by 2030. It will help these regions and local authorities to better understand, prepare for and manage climate risks, as well as to develop innovative solutions to build resilience.

The Mission Adaptation will receive €370 million of Horizon Europe funding for the period 2021-23. The research and innovation actions will address rebuilding areas impacted by extreme weather events, restoring floodplains, vertical farming, prototype insurance approaches, or creating a ‘perfectly adapted’ city ready to withstand a storm or heatwave. There is also a possibility to build joint initiatives with other EU Missions and programmes. The Mission also provides networking opportunities, exchange of best practices between regions and local authorities, and support to engage citizens.

The Commission and the Committee of the Regions encourage other applicants from all Member States to become new signatories. This will allow for the broadest uptake of adaptation measures in Europe and lead the way towards a climate-resilient future.

Members of the Commission and the Committee of the Regions said:

Executive Vice-President for the European Green Deal, Frans Timmermans said:

“While climate negotiations are global and much of our legislation is European, the changes we need on the ground are local: they happen city by city, neighbourhood by neighbourhood, street by street. Change will only happen if it happens bottom up. Whether it is greening public spaces, developing water retention systems, and insulating homes, cities and regions are already developing innovative ideas to adapt to climate change. The more than 100 regions and communities in the Mission Adaptation will be true trailblazers, showing millions of Europeans that a green, clean, and healthy future is possible for everyone.”

Commissioner for Research and Innovation, Mariya Gabriel, said:

“The Mission will put regions and local authorities at the forefront of innovation in Europe’s transition to becoming a more resilient continent. By joining the Mission, they gain access to the full potential of research and innovation and accelerate the transfer of the solutions developed to society.”

The First Vice-President of the European Committee of the Regions, Vasco Alves Cordeiro, said:

“Europe’s regions are witnessing the impact of the climate crisis. From rising sea levels to floods or heatwaves, we work to find solutions that can help protecting people and saving nature. Joining this Mission will allow more than 100 regions and communities to spearhead on how we can deliver with local climate action.”

Background

On 14 March 2022, the Commission launched an invitation to EU regions and local authorities to join the Mission. Following yesterday’s announcement, the new signatories will benefit from the Mission Implementation Platform, which will be operational in early 2023. Together, they will develop pathways towards climate resilience while having access to climate data and methodologies for climate risk assessments and receiving tailor-made guidance on effective adaptation measures.

The Mission for Adaptation to Climate Change started in September 2021 with the adoption of a Communication on EU Missions[https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/default/files/research_and_innovation/funding/documents/ec_com_heu_randi_missions_29092021.pdf], followed by the approval of the Missions’ individual implementation plans. There are four other EU missions [https://ec.europa.eu/info/research-and-innovation/funding/funding-opportunities/funding-programmes-and-open-calls/horizon-europe/eu-missions-horizon-europe_en]covering global challenges in the areas of climate-neutral and smart cities, restoring our ocean and waters, healthy soils and cancer. A dedicated Work Programme for Horizon Europe Missions [https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/docs/2021-2027/horizon/wp-call/2021-2022/wp-12-missions_horizon-2021-2022_en.pdf]was published on 15 December 2021. They support Commission priorities, such as the European Green Deal[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal_en], Europe fit for the Digital Age[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/europe-fit-digital-age_en], Beating Cancer[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/promoting-our-european-way-life/european-health-union/cancer-plan-europe_en] and the New European Bauhaus[https://europa.eu/new-european-bauhaus/index_en].

For More Information

EU Mission for Adaptation to Climate Change[https://ec.europa.eu/info/research-and-innovation/funding/funding-opportunities/funding-programmes-and-open-calls/horizon-europe/eu-missions-horizon-europe/adaptation-climate-change-including-societal-transformation_en]

Factsheet: Mission Adaptation to Climate Change[https://ec.europa.eu/info/files/eu-climate-mission-meet-regions-and-local-authorities_en]

Adaptation to Climate Change[https://ec.europa.eu/clima/eu-action/adaptation-climate-change_en]

EU Adaptation Strategy[https://ec.europa.eu/clima/eu-action/adaptation-climate-change/eu-adaptation-strategy_en]

EU Missions in Horizon Europe[https://ec.europa.eu/info/research-and-innovation/funding/funding-opportunities/funding-programmes-and-open-calls/horizon-europe/eu-missions-horizon-europe_en]

Source: European Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_3527]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sustainability/climate/eu-climate-mission-118-regions-and-local-authorities-joining/379376/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU President von der Leyen on the potential approval of Poland’s recovery plan[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-president-von-der-leyen-on-the-potential-approval-of-polands-recovery-plan/379382/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 07, 2022 11:22 pm

Strasbourg, 7 June 2022

Speech by President von der Leyen at the European Parliament Plenary on the rule of law and the potential approval of the Polish national recovery plan

Mr President,

Madame la ministre,

Honourable Members,

Last week, the European Commission, after one year of negotiations, gave its green light to Poland’s recovery and resilience plan. Now, the Council has to decide on it – we just heard it. This plan will support the Polish people on their way to a more sustainable, digital and resilient future. This is a path we have all agreed on. But the plan will do more and that is what we are debating here today. Because as in all recovery and resilience plans, there are investments linked to reforms. The approval of this plan is linked in particular to clear commitments by the Polish government on the independence of the judiciary. These commitments are intended to meet the three elements that I laid out to you last October in this hemicycle. And I laid them out again, last week, in Warsaw. So please allow me to reiterate them.

First, the current Disciplinary Chamber must be abolished and replaced by an independent and impartial court established by law. That means that the new Disciplinary Chamber must be substantially different – that is the term the ECJ has used – from the current one to respond to the ECJ ruling. Second, the disciplinary regime has to be reformed. That means that controversial disciplinary offences have to be removed. For example the requests to the ECJ, this is not an offence any more. Or the questioning of the status of another judge, this cannot be an offence any more. And third, all judges affected by the rulings of the Disciplinary Chamber shall have the right to have their case reviewed by the new Chamber within a clear timeframe and on the basis of the new regime, free from inappropriate offences. These are the three milestones.

Let me be very clear. These three commitments, translated into milestones, must be fulfilled before any payment can be made. I know that some of you are sceptical, but let me assure you that no money will be disbursed until these reforms are undertaken. The plan is public. A first payment will only be possible when a new law is in force that ticks all the boxes under this contract. In addition, Poland must demonstrate by the end of 2023 that all unlawfully dismissed judges have been reinstated. If this is not the case, there cannot be any further disbursement. When delivered, this is progress, but we are not at the end of the road on the rule of law in Poland.

Agreeing to Poland’s recovery plan does not stop any of the other procedures concerning the rule of law in Poland. We will continue the ongoing infringement proceedings and we will not hesitate to start new ones if needed. The rulings of the Court of Justice concerning the disciplinary regime remain binding on Poland. And the Commission will continue to enforce the order of the Court and apply the daily penalty payments until the Polish government complies. The milestones in our plan are a safety net to the legal procedures of the Court.

Honourable Members,

As you see, our strategy is to use all the instruments at our disposal to address all the rule of law issues in Poland. The full implementation of the milestones will lead to solving important issues related to the disciplinary regime as identified by the European Court of Justice. But the RRP does not replace the judgement. It is a safety net, as I said, for Poland’s compliance with it.

When we started our negotiations with the Polish government on the recovery plan in May one year ago, these commitments were not there. Our negotiations on NextGenerationEU triggered the necessary movement. Now, the Polish parliament is debating a new law. And unlawfully dismissed judges have a clear perspective of being reinstated. So, is everything solved? No, certainly not. But now, we have movement in the right direction and leverage so that it leads to the results needed.

And finally, when I visited Warsaw last week, I made it very clear. When we are talking about NextGenerationEU, we are talking about common European money, taxpayers’ money. The European Parliament and Member States must be certain that this money is being spent in line with our rules and our values, everywhere in our Union. And we have given ourselves the instruments to make sure that the European budget is protected. Both, the Parliament and the Commission, have initiated Article 7 procedures. The NextGenerationEU Regulation allows us to push through necessary reforms, as identified in the country-specific recommendations. This is hard work. This is a day-to-day struggle. This is our duty. And I call on all of us to work together in these challenging times to uphold and protect the rule of law.

Thank you.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_22_3528]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-president-von-der-leyen-on-the-potential-approval-of-polands-recovery-plan/379382/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Rules on removing terrorist content online enter into force[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-rules-on-removing-terrorist-content-online-enter-into-force/379377/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 07, 2022 11:06 pm

Brussels, 7 June 2022

Today the EU Regulation on addressing the dissemination of terrorist content online enters into application. The Regulation provides a legal framework to ensure that hosting service providers will take down terrorist content online within one hour.

Vice-President for Promoting our European Way of Life, Margaritis Schinas, said:

“The last years have been marked by horrific terrorist attacks on European soil. Images from the attacks in Paris, Halle, or Christchurch are stark reminders that fighting terrorism has to take place both on and off-line. Terrorist content is most harmful in the first hours after its appearance. Taking down terrorist content immediately is crucial to stop terrorists from exploiting the Internet to recruit, encourage attacks, provide training and to glorify their crimes. Today Europe’s Security Union becomes a tangible reality.”

Commissioner for Home Affairs, Ylva Johansson, said:

“With the recent mass shooting at a supermarket in Buffalo, US, which was livestreamed online, it is clear that our work on removing terrorist content online is crucial. Such horrifying videos motivate other perpetrators to follow the same footsteps and create violent videos. We have the tools at our disposal to make sure such content is quickly removed from online platforms and I am happy to announce that the rules on removing terrorist content online are applicable as from today.”

The obligations and safeguards included in this regulation will curb the ability of terrorists to spread their propaganda online. For instance, the livestreamed terrorist attack in Christchurch in 2019 has served as direct inspiration and motivation for a number of copycat attacks, the latest one in Buffalo, USA, last month.

At the same time, the application of these new rules will strengthen accountability and transparency about measures taken to remove terrorist content online. They also provide for a number of strong safeguards against erroneous removals of legitimate speech online. It is equally crucial to protect victims and their families, who risk being confronted with these crimes again online.

Main elements of the new rules

As of today, the following rules apply:

* One-hour rule: Online platforms will be obliged to remove terrorist content upon receiving a removal order from Member States’ authorities within one hour.

* It will also make it compulsory for platforms to take measures when they are exposed to terrorist content.

* Removal orders must contain justifications as to why material is considered to be terrorist content, including detailed information on how to challenge the removal order.

* The rules include strong safeguards to ensure the full respect of fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression and right to information. For example, material disseminated for educational, journalistic, artistic or research purposes is exempted.

* Member States will be able to sanction non-compliance and to decide on the level of penalties, which will be proportionate to the nature of the infringement.

* The new rules also set transparency obligations for online platforms and for national authorities to report annually on the amount of terrorist content removed, the outcomes of complaints and appeals, as well as the number and type of penalties imposed on online platforms.

Background

Fighting terrorism online and offline is a priority for the von der Leyen Commission. In July 2020, the Commission presented the EU Security Union Strategy 2020-2025 and committed to focus on priority areas where the EU can bring value to support Member States in fostering security for those living in Europe. The following December 2020, the Counter-Terrorism Agenda was adopted, putting emphasis on prevention of radicalisation online and offline and included the adoption of the present Regulation as one of its key actions.

The Commission proposed the Regulation on preventing the dissemination of terrorist content online in 2018, given the continued presence of terrorist content on the web. It was proposed to avoid this grave risk for citizens and for society at large.

Since the Regulation entered into force on 7 June 2021, the Commission has been holding workshops for Member States and hosting service providers (HSPs) to prepare for the application of the Regulation. Europol has also developed an EU Platform on addressing illegal content online (PERCI) to support the implementation of the Regulation. This way, they ensure that HSPs can receive removal orders from Member States through a common secure channel.

More Information

Legislative Proposal[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:52018PC0640]

DG HOME: Terrorist Content Online[https://ec.europa.eu/home-affairs/policies/internal-security/counter-terrorism-and-radicalisation/prevention-radicalisation/terrorist-content-online_en]

Terrorist Content Online Factsheet[https://ec.europa.eu/home-affairs/system/files/2021-05/202104_terrorist-content-online_en.pdf]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-rules-on-removing-terrorist-content-online-enter-into-force/379377/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Portugal: EU Commission approves €453.25m in favour of SATA Group[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/portugal-eu-commission-approves-e453-25m-in-favour-of-sata-group/379367/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 07, 2022 10:59 pm

Brussels, 7 June 2022

The European Commission has approved, under EU State aid rules, Portugal’s plans to grant air carrier SATA Air Açores (‘SATA’) restructuring aid for a total amount of €453.25 million. The measure will enable the company to finance its restructuring plan and restore its long-term viability.

Executive Vice-President Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy, said:

“The measure we approved today will ensure the territorial continuity of the Azores islands with mainland Portugal and the European Union, while allowing the return to viability of its regional air carrier SATA. At the same time, the aid will enable SATA to reorganise its activity, by improving operations and schedules, and by reducing operating costs. The public support comes with safeguards to make sure that possible distortions of competition are limited.”

SATA Group is a regional airline ultimately controlled by the Portuguese Autonomous Region of Azores. It provides air transport services on routes connecting the islands of the Azores, as well as to mainland Portugal, Madeira and a few North American destinations. SATA has been experiencing operating losses since at least 2014 and the effects of the coronavirus pandemic have aggravated its economic and financial situation.

The Portuguese measure

In April 2021, Portugal notified the Commission its intention to grant restructuring aid to support SATA’s restructuring plan for the period 2021-2025.

The support will take the form of (i) a direct loan of €144.5 million and a debt assumption of €173.8 million, totalling €318.25 million to be converted into equity, and (ii) a State guarantee of €135 million granted until 2028 for funding to be provided by banks and other financial institutions.

The restructuring plan sets out a package of measures aimed at improving SATA’s operations and schedules, as well as at reducing costs. In particular, the plan provides for: (i) efficiency-enhancing and cost-cutting measures, (ii) the divestment of a controlling shareholding (51%) in Azores Airlines, and (iii) the carve-out and divestment of the ground-handling activity. In addition, to ensure an effective implementation, the restructuring plan includes the reorganisation of SATA’s corporate structure, with a holding company replacing SATA Air Açores in controlling its operating subsidiaries (SATA Air Açores, Azores Airlines and SGA). Furthermore, SATA will be banned from any acquisitions and will have a cap on its fleet until the end of the restructuring plan.

Portugal’s notification followed the Commission decisionon 18 August 2020[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_20_1489]to open an in-depth investigation to assess whether certain past Portuguese public support measures in favour of SATA – in the form of three capital increases – were in line with EU State aid rules.

On 30 April 2021[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_21_2095], the Commission extended its ongoing in-depth investigation to assess whether Portugal’s latest restructuring support measures in favour of SATA were in line with EU State aid rules.

The Commission’s assessment

The Commission assessed the Portuguese measure under EU State aid rules, in particular Article 107(3)(c) Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘TFEU’) and theGuidelines on State aid for the rescue and restructuring of companies in difficulty[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A52014XC0731%2801%29]. These Guidelines only allow a State intervention in a company in financial difficulty under specific conditions, requiring in particular that the company undertakes a sound restructuring plan to ensure its return to long-term viability, that the company contributes to the cost of its restructuring, that competition distortions are limited and that the measure contributes to an objective of common interest.

The Commission concluded that the restructuring aid is in line with EU State aid rules. In particular, the Commission found that:

* The aid is necessary and appropriate to ensure that SATA, being a company in difficulty, will be viable long-term without the need of continued public support.

* The negative effects of the restructuring aid on the air transport sector are limited. In particular, the Commission found that the envisaged divestments would allow competitors to take-over or integrate part of the routes currently offered by SATA, beyond its remit of provider of a Service of General Economic Interest.

* The restructuring aid complies with Article 107(3)(c) TFEU as it facilitates the development of the regional air transport and related activities, in particular in the tourism sector, in the Azores and does not distort competition to an extent contrary to the common interest.

On this basis, the Commission approved the measures under EU State aid rules.

Furthermore, the Commission has also decided today to close its investigation, openedon 18 August 2020[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_20_1489], into other Portugal’s public support measures in favour of SATA. In particular, the Commission has found that SATA reimbursed to Portugal the three capital increases, including interests.

Background

Given the urgent liquidity needs of SATA pending the formal investigation opened on 18 August 2020, as well as to ensure the territorial connection of an outermost region of the EU, the Commission approved liquidity support in the form of State guarantees or public loans in favour of SATA. In particular:

* On 18 August 2020[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_20_1489], Commission approved, under EU State aid rules, €133 million in liquidity support to SATA, to ensure it continued to provide its public service obligations.

* On 30 April 2021[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_21_2095], the Commission approved an additional €122.5 million to allow SATA to address its urgent and immediate liquidity needs, and to continue its public service operations until the end of 21 November 2021, or until the Commission takes a final decision on the ongoing investigations.

* On 5 November 2021[https://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/case_details.cfm?proc_code=3_SA_58101], the Commission authorised Portugal to prolong the guarantees already granted on loans, or the replacement of such loans by shareholder loans directly provided to SATA.

EU State aid rules, more specifically the Commission’sGuidelines on rescue and [http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52014XC0731(01)] restructuring aid[http://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52014XC0731(01)], enable Member States to support companies in difficulty, under certain strict conditions. In particular, rescue aid may be granted for a period of up to six months. Beyond this period, either rescue aid must be reimbursed or Member States must notify a restructuring or a liquidation plan to the Commission, for assessment under the State aid rules. In order for restructuring aid to be approved, the plan must ensure that the viability of the company can be restored without continued State support, that the company contributes sufficiently to the costs of its restructuring and that distortions of competition created by the aid are addressed through compensatory measures, including in particular structural measures.

The non-confidential version of the decisions will be made available under the case numbersSA.58101[https://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/case_details.cfm?proc_code=3_SA_58101]andSA.63402[https://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/case_details.cfm?proc_code=3_SA_62043]in theState aid register[http://ec.europa.eu/competition/state_aid/register/]on the Commission’scompetition[http://ec.europa.eu/competition/index_en.html]website once any confidentiality issues have been resolved. New publications of State aid decisions on the internet and in the Official Journal are listed in theCompetition Weekly e-News[https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/comp/newsletter-archives/view/service/2012].

Source: European Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_3525]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/portugal-eu-commission-approves-e453-25m-in-favour-of-sata-group/379367/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commission appoints new Director of its International Partnerships department[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-appoints-new-director-of-its-international-partnerships-department/379362/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 07, 2022 10:10 pm

Brussels, 7 June 2022

The European Commission has decided today to appoint Peteris Ustubs as Director for the Middle East, Asia and Pacific in the Directorate-General for International Partnerships (DG INTPA).

This Commission department contributes to sustainable development, the eradication of poverty, to peace and to the protection of human rights, through international partnerships that uphold and promote European values and interests. Peteris Ustubs, a Latvian national, brings with him his extensive knowledge and expertise in the area of external relations, including a high-level diplomatic background, a sound political judgement as well as strategic planning for the activities of the Directorate.

He is currently Principal Advisor in IDEA, the think-thank of the Commission, after having served as Diplomatic Advisor to the President of the Commission in the same organisation. From 2017 until 2019, he was Ambassador of the European Union to Canada. In earlier stages of his career, he occupied a number of key positions in the Cabinets as Cabinet expert for the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini from 2014 until 2017 or as Deputy Head of Cabinet for Commissioner for development Andris Piebalgs from 2010 until 2013. He was also Director for the West and Central Africa in the European External Action Service (EEAS) from 2013 until 2014. Before joining the Commission in 2010, he pursued a long career in the Latvian diplomacy.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-appoints-new-director-of-its-international-partnerships-department/379362/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commissioner Urpilainen discusses cooperation with the United Arab Emirates[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commissioner-urpilainen-discusses-cooperation-with-the-united-arab-emirates/379360/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 07, 2022 10:03 pm

Brussels, 7 June 2022

Tomorrow, Commissioner for International Partnerships, Jutta Urpilainen, will travel to Abu Dhabi and Dubai to meet with key representatives and lay the ground for a renewed partnership with the United Arab Emirates (UAE).

The visit will be the first opportunity to discuss the new Joint Communication on a ‘Strategic Partnership with the Gulf’[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/joint-communication-%E2%80%9Cstrategic-partnership-gulf%E2%80%9D_en] during meetings with the Minister of State for International Cooperation, Al Hashimy; Minister of State for International Cooperation responsible for Africa, Sheikh Shakhboot; and with the Director-General of the Abu Dhabi Fund for Development (ADFD), Al Suwaidi.

The Joint Communication offers a basis to strengthen EU-Gulf relations in the coming years. The Commissioner’s visit aims to reinforce the EU’s partnership with the UAE and financial institutions of the Gulf, and further deepen cooperation on joint priorities, including Africa.

Ahead of the visit, Commissioner Urpilainen said:

“In these challenging times, we need to deepen our partnerships across the world and build important synergies for sustainable investments with the Gulf countries, in the region and beyond. With the EU’s Global Gateway strategy, we seek to engage with all partners to build the foundations of a more sustainable and prosperous world. We count on our Gulf partners’ transformational contribution in this regard.”

Commissioner Urpilainen will visit the Abu Dhabi Youth Hub, one of the 13 collaborative spaces in UAE open to young people between 15 and 35 years, irrespective of whether they are students, employees or entrepreneurs. Youth Hubs are designed to serve the youth of the respective Emirate, accommodating their needs and aspirations. Commissioner Urpilainen will also will give a lecture at the Anwar Gargash Diplomatic Academy (AGDA) and visit the Grand Mosque.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commissioner-urpilainen-discusses-cooperation-with-the-united-arab-emirates/379360/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Key strategic significance: MEPs adopt report on Indo-Pacific region[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/key-strategic-significance-meps-adopt-report-on-indo-pacific-region/379333/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 07, 2022 09:55 pm

Brussels, 7 June 2022

Parliament adopted a report on Tuesday, reflecting how the EU should protect its interests and work more closely with its partners in the Indo-Pacific.

In a report on the EU and the security challenges in the Indo-Pacific, Parliament underlined the critical importance of preserving peace, stability and the freedom of navigation in this region of growing geopolitical and economic significance.

The region, which is home to 60% of the world’s population and seven G20 members, is a key global actor and home to increasingly important political, trade and security partners for the EU, stress MEPs, while welcoming the recently adopted joint communication on an EU strategy for cooperation in the Indo-Pacific[https://eeas.europa.eu/headquarters/headquarters-homepage_en/104126/Joint%20communication%20on%20the%20Indo-Pacific].

The report invites the EU to pursue fruitful bilateral relations with partners and countries in the region, such as the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document/EPRS_BRI(2021)698807]) and African Indo-Pacific countries. It should also work closely with other liberal democracies and historical allies, such as NATO, the US and the UK. The EU should fully exploit its position and reputation as a credible, global actor for peace amid the growing geopolitical competition between global and regional powers in the region, urge MEPs.

The AUKUS[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document/EPRS_BRI(2022)698917] pact and the QUAD[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document/EPRS_BRI(2021)690513] dialogue are identified in the report as important elements of the security architecture in the Indo-Pacific and MEPs underline that effective regional security requires an open and inclusive dialogue involving relevant regional, extra-regional and international actors.

Impact of the Russian war on Ukraine

The Russian war against Ukraine is having a profound and lasting impact on international relations and, as a result, the EU must further consolidate its international engagements, in particular in the Indo-Pacific, say MEPs.

They are also greatly concerned that China has not condemned the illegal war in Ukraine. They call on the Chinese leadership to use its close contacts with the Russian president to urge him to immediately stop this violent war and remove all troops from Ukrainian territory.

In addition, the report expresses deep concern about the impact of the war in Ukraine on the national economies of the Indo-Pacific countries, especially with regard to the rising prices of grain, energy and fertilisers.

Capability development in the maritime field

In line with the Strategic Compass[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/03/21/a-strategic-compass-for-a-stronger-eu-security-and-defence-in-the-next-decade/], which identifies the Indo-Pacific as a region of key strategic interest, the EU needs to further increase its joint efforts in capability development, especially in the maritime field, in order to be a credible security actor in the region, says the report.

MEPs also welcome the fact that the EU plans to intensify its dialogues with regional partners on security and defence, including counter-terrorism, cybersecurity, non-proliferation and disarmament, hybrid threats and maritime security.

Quote

“The Indo-Pacific is the world’s largest and most populous region with increasing political, economic and geostrategic importance. A peaceful, stable and rules-based Indo-Pacific is a vital European interest. Based on the EU Strategy for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, we have numerous opportunities to strengthen our engagement with the region in a pragmatic, flexible and inclusive manner”, said rapporteur David McAllister[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/124806/DAVID_MCALLISTER/home] (EPP, Germany).

The report was adopted by 474 votes in favour, 60 against and 80 abstentions.

Further information

* Adopted text will be available here (07.06.2022) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/plenary/en/texts-adopted.html]

* Watch a video recording of the debate (06.06.2022) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/plenary/en/debates-video.html]

* Procedure file [https://oeil.secure.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.do?lang=en&reference=2021/2232(INI)]

* EP Multimedia Centre: free photos, video and audio material [https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en]

Source: European Parliament[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220603IPR32176/indo-pacific-a-region-of-key-strategic-significance-for-the-eu]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/key-strategic-significance-meps-adopt-report-on-indo-pacific-region/379333/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

MEPs: Turkey moves persistently further away from EU values and standards[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/meps-on-turkey-persistently-further-from-eu-values-and-standards/379353/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 07, 2022 09:49 pm

Strasbourg, 7 June 2022

* Close EU-Turkey cooperation in foreign and security policy vitally important

* No improvements on fundamental freedoms, democracy and the rule of law

* Turkey should handle Sweden and Finland’s NATO applications in good faith

Without clear and significant progress on EU-related reforms, Parliament cannot envisage resuming accession negotiations with Turkey, warned MEPs on Tuesday.

In a report adopted on Tuesday by 448 votes in favour, 67 against and 107 abstentions, MEPs warn that in spite of Turkey’s repeated statements that it aims to become an EU member, over the past two years the country has consistently gone back on its commitments in relation to the accession process.

Parliament welcomes the recent slight improvement in overall EU-Turkey relations, in particular, the high-level dialogues. This enhanced cooperation has unfortunately coexisted alongside regular conflicts, as relations with neighbouring EU member states remain challenging, stress MEPs.

The report points to the continued deterioration of the human rights situation in Turkey. MEPs regret the sustained legal and administrative pressure on civil society and human rights defenders, lawyers and journalists. They call on the Commission to provide sufficient funding for pro-democracy efforts in Turkey.

Importance of close EU-Turkey cooperation in foreign and security policy

Welcoming Turkey’s willingness to act as a mediator in the Russian war against Ukraine, MEPs stress the vital importance of good EU-Turkey cooperation in foreign and security policy in the current challenging times and thank the country for its firm alignment with NATO and the EU.

The report commends Turkey’s efforts in continuing to host the largest refugee population in the world, and notes the sustained provision of EU funding for this purpose, which MEPs commit to maintain in the future. They also support the Commission’s proposal to start negotiations to update a mutually beneficial Customs Union, but warn that Parliament would only support a final agreement if necessary democratic conditions on human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect of international law and good neighbourly relations are met.

To sum-up, Parliament cannot at this stage justify modifying its position concerning the formal suspension of the accession negotiations with Turkey, which have effectively been at a standstill since 2018, MEPs say. By openly defying the binding rulings of the European Court of Human Rights[https://hudoc.echr.coe.int/eng-press#{%22itemid%22:[%22003-6587080-8727102%22]}] in relation to the case of Osman Kavala and others[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220425IPR27820/little-to-none-eu-perspective-for-this-turkey-say-meps], the current Turkish Government has deliberately demolished any aspirations of reopening the EU accession process at this time, they add.

Turkish objections to Sweden and Finland’s NATO applications

MEPs call on the Turkish government to handle Finland and Sweden’s NATO membership applications in good faith, to engage constructively in efforts to solve possible outstanding issues and to refrain from exerting any undue pressure in this process. In the current serious circumstances, it is important that all NATO allies act with foresight and swiftly ratify the accession protocols of the two countries, they stress.

Quote

“In the current challenging times, values and principles, which are at the core of any EU accession process, cannot come second to any geopolitical contingency. That is why the Parliament – and I hope all EU institutions – will not remain silent when faced with the current authoritarian spiral in the country. Instead of regaining trust – a much-needed asset in EU-Turkey relations – we are now losing it; the irresponsible veto in NATO and the rising tensions with EU member states are worrying signs for the future, marked by a pre-electoral situation in the country. If there is no change, I can hardly see the accession process surviving another five years”, said rapporteur Nacho Sánchez Amor[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/197722/NACHO_SANCHEZ+AMOR/home] (S&D, Spain).

Further information

* Steps of the procedure [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.do?reference=2021/2250(INI)&l=en]

* Committee on Foreign Affairs [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/afet/home.html]

* Nacho Sánchez Amor (S&D, ES) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/197722]

* The adopted text will be available here (07.06.2022) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/plenary/en/texts-adopted.html]

* Watch a video recording of the debate (06.06.2022)[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/plenary/en/debates-video.html]

S&D Group: No grounds for resuming accession negotiations with Ankara!

Today the European Parliament adopted its progress report on Turkey. Drafted by S&D MEP Nacho Sánchez Amor, the report points out that despite some improvements during the last period in high-level contacts between the EU and Turkey, tensions are now back on the rise. Ankara clearly has no political will to stop the continuous backsliding on democracy and human rights, as shown by the recent life sentence given to activist Osman Kavala.

The S&Ds urge Ankara to end its authoritarian drift and stop accommodating Russia. Turkey should instead support NATO enlargement for Finland and Sweden, and align with the EU sanctions imposed against the Kremlin in response to the Russian war against Ukraine.

Without significant progress in the current disastrous situation for freedom and the rule of law in Turkey, the European Union cannot envisage resuming accession negotiations with Turkey, which have effectively been at a standstill since 2018, warns the report adopted on Tuesday.

S&D MEP Nacho Sánchez Amor, the European Parliament’s rapporteur on Turkey, said:

“What we see in Turkey is a deliberate regression, eroding fundamental freedoms and the rule of law in a country that was once an inspiring democracy. Now the authoritarian spiral seems to have no end, taking the democratic hopes of several generations of Turks down the drain. If there is no change in this trend, I personally don’t believe that the accession process can survive five more years.

“Turkey’s attempt to mediate in the war in Ukraine was welcome, even if it failed. But Turkey must understand that this role will not buy our silence faced with a further crackdown on democratic values. In addition, Turkey has not just refused to join the EU sanctions against Russia, it is also inviting Kremlin kleptocrats to enjoy the Turkish coast – and bring their investments – it is issuing credit cards to thousands of Russian citizens and increasing flights to Russia. Seen as a whole, it looks pretty much like a system to circumvent sanctions.

“If the war in Ukraine marks the division between democracies and authoritarian systems, it is obvious that Turkey is not in our camp, as the model of society that President Erdoğan offers to its society is actually the Russian one. And Turkey’s irresponsible threat to veto Sweden and Finland’s accession to NATO is a longed-for political gift for the Kremlin, which is always looking for divisions between allies. By acting like this, Turkey is wasting its potential geopolitical role, reinforcing its bad image and deepening its isolation.”

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/meps-on-turkey-persistently-further-from-eu-values-and-standards/379353/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU budget 2023: EU Commission proposal and first reactions[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-budget-2023-eu-commission-proposal-and-first-reactions/379343/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 07, 2022 09:15 pm

Brussels, 7 June 2022

The Commission has today proposed an annual EU budget of €185.6 billion for 2023, to be complemented by an estimated €113.9 billion in grants under NextGenerationEU. The EU budget will continue to mobilise significant investments to boost Europe’s strategic autonomy, the ongoing economic recovery, safeguard sustainability and create jobs. The Commission will continue to prioritise green and digital investments while addressing pressing needs arising from recent and current crises.

Commissioner Johannes Hahn, responsible for the EU Budget, said:

“We are continuing to put forward extraordinary amounts of funding to support Europe’s recovery and to tackle current and future challenges. The budget remains an important tool the Union has at its disposal to provide clear added value to people’s lives. It helps Europe shape a changing world, in which we are working together for peace, prosperity and our European values”.

The draft budget 2023, boosted by NextGenerationEU, is designed to respond to the most crucial recovery needs of EU Member States and our partners around the world. These financial means will continue to rebuild and modernise the European Union and strengthen Europe’s status as a strong global actor and reliable partner.

Additional proposals to finance the impact of the war in Ukraine both externally and internally will be tabled later in the year, on the basis of a more precise needs assessment, as per the European Council conclusions of 31 May 2022.

The budget reflects the EU’s political priorities, which are crucial to ensure a sustainable recovery and to strengthen Europe’s resilience. To that end, the Commission is proposing to allocate (in commitments):

* €103.5 billion in grants from NextGenerationEU under the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) to support economic recovery and growth following the coronavirus pandemic and to address the challenges posed by the war in Ukraine.

* €53.6 billion for the Common Agricultural Policy and €1.1 billion for the European Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund, for Europe’s farmers and fishers, but also to strengthen the resilience of the agri-food and fisheries sectors and to provide the necessary scope for crisis management in light of expected global food supply shortages.

* €46.1 billion for regional development and cohesion to support economic, social and territorial cohesion, as well as infrastructure supporting the green transition and Union priority projects.

* €14.3 billion to support our partners and interests in the world, of which €12 billion under the Neighbourhood, Development and International Cooperation Instrument — Global Europe (NDICI — Global Europe), €2.5 for the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA III), and €1.6 billion for Humanitarian Aid (HUMA).

* €13.6 billion for research and innovation, of which €12.3 billion for Horizon Europe, the Union’s flagship research programme. It would receive an extra €1.8 billion in grants from NextGenerationEU.

* €4.8 billion for European strategic investments, of which €341 million for InvestEU for key priorities (research and innovation, twin green and digital transition, the health sector, and strategic technologies), €2.9 billion for the Connecting Europe Facility to improve cross-border infrastructure, and €1.3 billion for the Digital Europe Programme to shape the Union’s digital future. InvestEU would receive an extra €2.5 billion in grants from NextGenerationEU.

* €4.8 billion for people, social cohesion, and values, of which €3.5 billion Erasmus+ to create education and mobility opportunities for people, €325 million to support artists and creators around Europe, and €212 million to promote justice, rights, and values.

* €2.3 billion for environment and climate action, of which €728 million for the LIFE programme to support climate change mitigation and adaptation, and €1.5 billion for the Just Transition Fund to make sure that the green transition works for all. The Just Transition Fund would receive an extra €5.4 billion in grants from NextGenerationEU.

* €2.2 billion for spending dedicated to space, mainly for the European Space Programme, which will bring together the Union’s action in this strategic field.

* €2.1 billion for protecting our borders, of which €1.1 billion for the Integrated Border Management Fund (IBMF), and €839 million (total EU contribution) for the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex).

* €1.6 billion for migration-related spending, of which €1.4 billion to support migrants and asylum-seekers in line with our values and priorities.

* €1.2 billion to address defence challenges, of which €626 million to support capability development and research under the European Defence Fund (EDF), as well as €237 million to support Military Mobility.

* €927 million to ensure the smooth functioning of the Single Market, including €593 million for the Single Market Programme, and close to €200 million for work on anti-fraud, taxation, and customs.

* €732 million for EU4Health to ensure a comprehensive health response to people’s needs, as well as €147 million to the Union Civil Protection Mechanism (rescEU) to be able deploy operational assistance quickly in case of a crisis.

* €689 million for security, of which €310 million for the Internal Security Fund (ISF), which will combat terrorism, radicalisation, organised crime, and cybercrime.

* €138 million for secure satellite connections under the proposal for a new Union programme, the Union Secure Connectivity Programme.

* Budgetary means for the European Chips Act will be made available under Horizon Europe and through redeployment from other programmes.

The draft budget for 2023 is part of the Union’s long-term budget as adopted by the Heads of State and Governments at the end of 2020, including subsequent technical adjustments, seeks to turn its priorities into concrete annual deliverables. A significant part of the funds will therefore be dedicated to combatting climate change, in line with the target to spend 30% of the long-term budget and the NextGenerationEU recovery instrument on this policy priority.

Background

The draft EU budget for 2023 includes expenditure under NextGenerationEU, to be financed from borrowing at the capital markets, and the expenditure covered by the appropriations under the long-term budget ceilings, financed from own resources. For the latter, two amounts for each programme are proposed in the draft budget – commitments and payments. “Commitments” refer to the funding that can be agreed in contracts in a given year; and “payments” to the money actually paid out. The proposed EU budget for 2023 amounts to €185.6 billion in commitments and €166.3 billion in payments. All amounts are in current prices.

The actual NextGenerationEU payments – and funding needs for which the European Commission will seek market financing – may be different, and will be based on precise estimates evolving over time. The Commission will continue to publish six-monthly funding plans to provide information about its planned issuance volumes in the months to come.

With a budget of up to €807 billion in current prices, NextGenerationEU helps the EU recover from the immediate economic and social damage caused by the coronavirus pandemic and enables us to respond to current and future crises such as the war in Ukraine. The temporary instrument helps build a post-COVID-19 EU that is greener, more digital, more resilient and better fit for the current and forthcoming challenges. The contracts/commitments under NextGenerationEU can be concluded until the end of 2023, the payments linked to the borrowing will follow until the end of 2026.

steady-paywall

More Information

Q&A: Draft annual budget 2023[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_22_3474]

Documents[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/eu-budget/annual-eu-budget/all-annual-budgets/2023_en]

Annual budget documents[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/budget/www/index-en.htm]

2021-2027 long-term EU budget & NextGenerationEU[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/eu-budget/long-term-eu-budget/2021-2027_en]

EU as a borrower[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/eu-budget/eu-borrower-investor-relations_en]

Questions and answers: Draft annual budget 2023

7 June 2022

1. What are the priorities of the draft budget for 2023?

The EU budget is the centrepiece of the Union’s recovery efforts, aiming to help Europe shape a changing world. The budget for 2023 aims to boost the recovery from the coronavirus pandemic, to put Europe on the path towards a sustainable future, to protect and create jobs, and to strengthen the Union’s strategic autonomy. This is expressed in tangible support for people in need in Europe and its neighbourhood, companies and hard-hit sectors, reinforcement of the single market and investments in future-oriented sectors. Additional proposals to finance the impact of the war in Ukraine both externally and internally will be tabled later in the year, on the basis of a more precise assessment of the needs.

The combined EU budget 2023 and NextGenerationEU will make available some €300 billion in funding to help rebuild and modernise our continent, fostering the green and digital transitions, and making sure we create a stronger and more resilient Europe, which plays an active role in the world.

In parallel, the EU budget will continue to support Europe’s political priorities, whose contribution to a sustainable recovery is more relevant than ever. The Commission remains committed to the six headline ambitions set out by President von der Leyen: the European Green Deal; a Europe fit for the digital age; an economy that works for all; promoting our European way of life; a stronger Europe in the world and a new push for democracy. The budget for 2023 will enable the Commission to deliver on all of these priorities.

2. How does the draft budget for 2023 relate to NextGenerationEU?

NextGenerationEU is giving the EU budget the additional financial means necessary to respond decisively to the urgent challenges caused by the coronavirus pandemic. It has extraordinarily been put in place for a temporary period to be used for crisis response and recovery measures. The funds it is generating are channelled through the EU budget to support investment and reform priorities, and are reinforcing programmes that are key to the recovery.

To finance NextGenerationEU, the Commission will borrow up to €807 billion on the capital markets via a diversified funding strategy. The funds will be disbursed via grants or loans, either through the Recovery and Resilience Facility or through several EU budget programmes which receive top-ups from NextGenerationEU.

To date the Commission has raised €113.5 billion in long term funding. Some €100 billion have been paid out to EU countries under the Recovery and Resilience Facility, and a few more billions under other budgetary programmes.

Payments under NextGenerationEU will continue until end-2026.

3. What are commitments and payments?

Commitments are the total volume of contractual obligations for future payments that can be made in a given year. Commitments must then be honoured with payments, either in the same year or, particularly in the case of multi-annual projects, over the following years.

Payments are the actual money paid in a given year from the EU budget to cover commitments of current and previous years.

For instance, when the EU decides to co-fund the building of a bridge, the total amount which the EU agrees to cover is a commitment. The bills for the work done are the payments that are paid over the coming years in line with the implementation life cycle of the project. The commitment is made in year N. The payments from the EU budget may follow in the same year N, but also in year N+1, N+2, N+3, etc., depending on when the invoices are reimbursed.

4. What is an external assigned revenue?

The EU budget is governed by the principle of universality. This means that there is no direct link between the source of the revenue collected (for instance the VAT or the GNI resources) and the expenditure that it finances.

There is an exception to this rule and this is the assigned revenue, meaning specific revenue, which is collected to finance specific expenditure.

The types of existing external and internal assigned revenue are listed in Article 21 of the Financial Regulation – the rules governing how the EU budget is spent.

5. What is the Union doing to support Ukraine and its people against Russia’s invasion?

The Union has responded swiftly and united in solidarity with Ukraine and its people following Russia’s invasion in February 2022.

Since the Russian aggression started, the EU has mobilised around €4.6 billion to support Ukraine’s overall economic, social and financial resilience in the form of macro-financial assistance, budget support, emergency assistance, crisis response and humanitarian aid. This includes €1.2 billion in emergency macro-financial assistance provided since February 2022, and military assistance measures provided under the European Peace Facility, amounting to €2 billion, that will be used to reimburse Member States for their in-kind military support to Ukraine.

Additionally, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development have provided loans of some €1.7 billion, backed by the EU budget.

The EU stands ready to provide further macro-financial assistance loan under a new exceptional programme for Ukraine of up to €9 billion in 2022 as agreed by in the European Council on 30-31 May.

As per the European Council conclusions of 31 May 2022, additional proposals to finance the impact of the war in Ukraine both externally and internally will be tabled later in the year, on the basis of a more precise assessment of the needs.

6. What happens next?

Following adoption by the College, the European Commission submits the draft 2023 EU budget to the European Parliament and the Council, which take the final decision together.

The Council usually adopts its opinion on the budget by the end of July, and the European Parliaments announces its official position in the autumn.

A specific conciliation committee is convened, usually in late autumn, to reconcile the positions of the Parliament and the Council. It has to agree within 21 days on a common budget, which both institutions should afterwards approve. This year, the period runs between 25 October and 14 November.

For More Information

Press release: Draft annual budget 2023[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3473]

Documents[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/eu-budget/annual-eu-budget/all-annual-budgets/2023_en]

Annual budget documents[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/budget/www/index-en.htm]

Annual budget procedure[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/eu-budget/annual-eu-budget/all-annual-budgets_en]

2021-2027 long-term EU budget & NextGenerationEU[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/eu-budget/long-term-eu-budget/2021-2027_en]

EU as a borrower[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/eu-budget/eu-borrower-investor-relations_en]

Proposed EU budget for 2023 struggles to meet current challenges, say MEPs

Budget MEPs found that the proposed 2023 budget is not equipped for current geopolitical and other challenges and demand an urgent revision of the Multiannual Financial Framework.

In a meeting with Members of the Committee on Budgets on Tuesday, Johannes Hahn, the Commissioner responsible for the EU Budget, presented an EU budget of €185.6 billion for 2023[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3473], to be complemented by an estimated €113.9 billion in grants under the “NextGenerationEU” recovery plan.

Nicolae Ştefănuță[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/58766/NICOLAE_STEFANUTA/home] (RENEW, RO), general rapporteur for the EU budget 2023, commented on the proposal: “Today we are moving from speeches to numbers and to concrete solutions. The European Parliament wants a budget worthy of the response that citizens expect and the current geopolitical situation demands. The EU’s budget is limited and we need a revision of the MFF today to fill the EU’s empty treasury. The EU cannot be a serious player in the current crises without money. This is the mission we as MEPs have set ourselves, and we hope that member states understand the gravity of current events and that democracy and EU security depend on the Union’s budget.”

Parliament’s priorities

MEPs will now look into the proposal in detail. Among Parliament’s priorities, based on the EP’s guidelines for the preparation of the 2023 budget[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/TA-9-2022-0106_EN.html] from April, were the economic recovery, health, youth and climate action, and dealing with the impact of the invasion of Ukraine. MEPs stressed in their guidelines, adopted with a big majority, that “the Union requires sufficient resources to respond to major crises as well as the long-term challenges in its neighbourhood and throughout the world, while recalling that (…) a revision of the current MFF is indispensable”.

Watch the presentation by Commissioner Hahn and the debate in the Committee on Budgets[https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/event_20220607-1545-COMMITTEE-BUDG_vd?start=20220607140200&end=20220607152950]

Next steps

Parliament will vote its position for the budgetary negotiations during October. The 21-day conciliation period then runs from 25 October to 14 November. If no agreement between Parliament and Council has been found by the end of the conciliation period, the Commission must propose a second draft budget, and negotiations continue. The full calendar for the budgetary procedure 2023 is available here[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/budg/budgetary-procedures/2023-procedure].

Background

On 7 June, Johannes Hahn, Commissioner responsible for the Budget and Human Resources, has presented to the Members of the Committee on Budgets the Commission’s Draft Budget for the year 2023[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3473], right after its adoption by the college of Commissioners. The proposed annual budget amounts to €185.6 billion in commitments and €166.3 billion in payments. All amounts are in current prices.

In line with Article 314 TFEU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:12016E314], this presentation kicks off the annual budgetary procedure, whereby Parliament is expected to respond to Council’s position on the draft budget in the autumn.

Further information

* Committee on Budgets [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/budg/home.html]

* Press release – “EU Budget 2023: ‘significant funding’ needed to address the consequences of Ukraine war” (05.04.2022) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220401IPR26533/eu-budget-2023-meps-demand-major-funding-to-address-consequences-of-ukraine-war]

* Full text of Parliament’s general guidelines for the preparation of the 2023 budget, Section III – Commission (05.04.2022) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/TA-9-2022-0106_EN.html]

* EP Think Tank – “Parliament’s guidelines for the 2023 EU budget” [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document/EPRS_ATA(2022)729345]

* Committee on Budgets’ homepage for the 2023 budgetary procedure [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/budg/budgetary-procedures/2023-procedure]

* Fact Sheets on the European Union – The budgetary procedure [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/factsheets/en/sheet/10/the-budgetary-procedure]

ECR: EU must brace for crisis-ridden 2023, says Bogdan Rzońca

At the presentation of the draft 2023 budget by Budget Commissioner Johannes Hahn to the European Parliament’s Budget Committee, ECR Group budget spokesperson Bogdan Rzońca called for greater financial flexibility, saying that the EU should take precautions to avert the global food shortage.

“I believe that what we will face in the coming months and in 2023 will be a food crisis. Now, we know that grain stocks around the world will last around eight to ten weeks”, Rzońca said.

In addition, funds should be earmarked to help refugees from Ukraine.

“Due to the war in Ukraine, there are neighbouring regions that require additional support due to the influx of millions of refugees. I believe that in some areas we have to avoid the usual dogmas in order to cope with crisis situations”, Rzońca added.

Small and medium-sized enterprises should also benefit more from economic development measures, according to Rzońca.

Source – ECR – via e-mail

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-budget-2023-eu-commission-proposal-and-first-reactions/379343/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commission welcomes trilogue deal on gender balance on corporate boards[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-welcomes-trilogue-deal-on-gender-balance-on-corporate-boards/379339/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 07, 2022 09:03 pm

Brussels, 7 June 2022

The European Commission welcomes the political agreement reached today between the European Parliament and the Council on the Directive on improving the gender balance among non-executive directors of listed companies proposed by the Commission[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52012PC0614&from=EN] in 2012.

Europe has many highly qualified women with 60% of current university graduates being female. Nevertheless, women are underrepresented in high-level positions, including in corporate boards and the progress is very slow. Only a third of members of non-executive corporate boards are women and this is even less among executive boards. The Directive sets a target for EU companies listed on the EU stock exchanges to accelerate the reach of better gender balance. It sets a share of 40% of the underrepresented sex among non-executive directors and 33% among all directors. These companies must ensure that board appointments procedures are clear and transparent, and that applicants are assessed objectively based on their individual merits, irrespective of gender.

Driving up gender equality with clear targets and objective appointments based on merit

The agreed Directive will ensure that gender balance in corporate boards of listed companies is sought across the EU, while allowing for flexibility for Member States that have adopted equally effective measures. This flexibility will allow for the suspension of the procedural requirements set out in the Directive.

The main elements of the Directive are:

* At least 40% of the underrepresented gender must be represented in non-executive boards of listed companies or 33% among all directors. Member States have to ensure that companies strive to achieve this objective. Those companies that do not achieve those objectives must apply transparent and gender neutral criteria in the appointment of directors and prioritise the underrepresented sex where two candidates of different sexes are equally qualified.

* Clear and transparent board appointment procedures with objective assessment based on merit, irrespective of gender. The selection procedure of non-executive directors will need to comply to the following binding measures:

* Where two candidates of different sexes are equally qualified, preference shall be given to the candidate of the underrepresented sex, in companies where the target for gender balance is not achieved.

* Companies must disclose their qualification criteria should the unsuccessful candidate request it. Companies are further responsible to prove no measures were transgressed, if there is suspicion that an unsuccessful candidate of the underrepresented sex was equally qualified.

* Companies must undertake individual commitments to reach gender balance among their executive directors.

* Companies that fail to meet the objective of this Directive must report the reasons and the measures they are taking to address this shortcoming.

* Member States’ penalties for companies that fail to comply with selection and reporting obligations must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive They could include fines and nullity or annulment of the contested director’s appointment. Member States shall also publish information on companies’ that are reaching targets, which would serve as peer-pressure to complement enforcement (“faming” provision).

Members of the College said:

The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said:

“Diversity is not only a matter of fairness. It also drives growth and innovation. The business case for having more women in leadership is clear. After ten years, since the European Commission proposed this directive, it is high time we break the glass ceiling. There are plenty of women qualified for top jobs: they should be able to get them.”

The Vice-President for Values and Transparency, Věra Jourová, said:

“The first time the Commission put the issue of women in economic decision-making high on the agenda was in 2010. Since then, women on boards have risen by 17 percentage points, mainly due to legally binding initiatives implemented in some Member States. This remains a painfully slow progress. With this Directive, we will collectively accelerate our efforts to strive for gender equality and better balance in economic decision-making.”

Commissioner for Equality, Helena Dalli, said:

“Today’s agreement on Gender Balance on Corporate Boards takes our Union another step towards stronger and fairer societies. Talent has no gender and women’s leadership skills and vision matter. Yet, entrenched selection patterns of corporate board members continue to largely overlook women candidates. Change in this sector only materialised in countries that set quotas by law or policy. It is time for women and men to be equally represented on company boards EU-wide. Beyond the moral reasons for diversity and inclusion, there are ample benefits of this Directive for companies, including greater creativity and increased productivity.”

Next steps

The political agreement reached by the European Parliament and the Council is now subject to formal approval by the co-legislators. Once published in the Official Journal, the Directive will enter into force 20 days after publication and Member States will then need to transpose the new elements of the Directive into national law within two years.

Background

The Commission tabled the proposal on gender balance in company boards in November 2012[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52012PC0614&from=EN]. It aimed at improving transparency in the selection of board directors in the largest publicly listed companies. While the European Parliament adopted its position in 2013, the Council could not reach an agreement on the file for almost ten years, with some Member States considering that binding measures at the EU level were not the best way to pursue the objective.

In her political guidelines[https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/default/files/political-guidelines-next-commission_en_0.pdf], President von der Leyen committed to building a majority to unblock the Directive on women on boards.Finally, on 14 March 2022, the Council was able to adopt its general approach, unblocking the file. On 23 March 2022, the European Parliament reconfirmed its position, thereby paving the way for negotiations between the two co-legislators.

To lead by example, the Commission has, for the first time, achieved a fully gender-balanced college of Commissioners: since October 2020, 13 out of 27 Commissioners are women. The Commission also strives to reach gender parity (50%) at all levels of its management by the end of 2024.

National legislation and the state of gender balance in economic decision-making vary across Member States. Eight Member States have adopted national gender quotas. Ten Member States have opted for softer non-binding measures, and nine have no substantial legislation on the issue.

Legislative action to address gender imbalance continues to drive progress. Gender imbalance is more than twice as severe in countries that have taken no substantial action against countries that introduced measures. Countries with national quotas have the highest share of women sitting as board members of listed companies. However, to this day only one Member State has achieved effective gender balance on corporate boards.

A corporate board of a listed company is balanced when each gender makes up at least 40% of its composition.

The EU Gender Equality Strategy 2020-2025[https://ec.europa.eu/info/policies/justice-and-fundamental-rights/gender-equality/gender-equality-strategy_en] presents policy objectives and actions to make significant progress by 2025 towards a gender-equal Europe. The goal is a Union where women and men, girls and boys, in all their diversity, are free to pursue their chosen path in life, have equal opportunities to thrive, and can participate equally in and lead European society. One of its key objectives is achieving gender balance in decision-making.

More Information

steady-paywall

Women in economic decision-making in the EU – Publications Office of the EU (europa.eu)[https://op.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/8832ea16-e2e6-4095-b1eb-cc72a22e28df/language-en]

President von der Leyen speech at the EWOB’s Gender Diversity Award (europa.eu)[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/SPEECH_22_404]

Women and men in decision-making | Gender Statistics Database | European Institute for Gender Equality (europa.eu)[https://eige.europa.eu/gender-statistics/dgs/browse/wmidm]

Women’s situation in the labour market | European Commission (europa.eu)[https://ec.europa.eu/info/policies/justice-and-fundamental-rights/gender-equality/women-labour-market-work-life-balance/womens-situation-labour-market_en]

EU action to promote gender balance in decision-making | European Commission (europa.eu)[https://ec.europa.eu/info/policies/justice-and-fundamental-rights/gender-equality/equality-between-women-and-men-decision-making/eu-action-promote-gender-balance-decision-making_en]

EU Parliament: Women on boards – deal to boost gender balance in companies

* 40% of non-executive director posts should go to the under-represented sex

* Dissuasive penalties for non-compliance

* Small and medium-sized enterprises with up to 249 employees will be excluded

After being blocked in the Council for a decade, EP and EU countries’ negotiators finally agreed on a bill to increase the presence of women on corporate boards.

The provisional agreement reached on Tuesday night on the draft legislation aims to ensure gender parity on boards of publicly listed companies in the EU.

At least 40% of non-executive directors should be women

The so-called “Women on Boards” Directive aims to introduce transparent recruitment procedures in companies, so that at least 40% of non-executive director posts or 33% of all director posts are occupied by the under-represented sex. Thanks to Parliament, companies must comply with this target by 30 June 2026, compared to the Council’s proposal of 31 December 2027. In cases where candidates are equally qualified for a post, priority should go to the candidate of the under-represented sex.

MEPs insisted that merit must remain the key criterion in selection procedures, which should be transparent, as part of the agreement. Listed companies will be required to provide information to the competent authorities once a year about the gender representation on their boards and, if the objectives have not been met, how they plan to attain them. This information would be published on the company’s website in an easily accessible manner.

Small and medium-sized enterprises with fewer than 250 employees are excluded from the scope of the directive.

Penalties

The proposal includes effective, dissuasive and proportionate penalties for companies that fail to comply with open and transparent appointment procedures. Parliament succeeded in including examples of specific penalty measures, such as fines and companies having their selection of board directors annulled by a judicial body if they breach the national provisions adopted pursuant to the Directive.

Quotes by the rapporteurs

Evelyn Regner[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/96998/EVELYN_REGNER/home] (S&D, AT), co-rapporteur, said: “Parliament has been asking for a Directive for more women on boards for over a decade. The Council was finally ready to come to the table 10 years after the Commission made its proposal. It was high time to have binding measures. More women on boards make companies more resilient, more innovative and will help to change top-down structures in the workplace. One of the main achievements is transparency. Selection processes have to be based on clear, predetermined criteria and with this agreement, only the best candidates will be selected, thereby improving the overall quality of boards.”

Lara Wolters[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/5392/LARA_WOLTERS/home] (S&D, NL), co-rapporteur, added: “All data show that gender equality at the top of companies is not achieved by sheer luck. We also know that more diversity in boardrooms contributes to better decision-making and results. This quota can be a push in the right direction for more equality and diversity in companies.”

Press conference

The lead EP negotiators Evelyn Regner[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/96998/EVELYN_REGNER/home] (S&D, AT) and Lara Wolters[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/5392/LARA_WOLTERS/home] (S&D, NL) will answer journalists’ questions on the deal on Wednesday 8 May at 9.00 CEST in the Daphne Caruana Galizia room (WEISS N -1/201) in the European Parliament in Strasbourg. More details on how to follow the press conference are available here[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220607IPR32408/women-on-boards-press-conference-on-wednesday-at-9-00-cest].

Next steps

Once Parliament and Council have formally approved the agreement, the Directive will enter into force 20 days after it has been published in the EU’s Official Journal. Member states would need to implement the directive two years after it has been adopted. Parliament succeeded in including an assessment on the scope of the directive at a later stage on whether non-listed companies should be included in the scope of directive.

Background

The European Commission first presented its proposal in 2012 and the European Parliament adopted its negotiation position back in 2013. The file was blocked in the Council for almost a decade, until Employment and Social Affairs ministers finally agreed on a position last March.

Today, only 30.6% of board members[https://institutdelors.eu/en/publications/cap-sur-la-parite-dans-les-instances-dirigeantes-des-entreprises-europeennes/] in the EU’s largest publicly listed companies are women, with significant differences among member states (from 45.3% in France to 8.5% in Cyprus).

Further information

* Steps of the procedure[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.do?reference=2012/0299(COD)&l=en]

* Committee on Legal Affairs[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/juri/home.html]

* Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/femm/home.html]

* EP Study on Women on Board Policies in Member States and the Effects on Corporate Governance[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document/IPOL_STU(2021)700556]

EU Council on the agreement to improve gender balance on company boards

7 June 2022

The Council and European Parliament today reached a provisional political deal on a new EU law promoting a more balanced gender representation on the boards of listed companies.

Over the past 10 years, some progress towards equality in boardrooms has been made across the EU. Yet progress has been uneven and in October 2021, on average, only 30.6% of board members and a mere 8.5% of board chairs were women (up from 10.3% and 3% in 2011).

The Council and European Parliament therefore agreed that listed companies should aim to have at least 40% of their non-executive director positions held by members of the under-represented sex by 2026. If member states choose to apply the new rules to both executive and non-executive directors, the target would be 33% of all director positions by 2026.

In the case of member states that do not reach these targets, listed companies will have to put in place transparent procedures for the selection and appointment of board members designed to rectify the situation – such as a comparative assessment of the different candidates on the basis of clear and neutrally formulated criteria.

Possible national adjustments

A country which, before the entry into force of the directive, has either achieved progress coming close to the objectives or put in place equally effective legislation, can suspend the directive’s requirements related to the appointment or selection process.

Business benefits

Evidence has shown that more balanced boards make better decisions. Having more women in economic decision-making positions is also expected to boost gender equality within companies and society more generally. Allowing both women and men to fulfil their potential is crucial for economic growth and competitiveness in Europe.

Background and next steps

At the Council meeting of 14 March 2022, ministers of employment and social affairs reached a general approach, which cleared the way for negotiations with the European Parliament to start. Since then, three rounds of negotiations (trilogues) with the Parliament have taken place.

Within the Council, the agreement will first be submitted to Coreper for approval before going through the formal adoption procedure.

Gender balance on company boards (policy page)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/gender-balance-corporate-boards/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/06/07/council-and-european-parliament-agree-to-improve-gender-balance-on-company-boards/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Council+and+European+Parliament+agree+to+improve+gender+balance+on+company+boards]

S&D: Women on Boards Directive: landmark agreement to guarantee diversity and equality at the top

Tonight the European Parliament’s two negotiators, S&D MEPs Evelyn Regner and Lara Wolters, reached an agreement with the EU Council on the Women on Boards Directive. For over a decade, the S&D Group has led the calls for this landmark law to improve gender equality among both non-executive and executive directors of companies in the EU.

The Women on Boards Directive will introduce an open and transparent procedure to reach a minimum of 40% of women on non-executive boards of EU companies by the end of June 2026 with binding measures to achieve that goal. For member states that introduce quotas in both executive and non-executive boards, the overall minimum requirement will be 33%. Member states will also have to set up a penalty system for companies failing to comply with the rules.

Evelyn Regner MEP, the European Parliament’s negotiator on the Women on Boards Directive in the women’s rights and gender equality committee, said:

“I am incredibly happy and proud, because we the Socialists and Democrats took the lead in this important file, which will make a concrete difference for women! For too long we have been wasting women’s talent and opportunities in European business.

“This directive for more women on boards everywhere in the European Union is a major step that took us 10 years to achieve. But since I first worked on the proposal in 2012, we have progressed and now we have a directive for equal chances, fair selection processes and finally more women in the decision-making of companies! All this is only the first step of many but one that the S&Ds can be proud of.”

Lara Wolters MEP, the European Parliament’s negotiator on the Women on Boards Directive in the legal affairs committee, said:

“All the data shows that gender equality at the top of companies is not achieved by sheer luck. We also know that more diversity in boardrooms contributes to better decision-making and results. Despite years of roadblocks, I’m proud to have pushed member states to finally agree to this “women on boards” milestone that will push for progress in 27 member states at once.”

Note to editors:

Currently only 9 out of 27 member states have national legislation regarding gender equality on boards. Those member states who demonstrably already have effective national legislation would be able to suspend the measures in this directive in very specific circumstances, subject to regular review from the European Commission to ensure they are achieving the same target of 40%.

The selection procedures of companies will need to be adapted to include clear pre-determined criteria. In case there are two candidates with the same qualifications, the candidate from the under-represented sex would be selected.

The most recent figures published in December 2021 by the European Institute for Gender Equality show that the share of women on the boards of the largest publicly listed companies in the EU has increased to 31.3%, from 11.9% in 2010. However, seven in 10 board members are still men. The gap is even bigger if we take into account just CEOs, both executive and non-executive, with 79.2% men and just 20.8% women.

The European Commission presented the proposal back in 2012 and the European Parliament already adopted its position in 2013. After years of resistance in a conservative-dominated Council, the directive was unblocked by member states shortly after a new progressive German government was formed earlier this year.

Source – S&D via e-mail

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-welcomes-trilogue-deal-on-gender-balance-on-corporate-boards/379339/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

BusinessEurope and US Chamber of Commerce: Priorities for the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/businesseurope-and-us-chamber-of-commerce-priorities-for-the-12th-wto-ministerial-conference/379332/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 07, 2022 08:54 pm

The 12th WTO Ministerial Conference, taking place in Geneva from 12 to 15 June, will be a trial by fire for the organisational effectiveness and ability to respond to the current economic and trade challenges. Against the backdrop of increasing geopolitical tensions and Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the primary objective of the Ministerial should be to reaffirm multilateralism and rules-based trade as the preferred path to boost global economic growth. The WTO also needs to demonstrate that it can respond to the most pressing challenges of our time, particularly health, climate change and food security.

EU and U.S. businesses remain strong supporters of the WTO, and we believe that pragmatism, prioritisation and result-driven approaches are key to ensure a successful outcome. Achieving progress in these areas will be key for a positive MC12:

1. Advance meaningful reform

The current geopolitical context is challenging, making discussions to advance the WTO reform even more complex. Strong political commitment from all WTO members to set an ambitious agenda, work plan and timeline are fundamental. Reform should start by improving the functioning of the WTO as an organisation when it comes to monitoring, dispute settlement, solving the crisis in the Appellate Body, increasing transparency, and optimising the work of the Committees. Strengthening the negotiating function of the WTO would enhance its ability to devise new approaches to competitive neutrality, combat distortive subsidies, develop new rules for digital trade, address special and differential treatment, and promote ambitious climate action through trade. A more structured and consistent dialogue with the business community is essential to ensure a fit-for-purpose modernisation of the WTO rulebook.

Reforming and restoring the Appellate Body is an urgent priority. International trade agreements are only effective if they can be enforced through an effective dispute settlement system. While WTO dispute settlement continues to work in all areas except the Appellate Body, recent cases of appeals into the void show that members’ compliance with WTO commitments and the ability to enforce them will erode over time. Concerns regarding the functioning of the Appellate Body can be addressed, but WTO members need to engage, commit to agree and execute the needed reforms — and do so expeditiously.

2. Extend the moratorium on customs duties on electronic transmissions

This is a priority and absolute necessity to avoid significant trade and investment disruptions. Imposing tariffs on electronic transmissions would significantly increase the costs of trading and lead to market fragmentation, generating additional headwinds for the global economy. The WTO would allow, for the first time, the introduction of new barriers to trade, thus setting a dangerous precedent where tariffs on services might be levied and potentially creating a paradigm shift in international trade that must be avoided.

3. Address trade and health issues pragmatically

The WTO has done very good work facilitating the easing of certain trade restrictions and monitoring trade-restrictive measures adopted by Governments in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. MC12 is a key opportunity to address the trade and regulatory restrictions that limit access and distribution of raw materials, medicines, vaccines, equipment, other goods and the essential services related to them.

Intellectual property (IP) has played a fundamental role in enabling an unprecedented level of research, innovation and partnerships that allowed us to fight the pandemic. It is clear that IP-based incentives have been central to the innovation and collaboration that enabled the development, manufacturing, scale-up and distribution of novel COVID-19 vaccines and therapeutics. Voluntary licensing of intellectual property for vaccines and therapeutics has resulted in hundreds of partnerships around the world, which has led to dramatic growth in vaccine manufacturing. There is broad consensus that today there is no problem of vaccine production. On the contrary, vaccine surpluses are widespread. Logistical bottlenecks, vaccines rollout, country readiness and lack of public acceptance are the real factors behind low levels of vaccination in certain countries. Therefore, the proposed waiver of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) represents an attempt to solve a problem that currently does not exist. It would not be the right answer to the collective challenge of equitable access to vaccines and risks undermining the collective response to the pandemic, and the incentive to invest in solutions to address future pandemics will be much lower.

4. Make progress on the Joint Statement Initiatives

Joint Statement Initiatives are critical to progress faster in the adoption of rules not covered by the current WTO rule book. They are an important step forward in the modernisation and adaptation of the WTO to current and future trade challenges. We support these negotiations, especially in the areas of e-commerce, investment facilitation for development and trade and the environment. We also hope the agreement on domestic regulation on services is officially concluded.

* The negotiations for an agreement on e-commerce need a new impetus. While recognising good progress on electronic authentication, electronic signatures, spam, open government data and online consumer protection, we must make more progress in the most complex and divisive issues, like cross-border data flows, prohibition on source code disclosure and forced data localisation, expanded market access for ICT products and liability questions.

* Trying to conclude discussions on investment facilitation for development would be very important, as a transparent, non-discriminatory, efficient regulatory framework is key to attract long-term sustainable investment and help developing economies recover faster. With more than 100 members participating, a significant number of which are developing countries, this potential agreement shows how the WTO can deliver for all.

* There are several plurilateral initiatives in the area of trade and the environment, including a dialogue on plastics, distortive fossil fuel subsidies as well as a broader initiative on trade and environmental sustainability. Addressing climate change is a common and urgent goal. Agreeing on joint approaches is also key to promote a level playing field. Therefore, we hope for strong commitment from members to achieve concrete results including the launch of negotiations.

5. Finally conclude the agreement on fisheries’ subsidies

Tackling illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing is a key component of the negotiations of a WTO Agreement on Fisheries subsidies. The main objective is to adopt rules that promote sustainable fishing and protect the livelihoods of people. This is a rare area where the WTO is uniquely positioned to address a serious environmental problem in a way that no other international body can. Concluding this agreement would be a clear sign that the WTO can deliver in a multilateral setting.

Source – BusinessEurope & US Chamber of Commerce (via e-mail)

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/businesseurope-and-us-chamber-of-commerce-priorities-for-the-12th-wto-ministerial-conference/379332/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Lithuania: IMF Staff Article IV Concluding Statement[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/lithuania-imf-staff-article-iv-concluding-statement/379316/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 07, 2022 08:49 pm

Washington D.C., 7 June 2022

A Concluding Statement describes the preliminary findings of IMF staff at the end of an official staff visit (or ‘mission’), in most cases to a member country. Missions are undertaken as part of regular (usually annual) consultations under Article IV[https://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/aa/aa04.htm] of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement, in the context of a request to use IMF resources (borrow from the IMF), as part of discussions of staff monitored programs, or as part of other staff monitoring of economic developments.

The authorities have consented to the publication of this statement. The views expressed in this statement are those of the IMF staff and do not necessarily represent the views of the IMF’s Executive Board. Based on the preliminary findings of this mission, staff will prepare a report that, subject to management approval, will be presented to the IMF Executive Board for discussion and decision.

Washington, DC: Lithuania rebounded strongly from the pandemic due to resilient macroeconomic fundamentals, a decisive policy response, and accommodative financial conditions. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and its impact on energy and commodity prices have already had a significant impact on economic activity and inflation and remain a source of downside risks going forward. Nevertheless, strong macroeconomic fundamentals, large policy buffers, and a flexible labor market will help maintain the resilience of Lithuania’s economy. In the short term, the main challenge is to prevent the surge in inflation from triggering a vicious price-wage spiral that could undermine macroeconomic stability. Over the medium term, the focus should be on unlocking the economy’s potential by removing structural bottlenecks through long overdue reforms and taking proactive steps to address the challenges associated with climate change and energy security. At the same time, there is a need to consolidate the initial success in developing the Fintech sector by strengthening the integrity of the AML/CFT framework.

Recent Developments, Outlook, and Risks

Prior to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the Lithuanian economy was on a strong post-pandemic recovery path with signs of overheating. With resilient macroeconomic fundamentals, a decisive policy response, and high immunization rate, the economy avoided a recession in 2020 and rebounded vigorously in 2021, outperforming the rest of the eurozone. Domestic demand was the main driver of growth—supported by low unemployment, double-digit wage growth, and a recovery of investment—which contributed to accelerating inflation by year-end. The external position remained strong, reflecting competitiveness gains.

The recent spike in global energy and food prices and persistent supply bottlenecks have compounded inflationary pressures, disproportionately hurting the poor. As a result, inflation increased from the recent trough of -0.1 percent at the end of 2020 to 18.5 percent in May 2022, the second highest in the euro area. Inflation excluding energy and food components has increased alongside strong wage growth, suggesting that the surge in inflation has become broad based. Furthermore, the tight labor market and compressed profit margins could lead to further pressures from wages to price inflation. Higher consumer prices have put a relatively greater strain on low-income households as they allocate 60 percent more of their consumption on food and energy than do higher-income ones.

Strong macroeconomic fundamentals, large policy buffers and a flexible labor market are key factors explaining the resilience of Lithuania’s economy :

* The banking sector remains profitable, well-capitalized, and liquid. Capital adequacy ratios (at 23 percent at end-2021) are well above the required minimum and profitability is above that of eurozone peers, although it remains below pre-pandemic levels.

* The fiscal position in 2021 was strong. Reflecting a robust recovery and prudent policies, the deficit fell to 1 percent of GDP, bringing government debt down. In 2022, while pandemic-related support is minimal, ample fiscal space has allowed the government to approve a package of about 3.5 percent of GDP to mitigate the increase in energy prices to households, support vulnerable groups and increase military spending.

* Trade links to and energy dependency on Russia have long been declining. Trade and financial linkages have become significantly less important over time after the integration into the EU. The share of exports to Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus declined from 30 percent of total exports in 2014 (before Russia’s annexation of Crimea) to 16 percent. Furthermore, a significant share of these flows (90 percent in the case of Russia) represents reexports, significantly reducing the impact on economic activity in Lithuania. With regards to energy dependence, Lithuania has recently discontinued imports of electricity, oil, and natural gas from Russia.

Growth this year will be around 2 percent, half the pre-war forecast, but abundant risks could further hinder growth. Projections are subject to significant uncertainty and based on the assumptions of no further escalation of the war and a gradual decline in commodity prices starting later this year. Inflation will remain elevated throughout 2022 and early 2023 because of high commodity prices, tight labor market conditions, and persistent supply-side disruptions. This could lead to a wage-price spiral that could become entrenched, endangering macroeconomic stability. Risks to the outlook are clearly tilted to the downside: they include a further escalation of the war, lack of momentum in structural reforms, and tightening financial conditions. On the other hand, the economy could prove to be more resilient than projected, supported by the strong financial position of the private sector.

Macroeconomic Policies

The authorities’ response to unprecedented energy prices limits economic disruption, provides targeted support to the vulnerable and allows for market price signals . With a more targeted response than that adopted in other countries, the passthrough of higher energy prices to consumers has been significant, particularly for companies. Initially, the authorities limited the increase in regulated energy prices, imposing loses in the public electricity company, Ignitis. As high energy prices proved persistent, the authorities amended the budget to subsidize the energy bill to consumers and compensated Ignitis for the losses accumulated in the first half of the year. The decision to allow a significant pass-through of energy prices and reflect this subsidy transparently in the budget is welcome. Pre-existing targeted programs to subsidize heating for vulnerable households have also been enhanced and the VAT rate on district heating for households was temporarily reduced to zero in the first four months of this year at a modest fiscal cost. Going forward, the subsidy to energy tariffs should gradually be phased out even if high energy prices proved persistent with the bulk of the support being provided in a targeted manner to the more vulnerable.

Higher revenues from inflation allow the budget to accommodate pressures for higher social and defense spending in the short term, but difficult tradeoffs await down the road. Permanent spending commitments, such as additional defense expenditures of about 0.5 percent of GDP, add to pre-existing pressures associated with social demands and age-related spending. With discretionary spending low and lack of consensus on significant tax reform in the current environment, further increases in spending will result in a moderate deficit over the medium term instead of the authorities’ goal of a balanced budget. This would still keep the public debt-to-GDP ratio on a declining path. To avoid turning these short-term challenges into structural problems, efforts should focus on improving the quality of spending while broadening the scope and strengthening the collection of environmental and housing-related taxes and eliminating distortionary tax concessions and exemptions that tend to favor higher incomes. To this end, the government’s proposal for revamping real estate taxation is a step in the right direction.

Given the risk of persistently high inflation, fiscal policy will need to be decisively countercyclical going forward . The fiscal response this year is appropriate given the social impact of high energy prices, their negative impact on economic activity and the fact that new spending consists of a large share of imports with little impact on domestic demand. The lack of an independent monetary policy makes fiscal policy the main tool left to support macroeconomic stability. Thus, a tightening of fiscal policy next year in line with the national fiscal rule without activating the escape clause will help minimize the risks of persistently high inflation. Furthermore, the increase in public sector wages and the minimum wage over the next few years should be consistent with expected inflation and productivity gains to provide a strong signal to the private sector and prevent a vicious wage-price spiral.

Financial Policies

The banking system has ample capital and liquidity buffers to withstand a weakening economic environment or even greater shocks. The balance sheets of households and firms appear to be resilient but overheating in the real estate market remains a risk. The implementation of a series of macroprudential measures, including tighter down payment requirements for second and subsequent housing loans and a new sectoral systemic risk buffer for banks with the largest mortgage portfolios is welcome. However, their effectiveness might be limited in light of excess capital in the banking system and the large share of home purchase transactions undertaken in cash. The expected emergence of a large financial institution with non-resident base business model will require prompt action by the national and supranational authorities to ensure effective supervision under the existing European arrangements.

Further efforts are needed to mitigate money laundering and terrorist financing (ML/FT) risks in the financial sector, particularly from the dynamic and growing fintech sector. While the Bank of Lithuania (BoL) has made important strides in strengthening AML/CFT supervision, the fast-growing non-resident activity in the fintech sector presents regulatory and supervisory challenges, particularly in cross-border payments. In this context, the focus should be shifted from growth of this sector to its consolidation, with a focus on mitigating ML/FT risks. This should include more effective controls for access to the BoL’s payment system (CENTROlink). For virtual asset service providers, the Ministry of Interior and the Financial Intelligence Unit should develop risk-based supervision, stronger supervisory powers, and market entry controls. The AML/CFT supervisory capacity of the BoL will also need to be substantially strengthened, a process which will take time and require significant new resources and greater coordination with other jurisdictions.

Structural Challenges

Structural reforms are necessary to ensure continued income convergence. Lithuania has long benefited from the structural flexibility of its economy, absorbing shocks, and reducing the burden of fiscal policy in the context of a currency union. This is critical for sustaining productivity gains and thus maintaining a competitive export sector. To this end, the authorities need to address structural impediments by accelerating reforms in education and healthcare, by closing gaps in the transportation infrastructure, and reducing information asymmetries that limit access to financing for small and medium enterprises.

A comprehensive carbon tax will be necessary to achieve the authorities’ emission reduction objectives for 2030. Recent developments have highlighted the importance of climate change mitigation and energy security. The authorities have taken important steps on both fronts, but more aggressive policy adjustments are necessary to achieve the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and energy imports. This will require (i) reducing fossil fuels in the energy matrix, (ii) investing in low-emission transportation, and (iii) raising energy efficiency. The introduction of a economy-wide carbon tax —set to gradually increase to €50 per metric ton of CO2 emissions by 2030—could provide the necessary incentives for a faster reduction in energy consumption and emissions while generating additional revenues. At the same time, since long term climate risks cannot be eliminated, adaptation measures to strengthen physical, financial, institutional, and social resilience will be important.

The IMF team is grateful for the generous hospitality of the Lithuanian authorities and would like to thank all its interlocutors in government, the Bank of Lithuania, the European Central Bank, the private sector, unions, and business associations for constructive and fruitful discussions.

Source: IMF[https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2022/06/07/republic-of-lithuania-staff-concluding-statement-of-2022-article-iv-mission?cid=em-COM-123-44900]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/lithuania-imf-staff-article-iv-concluding-statement/379316/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

CER: Why would anyone use a central bank digital currency?[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/cer-why-would-anyone-use-a-central-bank-digital-currency/379330/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 07, 2022 08:29 pm

By Zach Meyers[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.cer.eu?p=eyJzIjoiWktBRzBWNUFVSTF5aFRNMFBMc3p3T2psamFjIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5jZXIuZXVcXFwvcGVyc29ubmVsXFxcL3phY2gtbWV5ZXJzXCIsXCJpZFwiOlwiNTU2ZTUzNmIwNjY5NDA4Y2FlMzQ3OThiYzY1ZDcyZjFcIixcInVybF9pZHNcIjpbXCI3MGViYzg4NmVmOGYxZjlhODk4ZWY4MDE3YTllZWQzYmIyODY3NGE4XCJdfSJ9], 07 June 2022

Central banks are rushing to pilot their own digital currencies. These may sound exciting. But they may offer users few compelling benefits they do not already enjoy.

Consumers are abandoning cash in favour of digital payments – a long-term trend that rapidly accelerated during the pandemic. Central banks are fretting[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.ecb.europa.eu?p=eyJzIjoiaEtwU1Z1RWtEOGh1ZF9SNHRTZmpyWHdQMUhZIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5lY2IuZXVyb3BhLmV1XFxcL3B1YlxcXC9wZGZcXFwvb3RoZXJcXFwvUmVwb3J0X29uX2FfZGlnaXRhbF9ldXJvfjRkNzI2OGI0NTguZW4ucGRmXCIsXCJpZFwiOlwiNTU2ZTUzNmIwNjY5NDA4Y2FlMzQ3OThiYzY1ZDcyZjFcIixcInVybF9pZHNcIjpbXCI2ZWU0OWYxMTY5Y2U0YTEyMDZlZmM3MmJkMWE2NTJmNzM3YzAzYjgzXCJdfSJ9] about the consequences. Are consumers too reliant on US card networks, which recently withdrew their services from Russia, demonstrating that even private payment systems can become drawn into international conflicts? Are alternative systems needed to improve the economy’s resilience to system outages, natural disasters or cyberattacks? Does it matter if there is no longer a public alternative to private payment services like card payments? And will consumers who value the privacy of cash adopt riskier alternatives like Bitcoin or stablecoins, some of which have been recently proven to be unsafe stores of value?

Nearly all[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.pymnts.com?p=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] central banks globally – including those in the EU[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.ecb.europa.eu?p=eyJzIjoiY0dJbktGR0tlVE01YVA1dUR4QVdDblJBN2FvIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5lY2IuZXVyb3BhLmV1XFxcL3BheW1cXFwvZGlnaXRhbF9ldXJvXFxcL2h0bWxcXFwvaW5kZXguZW4uaHRtbFwiLFwiaWRcIjpcIjU1NmU1MzZiMDY2OTQwOGNhZTM0Nzk4YmM2NWQ3MmYxXCIsXCJ1cmxfaWRzXCI6W1wiNmRiMWFjYmE0YzkyNjgzYjFhNWU5OGZhZDllZGIxMjQ3OGUyMjM1ZlwiXX0ifQ], UK[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.bankofengland.co.uk?p=eyJzIjoiVmx2ejFoZHFleWxhWnNaWHZ0dWZqQi1VbWljIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5iYW5rb2ZlbmdsYW5kLmNvLnVrXFxcL3Jlc2VhcmNoXFxcL2RpZ2l0YWwtY3VycmVuY2llc1wiLFwiaWRcIjpcIjU1NmU1MzZiMDY2OTQwOGNhZTM0Nzk4YmM2NWQ3MmYxXCIsXCJ1cmxfaWRzXCI6W1wiZDEwNTFjYjEyOTY4OTNkYmNmYWI4MTYzZmUyMTdhYTFiZmJiZTQwNVwiXX0ifQ] and US[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.federalreserve.gov?p=eyJzIjoiRmhiQjZSNVFSNDdIV0FxM1VRUGMzbHpOdjFBIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5mZWRlcmFscmVzZXJ2ZS5nb3ZcXFwvcHVibGljYXRpb25zXFxcL2ZpbGVzXFxcL21vbmV5LWFuZC1wYXltZW50cy0yMDIyMDEyMC5wZGZcIixcImlkXCI6XCI1NTZlNTM2YjA2Njk0MDhjYWUzNDc5OGJjNjVkNzJmMVwiLFwidXJsX2lkc1wiOltcImYxMWM5MzZlZjI4NWY3Y2FkZTVmYWM4MWNhMDFkMzc0YzY5MTVkMTVcIl19In0] – are examining retail central bank digital currencies (CBDCs) such as the ‘digital euro’ as a potential answer to these concerns. Many are ploughing ahead with pilots already.

A retail CBDC would allow consumers access to electronic money backed by the central bank. Today, only commercial banks generally have this privilege, in the form of central bank reserves. Individuals can hold central bank money, but only in physical form – as banknotes and coins. When individuals hold funds electronically, those funds only represent a claim on the private bank that manages the account, not the central bank.

However, everyday consumers in Europe may find this revolution to be an academic one. Europe’s banking sector is robust and deposits are guaranteed up to a generous limit. Consumers, quite reasonably, consider bank savings to be about as safe as cash. And CBDCs would probably be provided via commercial banks, and could allow payments through a mobile app, a card, or a similar device. So a CBDC could look similar to any bank account today. State-backed savings options are already available[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.nsandi.com?p=eyJzIjoibWttMkQyb29pLVAzUk52QkhIZzNsQ2JjQUxzIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5uc2FuZGkuY29tXFxcL1wiLFwiaWRcIjpcIjU1NmU1MzZiMDY2OTQwOGNhZTM0Nzk4YmM2NWQ3MmYxXCIsXCJ1cmxfaWRzXCI6W1wiNWY3ODI5NTM2MTU0NjZlNDI0NTU5OTc5MGRkODI2OTZkZDY3YWJkOFwiXX0ifQ] for those who want them.

Whether consumers and retailers would actually prefer to use a CBDC for payments – rather than private payment services like today’s cards – is therefore not obvious. Some central bankers[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.ft.com?p=eyJzIjoiNGx3eDcxQmN1bnNRNHBEbUNqUUxwQm5NMktJIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5mdC5jb21cXFwvY29udGVudFxcXC81ZTU4OGNlYS1jMjE4LTQ4NjctYWViNy1lMTZlMTk4Y2NkOWFcIixcImlkXCI6XCI1NTZlNTM2YjA2Njk0MDhjYWUzNDc5OGJjNjVkNzJmMVwiLFwidXJsX2lkc1wiOltcIjk0ZGViNTBlNzVhNDhlOTk5MDQ0NDAyYmQ1MDE3NGI1ZmNiMmE2NTdcIl19In0] imply usage is unimportant, arguing that a CBDC merely needs to exist as an ‘anchor’, giving consumers certainty that money can be withdrawn from the private banking system. But cash still serves that purpose – and if the problem is that fewer consumers and retailers use cash, then a CBDC would only be a solution if it was more widely used instead. Other commentators[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/voxeu.org?p=eyJzIjoiR2lpelJtazBZLU5GN0JCUTRpdXRRV2h6Z1dZIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3ZveGV1Lm9yZ1xcXC9hcnRpY2xlXFxcL2JhbmstcnVucy1hbmQtY2VudHJhbC1iYW5rLWRpZ2l0YWwtY3VycmVuY3lcIixcImlkXCI6XCI1NTZlNTM2YjA2Njk0MDhjYWUzNDc5OGJjNjVkNzJmMVwiLFwidXJsX2lkc1wiOltcImUyNzdjYmQxNWNjOWFhMjNlOTQ2NTM1MGUyOTJlZTI4OWNhZDE2NDBcIl19In0] assume the bigger risk is overenthusiastic adoption, in particular that CBDCs will be used for investment purposes and not just to make payments. They worry that if consumers can quickly shift their bank deposits into CBDCs, rather than needing to withdraw cash, banks would become more vulnerable to runs. And if consumers have more of their savings in CBDCs and less in bank deposits, then banks will need more expensive wholesale funding to provide loans to customers. That would drive up the cost of finance for households and businesses. To deal with this problem, CBDCs would need limitations – such as caps on individual holdings or unattractive interest rates – to limit the risks to private banks. But that will reduce its attractiveness to users: existing payment services do not generally have these limitations.

The primary objectives of a CBDC therefore cannot be achieved unless it is “available everywhere[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.ecb.europa.eu?p=eyJzIjoiU1FwUjg1YXo0TmtZcTBZWEJOYzNKaVJlbVNBIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5lY2IuZXVyb3BhLmV1XFxcL3ByZXNzXFxcL2tleVxcXC9kYXRlXFxcLzIwMjFcXFwvaHRtbFxcXC9lY2Iuc3AyMTExMTh-YjM2MDEzYjdjNS5lbi5odG1sXCIsXCJpZFwiOlwiNTU2ZTUzNmIwNjY5NDA4Y2FlMzQ3OThiYzY1ZDcyZjFcIixcInVybF9pZHNcIjpbXCIwYTMwZGY1ZTE3MDE1YTIzYTllZWMzM2E5ZTNiMzc2YWJmYzNhNjQ5XCJdfSJ9]” and can win market share from today’s card payments. Yet CBDCs will struggle to compete.

First, consider price: a CBDC should be financially attractive to both consumers and retailers. Some retailers could be enticed to accept it: many[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.eurocommerce.eu?p=eyJzIjoiRks0Q2Q4bGl5M0dNWDl2YnNGbEFrdGppUVpjIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5ldXJvY29tbWVyY2UuZXVcXFwvbWVkaWFcXFwvMTc0NjA5XFxcL0VVJTIwSW50ZXJjaGFuZ2UlMjBGZWUlMjBSZWd1bGF0aW9uJTIwcmV2aWV3JTIwLSUyMEV1cm9Db21tZXJjZSUyMHN1Ym1pc3Npb24lMjAwMy1GZWItMjAyMC5wZGZcIixcImlkXCI6XCI1NTZlNTM2YjA2Njk0MDhjYWUzNDc5OGJjNjVkNzJmMVwiLFwidXJsX2lkc1wiOltcIjgwNDM2Y2RmZDg5ZmYyNDgxMTNmMDU2NzhjM2NkODlmMDVkNTBjZmNcIl19In0] are concerned about the fees associated with accepting payment cards like Visa, Mastercard and American Express, despite regulatory reforms in 2015 which reduced these fees. A recent UK study[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.psr.org.uk?p=eyJzIjoia25uV0U3VDVPY0RleWVaR0V2aUd6cXRmbkZrIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5wc3Iub3JnLnVrXFxcL3B1YmxpY2F0aW9uc1xcXC9tYXJrZXQtcmV2aWV3c1xcXC9tcjE4LTEtOC1jYXJkLWFjcXVpcmluZy1yZXBvcnQtZmluYWxcXFwvXCIsXCJpZFwiOlwiNTU2ZTUzNmIwNjY5NDA4Y2FlMzQ3OThiYzY1ZDcyZjFcIixcInVybF9pZHNcIjpbXCIzMjU3MmJiOTk4Yzk4ZDQyYTUxNzJjNjY1YWZiM2JjYTM0YjI1MTIyXCJdfSJ9] showed that smaller retailers pay, on average, nearly 2 per cent of a total transaction’s value to accept cards. Cash is not getting more attractive either: it slows down the speed of transactions; carries risks of theft and loss; and as Chart 1 shows, retailers must pay more to deposit and handle cash[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.ecb.europa.eu?p=eyJzIjoidFJZZlRMVEhSd3N2NGlodTl0c19OMm9rTnZBIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5lY2IuZXVyb3BhLmV1XFxcL3BheW1cXFwvZ3JvdXBzXFxcL2VycGJcXFwvc2hhcmVkXFxcL3BkZlxcXC8xNHRoLUVSUEItbWVldGluZ1xcXC9BY2Nlc3NfdG9fY2FzaC5wZGY_MjMxYTgxNzJkODYyYjMwNzI3ZDY5MjY5ZGRjMDdhYmVcIixcImlkXCI6XCI1NTZlNTM2YjA2Njk0MDhjYWUzNDc5OGJjNjVkNzJmMVwiLFwidXJsX2lkc1wiOltcImQ2ZDc2NDBmZDA5ZTUxMTMwZjcyNjU4NDkzOGQ3ZThlMTczZmY4YjZcIl19In0] as its usage declines. A CBDC could do better: it could be cheap like cash; and like electronic payments, it would be quick and safe to use.

But attempts to create cheaper alternatives struggle. Europe’s latest attempt to create a low-fee pan-European card network, the so-called European Payments Initiative, failed to create a viable business model[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.finextra.com?p=eyJzIjoiM2phZTNXNW95UUNaTTV4T0xISEdXRXowMnNrIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5maW5leHRyYS5jb21cXFwvbmV3c2FydGljbGVcXFwvMzk5MDdcXFwvZXBpLWFiYW5kb25zLXBsYW4tZm9yLXZpc2EtYW5kLW1hc3RlcmNhcmQtcml2YWwtYXMtbWVtYmVyLWJhbmtzLXF1aXRcIixcImlkXCI6XCI1NTZlNTM2YjA2Njk0MDhjYWUzNDc5OGJjNjVkNzJmMVwiLFwidXJsX2lkc1wiOltcImQ3OWIzNmQ3YTk1MWY3Yjc2Nzk4YjI5MjczNGIxZTcyZGE0ODhmZDFcIl19In0] for predictable reasons[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/cer.eu?p=eyJzIjoiQzFmbUc2TUdhRFhkUXMxYkRLZ1NXWnMzVWFNIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL2Nlci5ldVxcXC9pbnNpZ2h0c1xcXC9kb250LWltaXRhdGUtaW5ub3ZhdGUtd2h5LWV1cm9wZS1kb2VzbnQtbmVlZC1yaXZhbC12aXNhLWFuZC1tYXN0ZXJjYXJkXCIsXCJpZFwiOlwiNTU2ZTUzNmIwNjY5NDA4Y2FlMzQ3OThiYzY1ZDcyZjFcIixcInVybF9pZHNcIjpbXCI5NTFlNmZkNmQ1NDRjYTc3ZmE3YWQwZmI4YzNjY2ViODEzOGM5ZDk5XCJdfSJ9]. The problem is that being cheap for retailers does not guarantee success. Consider the number of retailers becoming cash-free and only taking card payments – even though, as Chart 1 shows, cards can still be more expensive than cash for retailers to accept. Accepting multiple different types of payment methods gets expensive and complex. They prefer accepting one near-universal means of payment, such as Visa or Mastercard, that nearly all consumers also use. Introducing a CBDC would battle against this trend. Most CBDCs will not use existing card infrastructure, as doing so would contribute little to resilience and give CBDCs less competitive differentiation. So they would require retailers to invest in accepting a new form of payment, with uncertain demand, at a time when many retailers would prefer to simplify their options.

Law-makers may try to solve this conundrum by changing the law, so that a CBDC has the status of legal tender. That would improve a CBDC’s legitimacy: today, only banknotes and coins are legal tender. However, the legal ramifications of being legal tender are ambiguous. Only a few EU member-states force[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.banque-france.fr?p=eyJzIjoiS1JmSnNzTUR0VndQMWRNQWhmZlYyUl9NOVh3IiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5iYW5xdWUtZnJhbmNlLmZyXFxcL2VuXFxcL2Jhbmtub3Rlc1xcXC9ob3ctcmVjb2duaXNlLWFuZC11c2UtZXVyby1iYW5rbm90ZXMtYW5kLWNvaW5zXFxcL3doZXJlLXVuZGVyLXdoYXQtY29uZGl0aW9ucy1hbmQtaG93LW11Y2gtY2FuLWktcGF5LWNhc2hcIixcImlkXCI6XCI1NTZlNTM2YjA2Njk0MDhjYWUzNDc5OGJjNjVkNzJmMVwiLFwidXJsX2lkc1wiOltcImY4NWFmZmYwOWU2ZWFmNjJlNTdiOTBjODEwODUwNWI1ZjRmY2U2MzhcIl19In0] retailers to accept legal tender. In most of Europe, retailers are free to refuse banknotes and coins today, and could do the same with a CBDC. The European Court of Justice accepts[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/eur-lex.europa.eu?p=eyJzIjoic0tCbnlWelltdllYS0hsV1dVS3dhOWsxZEVzIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL2V1ci1sZXguZXVyb3BhLmV1XFxcL2xlZ2FsLWNvbnRlbnRcXFwvRU5cXFwvVFhUXFxcLz91cmk9Q0VMRVglM0E2MjAxOUNKMDQyMlwiLFwiaWRcIjpcIjU1NmU1MzZiMDY2OTQwOGNhZTM0Nzk4YmM2NWQ3MmYxXCIsXCJ1cmxfaWRzXCI6W1wiYWUxZGFjYmMyN2M3YjllNTYxOTNlZDI1NWYxYjVlMmM2NzRmMjAyMVwiXX0ifQ] that even government agencies can refuse cash if there are good reasons, such as electronic payments being more efficient.

Even if retailers accepted CBDC payments, that would only solve half the price challenge. Attracting consumers is more difficult. As I have explained[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/cer.eu?p=eyJzIjoiQzFmbUc2TUdhRFhkUXMxYkRLZ1NXWnMzVWFNIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL2Nlci5ldVxcXC9pbnNpZ2h0c1xcXC9kb250LWltaXRhdGUtaW5ub3ZhdGUtd2h5LWV1cm9wZS1kb2VzbnQtbmVlZC1yaXZhbC12aXNhLWFuZC1tYXN0ZXJjYXJkXCIsXCJpZFwiOlwiNTU2ZTUzNmIwNjY5NDA4Y2FlMzQ3OThiYzY1ZDcyZjFcIixcInVybF9pZHNcIjpbXCI5NTFlNmZkNmQ1NDRjYTc3ZmE3YWQwZmI4YzNjY2ViODEzOGM5ZDk5XCJdfSJ9], when consumers pay by card, they not only get a payment service at no cost, but receive benefits for using their card – such as liability protection for fraud, and potential cashback offers and reward points. These benefits are indirectly funded by the charges retailers pay when they accept a card payment. In most cases, EU law prohibits retailers from imposing a surcharge for consumers who pay by card. Even where surcharging is allowed, many retailers do not want to do so and risk annoying consumers. Consequently, consumers have strong incentives to pay by card, even though this imposes higher costs on the retailer.

Central banks are therefore mistaken to think a CBDC could succeed simply by being low cost or legal tender. CBDCs would also need to give consumers more benefits than established payment options do, such as by enticing users with cashback rewards[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.reuters.com?p=eyJzIjoiVzVva29US0UyN2RCbUJIbjlMWk1ScDhMdTFvIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5yZXV0ZXJzLmNvbVxcXC90ZWNobm9sb2d5XFxcL3doYXRzYXBwLXBsYW5zLWNhc2hiYWNrLXBlZXItdHJhbnNmZXJzLW1lcmNoYW50LXBheW1lbnRzLWluZGlhLXB1c2gtc291cmNlcy0yMDIyLTA0LTI3XFxcL1wiLFwiaWRcIjpcIjU1NmU1MzZiMDY2OTQwOGNhZTM0Nzk4YmM2NWQ3MmYxXCIsXCJ1cmxfaWRzXCI6W1wiZGMwZmFjNjZlOGYwMGVkOWNjZTdmYzlkZWE3ODA1ZjYxYjhjYjY1YVwiXX0ifQ]. But that implies either subsidising the system using public funds – which would breach the ECB’s duty to respect an “open market economy with free competition[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/eur-lex.europa.eu?p=eyJzIjoiV1BFQU9CVGFPcVhjU3NGYkdYaF9HaDJ0dUpRIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL2V1ci1sZXguZXVyb3BhLmV1XFxcL2xlZ2FsLWNvbnRlbnRcXFwvRU5cXFwvVFhUXFxcLz91cmk9Q0VMRVglM0ExMjAxNkUxMjdcIixcImlkXCI6XCI1NTZlNTM2YjA2Njk0MDhjYWUzNDc5OGJjNjVkNzJmMVwiLFwidXJsX2lkc1wiOltcIjg1NmU5MTcxMWJiN2NmY2MxY2E1YjA0MmNiNWFkNGY2NDUyYzZiZmVcIl19In0]” – or imposing higher fees on retailers than they pay today.

Other possible financial benefits for consumers will also fail to have the desired effect. Providing a favourable interest rate on holdings is one option. However, CBDC accounts might be legally unable[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/eulawanalysis.blogspot.com?p=eyJzIjoiRTJEMlJ4cjdWWmZ2b0RRNjlJWHlJTlpjQVV3IiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL2V1bGF3YW5hbHlzaXMuYmxvZ3Nwb3QuY29tXFxcLzIwMjFcXFwvMDdcXFwvY2VudHJhbC1iYW5rLWRpZ2l0YWwtY3VycmVuY3ktbGVnYWwuaHRtbFwiLFwiaWRcIjpcIjU1NmU1MzZiMDY2OTQwOGNhZTM0Nzk4YmM2NWQ3MmYxXCIsXCJ1cmxfaWRzXCI6W1wiNjI5ZWJlNThlYmZjNmFiN2IyMWViYWM2ODRmZTNkYzZhYTgyMTExOFwiXX0ifQ] to accrue interest in the EU. Even if they could, keeping the interest rate high enough to maintain the CBDC’s use could easily conflict with a central bank’s monetary policy objectives, and with the need to ensure consumers still had incentives to use private bank deposits. In any event, attractive interest rates would primarily influence consumers to use the CBDC as an investment vehicle – rather than as a payment option, as central banks intend.

If a central bank cannot shower consumers with monetary rewards for using a CBDC, perhaps consumers would be attracted to a retail CBDC for privacy reasons. Central banks have no incentives to exploit personal transaction data. And a CBDC could be designed so that small, in-person transactions could be made offline and without reporting the transaction back to a centralised ledger – making them more private than electronic transactions today.

But privacy is unlikely to be a compelling feature. The ECB has ruled out anonymity[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.ecb.europa.eu?p=eyJzIjoiOC1nZFJJU1ItTlA5Zm5Hc1drQzRWeGI5M04wIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5lY2IuZXVyb3BhLmV1XFxcL3ByZXNzXFxcL2tleVxcXC9kYXRlXFxcLzIwMjJcXFwvaHRtbFxcXC9lY2Iuc3AyMjAzMzBfMX5mOWZhOWE2MTM3LmVuLmh0bWxcIixcImlkXCI6XCI1NTZlNTM2YjA2Njk0MDhjYWUzNDc5OGJjNjVkNzJmMVwiLFwidXJsX2lkc1wiOltcImI5Zjg4NTI5YWU0ZjljYzI4YmY4OTU3YWI5OTkzZWU0NzdiNGExMDBcIl19In0]. This seems inevitable: central banks must[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.ecb.europa.eu?p=eyJzIjoiOC1nZFJJU1ItTlA5Zm5Hc1drQzRWeGI5M04wIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5lY2IuZXVyb3BhLmV1XFxcL3ByZXNzXFxcL2tleVxcXC9kYXRlXFxcLzIwMjJcXFwvaHRtbFxcXC9lY2Iuc3AyMjAzMzBfMX5mOWZhOWE2MTM3LmVuLmh0bWxcIixcImlkXCI6XCI1NTZlNTM2YjA2Njk0MDhjYWUzNDc5OGJjNjVkNzJmMVwiLFwidXJsX2lkc1wiOltcImI5Zjg4NTI5YWU0ZjljYzI4YmY4OTU3YWI5OTkzZWU0NzdiNGExMDBcIl19In0] stop their CBDCs being used for money laundering or terrorist financing. Caps on the amount users can hold in CBDCs will also be essential to protect banking stability, but multiple accounts would allow people to circumvent the account caps. So users will need to provide identification to the private banks which distribute the CBDC. But this means that consumers would simply have to trust that transactions are as private as banks say they are. That is unlikely to convert consumers who happily use cards today; nor will it likely satisfy privacy-conscious users who still use cash for its guaranteed anonymity.

Finally, one promise of CBDCs is to unleash more competition and innovation. The ECB, for example, is concerned that “just a few global players have come to dominate certain segments of the payments market[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/www.ecb.europa.eu?p=eyJzIjoiaHBuRWZjLVNFWE1ubEhPRGRYZ2R4MkllbUJVIiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL3d3dy5lY2IuZXVyb3BhLmV1XFxcL3ByZXNzXFxcL2tleVxcXC9kYXRlXFxcLzIwMjJcXFwvaHRtbFxcXC9lY2Iuc3AyMjA1MTZ-NDU0ODIxZjBlMy5lbi5odG1sXCIsXCJpZFwiOlwiNTU2ZTUzNmIwNjY5NDA4Y2FlMzQ3OThiYzY1ZDcyZjFcIixcInVybF9pZHNcIjpbXCI2ZDAyZjk3MDAzODFhOWFiZTQ2MWRmNWZkODk1OTEzMDI3ZDAyMjliXCJdfSJ9]”. It wants to design its CBDC in an open way, which allows developers to freely build features on top of the basic system. That would differ from private payment systems today, whose stakeholders benefit from the status quo and may not welcome disruptive innovation.

This argument has some merit – but caution is needed. The operators of today’s centralised payment networks are gatekeepers: they decide which innovation is allowed. CBDCs could unleash the most innovation if they do not rely solely on similarly centralised business models. For example, a CBDC which incorporated decentralised technology like blockchain could deliver some benefits that today’s services cannot, such as more privacy protections and pre-programmed payments, and could be better able to disrupt the payments market. But is unclear whether central banks will be prepared to adopt such relatively novel technology, or whether they should: the private sector, with proper regulatory oversight[http://mailer.cer.org.uk/track/click/30850795/eur-lex.europa.eu?p=eyJzIjoiajNWRi1KSUwwRmJaa3pzRjBiR3lHV2Z0ckU0IiwidiI6MSwicCI6IntcInVcIjozMDg1MDc5NSxcInZcIjoxLFwidXJsXCI6XCJodHRwczpcXFwvXFxcL2V1ci1sZXguZXVyb3BhLmV1XFxcL2xlZ2FsLWNvbnRlbnRcXFwvRU5cXFwvVFhUXFxcLz91cmk9Q0VMRVglM0E1MjAyMFBDMDU5M1wiLFwiaWRcIjpcIjU1NmU1MzZiMDY2OTQwOGNhZTM0Nzk4YmM2NWQ3MmYxXCIsXCJ1cmxfaWRzXCI6W1wiZDExNWY3YWQwZjMzYjIxN2RkNWI4YTVmYzIzMzgwYjdlYWIzYTVlMVwiXX0ifQ], may be better placed to experiment with how such technologies can best serve consumers. And the centralised structure of today’s card networks also provides innovation benefits, because the system operators can ‘pick winners’, and orchestrate the coordinated adoption of new innovations across the payment system, in ways which decentralised systems can find more difficult. If an open CBDC platform allowed any developer to add its own features, then there would be a ‘basic’ system – which would lack many benefits of card payments today – and then a bewildering number of add-ons from different developers. It is unclear whether consumers or retailers will be prepared to deal with this complexity. Compare this to centralised card networks, which allow limited differentiation – for example, banks offer their own rewards programs – but also require all participating banks to adopt some innovations, so that consumers and retailers can trust the security and features of a card payment.

Funding a new public option is hard to reconcile with Europe’s retail payments reforms – which take a different, and more sensible, approach to encouraging competition and innovation. These reforms aim to open up the payments market to new competition in the private sector, including by supervising private sector digital currencies, while regulating card fees to keep retailers’ costs manageable in the meantime. But several policy problems still need to be resolved. First, the EU must decide how to balance price and competition. Retailers want lower charges, but doing so may limit innovation and provides less room for cheaper competitors to enter and disrupt the market. For example, higher card fees in the US have helped fund the growth of fintechs. Many of these fintechs are now developing new services that might eventually challenge card payments. Second, Europe needs to ensure consumers have incentives to choose cheaper payment methods, to help drive the price down. For example, if retailers had more power to influence how consumers choose to pay, Europeans might start using more diverse payment methods: cards when they needed cards’ unique benefits, and cheaper alternatives in other cases. Third, regulation should ensure the private sector reflects Europe’s needs. For example, regulation can supervise payment systems to ensure they are safe and resilient to cyberattacks and financial shocks; and regulators can ensure that when global payment systems operate in Europe, they reflect European values, such as protecting users’ privacy.

Central banks will struggle to rollout CBDCs that will be widely adopted. They may not provide consumers the same benefits as today’s services; privacy is unlikely to be a game-changer; and the private sector still offers scope for innovation. Without widespread adoption, a CBDC will be an expensive failure, and will do little to advance central banks’ goals. For the EU, regulation is a more sensible way to make European payments cheaper, and more diverse, competitive and innovative. The EU should not be distracted by the prospect of a digital euro – which may sound impressive and exciting, but may give Europeans few benefits they cannot enjoy already.

Zach Meyers is a senior research fellow at the Centre for European Reform.

Source – Centre for European Reform[https://www.cer.eu/insights/why-would-anyone-use-central-bank-digital-currency]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/cer-why-would-anyone-use-a-central-bank-digital-currency/379330/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

You are receiving this e-mail because you have signed up for the premium version of our Insight EU Monitoring Digest.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any problems in receiving or opening this mail, or if you are interested in other services we offer.

You find more information about us on our FAQ page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] and on our subscription page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/subscribe/]. Or simply contact our publisher[mailto:j.weidemann@ieu-monitoring.com?subject=Letter%20to%20the%20publisher].

Important note

Please do not hesitate to reach out if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues. See also our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

Last, but not least, here are some more useful deep links:

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Insight EU Agenda Weekly: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Insight EU Premium: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium]

* Specialised Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020220609ei6800007


Latvian official calls for granting Ukraine EU candidate status
473 字
2022 年 6 月 10 日 15:21 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2022 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
Text of report in English by Latvian news agency LETA on 10 June

Riga, 10 June: This week, the State Secretary of the Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Andris Pelss, took part in the meeting of the State Secretaries and Directors General of the European Union's Ministries of Foreign Affairs in Prague.

The meeting was chaired by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, Miloslav Stasek. The Member State participants discussed current challenges in foreign policy and the EU 's security and defense policy, as well as further support for Ukraine, the Foreign Ministry informed LETA.

''Ukraine must win this war and we must collectively support Ukraine, which is currently fighting not only for its country but for the entire Europe,'' Pelss underlined.

In the context of Ukraine becoming a candidate for EU membership, the State Secretary noted that granting the status of an EU candidate country to Ukraine is not only a significant step but also a step that would promote Ukraine's recovery.

The Member States agreed that Russia's international isolation must continue, including through the EU 's sanction policy. They also had a common understanding of the need for Europe to work together and seek solutions and answers to global challenges, for instance, in the field of food and energy security.

Latvia, like other EU Member States, underlined the importance of cooperation between the EU and the United States and the necessity of strengthening the EU-NATO cooperation.

During the meeting, the Czech Republic as the next country taking over the presidency of the Council of the EU presented an outline of its priorities while pointing out that, in view of the EU 's intention to end dependence on Russia's energy resources, intensive work is expected to take place on matters related to EU energy security and the impact of the rising energy prices on society. The Czech Presidency is also planning to work on the following topics: strengthening Europe's defense and economic resilience; the process of the Western Balkans's accession to the EU; consolidating the digital single market; and the resilience of democratic institutions.

The Member States discussed updates on the work of the European External Action Service with its Secretary General, Stefano Sannino .

As part of his working visit, Pelss had bilateral meetings with the Czech Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Martin Povejsil, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for European Issues, Ales Chmelar, and the Deputy Minister for European Affairs at the Office of the Government, Marek Havrda. The topics discussed were the priorities of the Czech Presidency, the EU 's current foreign and security policy issues, and bilateral relations between Latvia and the Czech Republic.

Source: LETA website, Riga, in English 1516 gmt 10 Jun 22

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020220610ei6a002mh


State Secretaries of EU Foreign Ministries discuss current foreign policy developments and underline the importance of collective support for Ukraine
Preses relīze
499 字
2022 年 6 月 10 日 15:01 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
June 10, 2022

The following is a press release:

On 9 and10 June 2022, the State Secretary of the Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Andris Pelšs, took part in the meeting of the State Secretaries and Directors General of the European Union’s Ministries of Foreign Affairs in Prague, the Czech Republic. The meeting was chaired by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, Miloslav Stašek. The Member State participants discussed current challenges in foreign policy and the EU ’s security and defence policy, as well as further support for Ukraine.

Ukraine must win this war and we must collectively support Ukraine, which is currently fighting not only for its country but for the entire Europe, Andris Pelšs underlined. In the context of Ukraine becoming a candidate for EU membership, the State Secretary noted that granting the status of an EU candidate country to Ukraine is not only a significant step but also a step that would promote Ukraine’s recovery. The Member States agreed that Russia’s international isolation must continue, including through the EU ’s sanction policy. They also had a common understanding of the need for Europe to work together and seek solutions and answers to global challenges, for instance, in the field of food and energy security. Latvia, like other EU Member States, underlined the importance of cooperation between the EU and the United States of America and the necessity of strengthening the EU-NATO cooperation.

During the meeting, the Czech Republic as the next country taking over the presidency of the Council of the EU presented an outline of its priorities while pointing out that, in view of the EU ’s intention to end dependence on Russia’s energy resources, intensive work is expected to take place on matters related to EU energy security and the impact of the rising energy prices on society. The Czech Presidency is also planning to work on the following topics: strengthening Europe’s defence and economic resilience; the process of the Western Balkans’s accession to the EU; consolidating the digital single market; and the resilience of democratic institutions.

The Member States discussed updates on the work of the European External Action Service with its Secretary General, Stefano Sannino .

As part of his working visit, Andris Pelšs had bilateral meetings with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Martin Povejšil, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for European Issues, Aleš Chmelař, and the Deputy Minister for European Affairs at the Office of the Government, Marek Havrda. The topics discussed were the priorities of the Czech Presidency, the EU ’s current foreign and security policy issues, and bilateral relations between Latvia and the Czech Republic.

Press Contacts:

Communications Group

Phone: (+371) 67016 272

Fax: (+371) 67828 121

Email: media@mfa.gov.lv

Website: www.mfa.gov.lv/en[http://www.mfa.gov.lv/en]

46383732344335352D453636462D3441

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220610ei6a002mh


Granting Ukraine EU candidate status will facilitate the country's reconstruction - Foreign Ministry state secretary
464 字
2022 年 6 月 10 日 15:17 GMT
Baltic Daily - Political/Social News
BALPOLE
英文
© 2022 Baltic News Service
RIGA, Jun 10, BNS - This week, the State Secretary of the Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Andris Pelss, took part in the meeting of the State Secretaries and Directors General of the European Union’s Ministries of Foreign Affairs in Prague.

The meeting was chaired by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, Miloslav Stasek. The Member State participants discussed current challenges in foreign policy and the EU ’s security and defense policy, as well as further support for Ukraine, the Foreign Ministry informed BNS.

''Ukraine must win this war and we must collectively support Ukraine, which is currently fighting not only for its country but for the entire Europe,'' Pelss underlined. 

In the context of Ukraine becoming a candidate for EU membership, the State Secretary noted that granting the status of an EU candidate country to Ukraine is not only a significant step but also a step that would promote Ukraine’s recovery.

The Member States agreed that Russia’s international isolation must continue, including through the EU ’s sanction policy. They also had a common understanding of the need for Europe to work together and seek solutions and answers to global challenges, for instance, in the field of food and energy security. 

Latvia, like other EU Member States, underlined the importance of cooperation between the EU and the United States and the necessity of strengthening the EU-NATO cooperation.

During the meeting, the Czech Republic as the next country taking over the presidency of the Council of the EU presented an outline of its priorities while pointing out that, in view of the EU ’s intention to end dependence on Russia’s energy resources, intensive work is expected to take place on matters related to EU energy security and the impact of the rising energy prices on society. The Czech Presidency is also planning to work on the following topics: strengthening Europe’s defense and economic resilience; the process of the Western Balkans’s accession to the EU; consolidating the digital single market; and the resilience of democratic institutions.

The Member States discussed updates on the work of the European External Action Service with its Secretary General, Stefano Sannino .

As part of his working visit, Pelss had bilateral meetings with the Czech Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Martin Povejsil, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for European Issues, Ales Chmelar, and the Deputy Minister for European Affairs at the Office of the Government, Marek Havrda. The topics discussed were the priorities of the Czech Presidency, the EU ’s current foreign and security policy issues, and bilateral relations between Latvia and the Czech Republic.

BNS, +371 67088611, zinas@bns.lv

AS Postimees Grupp

文件 BALPOLE020220610ei6a00439


Granting Ukraine EU candidate status will facilitate the country's reconstruction - Foreign Ministry state secretary
Inese Trenča
459 字
2022 年 6 月 10 日 15:16 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, June 10 (LETA) - This week, the State Secretary of the Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs , Andris Pelss, took part in the meeting of the State Secretaries and Directors General of the European Union’s Ministries of Foreign Affairs in Prague.

The meeting was chaired by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, Miloslav Stasek. The Member State participants discussed current challenges in foreign policy and the EU ’s security and defense policy, as well as further support for Ukraine, the Foreign Ministry informed LETA.

''Ukraine must win this war and we must collectively support Ukraine, which is currently fighting not only for its country but for the entire Europe,'' Pelss underlined.

In the context of Ukraine becoming a candidate for EU membership, the State Secretary noted that granting the status of an EU candidate country to Ukraine is not only a significant step but also a step that would promote Ukraine’s recovery.

The Member States agreed that Russia’s international isolation must continue, including through the EU ’s sanction policy. They also had a common understanding of the need for Europe to work together and seek solutions and answers to global challenges, for instance, in the field of food and energy security.

Latvia, like other EU Member States, underlined the importance of cooperation between the EU and the United States and the necessity of strengthening the EU-NATO cooperation.

During the meeting, the Czech Republic as the next country taking over the presidency of the Council of the EU presented an outline of its priorities while pointing out that, in view of the EU ’s intention to end dependence on Russia’s energy resources, intensive work is expected to take place on matters related to EU energy security and the impact of the rising energy prices on society. The Czech Presidency is also planning to work on the following topics: strengthening Europe’s defense and economic resilience; the process of the Western Balkans’s accession to the EU; consolidating the digital single market; and the resilience of democratic institutions.

The Member States discussed updates on the work of the European External Action Service with its Secretary General, Stefano Sannino .

As part of his working visit, Pelss had bilateral meetings with the Czech Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Martin Povejsil, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs for European Issues, Ales Chmelar, and the Deputy Minister for European Affairs at the Office of the Government, Marek Havrda. The topics discussed were the priorities of the Czech Presidency, the EU ’s current foreign and security policy issues, and bilateral relations between Latvia and the Czech Republic.

42433442413534442D323545332D3445

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220610ei6a002p9


Ukraine, energy and supply chains: the Czech Republic unveils priorities for EU Council presidency
1037 字
2022 年 6 月 15 日
Euronews
EURONEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Euronews All Rights Reserved
Slashing dependency on Russian fossil fuels, raising funds for Ukraine's post-war reconstruction and strengthening the disrupted supply chains will be top of the agenda when the Czech Republic takes over the rotating presidency of the EU Council.

The programme was unveiled on Wednesday by Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala, under the motto "Europe as a task: rethink, rebuild, repower."

The slogan, inspired by the the late author and statesman Václav Havel, is meant to symbolise the new chapter in Europe's history opened by Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"We can say that the world will not be the same after Russia's aggression," Fiala said, speaking to reporters at the Hrzánský Palace in Prague. "We want to play an active part and rewrite Europe's future."

The war has shaken the continent's "certainties", exposed its "vulnerabilities"and "fundamentally"altered its security architecture, the prime minister said, calling on the EU to tackle these challenges in an "active way"rather than as an observer relying on other great powers.

"Together with our European leaders, we will strive to be stronger together and use the strength to benefit those who need it,"Fiala noted.

Every six months an EU member state is assigned to preside over the Council of the European Union, one of the bloc's co-legislators.

The presiding state sets the agenda of ministerial meetings, acts as a honest broker during negotiations and represents the position agreed by the 27 before the European Commission and the European Parliament.

The Czech Republic takes over the presidency on 1 July, replacing France.

"This is a test of maturity"for the country, Fiala said. "A test that will not be easy in any case."

Fiala said the five overarching themes of the mandate will be the war in Ukraine, energy security, defence, economic resilience and democratic institutions.

The Czech Republic will focus on addressing the massive migration wave prompted by the conflict and Ukraine's costly reconstruction[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/05/11/video-how-the-cost-of-ukraine-s-reconstruction-will-eclipse-the-entire-marshall-plan]. The Kyiv School of Economics estimates the damage inflicted by the Russian army could reach €600 billion, or even more if the invasion drags on.

The European Commission has floated some initial ideas to raise the enormous amount of money, including special allocations from the EU budget, contributions from member states and, notably, common EU debt. The debate is still in early stages and the Council has not yet expressed its unified position.

The presidency will oversee the discussions on the next raft of sanctions against the Kremlin, which were rife with tensions and internal squabbles[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/06/02/patriarch-kirill-excluded-from-eu-sanctions-after-hungary-s-objection] during the French tenure.

The Czechs will also have to deal with Ukraine's application to join the EU, which needs to be unanimously endorsed by the 27 countries. If Ukraine is granted candidate status, a lengthy and complex accession process will officially kick off.

Fiala said Russia's invasion of Ukraine has "fundamentally" altered Europe's security architecture. (Petr David Josek/Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/77/58/42/808x539_cmsv2_ea917d9b-75c1-5a4d-b931-9f15d89c7381-6775842.jpg]

Rethink, rebuild and repower

Closely linked to the war, energy security will be another top priority for Prague.

The country wants to push forward REPower EU, the Commission's ambitious roadmap[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/05/18/five-things-to-know-about-the-eu-s-big-plan-to-become-independent-from-russian-fossil-fuel] to wean the bloc off Russian fossil fuels, the Kremlin's primary source of revenues.

The plan will cost more than €210 billion and be financed through the repurposed recovery fund[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/06/13/the-eu-s-coronavirus-recovery-fund-has-a-new-raison-d-etre-energy-independence]. Most of the money will be channelled into renewables and energy-efficiency measures, although nearly €12 billion have been earmarked to diversify gas suppliers and revamp oil systems.

The Czech Republic was one of the few countries who demanded a tailored exemption to the EU-wide ban on importing Russian oil, arguing its links to the Druzhba pipeline could not be replaced in the short term. Following a pressure campaign led by Hungary, another landlocked country, leaders agreed to completely spare pipeline imports, creating a loophole[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/05/31/why-the-druzhba-pipeline-was-spared-from-the-eu-ban-on-russian-oil] in the final sanction.

In recent weeks, Brussels has opened the door to voluntary joint purchases of gas, an option the Czechs intend to further explore.

The resilience of the EU's economy will also feature prominently on the agenda. Prague wants to promote the bloc's competitiveness in strategic sectors, such as microchips, and strengthen food supply chains, which are under threat[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/06/07/watch-these-are-the-four-options-to-get-20-million-tonnes-of-grain-out-of-ukraine] by the ongoing war.

Turning the page from the French presidency, the Czech Republic is determined to give a fresh impetus to stalled trade deals. Paris was notoriously reluctant to touch these files, fearing domestic pushback, but Prague has made it clear that trade relations with other like-minded countries, like New Zealand, Australia, Mexico and Chile, should be reinforced through new trade agreements to bring down barriers and taxes.

"The Czech Republic is an advocate of open business,"said Mikuláš Bek, minister for European affairs. "It's clear the loss of opportunities in Russia needs to be balanced by opening [new] opportunities in other parts of the world."

When it comes to defence, the Czechs aim to boost the EU's capabilities to fight cyber-attacks, disinformation and foreign interference, while supporting the implementation of the Strategic Compass[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/03/23/what-is-the-strategic-compass-and-what-does-it-mean-for-eu-defence], the bloc's long-term strategy that defines its foreign and security policy.

"Until now, the EU's transition was around two axes: green and digital. That’s still applicable,"said Bek. "But now we have a third dimension: security. And it's clear the entire debate has shifted to a more sober tone."

Finally, the Czech presidency will centre on democratic values, like media pluralism, and the protection of the EU's democratic institutions. Among the pending tasks will be the conditionality procedure[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/04/06/rule-of-law-what-happens-after-brussels-triggers-the-conditionality-mechanism-against-hung] that Brussels has launched against Hungary, which could lead to a first-ever suspension of EU funds.

But the Czechs don't intend to be a judge, but rather a facilitator of dialogue between the 27 member states.

"The presiding country is not a composer of a particular piece that is being played,"said Bek. "It is more of a conductor of the orchestra that's playing. We can perhaps set the tempo and the pace."

The Czech Republic will take replace France at the rotating presidency of the EU Council. (DOMINIQUE FAGET/AFP)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/77/58/42/800x450_cmsv2_09520cee-808a-53a1-919d-4688d4a1b23b-6775842.jpg]

Euronews

文件 EURONEN020220615ei6f0005m


ForMin Lipavsky to visit Ukraine in July, meet Kuleba
372 字
2022 年 6 月 15 日 11:50 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, June 15 (CTK) - Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) is going to visit Ukraine in July to show the Czech support to the war-afflicted country, meet his opposite number Dmytro Kuleba and discuss further possibilities of aid, Lipavsky told CTK today.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy delivered a video speech to both houses of Czech parliament today.

Public Czech Television (CT) and Blesk tabloid reported about Lipavsky's trip earlier.

Lipavsky visited Ukraine with the foreign ministers of Slovakia and Austria in early February. Among others, the statesmen expressed support for political independence of Ukraine.

"I went to Ukraine in early February and I am going there again in July to show a clear Czech Republic's support for Ukraine and to ask my counterpart Dmytro Kuleba and other state representatives in person how can we further help them," Lipavsky said.

Czechia knows how it looks like when Russia attempts to overpower another state, he noted.

"Let's clearly show the Kremlin that such behaviour is inadmissible. Czechia stands with Ukraine and will keep doing so in the future, too," he said.

Zelenskiy thanked the Czech lawmakers for support and aid provided to Ukraine. He stressed that Ukraine wants to be granted the status of an EU candidate country. Zelenskiy advocated the acceptance of the seventh sanction package against Russia.

"President Zelenskiy quoted the unfulfilled motto of the Soviet occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1968," Lipavsky commented on Zelenskiy's reiterated words "we are with you, be with us" calling for a mutual support between Czechia and Ukraine.

"This makes the support for Ukraine even more important today as the Kremlin sent its tanks there again for fear of freedom," Lipavsky said.

Czechoslovak Radio used this motto when it turned to the Czech public in August 1968 when the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact troops started invading Czechoslovakia. later, the claim spread and started appearing on leaflets, for instance.

Lipavsky said the Czech Republic will keep supporting Ukraine in its attempt to restore its territorial integrity. The Russian military must be pushed out of the Ukrainian territory, he noted. The Czech Republic will support Ukraine's bid for EU candidate country.

vok/dr/rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220615ei6f0000o


Czech Republic This Week - June 17, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 6 月 17 日, 10295 字, (英文)
ASH: Welcome to the new age of inflationThe debate around inflation is centre stage at present, with headline and PPI inflation soaring globally in response to a range of factors but including climate change/transition and Covid related ...

CEZ to become 100 pct owner of nuclear energy firm Skoda JS
545 字
2022 年 6 月 17 日 12:23 GMT
CTK Business News
CTK
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
adds background info in last two paras

Prague, June 17 (CTK) - Energy group CEZ will become the 100 percent owner of Czech nuclear energy company Skoda JS, thereby also obtaining a higher stake in nuclear research institute UJV Rez, CEZ spokesman Ladislav Kriz told CTK in a press release today.

A few years ago, Skoda JS became part of Russian engineering group OMZ controlled by Gazprombank. As a result, the company is now at risk of sanctions, which has a potential impact on ensuring key supplies for CEZ's nuclear power plants, Kriz said.

CEZ's stake in UJV Rez, which is owned by Skoda JS, will increase from 52.46 percent to 69.85 percent.

Skoda JS is a Czech company with Czech employees that CEZ has long cooperated with, especially in the area of nuclear fuel and maintenance of the primary circuit of nuclear power plants.

CEZ is conducting the transaction in cooperation with WOOD & Company, which will hold the shares until the transaction is approved by antitrust authorities. This will ensure that Skoda JS will stop being at risk of sanctions immediately after the contract is signed and not only after the antitrust authorities' approval, Kriz said.

Skoda JS is one of Europe's leading engineering and manufacturing companies with experience in building and servicing nuclear power plants. Its history dates back to 1956. Since then, it has been continuously active in the industry.

It has provided equipment and services to nuclear power plants, research reactors and spent nuclear fuel storage facilities in Central and Eastern Europe, Scandinavia, France, Germany, USA, Austria, Finland, Belgium, China, Armenia and other countries.

Skoda JS has manufactured and delivered 21 complete VVER 440 nuclear reactors and three VVER 1000 reactors. It cooperates with the world's leading companies in the field.

Engineering, production and servicing currently contribute equally to the company's revenues, with exports accounting for approximately half of the company's turnover. The company achieves annual sales of around Kc3.5bn - Kc4bn. Almost half of its sales are generated from exports of equipment and services. It employs over 1,000 highly qualified professionals.

CEZ's net profit in 2021 reached Kc9.9bn, 81 percent more yr/yr. Adjusted for extraordinary effects, it fell by 3 percent yr/yr to Kc22.3bn. The majority shareholder of CEZ is the Czech state, which holds about 70 percent of the shares through the Finance Ministry.

The Plzen-based Skoda JS, formerly SKODA Jaderne strojirenstvi, reported a pre-tax profit of over Kc122m and sales of more than Kc3.3bn in 2020. Sales according to the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) were 30 percent lower yr/yr, while the profit decreased to a half due to the coronavirus pandemic impacts, which included international travel restrictions. The company posted a profit for the 21st year in a row. Last year's results are not yet available.

European countries and the USA have been imposing sanctions on Russia due to its invasion of Ukraine. The EU has adopted six sanction packages since February. The aim of the economic sanctions is to expose Russia to serious consequences of its actions and to prevent it from further aggression.

hel/er/vr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTK0000020220617ei6h0000f


The Ukraine Crisis: War Intensifies Global-Arms Competition
By Brett Forrest
1141 字
2022 年 6 月 17 日
The Wall Street Journal
J
A8
英文
Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Ukraine's hunt for weapons in the global-defense market to help it fight Moscow's forces is facing increasing competition from Russia, which often is looking to buy those same items or attempting to cut off Kyiv's supply, according to government officials and arms brokers.

As a grinding artillery war in Ukraine's east shifts in Russia's favor, Kyiv is attempting to lay its hands on air-defense systems, armored vehicles, artillery shells and ammunition from third-party countries. This race for weapons comes as Ukraine warns that it faces defeat in the Donbas region, a pivotal battle in the war, unless the West supplies more weapons at a faster pace.

While the U.S. and its allies have been supplying Western systems, many of the arms deliveries to Ukraine involve Soviet-legacy and or Russian-manufactured equipment that is most commonly used by the Ukrainian military. But Western arms brokers and Ukrainian officials said Russia often is outbidding Ukraine for these supplies and hastening to fortify its own dwindling weapons stores.

"If they get it off the market, Ukraine can't buy it," said a former U.S. military official, now in private industry, who has dealt in Russian arms for decades.

In a briefing in Washington last month, the U.K.'s defense secretary, Ben Wallace, said the U.K. and U.S. were scouring the 23 countries that hold stocks of Russian-made arms and equipment for purchase and transfer to the Ukrainian military.

"Half of our assistance has been, 'Where can we find this stuff?' " Mr. Wallace said. "Sometimes we've bumped into the Russians looking . . . also for some of the resupplies because they're running out fast."

A spokesman from the U.K.'s Defense Ministry declined to expand on Mr. Wallace's comments. Officials with the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense have acknowledged the difficulty, but declined to comment publicly.

A spokesman for the Russian Embassy in Washington didn't respond to a request to comment.

Last month, Czech and Polish brokers working on behalf of Ukraine completed a deal with a Bulgarian supplier for Russian-made armored vehicles and artillery shells when a group of Armenian buyers offering to pay a 50% premium succeeded in winning the contract, said a Ukrainian parliamentarian familiar with the negotiation.

"We are absolutely clear that it's not going to Armenia, but probably it will go to Russia," the parliamentarian said. "They understand what we're looking for. And they understand where it is."

Brokers have said that Moscow has threatened countries with the withdrawal of future parts and services for Russian-made systems that many nations rely on for national defense.

"Sometimes you're not really sure what is going on," said another Ukrainian parliamentarian who has been involved in weapons deals. "What you see is hard to define other than as sabotage."

Ukraine -- and the U.S. and U.K. governments working to help Kyiv -- have sometimes been late to deals, or watched them evaporate.

"It's an efficiency of Russian and an inefficiency of Ukrainian and our allies' intelligence services," the second parliamentarian said.

In April, Russia objected to the Pentagon's proposal to give Ukraine 11 Russian-made Mi-17 military-transport helicopters, which the U.S. bought from Russia in 2011 for Afghanistan's military.

Russia's Ministry of Defense has circulated a statement calling the potential transfer to Ukraine an illegal violation of the end-user agreement, saying that the transfer "constitutes a blatant violation of the fundamentals of international law and the provisions of the Russia-U.S. contracts."

In June, a Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said Moscow formally protested to the U.S. for violating its contractual obligations with respect to the helicopters.

"Our embassy in the United States made an official presentation to the United States Department of State, demanding detailed explanations as to why Mi-17s are being transferred to Ukraine without the knowledge and consent of the exporter, i.e., Russia, and contrary to established diplomatic practice," she said.

The State Department referred questions on the matter to the Pentagon, which didn't address Moscow's protest.

Russia is, after the U.S., the largest exporter of weapons in the world. In addition to direct sales, Russian equipment, as well as older Soviet weapons, often are bought and sold by middleman companies that are registered in the U.S. and elsewhere in the West.

Russia now appears to be trying to stop those brokers from supplying arms for Kyiv's war effort. "We've run into, 'If you don't quit buying this crap [for Ukraine], we're not going to do business with you ever again,' " said the former military official now in private industry. "We will sanction you."

In past years, Western arms brokers say, Moscow didn't typically protest when they sold Russian-made arms.

For more than a decade after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, arms brokers servicing Pentagon and Central Intelligence Agency contracts bought Soviet- and Russian-designed military equipment to support Iraq and Afghanistan. Russian law often prohibited direct participation in these sales, but Moscow routinely encouraged the transactions as a way to disseminate its products. Ukraine itself sold Russian and Soviet gear to arms brokers and other countries for years.

In 2014, Russia seized the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea, putting the two countries suddenly at military odds, and Moscow's attitude toward sales of Russian-made arms, at least to Ukraine, changed abruptly.

"They never objected before on any grounds whatsoever," said Reuben Johnson, a U.S. defense consultant who has worked for years in Russia and Ukraine. "The Russians are now stepping in and saying, 'oh, wait a minute, we don't like this anymore.' "

---

Kremlin Has History

Of Alleged Revenge

Allegations of Russian interference in supplying weapons to Kyiv predate the full invasion of neighboring Ukraine in late February.

Last year, authorities in the Czech Republic blamed Russian military intelligence for a deadly 2014 explosion at an arms depot that had been supplying Ukraine's military.

In 2016, a group of men in Kyiv kidnapped a Ukrainian arms official who had negotiated a lucrative aviation-parts deal with India, a major customer for Russia arms, according to a former Ukrainian defense-industry official. Ukrainian officials alleged that a Russian intelligence officer was behind the scheme.

In 2020, Bulgarian prosecutors charged three Russians with allegedly poisoning Bulgarian arms merchant Emilian Gebrev in 2015 with Novichok, a powerful nerve agent. Mr. Gebrev was involved in brokering arms sales to Ukraine.

Russia has denied involvement in these various attacks.

Mr. Gebrev survived the poisoning, but many in the international-arms industry have since interpreted the event as a signal to others who might contemplate doing business with Kyiv.

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 J000000020220617ei6h0000p


Foreign minister unveils priorities of Czech EU presidency
531 字
2022 年 6 月 21 日 12:08 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds paras 14, 16-17.

Prague, June 21 (CTK) - Ukraine, end of energy dependence on Russia, the build-up of defence capabilities, trade deals, support to civic society and free media as well as transatlantic links are Czech EU priorities, Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) told journalists today.

In connection with Ukraine, Lipavsky mentioned support to its territorial integrity, humanitarian and postwar rehabilitation as well as support to its EU candidate status.

The Czech Republic will keep helping in the military and material spheres to Ukraine, attacked by Russia, he added.

The attitude to the Russian aggression is crucial for the presidency, Lipavsky said.

"During the presidency we will insist on a thorough exaction of (anti-Russian) sanctions by the EU and their possible enlargement. There is also a need of working on further isolation of Putin's Russia on various international forums," he added.

When it comes to energy, there are the priorities of ending the dependence on energy from Russia and also on securing alternative suppliers of raw materials as well as work on green diplomacy, the use of renewable sources of energy and climate protection, Lipavsky said.

When it comes to defence and security, implementation of collective defence strategy, called Strategic Compass, cooperation of the EU and NATO as well as hybrid threats and fight against terrorism are the priority topics, he added.

"We will insist on the EU approving the EU Hybrid Toolbox, a package of the measures that will allow EU member countries to respond collectively to hybrid activities and threats," Lipavsky said.

Agreements on free trade are a vital agenda towards the countries outside Europe and contracts with Australia, New Zealand, Mexico and some South American countries are being negotiated, he added.

Cooperation with the USA in the Council for Trade and Technologies is also vital, Lipavsky said.

He said since he wanted to return the legacy of former president Vaclav Havel to the presidency activities, there were the priorities of an EU action plan for democracy and human rights, the EU sanction regime for human rights and support to civic society, democratic institutions and free media.

With regard to the geography of the priorities, the Foreign Ministry focuses on eastern Europe, on the future of the Eastern Partnership and a collective value policy of the EU towards Russia.

There is also the area of the Western Balkans and support to its EU integration.

The situation there is complicated as the disputes between Bulgaria and North Macedonia, one of the countries with EU aspirations, have not been settled, Lipavsky said.

The priorities include the Indian-Pacific regions from the viewpoint of cooperation in the cyber and space areas and the Sahel, when it comes to security, regional stability and development cooperation, Lipavsky said.

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba has promised to attend a part of the informal meeting of foreign ministers in Prague in late August, he added.

On the last day of August, there will be also the Forum for Ukraine, to be staged by the Forum 2000 Foundation.

"This is a Czech contribution to support maximally Ukraine's European aspirations," Lipavsky said.

pvr/dr/rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220621ei6l0000m


Foreign minister unveils priorities of Czech EU presidency
439 字
2022 年 6 月 21 日 11:03 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, June 21 (CTK) - Ukraine, end of energy dependence on Russia, the build-up of defence capabilities, trade deals, support to civic society and free media as well as transatlantic links are Czech EU priorities, Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) told journalists today.

In connection with Ukraine, Lipavsky mentioned support to its territorial integrity, humanitarian and postwar rehabilitation as well as support to its EU candidate status.

The Czech Republic will keep helping in the military and material spheres to Ukraine, attacked by Russia, he added.

The attitude to the Russian aggression is crucial for the presidency, Lipavsky said.

"During the presidency we will insist on a thorough exaction of (anti-Russian) sanctions by the EU and their possible enlargement. There is also a need of working on further isolation of Putin's Russia on various international forums," he added.

When it comes to energy, there are the priorities of ending the dependence on energy from Russia and also on securing alternative suppliers of raw materials as well as work on green diplomacy, the use of renewable sources of energy and climate protection, Lipavsky said.

When it comes to defence and security, implementation of collective defence strategy, called Strategic Compass, cooperation of the EU and NATO as well as hybrid threats and fight against terrorism are the priority topics, he added.

"We will insist on the EU approving the EU Hybrid Toolbox, a package of the measures that will allow EU member countries to respond collectively to hybrid activities and threats," Lipavsky said.

Agreements on free trade are a vital agenda towards the countries outside Europe and contracts with Australia, New Zealand, Mexico and some South American countries are being negotiated, he added.

Cooperation with the USA in the Council for Trade and Technologies is also vital, Lipavsky said.

He said since he wanted to return the legacy of former president Vaclav Havel to the presidency activities, there were the priorities of an EU action plan for democracy and human rights, the EU sanction regime for human rights and support to civic society, democratic institutions and free media.

With regard to the geography of the priorities, the Foreign Ministry focuses on eastern Europe, on the future of the Eastern Partnership and a collective value policy of the EU towards Russia.

There is also the area of the Western Balkans and support to its EU integration.

The priorities include the Indian-Pacific regions from the viewpoint of cooperation in the cyber and space areas and the Sahel, when it comes to security, regional stability and development cooperation, Lipavsky said.

pvr/dr/rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220621ei6l0000s


Features
CEE inflation spreading across whole region, set to last for years
Ben Aris in Berlin
1282 字
2022 年 6 月 22 日 11:36 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Inflation is being driven up by the food crisis[https://www.intellinews.com/ebrd-2022-food-security-in-times-of-crisis-244052/] and disrupted supply chains, first during the pandemic and now due to the war in Ukraine, leading to fears of stagflation[https://www.intellinews.com/subbed-but-hold-global-red-warning-lights-are-flashing-as-stagflation-looms-246910/] for the whole world. Inflation forecasts have been constantly revised upwards in the first half of this year, as the chart[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1maXKMoqKBF82Wvf7ZGKRwqyAqqBx1k7B/view?usp=sharing] shows, as central banks struggle, and largely fail, to play catch up with aggressive rate hikes.

“Central and Eastern European economies are experiencing their worst bout of inflation since the late 1990s as surging food and energy prices have added to strong core price pressures across a broad range of goods and services. Monetary tightening cycles are likely to continue with interest rates rising to 8% or so over the next few months and we think that rates will remain above neutral for several years,” said Liam Peach, an emerging market economist with Capital Economics, in a note.

Inflation rates have jumped to levels not seen since the 1990s. The headline inflation in Czechia surged from 11.1% year on year in February to 16.0% y/y in May – its highest level since 1993. Poland is also losing control of the battle to control prices rises after the headline rate jumped from 8.5% to 13.9% in the same period. And in Hungary inflation was up a similar amount from 8.3% to 10.7%.

“These rates have come in far above expectations and are now at their highest since the 1990s. In the Baltic States, inflation is close to 20% y/y,” Peach said.

Surging food and energy prices are the main culprits, accounting for 85% of the rise in Poland since February, and 70-75% in Czechia and Hungary, Capital Economics calculated.

Food inflation has surged to rates of 15-20% y/y, in large part due to supply disruptions that have been exacerbated by the war in Ukraine, and is broad-based: inflation of grains and vegetable oils has unsurprisingly accelerated, meat inflation in Poland is at its highest rate since the 1990s, and dairy inflation in Hungary is running at its highest in at least two decades, Capital Economics reports.

The war, and especially the attempt to sanction Russian oil and gas exports, has also lifted energy prices, feeding through into higher inflation in most countries of the world. That has pushed up motor fuels and utility bills up sharply.

Fuel inflation is more than 30% y/y in Czechia and Romania. Gas CPI inflation ranges from 50% y/y in Poland and Czechia to 85% y/y in Romania and the more extreme 200% y/y in Estonia, Capital Economics reports. In Poland, coal prices have surged and the contribution to inflation from “solid fuels” is now twice that of gas.

“While energy prices have increased across the region, government support has been effective at shielding households in a few countries. Gas inflation is less than 20% y/y in Croatia and Slovakia. Hungary’s government has capped utility bills since 2014 and introduced a fuel price cap in November – inflation in May was 2 percentage pts lower than where it otherwise would have been without the latter cap,” says Peach.

“Looking ahead, we think food and energy inflation will rise further this year. Motor fuel inflation should peak soon if, as we expect, oil prices fall steadily from $113 per barrel now to $100 per barrel by year-end. But this will be more than offset by higher food and utilities inflation,” Peach added.

Food inflation is less likely to taper off in the meantime, as the reduced supplies of grain affect the whole food complex. While the price of grain and vegetable oils will obviously increase after Ukraine’s supplies are cut off from the market by Russia’s embargo of Ukrainian ports, the role of grain as an animal feed means that the cost of meat and poultry will also rise. Pork prices in Poland look set to surge, says Peach, who says he expects food inflation to climb to 20-25% y/y soon.

While prices are being driven up by all these shocks to the system, underneath these extraordinary effects regular inflationary pressures are also at work, adding to the upward pressure on prices, says Capital Economics.

“Eurostat’s measure of the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices (HICP), excluding food and energy, has surged to multi-decade highs of 9% y/y in Poland and Hungary and 12% y/y in Czechia,” says Peach.

These pressures are broadening out, with the prices of most goods and services growing at their fastest rates since the 1990s. Goods inflation is particularly strong in Czechia and Hungary, while services inflation is hotter in Poland, likely due to its tighter labour market, reports Capital Economics.

“Even so, inflation of “sticky” items such as housing rentals has risen everywhere, which is particularly worrying, as it suggests the presence of more lasting price pressures even though interest rates have risen by 500bp since mid-2021,” says Peach.

Just how persistent inflation will be remains a topic of hot debate. Ironically it was the Eastern European countries that were early to raise the alarm after Ukraine became the first to reverse its easing of monetary policy with a rate hike in April last year, shortly followed by CBR Governor Elvia Nabiullina in May. Nabiullina, dubbed the world’s “most conservative central banker”, warned from the start that she believed inflationary pressures were larger and more persistent than the consensus, and she has been proved right in the meantime. Thanks to their early start, both the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) and the CBR are thought to be at, or close to, the end of their tightening cycle, whereas most of the other central banks in CEE are still in the early stages of theirs.

Peach predicts that the pressure will come off next year as the global economy adjusts to the new realities. For example, while Russia and Ukraine together account for some 30% of the global trade in grain, they only account for just under 1% of global grain production – a point that Russian President Vladimir Putin is fond of making to downplay Russia’s culpability in pushing up the price of grain this year – so that as farmers are expected to step up the amount of grain sown next year, the pressure on supply is anticipated to fall sharply.

“Easing supply shortages should drag goods inflation down next year, but services inflation is likely to stay strong and we think inflation will remain above 10% well into 2023,” says Peach.

In the meantime, the countries of Central and Southeast Europe, which have found themselves behind the tightening curve in the effort to fight inflation – most of the countries in the region are sporting deeply negative real interest rates – will have to continue to hike rates and will probably cause a pan-regional recession as a result.

“We think central banks will tighten policy further, with rates rising to 8% in Hungary and Poland and 7% in Czechia over the coming months. Our inflation and interest rate forecasts generally lie above the consensus,” says Peach.

“Once these price shocks pass through, we think the shift will turn to rate cuts from mid-2023. But there’s a risk that, with inflation expectations so high, second-round effects become stronger and inflation becomes entrenched at high rates. The upshot is that we think central banks will keep policy tight for a few years by keeping interest rates far above their estimated neutral levels through to at least 2024,” Peach concludes.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220622ei6m001up


Czechia may impose sanctions on individuals, entities for crime
634 字
2022 年 6 月 22 日 20:31 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds further statements by Lipavsky.

Prague, June 22 (CTK) - Czechia may be able to impose sanctions on individuals and entities committing serious unlawful acts in international context that have not yet been placed on the sanction list under the sanction bill that the government approved today.

Now the bill will be sent to the parliament.

The state will be able to prevent the individuals in question from entering or staying in the Czech Republic.

The legislation also creates the legal fundament for placing the individuals and entities on the EU sanction list on the initiative of the Czech Republic.

"I was working hard on the sanction law that will ensure a better protection of human rights for four years. Today, I presented the law to the government," Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) said.

"Along with the Pirate Party, we promised to enforce the law and we are fulfilling the promise. Human rights are and will be our priority," he added.

Lipavsky told journalists that he expects Czechia to focus its attention on individuals and entities from Russia and Belarus that take part in the war in Ukraine and are not on the EU sanction lists for some reason.

He said the Foreign Ministry will administer the national sanction list.

LIpavsky said the bill clearly defines what can be sanctioned and is based on European legislation.

In its policy statement, the government suggested the enactment of the Magnitsky Act so that the protection of human rights can be better exacted by the end of 2023, but the Russian invasion of Ukraine has made the government speed up the drafting of the bill.

In its policy statement, the government suggested the enactment of the Magnitsky Act so that the protection of human rights can be better exacted by the end of 2023, but the Russian invasion of Ukraine has made the government speed up the drafting of the bill.

Based on the law, targeted internal restrictive measures may be adopted on the basis of decisions of the Czech Republic that arise from national security interests and that seek to maintain or renew international peace and security, the protection of fundamental human rights and fight against terrorism.

"Also in the cases when the restrictive measures will not manage to reach the level of the EU or its approval is lengthy," the Foreign Ministry's report on the legislation said.

The legislation sets down the conditions on which the individuals and entities in question may be placed on the sanction list and it allows to apply towards them also other sanctions than those cited on the EU sanction list.

The national sanction law is closely linked with EU regulations that define the conduct to be punished with sanctions and set down the restrictive measures.

This means that in the implementation of the new sanction law, the Czech Republic will be bound by EU regulations and will not be able to punish those that are not defined by the European legislation.

Newly, the customs authority is to be able to seize the property that is covered by the sanctions.

The state bodies such as the Czech National Bank, the police and intelligence services should also have the duty to provide the Financial Analytical Office (FAU) with information or an attitude over the proceedings on the basis of the law on the implementation of international sanctions.

In the case of the customs authority, the current law does not give it the power to seize the property under sanctions.

The Finance Ministry says in its report on the duty of other authorities and bodies to provide the FAU with the information that the duty has a basic priority as against the duty of silence according to other legal rules.

pvr/dr/kva

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220622ei6m00002


Czechia may impose sanctions on individuals, entities for crime
467 字
2022 年 6 月 22 日 18:29 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds Lipavsky's statements in paras 7-9.

Prague, June 22 (CTK) - Czechia may be able to impose sanctions on individuals and entities committing serious unlawful acts in international context that have not yet been placed on the sanction list under the sanction bill that the government approved today.

Now the bill will be sent to the parliament.

The state will be able to prevent the individuals in question from entering or staying in the Czech Republic.

The legislation also creates the legal fundament for placing the individuals and entities on the EU sanction list on the initiative of the Czech Republic.

"I was working hard on the sanction law that will ensure a better protection of human rights for four years. Today, I presented the law to the government," Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) said.

"Along with the Pirate Party, we promised to enforce the law and we are fulfilling the promise. Human rights are and will be our priority," he added.

Lipavsky told journalists that he expects Czechia to focus its attention on individuals and entities from Russia and Belarus that take part in the war in Ukraine and are not on the EU sanction lists for some reason.

He said the Foreign Ministry will administer the national sanction list.

LIpavsky said the bill clearly defines what can be sanctioned and is based on European legislation.

In its policy statement, the government suggested the enactment of the Magnitsky Act so that the protection of human rights can be better exacted by the end of 2023, but the Russian invasion of Ukraine has made the government speed up the drafting of the bill.

Based on the law, targeted internal restrictive measures may be adopted on the basis of decisions of the Czech Republic that arise from national security interests and that seek to maintain or renew international peace and security, the protection of fundamental human rights and fight against terrorism.

"Also in the cases when the restrictive measures will not manage to reach the level of the EU or its approval is lengthy," the Foreign Ministry's report on the legislation said.

The legislation sets down the conditions on which the individuals and entities in question may be placed on the sanction list and it allows to apply towards them also other sanctions than those cited on the EU sanction list.

The national sanction law is closely linked with EU regulations that define the conduct to be punished with sanctions and set down the restrictive measures.

This means that in the implementation of the new sanction law, the Czech Republic will be bound by EU regulations and will not be able to punish those that are not defined by the European legislation.

pvr,kva/dr/kva,pvr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220622ei6m00009


Transitions Online_Politics - Sanction Signals in Serbia Do recent rhetorical shifts indicate that traditionally pro-Russian Serbia could be...
Transitions Online, 2022 年 6 月 22 日, 2086 字, (英文)
At the open-air markets in the center of Belgrade, tourists can find all the expected Serbian souvenirs – from licider (gingerbread) hearts to rakija (plum brandy). Less expected might be the merchandise emblazoned with images of Russian ...

Czech Republic This Week - June 24, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 6 月 24 日, 7966 字, (英文)
CEE inflation spreading across whole region, set to last for yearsInflation is being driven up by the food crisis and disrupted supply chains, first during the pandemic and now due to the war in Ukraine, leading to fears of stagflation for ...

Turkey This Week - June 24, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 6 月 24 日, 15891 字, (英文)
Turkish consumer confidence plunges to all-time lowCrushed by rampant inflation, Turkish consumers’ confidence has officially sunk to its lowest level on record.

Section to implement sanction law to open at Foreign Ministry.
592 字
2022 年 6 月 25 日 14:36 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, June 25 (CTK) - A section to implement the new sanction law will be established at the Czech Foreign Ministry, Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky told reporters after a meeting with Bill Browder, the initiator of the US Magnitsky Act to secure better human rights enforcement that was adopted in many countries.

The Czech government approved the sanction bill on Wednesday and now it will be sent to the parliament.

The legislation would enable the Czech Republic to impose sanctions on individuals and entities committing serious unlawful acts in international context that have not yet been placed on the EU sanction list. The state can thus prevent the individuals in question from entering or staying in the Czech Republic. The legislation also creates the legal fundament for placing the individuals and entities on the EU sanction list on the initiative of the Czech Republic.

Lipavsky (Pirates) said the ministry would not admit new employees for the sanction law section, but the department would be set up through an internal restructuring within several months.

According to CTK information, the new section may employ just a few individuals.

In cooperation with other sectors, the section will get the entities and individuals on the national sanction list under the new legislation that would create a legal framework for this.

Browder, who visited the Czech Republic this week, appreciated Lipavsky's work on the draft legislation. He also met the parliament representatives.

Browder and Lipavsky mentioned that they hoped the bill would be passed smoothly. The minister proposed that the parliament approve it in summary procedure in the first reading already.

Hardly anyone can stand up against torturers and killers being banned from arriving in the Czech Republic, Browder noted.

The US Congress approved the Magnitsky Act to ensure a better enforcement of human rights protection under then president Barack Obama who signed it in December 2012. It bans the Russian representatives involved in human rights infringement and those who might have contributed to Magnitsky's death from entering the country.

The act bears the name of Russian tax lawyer Sergei Magnitsky who died in a Moscow prison in 2009. He was arrested and charged with committing tax fraud in 2008 after having investigated an extensive fraud involving Russian police and judicial officials.

Magnitsky was hired in Russia by Browder, a prominent British-American financier working extensively in Russia after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Browder, who was sentenced to nine years in absentia in Moscow for tax evasion in 2013, published the case and lobbied among American officials to pass a legislation sanctioning Russian individuals involved in corruption. He led the campaign targeting those involved in Magnitsky's death.

Russia reacted to the American Magnitsky Act by a similar law with anti-American sanctions. Other countries, such as UK, Canada, Australia and Baltic states, adopted their own version of the Magnitsky Act later.

Browder told reporters that when he started striving for the adoption of the act in the United States in 2010, the situation was frustrated by the then US administration's effort to restart relations with Russia. The act was eventually passed two year later.

Browder also noted that his mission was led not just against Vladimir Putin's Russia, but that he would like to help, for instance, the Uyghurs oppressed in China and people in Hong Kong. His goal is that other countries adopt their equivalent of this law, he added, mentioning New Zealand, Switzerland, Japan and South Korea.

hol/dr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220625ei6p0000a


Second Czech EU presidency to focus on Ukraine, energy issues
1114 字
2022 年 6 月 27 日 07:05 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, June 27 - Selected data on the second Czech EU presidency that the Czech Republic will take up on July 1, 2022:

- The Czech Republic will take up its historically second presidency of the Council of the European Union on July 1, 2022. Before, the Czech Republic presided the EU in the first half of 2009. Like in the previous case, it creates the chairing trio along with France, which is now presiding the EU, and Sweden that will replace the Czech Republic on January 1.

- From the legal viewpoint, the Council of the EU is a single body, but it has its meetings in ten various compositions depending on the debated topic. In the Council of the European Union, there are meetings of ministers of the governments of all EU countries to discuss, amend and approve legal rules and to coordinate individual political affairs. Along with the European Parliament (EP), the Council is the main decision-making body of the EU. The EU member countries rotate in the six-month EU Council presidency, while the minister from the EU-presiding country chairs the meeting of EU ministers.

- An exception is the Council for Foreign Affairs that is usually headed by the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, the post that has been occupied by Josep Borrell since 2019. The EU-presiding country heads the EU Council meetings and represents it at the talks with the European Parliament and European Commission. The PM of the presiding country also represents the EU outwards.

- The preparations for the forthcoming Czech presidency started in July 2018. The preparation and implementation of the Czech presidency in 2022 itself takes place under the leadership of the prime minister through the Section for European Affairs of the Czech Government Office. Other offices, headed by the Foreign Ministry and the Permanent Representation of the Czech Republic to the European Union, also take part in the presidency. The coordinating role is played by the Committee for European Affairs. For the sake of the presidency, the new government has also established the post of European affairs minister, now held by the former rector of Masaryk University, Mikulas Bek (for Mayors and Independents, STAN). Monika Landmanova, a member of the European Commission (EC) Vice-President Vera Jourova's cabinet, will lead the EC Representation in the Czech Republic as of July, under the political leadership of EC president Ursula von der Leyen. The government also appointed Deputy Finance Minister for International Relations and Financial Markets Jiri Georgiev as the government commissioner of the Czech presidency for the talks on the EU budget for 2023.

- At the start of its presidency, the chairing country sets down its priorities it passed to the Council of the EU and the European Parliament. The Czech Republic will focus on five interconnected priority areas during its EU presidency:

1. Tackling refugee crisis and post-war reconstruction of Ukraine:

- It includes support for Ukraine's EU candidate status and its territorial integrity, and resolute enforcement of the EU anti-Russian sanctions an their possible extension. The Czech Republic will strive for further isolation of Vladimir Putin's Russia on various international forums. Another area is the Western Balkans and support for its EU integration.

2. Energy security

- It includes ending the dependence on energy from Russia and also securing alternative suppliers of raw materials as well as work on green diplomacy, the use of renewable sources of energy and climate protection.

3. Strengthening of European defence capacities and safety of cyber space

- Main topics of this area are the implementation of collective defence strategy, called Strategic Compass, cooperation of the EU and NATO as well as hybrid threats and fight against terrorism. The Czech Republic insists on the EU approving the EU Hybrid Toolbox, a package of measures that will allow EU member countries to respond collectively to hybrid activities and threats.

4. Strategic resilience of European economy

- According to Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates), agreements on free trade are a vital agenda towards the countries outside Europe and contracts with Australia, New Zealand, Mexico and some South American countries are being negotiated. Cooperation with the USA in the Council for Trade and Technologies is also vital. Other priorities are the Indian-Pacific regions from the viewpoint of cooperation in the cyber and space areas and the African Sahel, when it comes to security, regional stability and development cooperation.

5. Resilience of democratic institutions

- Lipavsky said he would like to return the legacy of former president Vaclav Havel to the presidency activities, this is why the priorities include an EU action plan for democracy and human rights, the EU sanction regime for human rights and support to civic society, democratic institutions and free media.

- Two weeks before the presidency starts, the Czech Republic introduced its motto and logo. The logo is comprised of 27 compass needles in national colours of the particular EU member states, formed in a circle. The shape of the compass needles is to indicate that the Czech Republic would navigate the course of Europe and write the future of the EU, but at the same time, it evokes the wedge in the Czech flag. The motto is "Europe As a Task," inspired by Vaclav Havel's speech in Aachen in 1996.

- The Czech Republic is planning to organise a summit on the level of heads of state and prime ministers of EU members, one meeting of the Czech government with the European Commission, one meeting of the Czech government with a conference of chairpersons of the European parliament, 14 informal ministerial meetings of sector formations within the Council of the EU, ministerial conferences and further 400 events. There will be over 250 informal working meetings. According to an estimate of the Czech government, some 2,000 various meetings will be held in connection with the presidency in the Czech Republic, in Brussels and other places in the second half of the year.

- It is still unclear how high budget of the Czech presidency will be. Last August, the previous government of ANO and the Social Democrats increased the total budget of the presidency (for 2021-2023) by 200 million to 1.4 billion crowns. This February, the new government rose the budget of the presidency of the Czech Republic by 400 million crowns. According to the data at the disposal of CTK, the total expenditures of the presidency are presumed to reach 2.25 billion crowns. Between 2007 and 2009, 3.75 billion crowns were set aside for the preparation and the Czech presidency.

($1 = 23.501 crowns)

pvr,hol/dr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220627ei6r0000z


Czech Presidency of the European Union
1801 字
2022 年 6 月 30 日
Financial Express Online
FIEXON
英文
Copyright 2022. Indian Express Group
By (Mrs) Amb Narinder Chauhan

From July 01 onwards the Czech Republic (CR) takes over the six-month rotating presidency of the European Union(EU) from France. Every six months an EU member state is assigned to preside over the Council of the EU, one of the bloc’s co-legislators. The presiding state sets the agenda of ministerial meetings, acts as an honest broker during negotiations and represents the position agreed by the 27 member states before the European Commission (EC) and the European Parliament (EP). Normally, every incoming Presidency announces its priorities for the next six months. The Czech Republic had signed up to a ‘trio presidency programme’ with the outgoing French Presidency and following Swedish Presidency before the Ukraine war happened necessitating change in the political priorities.

The incoming Czech Presidency has announced five overarching themes of their mandate, namely, the war in Ukraine, energy security, defence, economic resilience and democratic institutions. Unsurprisingly, the Ukrainian crisis and its fallout ranks on top of the Czech political agenda that includes hitting Russia with all EU instruments, most notably economic sanctions, and providing Ukraine with political and military support.

The Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala has outlined Ukraine, energy, and supply chains as among the priorities under the motto “Europe as a task: rethink, rebuild, repower.’The slogan inspired by the late author and the renowned Czech statesman Vaclav Havel, is meant to symbolize the new chapter in Europe’s history opened by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Reducing dependency on Russian fossil fuels, raising funds for Ukraine’s reconstruction, and strengthening the disrupted supply chains will be the top of the agenda of the Czech Presidency.

Announcing the priorities, Czech PM Petr said, ’We can say that the world will not be the same after Russia’s aggression. We want to play an active part and rewrite Europe’s future…. The war has shaken the continent’s ‘uncertainties’, exposed its ‘vulnerabilities’ and ‘fundamentally’ altered its security architecture,’ calling upon the EU to tackle these challenges in ‘an active way’, rather than as an observer relying on outside powers.

The Czechs will be expected to address the massive migration wave prompted by the conflict apart from Ukraine’s costly reconstruction. Czech officials say they are determined to work with the European Commission (EC) to relocate funding in favour of member states, including the fellow V4 states of Hungary, Slovakia and Poland, that have opened their doors to refugees, to put in place the necessary structures to manage the humanitarian crisis.

The Kyiv school of economics estimates the Ukraine reconstruction costs could reach Euro 600b, or even more if the war drags on. The EC has floated some initial ideas to raise the enormous amount of money, including special allocations from the EU budget, contributions from member states and, and common EU debt. The debate is still in early stages and the Council has not yet expressed its unified position.

The Czech presidency will also be expected to oversee the discussions on the next round of sanctions against Russia, which were rife with tensions and internal squabbles during the French tenure. The Czechs will be walking on eggshells here. The EU is not united on how much Russia is to be punished. Today Europe is at war with Russia, tomorrow it will have to deal with its European neighbour. The internal political contradictions in many EU nations, such as Czech Republic, Germany, Italy, and France will work in Russia’s favour and determine how far Russia is to be humiliated.

The Czechs will also have to deal with Ukraine’s application to join the EU, which needs to be unanimously endorsed by the 27 countries. If Ukraine is granted candidate status, a lengthy and complex accession process which normally takes 10 years will officially begin. The accession process involves harmonizing internal policies with EU acquis Communautaire, or the EU body of rules, which will not be easy for a country with a long history of communism with opaque systems and one that is counted among the most corrupt nations in the world.

Closely linked to the Ukraine war, energy security will be a top priority for the Czechs, to push forward ‘REPower EU’, the EC’s ambitious roadmap to wean the bloc off Russian fossil fuels, Russia’s primary source of revenues. The plan will cost more than Euro 210b and will be financed through the ‘repurposed recovery fund’. Most of the money will be channeled into renewables and energy efficiency measures, although euro 12b have been earmarked to diversify gas suppliers and revamp oil systems. The Czech Republic was one of the few countries who demanded a tailored exemption to the EU wide ban on importing Russian oil, arguing its links to the Druzhba pipeline could not be replaced in the short term. Following a campaign led by Hungary, another landlocked country, the EU agreed to completely spare pipeline imports, creating a loophole in the final sanction. In recent weeks, the EU has opened the door to filling up gas storage ahead of winter, and voluntary joint purchases of gas to increase the EU’s negotiating weight (as in the case of covid vaccines) that the Czechs intend to further explore.

The Czech presidency will likely focus more on the short-term objective of the energy supply crisis, reduce the negative social and economic impact of high energy prices, remove dependence on fossil fuels, rather than decarbonizing the economy.

The resilience of the EU’s economy will also feature prominently on the Czech presidency agenda. The Czech Republic wants to promote the bloc’s competitiveness in strategic sectors, such as microchips, semiconductors, and strengthen food supply chains, disrupted by the ongoing war. Essentially a trading nation, the Czech Republic is an advocate of open business and with the loss of opportunities in Russia, wants to open doors in other parts of the world. Goaded by the Czechindustry, fresh impetus is expected to be given to the stalled trade deals to bring down barriers and taxes, which France was reluctant to touch fearing domestic pushback during the election period.

The EU, for instance, recently committed to resuming trade negotiations with India which began in 2007 and have been stalled since 2013, a Special Envoy for the purpose has been dispatched to the EU Embassy in Delhi.

The Czech industry has defined the presidency priorities in the economic sector as revolving around three pillars: a resilient and open Europe; a competitive and sustainable Europe; Europe with a dynamic labour market. The CR, in other words, will use the presidency to strive to improve the competitiveness of the European industry and economy. The businesses need a better balance between growth and resilience. As supply chain issues continue globally, businesses are shifting from growth to resilience models; businesses are going, for instance, where labour is. Other economic priorities include the deepening of the internal market, the importance of the European Digital Identity Wallet and a fair data market, which is the aim of the Data Act. Setting global standards for Artificial Intelligence where EU has first mover advantage, and transparency measures, and prevention of misuse of cryptocurrencies is also emphasized.

In the area of defence, the aim is to reduce technological dependence and boost EU’s capabilities to fight hybrid threats, cyber-attacks, disinformation, and foreign interference, while supporting the implementation of the ‘Strategic Compass’, the EU’s long-term strategy that defines its foreign and security policy for 2030. Until now the EU focus was on ‘go green’ and ‘go digital’, now a third dimension is added: security, including an EU Space based communication system.

The Czech Presidency will see major changes in the European security architecture with technological upgradation, more European nations (including Sweden)trying to join NATO, with or without stationing of troops on their soil, and a concerted move towards spending at least 2% of GDP on defence that most EU/NATO members earlier baulked at.

The EU’s Indo-Pacific policy and its management of China is also expected to see further evolution during this period. India is expected to find a prominent place in any discussion on the evolving world order. Recent flurry of visits to and fro between leaders of Europe and India is a case in point.

Finally, the Czech Presidency stresses democratic values, like media pluralism, and the protection of EU democratic institutions. Among the pending tasks will be the ‘conditionality procedure’ that EU has launched against Hungary, which could lead to a first ever suspension of EU funds. This for understandable reasons will be the least of Czech priorities.

The Czechs say they do not want to be a judge, but a facilitator of dialogue between the 27 states. The Czech European Affairs Ministerhas said, ‘The presiding country is not a composer of a particular piece but a conductor who brings the orchestra together. We can perhaps raise the tempo of the pace.’

The idea of taking on such a loaded presidency by the new government which took power in December indicates it has its eyes set on the domestic front. European policy was never on the top of the list of Czech voters. The new government first wants to stabilize its position domestically and is taking a relatively low-key approach to the presidency at home. The ruling coalition is pro-European but ideologically diverse, including everyone from centrists to conservatives to pirates. There are some tensions within the alliance. PM himself is pro-European, a realist, but comes from a party which still has many Eurosceptics; he needs to first find the balance within his own party.

The Czech Republic held its first EU presidency in the first half of 2009. Echoing the Eurosceptic voters’ views, the previous governments did not set aside much funding. The new government has moved to address the funding problem which analysts say has come too late as presidencies are prepared months and years in advance. The advocates state that the presidency can be used to promote some of Czech ideas such as use of nuclear energy; the presidency is an investment that Czechs could benefit from.Equally, the government has been warned as the population is facing high costs of energy and soaring inflation, an additional increase in budget for presidency is not the best solution for domestic political stability.

(Author is former Indian Ambassador to the Czech Republic and formerly Minister at Embassy of India, Brussels accredited to EU, Belgium and Luxembourg. Views expressed are personal and do not reflect the official position or policy of Financial Express Online. Reproducing this content without permission is prohibited).

The incoming Czech Presidency has announced five overarching themes of their mandate, namely, the war in Ukraine, energy security, defence, economic resilience and democratic institutions.[https://www.financialexpress.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/czech-republic-european-union.jpg]

Indian Express Group

文件 FIEXON0020220701ei6u00026


Chamber passes broader application of international sanctions
343 字
2022 年 7 月 7 日 17:06 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, July 7 (CTK) - The Czech Customs Administration will have the right to seize property, to which international sanctions apply, and also a motor vehicle that transports such property, under an amendment to the law on the imposition of international sanctions that the Chamber of Deputies passed today.

This amendment to the law, which took effect in 2006, is to first of all allow to impose international sanctions based on a new sanction law that the government also submitted to the Chamber of Deputies. The Chamber passed it in shortened procedure, or already in the first reading. Now the amendment will be submitted to the other house of parliament, the Senate.

Based on the amendment, state bodies, the central bank, the police and intelligence services will have to provide information or a stance to the financial analytical office.

The government pointed out that the current law allows to implement only international sanctions that follow from EU rules, United Nations Security Council resolutions or other measures accepted based on the Treaty establishing the European Community. The law therefore needs to be modified so that sanctions can be also imposed based on the new Czech law on sanctions.

Finance Minister Zbynek Stanjura (Civic Democrats, ODS) noted in the Chamber of Deputies today that the EU has already approved six sanctions packages against Russia and its invasion of Ukraine. He said the amendment will make the enforcing of the sanctions easier and the state will be paid for the administration of the frozen property, he said.

The fee for administration of the property is 3 percent of the value of the property per year. The state will also be allowed to sell this property in public interest.

The violation of the sanctions will be a crime.

The bill also influences the law on asylum and residence of foreigners as a person who is in the sanction list may be banned residence in the country. A firm hit by the sanctions may be banned from receiving public procurement.

kva/dr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220707ei7700005


EU freezes Russian assets worth $13.8 billion: commission
267 字
2022 年 7 月 12 日 09:10 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
The European Union has frozen Russian assets worth $13.8 billion since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, EU Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders said Tuesday.

"For the moment, we have frozen -- coming from oligarchs and other entities -- 13.8 billion euros ($13.8 billion), so it's quite huge," Reynders told reporters in Prague.

"But I must say that a very large part of it is more than 12 billion... coming from five member states," he added ahead of an informal meeting of EU justice ministers held by the Czech presidency of the EU.

He refused to name the five countries, but added he expected the other countries in the 27-member bloc to step up their efforts soon.

German Finance Minister Christian Lindner put the value of assets frozen by Germany alone at 4.48 billion euros in mid-June.

At the end of June, an international sanctions task force said its members, including several EU countries, had blocked $30 billion in assets belonging to Russian oligarchs and officials.

The Russian Elites, Proxies, and Oligarchs Task Force (REPO) said its members, who also include the US, Canada, Britain, Japan and other allies, had immobilised $300 billion owned by the Russian central bank.

The EU has so far adopted six sanction packages against Russia, including a ban on most Russian oil imports approved in early June.

A total of 98 companies and 1,158 individuals, including Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, have seen their property frozen and been banned from entering the EU.

frj/dt

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220712ei7c004v1


EU freezes Russian assets worth $13.8bn
371 字
2022 年 7 月 12 日
The Punch
TPUNC
英文
Copyright 2015 - Punch Newspapers
The European Union has frozen Russian assets worth $13.8 billion since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, EU Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders said on Tuesday.

“For the moment, we have frozen — coming from oligarchs and other entities — 13.8 billion euros ($13.8 billion), so it’s quite huge,” Reynders told reporters in Prague.

“But I must say that a very large part of it, more than 12 billion… is coming from five member states,” he added ahead of an informal meeting of EU justice ministers held by the Czech Republic, which holds the rotating EU presidency.

He refused to name the five countries but added he expected the other members of the 27-member bloc to step up efforts soon.

German Finance Minister Christian Lindner put the value of assets frozen by Germany alone at 4.48 billion euros in mid-June.

Ukrainian Justice Minister Denys Maliuska said in Prague that the assets should be used to cover compensation for war damages.

Related News * Arbitration court upholds ban on Russian clubs[https://punchng.com/arbitration-court-upholds-ban-on-russian-clubs/?utm_source=auto-read-also&utm_medium=web]

* Ukraine: FG facilitates students' admission into Nigerian schools[https://punchng.com/ukraine-fg-facilitates-students-admission-into-nigerian-schools/?utm_source=auto-read-also&utm_medium=web]

* Russia not intimidated by US military buildup in Europe, says deputy foreign minister[https://punchng.com/russia-not-intimidated-by-us-military-buildup-in-europe-says-deputy-foreign-minister/?utm_source=auto-read-also&utm_medium=web]

“Currently they are protected by sovereign immunity but our understanding is that assets of a state (that) started a war, committed aggression, shall not be protected by sovereign immunity,” he said.

“We are suffering from economic losses and it does not make sense to cover all those losses with Ukrainian or European taxpayers’ money,” Maliuska added.

At the end of June, an international sanctions task force said its members, including several EU countries, had blocked $30 billion in assets belonging to Russian oligarchs and officials.

The Russian Elites, Proxies and Oligarchs Task Force said its members — who also include Britain, Canada, Japan, the US and other allies — had immobilised $300 billion owned by the Russian central bank.

The EU has so far adopted six sanction packages against Russia, including a ban on most Russian oil imports approved in early June.

A total of 98 companies and 1,158 individuals, including Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, have seen their property frozen and been banned from entering the EU.

Punch Nigeria Limited

文件 TPUNC00020220715ei7c00136


Summary of CTK General News in English, July 13, 21:00
1080 字
2022 年 7 月 13 日 19:56 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds story moved after 21:00.

Prague - The European Union is preparing a seventh package of sanctions against Moscow but it is already clear that it will not curb imports of Russian gas as too many member states are still dependent on it, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala told Reuters news agency today.

Prague - It will take decades before Ukraine's nature returns to its original state impaired by the Russian invasion, Ukrainian Environment Minister Ruslan Strilets told media ahead of today's Prague meeting of the EU states' environment ministers today.

Prague - Czech Environment Minister Anna Hubackova (Christian Democrats, KDU-CSL) and her Ukrainian counterpart Ruslan Strilets signed a memorandum on aid to environmental protection in Ukraine today.

Prague - The gathering and analysis of evidence on the crimes committed in Ukraine will be a legal as well as technical challenge to Eurojust, which still has to solve the question of the consent by the evidence-providing states to its further use, Lukas Stary, Czech official in Eurojust, told CTK today.

Prague - Ministers for European affairs from EU member countries will meet in Prague on Friday to talk about Ukraine, the resilience of democratic institutions and the conclusions of the Conference on the Future of Europe, according to information that the Czech EU presidency released on its website[https://czech-presidency.consilium.europa.eu/cs/aktuality/neformalni-jednani-ministru-pro-evropske-zalezitosti/].

Prague - Czechia granted 652 temporary protection visas to Ukrainian refugees on Tuesday, 601 more than on previous Tuesday that was a national holiday, the Interior Ministry said today, adding that 630 visas were granted on Tuesday two weeks ago and 392,355 since the start of the Russian invasion.

Prague - A total of 28 percent of adult war refugees from Ukraine in the Czech Republic were aged under 30, and one-third of the refugee households consist of a mother with one or two children, shows a 40-page study conducted by the Labour and Social Affairs Ministry and released to CTK today.

Prague - Some 58 percent of Czechs are for Ukraine joining the EU, while over one-quarter are against it, and 41 percent are for its NATO membership, while the same proportion is against it, according to a poll conducted by the CVVM polling institute between late March and early May and released today.

Prague - The Chamber of Deputies supported the government bill under which the Czech Republic would be able to impose sanctions on individuals and entities committing serious unlawful acts in international context that had not yet been placed on the EU sanction list, in the first reading today.

Prague - Former prime minister Babis, the leader of the opposition ANO, must apologise for having said that demonstrators were paid for their protests against hist government in 2018 to one of the protesters, the Prague regional court ruled today.

Prague - The Spanish firm GDELS, the manufacturer of the ASCOD armoured personnel carriers, disagrees with the conditions of the continued tender for the new APCs for the Czech military, it told the Chamber of Deputies defence committee last week, its chairman Lubomir Metnar (ANO) confirmed to CTK today.

Prague - Czech President Milos Zeman received the credentials from seven new ambassadors from European, African, Asian and American countries at Prague Castle, the presidential seat, today, his spokesman Jiri Ovcacek has said.

Prague - The Central Bohemia branch of the Mayors and Independents (STAN), a Czech government party, has distanced itself from the statement in which Podebrady Mayor Jaroslav Cervinka spoke about shooting dead in connection with Roma people, STAN spokeswoman Sara Berankova told CTK today.

Prague - Public health officers have confirmed the 12th case of monkeypox in the Czech Republic, while 11 cases are in Prague, including the last one, and one is in the Usti Region, north Bohemia, the Prague Public Health Office said in a press release today.

Prague - Another coronavirus wave as serious as those that Czechia faced in the past two years does not seem to threaten, Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry of the Czech Academy of Sciences director Jan Konvalinka told CTK today.

Prague - The fugitive Iraqi man who left the Czech Republic to fight for Islamic State (IS) cannot be tried in absentia as it is not known whether he is aware of his criminal prosecution, the Czech Supreme Court (NS) has ruled.

Brussels - The hardest tasks for the current Czech presidency of the EU will be to secure solidarity in gas supplies amid the expected reduction or disruption of the supplies from Russia, Czech Industry and Trade Minister Jozef Sikela said after a hearing in the EP industry and energy committee today.

Brussels - The new Czech cabinet works on a more efficient fight against corruption and conflict of interest, but some corruption cases on the top level and, above all, their slow investigation raise apprehensions, the EC annual report on the state of the rule of law in the EU said today.

Brussels - The Czech Republic could hold an intergovernmental conference with the aim to unblock the talks about North Macedonia's EU accession in the days to come, Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky told reporters after a debate with MEPs today.

Budapest - Five Central-European countries, including the Czech Republic, called on the European Union to give Bosnia and Herzegovina the EU candidate status at today's meeting of the C5 in Budapest, the dpa German news agency has reported.

Berlin - Czechia assumed its EU presidency in difficult times due to the Russian invasion od Ukraine, and thus it must prove not only to EU citizens but also to the countries outside the EU that the future still belongs to solidarity and consideration, Czech Ambassador to Germany Tomas Kafka said today.

Bratislava - The Slovak coalition parties have not changed their position on the main demand of the Freedom and Solidarity (SaS) that Finance Minister Igor Matovic, the leader of the Ordinary People and Independent Personalities (OLaNO), should leave the cabinet one week after the coalition pact was terminated.

Bratislava - The number of new confirmed COVID-19 cases increased by one half over the past week, but the number of coronavirus patients treated in hospital has not markedly changed in this period of time, the data[https://covid-19.nczisk.sk/sk] released by the National centre of health information showed.

Bratislava - The Slovak court today halted the criminal prosecution of former Slovak general prosecutor Dobroslav Trnka, charged with abuse of power, as the act is statute-barred after the judge changed its legal qualification, Slovak media have reported.

CTK

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220713ei7d00002


Summary of CTK General News in English, July 13, 21:00
1027 字
2022 年 7 月 13 日 19:00 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague - It will take decades before Ukraine's nature returns to its original state impaired by the Russian invasion, Ukrainian Environment Minister Ruslan Strilets told media ahead of today's Prague meeting of the EU states' environment ministers today.

Prague - Czech Environment Minister Anna Hubackova (Christian Democrats, KDU-CSL) and her Ukrainian counterpart Ruslan Strilets signed a memorandum on aid to environmental protection in Ukraine today.

Prague - The gathering and analysis of evidence on the crimes committed in Ukraine will be a legal as well as technical challenge to Eurojust, which still has to solve the question of the consent by the evidence-providing states to its further use, Lukas Stary, Czech official in Eurojust, told CTK today.

Prague - Ministers for European affairs from EU member countries will meet in Prague on Friday to talk about Ukraine, the resilience of democratic institutions and the conclusions of the Conference on the Future of Europe, according to information that the Czech EU presidency released on its website[https://czech-presidency.consilium.europa.eu/cs/aktuality/neformalni-jednani-ministru-pro-evropske-zalezitosti/].

Prague - Czechia granted 652 temporary protection visas to Ukrainian refugees on Tuesday, 601 more than on previous Tuesday that was a national holiday, the Interior Ministry said today, adding that 630 visas were granted on Tuesday two weeks ago and 392,355 since the start of the Russian invasion.

Prague - A total of 28 percent of adult war refugees from Ukraine in the Czech Republic were aged under 30, and one-third of the refugee households consist of a mother with one or two children, shows a 40-page study conducted by the Labour and Social Affairs Ministry and released to CTK today.

Prague - Some 58 percent of Czechs are for Ukraine joining the EU, while over one-quarter are against it, and 41 percent are for its NATO membership, while the same proportion is against it, according to a poll conducted by the CVVM polling institute between late March and early May and released today.

Prague - The Chamber of Deputies supported the government bill under which the Czech Republic would be able to impose sanctions on individuals and entities committing serious unlawful acts in international context that had not yet been placed on the EU sanction list, in the first reading today.

Prague - Former prime minister Babis, the leader of the opposition ANO, must apologise for having said that demonstrators were paid for their protests against hist government in 2018 to one of the protesters, the Prague regional court ruled today.

Prague - The Spanish firm GDELS, the manufacturer of the ASCOD armoured personnel carriers, disagrees with the conditions of the continued tender for the new APCs for the Czech military, it told the Chamber of Deputies defence committee last week, its chairman Lubomir Metnar (ANO) confirmed to CTK today.

Prague - Czech President Milos Zeman received the credentials from seven new ambassadors from European, African, Asian and American countries at Prague Castle, the presidential seat, today, his spokesman Jiri Ovcacek has said.

Prague - The Central Bohemia branch of the Mayors and Independents (STAN), a Czech government party, has distanced itself from the statement in which Podebrady Mayor Jaroslav Cervinka spoke about shooting dead in connection with Roma people, STAN spokeswoman Sara Berankova told CTK today.

Prague - Public health officers have confirmed the 12th case of monkeypox in the Czech Republic, while 11 cases are in Prague, including the last one, and one is in the Usti Region, north Bohemia, the Prague Public Health Office said in a press release today.

Prague - Another coronavirus wave as serious as those that Czechia faced in the past two years does not seem to threaten, Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry of the Czech Academy of Sciences director Jan Konvalinka told CTK today.

Prague - The fugitive Iraqi man who left the Czech Republic to fight for Islamic State (IS) cannot be tried in absentia as it is not known whether he is aware of his criminal prosecution, the Czech Supreme Court (NS) has ruled.

Brussels - The hardest tasks for the current Czech presidency of the EU will be to secure solidarity in gas supplies amid the expected reduction or disruption of the supplies from Russia, Czech Industry and Trade Minister Jozef Sikela said after a hearing in the EP industry and energy committee today.

Brussels - The new Czech cabinet works on a more efficient fight against corruption and conflict of interest, but some corruption cases on the top level and, above all, their slow investigation raise apprehensions, the EC annual report on the state of the rule of law in the EU said today.

Brussels - The Czech Republic could hold an intergovernmental conference with the aim to unblock the talks about North Macedonia's EU accession in the days to come, Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky told reporters after a debate with MEPs today.

Budapest - Five Central-European countries, including the Czech Republic, called on the European Union to give Bosnia and Herzegovina the EU candidate status at today's meeting of the C5 in Budapest, the dpa German news agency has reported.

Berlin - Czechia assumed its EU presidency in difficult times due to the Russian invasion od Ukraine, and thus it must prove not only to EU citizens but also to the countries outside the EU that the future still belongs to solidarity and consideration, Czech Ambassador to Germany Tomas Kafka said today.

Bratislava - The Slovak coalition parties have not changed their position on the main demand of the Freedom and Solidarity (SaS) that Finance Minister Igor Matovic, the leader of the Ordinary People and Independent Personalities (OLaNO), should leave the cabinet one week after the coalition pact was terminated.

Bratislava - The number of new confirmed COVID-19 cases increased by one half over the past week, but the number of coronavirus patients treated in hospital has not markedly changed in this period of time, the data[https://covid-19.nczisk.sk/sk] released by the National centre of health information showed.

Bratislava - The Slovak court today halted the criminal prosecution of former Slovak general prosecutor Dobroslav Trnka, charged with abuse of power, as the act is statute-barred after the judge changed its legal qualification, Slovak media have reported.

CTK

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220713ei7d00006


跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
Gas not to be part of EU's next Russian sanction package-Czech PM
470 字
2022 年 7 月 13 日 19:55 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, July 13 (CTK) - The European Union is preparing a seventh package of sanctions against Moscow but it is already clear that it will not curb imports of Russian gas as too many member states are still dependent on it, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala has told Reuters news agency today.

Fiala (Civic Democrats, ODS) said the sanctions now being finalised by the EU's executive to ramp up pressure over Russia's invasion of Ukraine were expected to ban gold imports, widen a list of dual-use goods banned for export to Russia and target more individuals.

"What is definitely problematic is to include energy into the sanctions, because a rule must be observed that the sanctions must have a greater impact on Russia than on the countries imposing the sanctions," Fiala told Reuters.

He said there was no chance that gas would be included. "I think that it should not be there, because a number of countries depend on Russian gas," he said.

Fiala also said the Czechs were doing everything they could to cut their dependence on Russian energy, "but it won't happen this winter".

The Czech Republic, which took over the EU's rotating six-month presidency on July 1, is one of those countries, dependent on Russia for almost all of its gas needs. Overall, the EU relied on Russia for 40 percent of its gas before Moscow invaded Ukraine, Reuters writes.

The first six rounds of sanctions included asset freezes and visa bans on Russian oligarchs and officials, export controls, freezing central bank assets, cutting banks out of the SWIFT messaging system and banning imports of Russian coal and oil. But gas imports have not been touched even amid calls from Ukraine for such an embargo, Reuters writes.

The latest sanctions are being prepared amid mounting fears in Europe that Russia could extend scheduled maintenance of the key Nord Stream 1 gas pipeline that began on July 11 and is due to last ten days. That would throttle European supplies further and disrupt plans by countries to fill storage for winter, tipping them into an energy crisis, the agency adds.

Fiala said Europe must be ready for the possibility that flows from Nord Stream 1 will not restart, seeking out alternative sources of gas supplies, like LNG, and be ready to share supplies among member states.

Another idea Fiala supports would be to start joint gas purchases in Europe, but he warned that it remained difficult both technically and administratively.

"I don't want to be too optimistic," he said, when asked if joint purchases could start as early as this year, adding that EU energy ministers would discuss the proposal at an extraordinary meeting on July 26.

hol/mr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220713ei7d00003


Transitions Online - Around the Bloc - As War Rages On, Many Ukrainians Are Going Home Plus, Polish abortion defenders, Croatian supercar...
Transitions Online, 2022 年 7 月 13 日, 955 字, (英文)
The Big Story: How to Read Shifting Ukrainian Refugee Figures What happened: Fewer Ukrainian citizens (252,246) entered the European Union in the first week of July than the number who returned to Ukraine (265,793), the EU border agency ...

EU to target Russian gold in next sanctions package: commissioner
76 字
2022 年 7 月 15 日 08:02 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
The European Union will target Russian gold exports in its next sanction package and seek to "close exit routes" for those bypassing its earlier packages, an EU commissioner said Friday.

The EU will look into "ways we could slap a sanction regime on gold, which is an important commodity for exports from Russia", Maros Sefcovic, deputy head of the European Commission, said in Prague.

frj/dt/jv

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220715ei7f005v5


EU to target Russian gold in next sanctions package: commissioner
363 字
2022 年 7 月 15 日 08:20 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
The European Union will target Russian gold exports in its next sanction package and seek to "close exit routes" for those bypassing its earlier packages, an EU commissioner said Friday.

The EU has so far approved six sanction packages against Russia. The last one passed in June imposed a ban on most Russian oil imports.

The EU will look into "ways we could slap a sanction regime on gold, which is an important commodity for exports from Russia", Maros Sefcovic, deputy head of the European Commission, said in Prague.

"As soon as we reach an agreement at the level of member states, we will publish it," he said ahead of an informal meeting of EU affairs ministers held by the Czech presidency of the 27-nation bloc.

The move follows a ban on gold exports from Russia agreed by the world's most industrialised nations at a G7 meeting at the end of June.

Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Olga Stefanishyna, who is attending the meeting in Prague, urged the EU to adopt a new sanctions package on Thursday.

"Nothing makes Russia so far feel accountable for (its) crimes," she told reporters.

"We hope the next, seventh package of sanctions will have a strong restrictive potential and will be taken without further delay and as soon as possible," said Stefanishyna.

Sefcovic added the EU would also seek to "close all exit routes for those wanting to bypass the sanctions".

"It is of course a very complex mechanism, so we need to not only set up, but also check, monitor and close the places that would create platforms for an exit in some way," he said.

He also waved aside any thoughts of fatigue among EU members helping Ukraine, which Russia invaded on February 24.

"I have never seen so strongly demonstrated unity and effort from all member states to look for all possible reserves, whether we talk about financial aid or arms supplies," Sefcovic said.

"Even though it's really difficult, we will continue because it's the Ukrainians fighting for their freedom who are in the most difficult situation," he added.

frj/dt/jv

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220715ei7f0060p


EU to target Russian gold within sanctions: commissioner
457 字
2022 年 7 月 15 日 12:29 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
The European Union will target Russian gold exports in an update to its sanctions packages due to be announced on Friday, an EU commissioner said.

The EU has so far approved six packages of sanctions on Russia. The last one passed in June imposed a ban on most Russian oil imports.

The EU will look into "ways we could slap a sanction regime on gold, which is an important commodity for exports from Russia", Maros Sefcovic, deputy head of the European Commission, said in Prague.

The move follows a ban on gold exports from Russia agreed by the world's most industrialised nations at a G7 meeting at the end of June.

Sefcovic said the European Commission would announce the update on Friday and member states would discuss it next week.

"As soon as we reach an agreement at the level of member states, we will publish it," he said ahead of an informal meeting of European affairs ministers held by the Czech presidency of the 27-nation bloc.

"We want to harmonise our sanction regime with the measures recently adopted by the G7," Sefcovic said, adding the EU was constantly monitoring the implementation and effect of its sanctions.

"We also continuously update the lists of people targeted by the sanctions," he said.

The EU seeks to "tighten the sanctions to help end the war as soon as possible and to make the economic price paid by the Russian Federation for its aggression as high as possible", Sefcovic added.

On the eve of the Prague meeting, Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Olga Stefanishyna urged the EU to adopt new sanctions against Russia.

"Nothing makes Russia so far feel accountable for (its) crimes," she told reporters.

"We hope the next, seventh package of sanctions will have a strong restrictive potential and will be taken without further delay and as soon as possible," said Stefanishyna.

Sefcovic added the EU would also seek to "close all exit routes for those wanting to bypass the sanctions" in the proposed update.

"It is of course a very complex mechanism, so we need to not only set up but also check, monitor and close the places that would create platforms for an exit in some way," he said.

He waved aside any thoughts of fatigue among EU members helping Ukraine, which Russia invaded on February 24.

"I have never seen so strongly demonstrated unity and effort from all member states to look for all possible reserves, whether we talk about financial aid or arms supplies," Sefcovic said.

"Even though it's really difficult, we will continue because it's the Ukrainians fighting for their freedom who are in the most difficult situation," he added.

frj/dt/gil

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220715ei7f00a9h


EU to target Russian gold with new sanctions
Jan FLEMR with Christian SPILLMANN in Brussels
561 字
2022 年 7 月 15 日 15:57 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
The European Union is targeting Russian gold exports in an update to its sanctions' packages announced on Friday that will also tighten the screws on previous measures against Moscow.

The EU has so far approved six packages of sanctions on Russia. The last one passed in June imposed a ban on most Russian oil imports.

The new measures come as "Russia's brutal war against Ukraine continues unabated," said EU commission president Ursula von der Leyen in a statement.

"We are proposing today to tighten our hard-hitting EU sanctions against the Kremlin, enforce them more effectively and extend them until January 2023. Moscow must continue to pay a high price for its aggression," she added.

The move on gold exports fulfils a decision agreed by the world's most industrialised nations at a G7 meeting in late June in which EU-members Germany, France and Italy took part.

The proposal from the commission, which draws up international sanctions for the bloc's 27 countries, will be discussed at a meeting of EU foreign ministers next Monday.

The EU will look into "ways we could slap a sanctions regime on gold, which is an important commodity for exports from Russia", Maros Sefcovic, deputy head of the European Commission, said in Prague.

"As soon as we reach an agreement at the level of member states, we will publish it," he said ahead of a meeting of European affairs ministers held by the Czech presidency of the EU.

"We want to harmonise our sanction regime with the measures recently adopted by the G7," Sefcovic said, adding the EU was constantly monitoring the implementation and effect of its sanctions.

"We also continuously update the lists of people targeted by the sanctions," he said.

Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Olga Stefanishyna on Thursday urged the EU to keep hitting Russia with new sanctions, while questioning their effectiveness.

"Nothing makes Russia so far feel accountable for (its) crimes," she told reporters in Prague.

"We hope the next, seventh package of sanctions will have a strong restrictive potential and will be taken without further delay and as soon as possible," said Stefanishyna.

Sefcovic added the EU would also seek to "close all exit routes for those wanting to bypass the sanctions" in the proposed update.

"It is of course a very complex mechanism, so we need to not only set up but also check, monitor and close the places that would create platforms for an exit in some way," he said.

He waved aside any thoughts of fatigue among EU members helping Ukraine since Russian troops invaded on February 24 under President Vladimir Putin's orders.

"I have never seen so strongly demonstrated unity and effort from all member states... whether we talk about financial aid or arms supplies," Sefcovic said.

"Even though it's really difficult, we will continue because it's the Ukrainians fighting for their freedom who are in the most difficult situation," he added.

According to Russian customs data, Britain is the largest buyer of Russian gold with 290 tonnes in 2020 worth $16.9 billion.

But a senior EU official insisted that the EU's decision will not be merely symbolic as "it will cut off another tap of funding for Putin's war in Ukraine".

bur-arp/jm

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220715ei7f00gfp


Ukraine, EC may run platform for aid coordination - Commissioner
513 字
2022 年 7 月 15 日 08:59 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, July 15 (CTK) - The Ukrainian government and the European Commission (EC) might run a platform for coordination of all aid provided to Ukraine by the world community, EC Vice-President Maros Sefcovic told journalists before a meeting of the General Affairs Council (GAC) in Prague today.

Sefcovic said he believes this would make the aid as effective as possible and also enable to control the correct use of the finances. He added that the platform would prevent aid from being doubled.

He said a preliminary agreement with Ukrainian representatives had already been made. It is necessary to avoid suspicions that money is getting lost or are not drawn for the right purpose, he pointed out.

Until now, Sefcovic has never seen so strongly demonstrated unity in the EC and effort of all the member countries to seek reserves. He said this concerned both financial resources and arms deliveries.

Sefcovic has represented Slovakia in the EC as vice-president, now for interinstitutional relations, since 2014.

European affairs ministers from the EU member states will talk in Prague today about further possible financial, political and military support for Ukraine. Sefcovic said it is also needed to look into the future towards the postwar reconstruction of the country and to the development of Ukraine into a firm part of the European community.

Ukrainian Vice Prime Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic integration Olha Stefanishina takes part in the Prague meeting as well. On Thursday, Stefanishina called for an immediate approval of the seventh package of sanctions against Russia.

Sefcovic said the current efforts focus on closing the escape paths of those who want to circumvent the sanctions. "It is a very complex mechanism. It is necessary not only to set it well, but also to monitor and close the places that could create escape platforms," he said.

He added that another issue is how to apply the sanction regime on gold.

Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala told Reuters agency on Wednesday that restrictions on the Russian gas imports clearly would not be part of the seventh package of sanctions. He said the package is expected to include a ban on the import of gold from Russia, to extend the list of the dual use goods whose exports to Russia are banned, and to impose further sanctions on individuals. The EC is to submit the draft package around mid-July and the member states might approve it immediately afterwards, said Fiala.

German Minister for Europe Anna Luhrmann expressed full support for the priorities of the Czech presidency of the Council of the EU that began two weeks ago. She said the main goal is to keep providing aid to Ukraine. Europe must show solidarity and support, Luhrmann said.

Estonian Deputy Foreign Minister Mart Volmer said he can see the need to discuss support for Ukraine in liberating its territory that Russia invaded and in reconstructing the country. The EU can do more for holding those who caused the war accountable for it, Volmer said.

kva/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220715ei7f0000n


EC not working on next anti-Russian sanction package - Sefcovic
157 字
2022 年 7 月 15 日 11:54 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, July 15 (CTK) - The European Commission and the EU member states are not really working on another package of anti-Russian sanctions, but they are fine-tuning some details of the previous sanction packages, EC Vice-President Maros Sefcovic said in Prague today.

They are also trying to get the sanctions in harmony with the conclusions of the Group of Seven (G7), Sefcovic said at a press conference following a Prague meeting of the General Affairs Council (GAC).

The EC is to present the possible measures today.

Next week, the EC would propose a coordinated preparation for the possibility that Russia was going to cut off Europe from its gas supplies, Sefcovic told the European affairs ministers of the EU member states today. The aim is to secure solidarity among the member countries and protect the operation of the single market, he said.

kva/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220715ei7f0000k


EC not working on next anti-Russian sanction package - Sefcovic
688 字
2022 年 7 月 15 日 13:12 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds Sefcovic's further statements in last seven paras.

Prague, July 15 (CTK) - The European Commission and the EU member states are not really working on another package of anti-Russian sanctions, but they are fine-tuning some details of the previous sanction packages, EC Vice-President Maros Sefcovic said in Prague today.

They are also trying to get the sanctions in harmony with the conclusions of the Group of Seven (G7), Sefcovic said at a press conference following a Prague meeting of the General Affairs Council (GAC).

The EC is to present the possible measures today.

Next week, the EC would propose a coordinated preparation for the possibility that Russia was going to cut off Europe from its gas supplies, Sefcovic told the European affairs ministers of the EU member states today. The aim is to secure solidarity among the member countries and protect the operation of the single market, he said.

The details are being fine-tuned to prevent evading of the sanctions, Sefcovic said.

G7 countries want to maintain and extend sanctions imposed on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, they said in the conclusions of their June summit. They want to jointly further lower Russian incomes, including those from gold sales and to consider the possible setting of the price cap for Russian energies.

Sefcovic said earlier today that the EU is dealing with the application of the sanction regime on gold. He also said the EC and the Ukrainian government may run a platform for coordination of all aid provided to Ukraine by the world community, in order to make the aid as effective as possible and also enable to control the correct use of the finances.

Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala told Reuters agency on Wednesday that restrictions on the Russian gas imports clearly would not be part of the seventh package of sanctions. He said the package is expected to include a ban on the import of gold from Russia, to extend the list of the dual use goods whose exports to Russia are banned, and to impose further sanctions on individuals.

Sefcovic told a press conference that more details about the platform would be presented in September.

"We are dealing with the application of sanctions incessantly. They have been continuously reviewed, the lists of those sanctioned have been updated. We have been closely watching how the sanctions are applied and checking [them to prevent] their possible evasion," Sefcovic said.

He said the EU has also been monitoring the economic and trade activities in a way to put the sanctions in harmony with the latest information and to tighten them with the aim to achieve the quickest possible end of the war.

The renewal of Ukraine will require huge political and reform efforts as well as huge financial means, he said. In this respect, the EU can use the EC's experience from managing similar demanding programmes, and, for example, concentrate the money from G7 partners, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund at a single place. Ukraine, on its part, would be able to communicate directly with the international group of donors, Sefcovic said.

A part of the talks today was attended by Ukrainian Deputy PM for European and Euro-Atlantic integration Olha Stefanishyna.

Czech Minister for EU affairs Mikulas Bek (STAN) said Stefanishyna presented Kyiv's idea of short-time aid being provided to Ukraine still this year. The ministers were given comprehensive materials in this respect, and they are going to discuss them soon, Bek said.

He said the EU member states support the idea of a bigger flexibility of the EU enlargement procedure and of certain changes that would enable EU candidate countries to gain access to some areas of European policy, each in its specific way.

Sefcovic, who comes from Slovakia, today praised the Czech presidency of the EU, which started on July 1. Before, Czechia had a mere few months to completely redraft its presidency programme in reaction to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and it managed it, he said.

kva,rtj/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220715ei7f0000d


EC not working on next anti-Russian sanction package - Sefcovic
370 字
2022 年 7 月 15 日 12:35 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, July 15 (CTK) - The European Commission and the EU member states are not really working on another package of anti-Russian sanctions, but they are fine-tuning some details of the previous sanction packages, EC Vice-President Maros Sefcovic said in Prague today.

They are also trying to get the sanctions in harmony with the conclusions of the Group of Seven (G7), Sefcovic said at a press conference following a Prague meeting of the General Affairs Council (GAC).

The EC is to present the possible measures today.

Next week, the EC would propose a coordinated preparation for the possibility that Russia was going to cut off Europe from its gas supplies, Sefcovic told the European affairs ministers of the EU member states today. The aim is to secure solidarity among the member countries and protect the operation of the single market, he said.

The details are being fine-tuned to prevent the avoiding of the sanctions, Sefcovic said.

G7 countries want to maintain and extend sanctions imposed on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, they said in the conclusions of their June summit. They want to jointly further lower Russian incomes, including those from gold sales and to consider the possible setting of the price cap for Russian energies.

Sefcovic said earlier today that the EU is dealing with the application of the sanction regime on gold. He also said the EC and the Ukrainian government may run a platform for coordination of all aid provided to Ukraine by the world community, in order to make the aid as effective as possible and also enable to control the correct use of the finances.

Sefcovic told a press conference that more details about the platform would be presented in September.

Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala told Reuters agency on Wednesday that restrictions on the Russian gas imports clearly would not be part of the seventh package of sanctions. He said the package is expected to include a ban on the import of gold from Russia, to extend the list of the dual use goods whose exports to Russia are banned, and to impose further sanctions on individuals.

kva/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220715ei7f0000f


Czechia freezes Russian property worth almost ten billion crowns
392 字
2022 年 7 月 21 日 08:25 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, July 21 (CTK) - The Czech Financial Analytical Office (FAU) has frozen Russian property worth almost ten billion crowns since the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February, FAU head Jiri Hylmar said in an interview with the server Seznam Zpravy [https://www.seznamzpravy.cz/clanek/domaci-politika-rusum-jsme-zmrazili-majetek-zhruba-za-10-miliard-rika-novy-sef-uradu-209361]today.

Along with money in bank accounts, the freezing also applies to real estate of the people on the EU sanction list and their shares in companies.

The FAU has not yet faced any lawsuit in connection with the freezing of the Russians' property. However, administrative proceedings are still underway in some freezing cases, and it is hard to say when they will end, Hylmar added.

A half of the FAU's 30 employees are dealing with the freezing of the Russian property now.

Within the set system, each bank is going through the portfolio of its clients once in 24 hours to check out whether they are not on the sanction list, and the land register office and the register of securities are doing the same, Hylmar told the server.

The property registers are monitoring the owners regularly, and if they found out any property owned by a person who is subject to the anti-Russian sanctions, the FAU would freeze the respective property.

Hylmar has roughly estimated that Russian property, including real estate, stock in business companies and money in bank accounts, worth up to ten billion crowns has been frozen in the Czech Republic so far.

Hylmar rules out that there can be any unfrozen property owned by a direct owner of a bank account who is on the sanction list in Czech banks. There is no problem to freeze the property of spouses of the persons from the sanction list either if their interconnection is apparent, he noted.

"However, it is problematic to seek hidden ownership via several firms outside the Czech Republic," Hylmar told the server, citing a general example of a Czech firm owned by several foreign offshore companies. In such a a case, it is often impossible to gain information about the real owner, he added.

Russia attacked Ukraine on February 24. Since then, the European Union has approved six sanction packages against Russia, and over 1,000 Russians officials are on the EU sanction list.

($1 = 24.012 crowns)

hol/dr/buj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220721ei7l0000g


Inquirer
Trapped in a climate fantasy: We need coal and gas
Greg Sheridan
2539 字
2022 年 7 月 29 日 14:00 GMT
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
英文
© News Pty Limited. No redistribution is permitted.
Here are four fundamental, unacknowledged realities underlying our energy, climate change and economic situation.

One. Coal is not a stranded asset. It is booming worldwide. The amount of traded coal is increasing. The share of global electricity coal generates has barely moved in 30 years, despite intense Western efforts to end financing for coal.

Two. This is true of fossil fuels generally. The percentage of global electricity generated by gas is rising.

Three. Australia’s economy is totally dependent on exports of gas, coal, iron ore and other minerals. Nothing can replace this. Without it, our social spending, defence, aid would all be unaffordable.

Four. The push for renewable energy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is overwhelming in developed countries and strong in developing countries. However, if the world, or Australia, is to get anywhere near net zero, this will come at enormous financial cost and reduced living standards. This may be a sacrifice worth making to save the planet, but enormous costs are inevitable.

Liberal Senator Andrew Bragg says Australia needs to move climate debate out of a “culture war realm” as he discussed his “open mind” on the issue. Mr Bragg said he has an open mind about the climate bill when asked if would cross the parliamentary floor. “There’s been too much politics, and not enough economics,” he told Sky News Australia. “I think it’s an opportunity to look at the various policy that we might need to achieve the outcome.”

It is perhaps surprising that the political leader making the strongest effort to integrate these disparate realities into some kind of coherent policy is actually the Prime Minister Anthony Albanese. It’s important if Australian policy is to have any coherence that Albanese holds sway within his own party. It’s a perplexing feature of the new government that Albanese seems to be alone in making the case that new coal and gas projects should be approved because Australian coal is cleaner – that is, generates fewer emissions per unit of energy – than any coal that might replace it. And gas is cleaner than coal. That Albanese seems alone in advocating this proposition, which is Labor policy, is dangerous for the ALP.

It may be that his long involvement with the infrastructure portfolio has endowed Albanese with a deeper familiarity and appreciation than most left-wing politicians have of wealth creation rather than just redistribution.

A great deal of our climate ­debate is based on falsehoods, ­ignores fundamental facts and avoids realistic international comparisons. It’s commonly claimed Australia has lost a decade due to the ­climate wars and most other nations are thus far ahead of us. This is complete baloney based on a failure to take note of the most ­elementary facts of international life. In most developed nations, ­including Australia, greenhouse gas emissions have been either steady or declining for more than a decade.

The great big growth in emissions is in developing and middle income nations like China, India and Indonesia. In case those who claim we are uniquely disadvantaged haven’t noticed, most of Western Europe, which has gone much further in de-industrialising and embracing renewables than we have, is suffering a crippling ­energy crisis.

Western Europe depends on Russian gas. Germany used Russian gas to enable it to close coal-fired power stations and, very foolishly, nuclear power stations. The most stable nation in energy is France, because it relies so heavily on nuclear energy. Germany, like other Europeans, has restarted coal-fired power stations.

Germany wants to sanction Russia, but then objects to Russia not selling it more gas. Germany demonises fossil fuels but is completely dependent on gas. There is a parallel in Australia. Victorian Premier Dan Andrews wants more Queensland gas. But Victoria would be producing its own gas if his government had not placed so many prohibitions, restrictions and moratoriums on gas.

Russia is making as much money as ever from its energy ­exports. It sells energy to non-Western nations which are not boycotting it, such as China and India. And the gas it still sells to Europe it sells at sky high prices. Far from the West crippling Russia through energy sanctions, Moscow has intentionally turned down the volume of gas it will send to Europe, both to put Europe under pressure and to prevent Europe from filling up its gas reserves heading into winter.

As a result, the European Union has made a deal among its members to voluntarily reduce gas consumption by 15 per cent. But if it’s a cold winter in Europe, watch out for big domestic political trouble. In Britain, Tory leadership front runner Liz Truss is promising to cut green energy levies because of soaring energy prices, and inflation generally.

And in the United States, far from the climate wars being over, Joe Biden cannot get his climate plans legislated. The Democrats won the White House and both the Senate and the House of Representatives and yet the US political system will not pass Biden’s climate measures. Republicans are overwhelmingly likely to win the House in November and more narrowly favoured to win the Senate. That puts Biden’s climate agenda into complete reverse.

Canada has less political division over the issue but its big adjustments are ahead.

In every society, big changes produce big reactions. Australia is not remotely an outlier in finding climate policy difficult. Nor has our economy suffered in international comparisons. If this “wasted” decade has in fact seen more mining than would otherwise have occurred, then we enter the big adjustment period from a higher wealth base. That’s a good thing.

Very few mainstream Western political leaders any longer champion a let ’er rip attitude to greenhouse gases, ignoring or rejecting the aim of reducing emissions. But there are hugely lively debates about how to reduce emissions at a reasonable cost, how to balance climate action with economic growth and prosperity.

Let’s tease out a little more the four opening contentions of this piece: coal is not stranded, nor are fossil fuels generally, resources and minerals are irreplaceable in our economy, and moving to net zero will be expensive and reduce living standards.

In 1990, coal accounted for 37 per cent of global electricity. In the more than 30 years since, how has that figure moved? Coal now accounts for 38 per cent of global electricity. The price of coal is very high. Thermal coal is trading around $US410 ($586) per tonne and coking coal around $US250 ($357) a tonne.

These prices benefit not only coal mine workers and owners. The Queensland government has massively hiked coal royalties and is basing its budget projections on the long-term maintenance of high coal prices and high production. The new hospitals it plans will be funded by coal. That’s true of progressive governments around Australia. Every progressive policy is funded ultimately by coal, iron ore and gas.

Australia is not a dominant producer of coal. China produces vastly more coal than we do. Nor is Australia the biggest coal exporter, that’s Indonesia. We produce about 5 per cent of global coal. Far from having a stranded asset, coal miners are making huge profits. As I’ve written before, China has 1100 coal-fired power stations in operation and another couple of hundred planned or approved. It has approved the increase of coal production by 300 million tonnes a year. Beijing is even thinking of getting rid of its embargo on Australian coal because it prefers our higher quality coal. In much of Asia, coal continues to expand.

Global coal production is only just fractionally below the peak years of 2012 to 2014.

Sky News host Peta Credlin says with no modelling, the economic impact of the Albanese government’s climate bill will be a “free fall”. “It's the government's signature bill – a 43 per cent emissions reduction target – locked, of course, into legislation, introduced on Tuesday, it's set to be debated as early as next week,” Ms Credlin said. She said many countries in Europe are already “walking back similar commitments” in light of their energy crises. “Today, in a podcast for the IPA, former prime minister Tony Abbott said the legislation, as it stands, will cause a blizzard of litigation.”

Demand is growing and total coal production could well reach a new peak this year or next.

What’s true for coal is doubly true for gas. In 1990 gas accounted for 15 per cent of global electricity. It’s now 23 per cent and growing. Despite many Western banks and development agencies saying they will not finance any new fossil fuels, the EU has decreed that gas is to be classified as a green and sustainable energy source, provided it’s seen as a bridge to renewables. The influential Economist magazine, fully committed to the climate change crusade, recently fulminated in its editorial against “silly prohibitions by banks on gas projects”.

Gas has been central to greenhouse reductions in developed economies. Although more expensive than coal, gas has substituted for coal and produces fewer emissions. Our north Asian trading partners, such as Japan and South Korea, have substituted Australian gas for coal and thereby reduced emissions. Europe, like Victoria, has been extremely ambivalent about developing its own gas and so has become reliant on Russian gas. Renewables have not been able to do the job.

The reason is simple. Renewables don’t work all the time and there is no technology which can store sufficient energy to cover the gaps. So you need a vast back-up system. The more of your energy is renewable, the more exposed you are to your back-up system.

The global head of energy at the giant accounting firm KPMG, Regina Mayor, said in a press interview this week that the world simply cannot afford to have no new oil, gas or coal projects. She said: “I don’t believe the planet can cope with no new oil and gas and no new coal because we still have a society that needs energy and we haven’t managed our way through the energy transition.”

She encouraged Australia to develop its natural resources.

It’s certain the transition from fossil fuels to renewables will take longer and be more expensive than Green activists and politicians believe or pretend. But a lot can be done along the way. Technology is making gas itself cleaner. If the transition is too rushed, whatever the elite consensus might be, energy security will collapse, producing a popular backlash which will restore much more intensive greenhouse gas emitting technologies. And that is not even to factor in the effect on the big, growing emitters like China, India, Indonesia etc.

Bjorn Lomborg cites a McKinsey study which says that if all the politicians kept all their promises to achieve net zero by 2050, this would cost the global economy $US5 trillion a year for the next three decades. Climate activists would be better advised to be honest about the costs. That’s the only way to achieve a politically sustainable policy position.

Labor, the Greens and teal independents are obsessed with doing more on climate change despite emissions reduction policies undermining Australia's energy security and sending power prices spiralling, Sky News host Chris Kenny says. \"Logic is not their strong suit,\" Mr Kenny said. \"We've spent tens of billions of dollars, sent power prices spiralling, undermined our energy security and trashed thousands of jobs, to reduce our emissions by 20 per cent or so.\"

Australia is both uniquely challenged, and uniquely blessed, by our natural endowments and our economy’s structure. In 2021-22 minerals and resources earned Australia $405bn in export income. Coal was a whopping $97bn. This is less than the $133bn we earned from iron ore, but it’s still immense. Similarly, oil and gas, mainly gas obviously, earned $83bn in export income. If anything, the $405bn figure is set to ­increase, as the year in question was partly affected by Covid. The sector employs 256,000 people ­directly and probably accounts for 1.1 million jobs if services and supply are added in.

Australian society cannot do without these moneys and maintain anything like our current living standards.

There are many big projects set to go in gas, and to a much lesser extent oil. But Australia’s approval process is tortuous and absurdly slow. Here is where the at least rhetorical division between Albanese and his much more timid and equivocating cabinet is important. Albanese rejects banning new gas and coal projects and eloquently explains why. No other cabinet minister has made an explicit defence of this particular, key point.

Independent MP Allegra Spender says she will be voting in favour of the Albanese government’s climate bill. “I think we’ve had some really constructive conversations with Chris Bowen, I think a number of changes have been already adopted into the bill because of those discussions with the crossbench,” Ms Spender told Sky News Australia. “But fundamentally, I think it’s really important to legislate 43 per cent by 2030 and net zero by 2050. “Because I think if we have those in legislation, business has certainty, and business needs certainty to be able to plan.”

Given the climate hysteria of the moment, and the natural desire of new cabinet ministers to present as climate heroes, the ­rhetorical cowardice is understandable but dangerous. A social democratic centre left government must beat off attacks from the left and the right. It will be a ­repudiation of Albanese, and turn him into a liar, if Labor makes new projects effectively impossible through insane burdens of regulation. Chris Bowen’s comments have tended to hint in that direction.

A party of government, as opposed to a party of protest, makes key compromises, and balances the competing interests, within its program. It doesn’t make fundamental policy in negotiation with extremist groups like the Greens.

On the ABC’s 7.30, Albanese was challenged to stop coal exports. He replied: “If Australia today said we are not going to export any more coal, you would see a lot of jobs lost, a significant loss to our economy, significant less taxation revenue for education, health and other services.”

Cutting our coal exports wouldn’t reduce global emissions, Albanese explained, because they would be replaced “with coal from other countries that’s likely to produce higher emissions because of the quality of our product”.

Albanese is right in this, but he’s contradicting large, if fatuous, sentiments of the climate change religion. That’s what reality demands. (I still think Labor’s targets are too big and too expensive, but its program at least exists more or less in the real world.)

It’s acutely dangerous for any government to leave all the heavy lifting in advocacy of a key contentious policy to its Prime Minister. In its own long-term interests, Labor should argue this case against the Greens as much as it argues its ambitious targets against the coalition. Albo can’t carry it all by himself.

Nationwide News Pty Ltd.

文件 AUSTOL0020220729ei7t003yx


UPDATE 4-Ukraine halted oil flows to Europe over payment issue, Russia's Transneft says
882 字
2022 年 8 月 9 日 16:13 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
(This content was produced in Russia where the law restricts coverage of Russian military operations in Ukraine.)

* Ukraine pipeline operator was paid but money returned -Transneft

* Shipments halted since Aug. 4

* Slovakia, Hungary and Czech Republic affected (Adds Slovnaft, Czech Republic authorities, pipeline operator comments, details)

MOSCOW, Aug 9 (Reuters) - Ukraine has suspended Russian oil pipeline flows to parts of central Europe since early this month because Western sanctions prevented it from accepting transit fees from Moscow, Russian pipeline monopoly Transneft said on Tuesday.

International benchmark Brent crude jumped by $2 per barrel to trade near $98 as the news added to energy supply concerns, but turned negative later in the day.

Europe is heavily reliant on Russian crude, diesel, natural gas and coal. Energy prices have rallied this year on short supply as Europe scrambles to replace Russian energy with alternative sources.

Flows along the southern route of the Druzhba pipeline have been affected while the northern route serving Poland and Germany remains uninterrupted.

The suspension of pipeline flows on Tuesday will hit countries such as Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic, which all rely heavily on Russian crude and have limited ability to import alternative supply by sea.

The fact that refiners have to import seaborne oil on such short notice will make the job to secure alternative supply even more difficult in an already tight oil market, traders said.

Hungarian energy firm MOL and Slovak pipeline operator Transpetrol confirmed flows have been halted for a few days over the payment of transit fees.

MOL said it had reserves for several weeks and was working on a solution. MOL's oil refiner Slovnaft said that it initiated discussions with Ukraine and Russian partners on possible payment of the transit fee by Slovnaft or MOL.

Hungary is one of the most reliant countries on Russia oil and its government has been lobbying hard to get exemption from wider EU sanctions on Moscow.

Hungary can import oil via Adria pipeline that connects the Omisalj oil terminal in Croatia to its Duna refinery in Hungary, but the capacity of the route is limited and shipments are much more expensive than via Druzhba.

Slovakia's options for alternative oil imports are even more limited as it has to import oil via Hungary.

Poland's PKN Orlen, which controls refiner Unipetrol in the Czech Republic, may secure alternative supplies from Trieste in Italy via the Transalpine (TAL) pipeline, though the route is operating close to its limited capacity and might not be enough to fulfil feedstock needs, traders said.

The Czech Republic's pipeline company MERO has operative oil stocks that can last at least until the second half of August, and the government is not currently planning to tap its near 90-day strategic reserve, Industry Minister Jozef Sikela said on Tuesday.

MERO said it expected Russian oil supplies through the Druzhba pipeline to the Czech Republic to restart within several days.

Russia's Transneft said it made payments for August oil transit to Ukrainian pipeline operator UkrTransNafta on July 22, but the money was returned on July 28 as the payment did not go through.

It said the shipments were halted from Aug. 4.

Transneft said in a statement that Gazprombank, which handled the payment, told it the money was returned because of European Union restrictions.

SANCTION RULES

Under the new sanctions, European banks have to receive approval from a relevant government authority instead of deciding by themselves whether to allow a transaction, Transneft said.

It said European regulators had yet to decide on algorithms for all the banks, which complicates the dealings.

Transneft is considering alternative payment systems, but had sent a request for the transaction to be allowed, the pipeline monopoly said.

MOL and Unipetrol are the main buyers of oil via the Druzhba route, also known as the Friendship pipeline, while Russia's Lukoil, Rosneft and Tatneft are the main suppliers of oil.

UkrTransNafta did not respond to a request for comment.

Since March, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have relied extensively on supplies of Russian Urals crude via the Druzhba pipeline and reduced purchases of maritime crude.

A decline in European demand for Russian oil since Russia invaded Ukraine at the end of February has pushed the value of seaborne Urals, used to price Druzhba deliveries, to the widest discount in history against the dated Brent benchmark. <BFO-URL-E> <BFO-URL-NWE>

Moscow refers to the invasion as a "special military operation".

Russia normally supplies about 250,000 barrels per day (bpd)via the southern leg of the Druzhba pipeline. If the supplies remain suspended Russian oil exporters will have to divert volumes to sea ports, traders said.

Russian oil loadings from its western ports of Primorsk, Ust-Luga and Novorossiisk were set at 8.74 million tonnes in August.

Russia, the world's second biggest oil exporter and leading gas exporter, has already reduced gas pipeline flows to many EU members, citing problems with turbine maintenance on the Nord Stream 1 pipeline as well as sanctions against some buyers Moscow describes as "unfriendly".

(Reporting by Reuters; editing by Barbara Lewis, Jason Neely and Jane Merriman)

Released: 2022-8-9T17:13:57.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220809ei8901w4t


International sanctions may be imposed easier - Senate's vote
471 字
2022 年 8 月 10 日 10:03 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Aug 10 (CTK) - The customs authority will receive the expressly set right to seize the property to which international sanctions relate along with the means of transport that transported it, under the piece of legislation passed by the Czech Senate today.

The violation of international sanctions will be a criminal act under the amendment to the law on implementation of international sanctions the Senate approved. It is yet to be signed by President Milos Zeman into law.

The amendment widens the possibility to impose sanctions, enhancing the powers of some authorities and introducing the fee for the administration of the seized property.

The EU has adopted a number of sanction packages against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.

Now the legislation will help the Czech authorities exact them mor easily.

"The law will relate not only to Russia. It will have a general validity," Finance Minister Zbynek Stanjura (Civic Democratic Party, ODS) told the senators today.

The authorities, the Czech National Bank, the police and intelligence services will have the duty to provide the Financial Analytical Office (FAU) with information or an official position for the proceedings arising from the law on execution of international sanctions.

The legislation also touches upon the laws on asylum and the foreigners' stay in connection with the possibility to ban the stay to a person on the sanction list.

It will also be possible to ban participation in a public tender to a firm covered by the sanctions. The legislation introduces a possible ban on the choice of the bid in the tender and limits or bans the fulfilment of the previously ordered contracts.

It will be possible to limit or ban the conclusion or fulfilment of a contract for public services in the transportation of passengers or in the public transport.

The amendment is also to deal with the costs arisen in connection with the administration of the seized property. It is to be covered by the fee for the administration of the property.

It will also be possible to sell the seized property in public interest.

The amendment also newly stipulates that the tobacco products that are the property to which international sanctions relate will be solely administered by the General Customs Authority. Now it is the Czech Agriculture and Food Inspection Authority or the Czech Trade Inspection.

The government says that under the current wording of the law, only those international sanctions that arise from the EU regulations, the United Nations Council of Security or other measures adopted on the basis of the EU Treaty can be implemented.

This is why the law must be widened in order to impose sanctions also under the newly proposed Czech sanction law. The bill is now debated by the Chamber of Deputies.

pvr/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220810ei8a0000o


EU suspension of visas for Russians may be sanction- Czech ForMin
589 字
2022 年 8 月 10 日 15:43 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Aug 10 (CTK) - A blanket suspension of visa issuance to Russian nationals by the EU countries may be another efficient sanction, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky told CTK today, referring to current debates on the issuance of the short-term Schengen visas to Russian citizens.

He said he wants to open the issue at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Prague at the end of August.

The PMs of Estonia and Finland on Tuesday suggested that Europe stop granting tourist visas to Russians. At present, Russians can freely travel with the visas, granted by Finland for example, to most of the 26 countries of the Schengen area.

Due to the sanctions with which the EU reacted to the February Russian invasion of Ukraine, Russians cannot reach EU countries by air, but they often go to the states such as Finland or Estonia, from where they can continue by air to other European destinations.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, too, has spoken against the issuance of visas to Russians.

Lipavsky today recalled that Czechia was the first EU state to introduce a blanket suspension of the issuance of visas to Russian nationals a mere one day after the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, i.e. on February 25. The ban is still in effect, and Czechia later also imposed it on Belarusians, except humanitarian situations in both cases.

Lipavsky said Czechia has taken up the issue repeatedly at the Brussels talks and has striven for the EU's coordinated approach.

"Amid the Russian aggression, the previously declared limits have been continuously changing, there can be no talk about common tourism of Russian citizens," he said.

"Our security is at the stake, for a long time I have been striving for a reduction of the influence and operation of Russian secret services in the EU territory," Lipavsky added.

He said the Czech cabinet is convinced that a suspension of the issuance of visas to Russian nationals will be clear and direct signal for the Russian society that the West would not tolerate the aggression committed by the Russian regime or the hate rhetoric aimed against free democratic countries that do not endanger Russia anyway.

"People in these countries should see that such a militant policy has consequences," he said, adding that a blanket suspension of the visa issuance by the EU might represent another efficient sanction against Russia.

In June, the Czech cabinet of the Together and PirSTAN alliances approved the Foreign Ministry's proposal to ban the issuance of visas and residence permits to Russians and Belarusians until the end of March 2023.

The ban does not apply to the Russians and Belarusians who have a Czech residence permit. They can apply for its prolongation. The ban does not apply to the short-term visa applications where the applicant is a member of the family of a Czech or EU citizen, whom he or she accompanies. Nor does the ban apply to the applications for visa and long-term or permanent residence permit if the applicant's residence is in the interest of the Czech Republic.

The ban does not apply to the requests for a long-term residence permit if the applicant is a member of the family of a foreigner with a Czech residence permit, and to the requests for a permanent residence permit for the children of foreigners staying in Czechia, if the goal of the request is their living together.

rtj/dr/pv

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220810ei8a0000a


CE Noticias Financieras English
EU foreign ministers to discuss Russian tourist visas at the end of August
450 字
2022 年 8 月 11 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Brussels, Aug. 11. The ministers of Foreign Affairs of the European Union will discuss the possibility of restricting or banning the issuance of visas to Russian tourists at their informal meeting on August 30 and 31 in the Czech Republic, which holds the presidency of the Council of the EU this semester and has spoken in favor of this measure to "send a clear signal" to Russian citizens.

In a statement sent by the Czech presidency of the EU Council, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavský considered that the outright freezing of Russian visas by all EU member states "could be another very effective sanction against Russia."

"I want to bring up the issue of visas for Russian citizens during the informal meeting of EU foreign ministers to be held in Prague at the end of August," the Czech minister stressed.

Lipavský recalled that his country "outright stopped all visa issuance for Russian citizens immediately after the outbreak of the war" and was in favor of all EU countries following in its footsteps.

"We were the first to implement the ban and we are trying to explain to our partners that the approach is justified and effective. At a time of Russian aggression, which the Kremlin continues to escalate, one cannot speak of common tourism for Russian citizens," the minister stressed.

In any case, the issuing of visas is a competence of each European country and the European Commission itself has insisted that each country can refuse applications if it considers that they pose, for example, a threat to public security, although it asks to maintain those granted on humanitarian, family or dissident or journalist grounds.

The Czech Republic, which from July to December this year coordinates meetings in the EU Council, has already raised this issue "repeatedly in Brussels at the level of prime ministers and foreign ministers" to try to coordinate an EU-wide response.

Prague believes that the freeze on visas for ordinary Russian citizens "gives a very clear and direct signal to Russian society there that the Western world does not tolerate the Russian regime's aggression and hateful rhetoric directed at free and democratic countries that pose no threat to Russia."

"The citizens of these countries should realize that such a militant policy has consequences," the minister noted.

Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu announced Thursday that his country will further reduce the number of cases in which it will issue visas to Russian citizens and, as of August 18, will prevent the entry of virtually all Russians who already have visas issued by the Baltic state. EFE

lzu/rja/ag

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220811ei8b008vw


Oil supplies to Czechia to resume on Fri or Sat - Mero head Pantucek
460 字
2022 年 8 月 11 日 12:21 GMT
CTK Business News
CTK
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
adds Finance Ministry's statement in para 6, updates paras 5,7

Prague, Aug 11 (CTK) - Oil supplies to Czechia via the Druzhba pipeline could resume on Friday or Saturday, while oil flows to Slovakia and Hungary have already restarted, Jaroslav Pantucek, board chairman of Czech pipeline operator Mero, said on the public Czech Television (CT) today.

Ukraine stopped oil transit on August 4 because it had not received payment from Russia for the August transit. Russia did send the money, but it was returned in July as a result of anti-Russian sanctions. The transit fee was then sent to Ukraine by Slovak refinery Slovnaft and its Hungarian owner, petrochemical group MOL, in order to resume oil supplies. However, this solution does not concern supplies to Czechia, according to Slovak oil transporter Transpetrol.

"MOL's customer has taken the appropriate steps to make the southern part of the pipeline work for the Slovaks and Hungarians. I have been informed by our customer that it is taking identical steps today, so I expect that very soon, either tomorrow or the day after tomorrow (Friday or Saturday) at the latest, oil will be flowing to us as well," Pantucek said.

In Czechia, crude oil is processed by the Unipetrol company, which is owned by Poland's PKN Orlen.

It is necessary to get the state's permission to exempt the transit fees from EU sanctions, to pay them and thus unblock the situation, Pantucek said. The permission is issued by the Financial Analytical Office (FAU).

The FAU has already performed all the actions in its competence necessary to allow oil to flow to Czechia again, in line with sanction regulations, Finance Ministry spokeswoman Michaela Lagronova told CTK today. The transit fees can therefore be paid.

The fees are paid per month and if the FAU approves their payment, the same method could be used next month as well, said Pantucek.

There is no reason for concern, as Czechia has oil reserves for at least 12 more days in operating stocks for refineries and another 90 days in the state material reserves, he said. Czechia also has a full-fledged supply option via the Transalpine Pipeline (TAL) from Trieste, Italy, he added.

Mero owns and operates the Czech part of Druzhba and the IKL pipeline, which connects Czechia to TAL.

The Druzhba oil pipeline starts in Russia on the eastern bank of the Volga river and divides into two branches in Belarus - the northern one leads to Poland and Germany, while the southern one leads via Ukraine to Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. According to earlier information, transit via the northern branch has not been suspended.

hel/er

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTK0000020220811ei8b0000b


EU presidency mulls visa ban for all Russians
314 字
2022 年 8 月 12 日 10:08 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
The Czech Republic, which holds the rotating EU presidency, said Friday that a blanket ban on visas for all Russian travellers could be the bloc's next sanction on Moscow.

"The flat halting of Russian visas by all EU member states could be another very effective sanction," Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said in a statement obtained by AFP.

He said he would propose the idea at an informal meeting of EU foreign ministers in Prague at the end of August.

"In a time of Russian aggression, which the Kremlin keeps on escalating, there cannot be talks about common tourism for Russian citizens," said Lipavsky.

The EU has so far come up with six sanction packages against Russia.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called on the West to ban all Russian travellers in an interview with the Washington Post this week, saying Russians should "live in their own world until they change their philosophy".

The Czech Republic stopped issuing visas for ordinary Russians on February 25, a day after Russia invaded Ukraine.

But Russian tourists are still flowing into Europe through Finland.

Once they enter the visa-free Schengen zone, the Russians -- including spies -- are free to travel across most of Europe.

Finland's Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto last week introduced a plan to limit tourist visas for Russians.

Kaja Kallas, the prime minister of Estonia which also borders Russia, called on the EU to stop issuing visas to Russians earlier this week.

"Visiting Europe is a privilege, not a human right," she said in a tweet on Tuesday.

Lipavsky said the move would send "a very clear and straightforward signal to the Russian society".

It will show that "the Western world does not tolerate the Russian regime's aggression and hateful rhetoric aimed at free, democratic countries that pose no threat to Russia," he added.

frj/ach

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220812ei8c005sd


Czech Republic This Week - August 12, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 8 月 12 日, 9551 字, (英文)
Fuel prices in Czechia fall for the first time in monthsFuel prices in Czechia fell for the first time in months, dropping below CZK42 per litre for the first time since February.

Russia This Week - August 12, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 8 月 12 日, 55176 字, (英文)
Russian oil imports to resume this week, says Czech pipeline operatorCzech state-owned pipeline operator Mero says that a payment will be made to Ukrainian pipeline operator Uktransnafta to unblock supplies of Russian crude to the country.

CE Noticias Financieras English
EU presidency considers visa ban for all Russians
337 字
2022 年 8 月 12 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The Czech Republic, which holds the rotating presidency of the European Union (EU), said Friday that a visa ban for all Russian travelers could be the bloc's next sanction against Russia.

A total freeze on Russian visas by all EU member states could be another very effective sanction," Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said in a statement obtained by AFP.

WE ALSO RECOMMEND YOU READ: These are the 28 apps that spy on you and you should delete them from your cell phone right now.

Lipavsky said he will make the proposal at an informal meeting of EU foreign ministers in Prague in late August.

Ukrainian authorities are demanding that the EU take this step, which divides the bloc's countries, which are obliged to adopt sanctions unanimously.

In this period of Russian aggression, which the Kremlin continues to intensify, there can be no talk of common tourism for Russian citizens," Lipavsky said.

Czech Republic stopped issuing visas to Russians since February 25, the day after the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The EU has so far adopted six sanctions packages against Russia.

Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelenski called on Western countries to ban entry to all Russian citizens in an interview with the Washington Post this week.

Finnish Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto last week presented a plan to limit tourist visas for Russians.

ALSO WE RECOMMEND YOU READ: Garters in the teeth, the new very dangerous trend in Tik Tok

Kaja Kallas, prime minister of Estonia, also bordering Russia, called on the EU to stop issuing visas to Russians earlier this week.

Visiting Europe is a privilege, not a human right," she wrote on Twitter on Tuesday.

Lipavsky said the move would send "a very clear and direct signal to Russian society."

It would show that "the Western world does not tolerate the Russian regime's aggression and hateful rhetoric against free and democratic countries that do not pose a threat to Russia," he added.

***mjpr***

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220812ei8c007dm


It is necessary to decide on EU-level on visa ban for Russian citizens - PM Karins
Kristaps Ūgainis
308 字
2022 年 8 月 12 日 16:31 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, Aug 12 (LETA) - It is necessary to decide on the European Union (EU) level on a Schengen visa ban for Russian citizens to thus toughen the sanctions imposed on Russia, Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins (New Unity) said Friday following a meeting with Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte.

The Czech Republic, which holds the rotating EU presidency, said Friday that a blanket ban on visas for all Russian travelers could be the bloc's next sanction on Moscow.

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said said he would propose the idea at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Prague at the end of August.

"In a time of Russian aggression, which the Kremlin keeps on escalating, there cannot be talks about common tourism for Russian citizens," said Lipavsky.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called on the West to ban all Russian travellers in an interview with the Washington Post this week, saying Russians should "live in their own world until they change their philosophy".

Finland's Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto last week introduced a plan to limit tourist visas for Russians.

Latvia informed last week that it would stop issuing visas to Russian and Belarusian citizens.

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas called on the EU to stop issuing visas to Russians earlier this week. "Visiting Europe is a privilege, not a human right," she said in a tweet on Tuesday.

While discussing the situation in the energy sector, the prime ministers of Latvia and Lithuania underlined the necessity to strengthen energy independence from Russia, ensuring at the same time necessary gas deliveries to the region for the coming heating season.

Karins and Simonyte also reasserted their countries' commitment to providing support to Ukraine in its struggle against Russian aggression.

33324237324638442D393334312D3435

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220812ei8c001xh


CE Noticias Financieras English
European Union to consider cancellation of tourist visas for Russian nationals
358 字
2022 年 8 月 12 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The Czech Republic, which holds the rotating presidency of the European Union (EU), on Friday considered that a visa ban for all Russian travelers could be the bloc's next sanction against Russia.

"A total freeze on Russian visas by all EU member states could be another very effective sanction," Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said in a statement.

Lipavsky said he will make the proposal at an informal meeting of EU foreign ministers in Prague in late August.

The Ukrainian government is demanding that the EU take this step, which divides the bloc's countries, which are obliged to adopt sanctions unanimously. Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelensky pressed the issue in an interview with The Washington Post this week.

"In this period of Russian aggression, which the Kremlin continues to escalate, there can be no talk of common tourism for Russian citizens," Lipavsky said.

Czech Republic stopped issuing visas to Russians since February 25, the day after the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

So far, the European Commission has reminded that the competence to decide on the issuance of tourist visas lies with each member state. However, the European Executive's Home Affairs spokeswoman has urged that these entry permits be maintained in specific circumstances. "Member States must respect their international obligations and ensure that there are visas that are always granted, such as humanitarian visas and visas for family members, journalists or dissidents."

The EU has so far adopted six sanctions packages against Russia.

Finnish Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto also presented a plan last week to limit tourist visas for Russians.

Kaja Kallas, prime minister of Estonia, also bordering Russia, also called on the EU to stop issuing visas to Russians earlier this week. "Visiting Europe is a privilege, not a human right," she wrote on Twitter on Tuesday.

Lipavsky said the move would send "a very clear and direct signal to Russian society." It would show that "the Western world does not tolerate the Russian regime's aggression and hateful rhetoric against free and democratic countries that pose no threat to Russia," he added.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220812ei8c008kg


EU countries to discuss visa restrictions for Russian tourists
109 字
2022 年 8 月 12 日
Spanish Collection
SPACOL
英文
(c) 2022 AII Data Processing Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
The foreign ministers of the EU will discuss the possibility of restricting the issuance of visas to Russian tourists during the summit that they will hold in the Czech Republic on August 30 and 31, 2022.

The Czech Republic's President, Jan Lipavsky, indicated on Thursday that he would introduce this point during the meeting at the end of the month, considering that it could be another very effective sanction against Russia following its invasion of Ukraine.

Abstracted from an original article in Expansion (Los países de la UE debatirán restringir los visados a turistas rusos).Source: (ND/ND/ND)

AII Data Processing Limited

文件 SPACOL0020220812ei8c0018h


EU presidency backs visa ban for Russians
Agnes Szucs |
369 字
2022 年 8 月 12 日
Anadolu Agency
ANATOL
英文
© Copyright Andolu Ajansi
EU foreign ministers expected to discuss blanket ban on Russian tourist visas at meeting in late August

BRUSSELS

The Czech Republic, which currently holds the rotating presidency of the EU, on Friday backed the proposal for an EU-wide visa ban for Russian citizens.

“The flat halting of Russian visas by all EU member states could be another very effective sanction,” Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said in a statement.

His remarks lend support to a push by Estonia, Latvia and Finland for all EU states to stop issuing tourist visas to Russians and prevent other means to circumvent the ban.

Estonia’s top diplomat Urmas Reinsalu said on Thursday that he would present an official proposal to the Council of the European Union, chaired by the Czech Republic.

Lipavsky confirmed he will include the proposal on the agenda of the EU foreign ministers’ informal meeting in Prague on Aug. 31.

“In a time of Russian aggression, which the Kremlin keeps on escalating, there cannot be talks about common tourism for Russian citizens,” he said.

If adopted, the new sanctions will send a “very clear and straightforward signal to the Russian society,” he added.

The Czech Republic’s stance does not come as a surprise since it was the first EU country to suspend visas for all Russians, with the exception of humanitarian cases, right after the war in Ukraine began on Feb. 24.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy had earlier suggested the measure as a way to ramp up diplomatic pressure on Moscow.

“Visiting Europe is a privilege, not a human right,” Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said earlier this week.

However, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz rejected the idea on Thursday, stressing that “it is (President Vladimir) Putin’s war” and that sanctions should not harm innocent people.

The EU has slapped seven sets of sanctions on Russia over the Ukraine war, targeting, among others, Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

The measures also include economic sanctions such as banning gold, oil and coal imports and export of luxury goods, as well as excluding Russian and Belarusian banks from the SWIFT international payment system.​​​​​​​

EU presidency backs visa ban for Russians[https://cdnuploads.aa.com.tr/uploads/Contents/2022/08/12/thumbs_b_c_620d544e961b3ce477259330fa4ba581.jpg]

Anadolu Agency

文件 ANATOL0020220813ei8c00002


Levits proposes revoking residence permits and visas issued to foreigners who support Russian aggression
Gatis Kristovskis
596 字
2022 年 8 月 13 日 14:13 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, Aug 13 (LETA) - Latvian President Egils Levits stated that residence permits and visas issued so far in Latvia for those persons who support Russian aggression should be annulled, he said while addressing the participants of the 23rd gathering of politically repressed persons of Latvia in Ikskile on Saturday.

As LETA was informed by the Office of the President, Levits said that recently, not only in Latvia, but also in a number of other European countries, especially in Estonia and Finland, which directly borders Russia, as well as in the Czech Republic, which is currently the country holding the presidency of the European Union, such discussions about Russian tourists in Europe are taking place.

"Is it politically and morally justifiable: while the Russian army kills and burns in Ukraine, Russian tourists can rest peacefully in Europe?" asked the president rhetorically.

Levits reminded that Latvia has not issued tourist visas since the first day of the war - February 24, but other countries continue to issue them. Russian tourists enter Latvia not only with tourist visas issued by Latvia, but also by other Schengen countries, such as Finland or Italy, for example.

Taking into account the above, Levits believes that Latvia, together with Finland, Estonia, the Czech Republic and other like-minded countries, should put forward a demand at the European level to stop issuing tourist visas to Russian citizens. These would be additional sanctions against Russia.

At the same time, the president said that knowing that a number of European countries, where Russian tourists leave a lot of money, they will not be excited about such a proposal. The German chancellor has also expressed his doubts about such a proposal. "But I believe that it is necessary to talk about it. It is necessary to talk about this in principle," Levits emphasized.

At the same time, the president believes that the residence permits and visas already issued in Latvia should be reviewed. Those who support Russian aggression should have them nullified. However, in any case, in principle, such permits should no longer be extended, except if special circumstances are proven in a specific case.

According to the president, residence permits should also no longer be issued to those permanent residents of Latvia who accept Russian citizenship in the future, and they should leave the country.

"Trading with residence permits by previous governments, their unjustified generosity in granting residence permits to Russian citizens, behind which only the selfish interests of some political businessmen hid, has created security risks and promoted bilingualism. It is time to correct the consequences of this failed and dangerous policy," Levits emphasized.

The AFP news agency writes that the Czech Republic, which holds the rotating EU presidency, said Friday that a blanket ban on visas for all Russian travelers could be the bloc's next sanction on Moscow.

"The flat halting of Russian visas by all EU member states could be another very effective sanction," Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said in a statement obtained by AFP.

He said he would propose the idea at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Prague at the end of August.

"In a time of Russian aggression, which the Kremlin keeps on escalating, there cannot be talks about common tourism for Russian citizens," said Lipavsky.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called on the West to ban all Russian travelers in an interview with the Washington Post this week, saying Russians should "live in their own world until they change their philosophy".

37443832433836452D353336422D3433

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220813ei8d000m9


Breaching of international sanctions to be treated as crime in Czechia
387 字
2022 年 8 月 18 日 05:44 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czech President Milos Zeman has signed into law the latest measures implementing international sanctions in Czechia.

The new legislation empowers Czech customs authorities to seize vehicles transporting sanctioned property or obliges institutions such as Czech National Bank, Czech police, or intelligence agencies to submit information to the Financial Analytical Office (FAO) in connection with implementing of international sanctions.

Breaching of the international sanctions will now constiute a crime.

Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began Czech media saw a surge of investigative stories about sanctioned individuals linked to the property, shares, or other forms of assets in the Czech Republic, prompting a public debate about the constant changes in its legislation.

Some of these included[https://www.irozhlas.cz/zpravy-domov/rusko-konflikt-valka-ukrajina-majetky-cesko-aligarcha-miliardar-vladimir-putin_2203240500_sto] Russian billionaire oligarchs Vladimir Yevtushenko and Alexander Pumpyansky. Others were able to enter public procurement in the country through such as Oleg Deripaska through his shares in Strabag.

According to the Datlab database[https://datlab.eu/blog/nas-nastroj-rychle-proveri-dodavatele-proti-ruskym-sankcnim-seznamum/] of risk contacts there are more than 23.000 companies with links to Russian businesses and more than 150 of these are clearly linked to sanction entities.

However, data are continuously being examined. “The data analysis does not mean that this would be a definitive list”, Datlab analyst Jiri Skuhrovec told Czech TV[https://ct24.ceskatelevize.cz/domaci/3521431-stat-mohl-zadrzet-majetek-lidi-na-mezinarodnich-sankcnich-seznamech-novelu-posoudi] earlier in August.

Dow Jones published a risk assessment[https://www.dowjones.com/professional/risk/blog/czechrepublic/] for foreign investors in Czechia of “of unwittingly doing business with individuals and companies associated with sanctioned Russian entities, politically exposed persons or organized crime elements” well before the Russian aggression against Ukraine.

FAO was set up in 2017 by separating the department of the same name into an independent financial intelligence agency at the time when populist billionaire Andrej Babis was the country’s minister of finance and after Babis’ ANO party made it to the parliament for the first time in 2013 running on an anti-corruption ticket.

On July 1 Jiri Hylmar was appointed to head the FAO as part of the effort to turn FAO into a key agency focusing on implementation of international sanctions introduced in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Czech Minister of Finance Zbynek Stanjura praised Hylmar’s experience upon his naming to the post. “We need exactly the kind of specialist at FAO during the implementation of sanctions against Russia”, Stanjura told Czech TV[https://ct24.ceskatelevize.cz/domaci/3512575-financni-analyticky-urad-ma-noveho-reditele-libora-kazdu-nahradil-jiri-hylmar] in July.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220818ei8i000p2


Czech media commentaries
1099 字
2022 年 8 月 18 日 05:35 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Aug 18 (CTK) - Czech Health Minister Vlastimil Valek (TOP 09) likes to present himself as an advocate of COVID-19 vaccination, but the reality is different, though the costs of the vaccination are far lower than the costs of COVID patients' hospitalisation, Alex Svamberk writes on server Novinky.cz.

The Valek-led Health Ministry acts as if all people in Czechia desired to get vaccinated. Although there still remains a high portion of unvaccinated people, including seniors, the ministry postponed the launch of its campaign in support of the vaccination by several weeks until mid-August. True, the summer coronavirus wave tended to subside in the past weeks. However, the postponement of the previously envisaged campaign might have discouraged those hesitating, who might have concluded that there is no urgent need to seek the jab.

They might have decided not to do so, also impressed by Czechia's smooth coping with the summer wave of the infection. If Valek had a bit of psychological skills, he would have known that it is always the best to launch such a campaign at a time when people are afraid.

The ministry launched the campaign on August 16, the same day when Britain approved the bivalent Moderna vaccine that is also efficient against the Omicron variant of the virus.

Judging by Novinky.cz's survey, almost a half of Czechs would prefer such a vaccine. Valek, nevertheless, knows nothing about the British medicine agency's decision and is asserting that the newly developed vaccines are not efficient against Omicron because they were developed as vaccines against the Delta variant. Such ignorance on the minister's part is embarrassing.

Valek should have known that such a vaccine was being approved in Britain and he should have chosen the timing of the Czech campaign accordingly.

Czechia does not only need to see the revaccination of those two or three times vaccinated, but also of those who still remain unvaccinated. For these people, the vaccine against the initial variant of coronavirus would be enough. Now, however, they will logically insist on receiving the new vaccine. It is a good piece of news that Czechia is negotiating about its purchase, but no concrete date in this respect has been set so far, unfortunately, Svamberk writes.

We are not in Russia, let's not fear to discuss issues such as the granting of visas to Russians and our approach to Ukraine faced with Russian aggression, Lukas Jelinek writes on server iROZHLAS.cz.

The debate on whether to stop issuing visas to Russian nationals has been conducted across Europe. A tough visa policy has been promoted by Poland and the Baltic states. The countries opposed to it are Greece, Spain, Italy, France, Finland, Croatia, Cyprus. Hungary, Slovenia and Austria, and also Germany, judging by Chancellor Olaf Scholz's words.

Czechia stands closer to the resolute states who have previous own experience with Russia.

An argument against the radical position is that once having entered the Schengen area, Russians can hardly be ousted from it elsewhere. No EU agreement on the issue has been emerging.

It is also important to realise what long-term consequences the visa suspension might have. As a quick reaction to Putin's war, the suspension of the visas, on the part of Czechia for example, was a correct step.

To what extent is the suspension sustainable? Should we shut the Russian middle class, the supposed initiator of democratisation processes, in Putin's ghetto and reproach them for failing to topple Putin? Are they currently strong enough to do so? Is not Putin supported mainly by those who have neither money nor desire to travel abroad?

The debate on ways to punish dictators and people loyal to them, and simultaneously promote democracy behind the Iron Curtain is complex and neverending, and each step in this respect, including the visa suspension, should be thoroughly considered before being taken.

There are also other questions that leading democratic intellectuals have asked in western newspapers. How long will the European public opinion tolerate the decline in Europe's living standard due to the sanction battle against Moscow? Will not Europe, with its approach, enhance Moscow's ties with Beijng and other cynical regimes that would eagerly buy the Russian raw materials? Will not the arms supplies to Ukraine weaken the West's defence capability? Is the West's self-confidence so high to enable it to thumb its nose at Russia and China? Jelinek asks.

Czech Interior Minister Vit Rakusan's (Mayors and Independents, STAN) decision to appoint Petr Mlejnek head of the civilian intelligence service (UZSI) in July although he knew that Mlejnek had contacts with Michal Redl, a lobbyist implicated in a corruption case, was a huge political mistake, Petr Honzejk writes on hn.cz.

True, Mlejnek's appointment had been recommended by then chief-of-staff Ales Opata, and Mlejnek has security clearance for the "secret" degree. In addition, there need not be anything bad about Mlejnek's business negotiations with Redl, from which no joint deal emerged after all. As a businessman, one meets lots of strange people, and this does not have to automatically bind one to step down from all posts.

What imports is whether one allows himself entangled in suspicious activities, and this does not seem to have happened in the case of Mlejnek.

However, the important thing is how the Mlejnek affair looks outwardly, and it looks horrible. The media slogan saying that "the USZI chief appointed by a minister for STAN was meeting a mafia member" overshadows all matter-of-fact information.

It is quite easy for the opposition to present a story about STAN as a corrupt party and about Petr Fiala (Civic Democrats, ODS) as the prime minister who is unwilling to do something about it.

It is unbelievable that Rakusan did not realise this danger before appointing Mlejnek, through Mlejnek himself had told him about his business contacts with Redl.

There is no good solution to the case. If Rakusan dismissed Mlejnek, whom he has fiercely defended so far, it would mean his admission of political incompetence. PM Fiala does not feel like intervening either, because this might result in a rift with STAN, the second strongest and indispensable party in his cabinet. As a result, both Rakusan and Fiala will stick to the once made mistake, giving more opportunities to opposition leader Andrej Babis (ANO) to criticise "organised crime" on the part of STAN and provoke a show with a vote of no confidence in the cabinet, Honzejk writes.

rtj/t/pv

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220818ei8i0000t


Czech Republic This Week - August 19, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 8 月 19 日, 10016 字, (英文)
The economic war with Russia has already cost the West $380bnThe economic war that the West launched against Russia in the days following the invasion of Ukraine has already cost developing nations $379bn, analysts estimate.

EU diplomacy heads to debate Russian aggression, Africa in Prague
446 字
2022 年 8 月 27 日 12:04 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Aug 27 (CTK) - The EU countries' foreign ministers will discuss mainly the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the EU-Africa relations at an informal summit held in the Congress Centre in Prague within the Czech EU presidency om August 30-31, according to the information on the presidency website[https://czech-presidency.consilium.europa.eu/cs/aktuality/neformalni-setkani-ministru-zahranicnich-veci-eu-gymnich/].

An informal lunch with the diplomacy heads of Ukraine (Dmytro Kuleba), Moldova (Nicolae Popescu) and Georgia (Ilia Darchiashvili) will take place on the sidelines of the summit on Wednesday

Czech Chamber of Deputies chairwoman Marketa Pekarova Adamova (TOP 09) will meet Kuleba on Tuesday.

The foreign ministers' meeting traditionally follows up the talks of the EU defence ministers scheduled for Monday and Tuesday. Both summits will focus on the Russian invasion of Ukraine and its impacts on security of the EU 27.

The diplomacy heads will deal with the global consequences of the Russian invasion as well as further sanctions against the country that attacked Ukraine in February.

The EU member states have already adopted seven sanction packages. The latest one was approved in July, concerning the ban on gold imports from Russia and restrictions on the imports of goods that might be used for military purposes. Restrictions on the Sberbank biggest Russian banks were also extended. Besides, some 59 Russian citizens and several firms were added at the sanction list.

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) previously said he would like to open the topic of blanket suspension of short-term Schengen visa issuance for Russian citizens at the meeting of the EU diplomacy heads.

A number of European countries have restricted the entry of Russian citizens to their territory. Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and the Czech Republic have limited the issuance of tourist visas. Estonia last week banned the entry for Russian citizens with Schengen visas issued by Estonia.

However, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz stood up against the blanket suspension, arguing that this would make the possibility to flee from Russia more difficult for opponents to the Kremlin.

On Wednesday, the foreign ministers will also debate the European perspective of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia and the future of the Eastern Partnership project, boosting cooperation between the EU and a group of six post-Soviet countries, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. It was launched in Prague during the first Czech EU presidency in 2009.

On Tuesday, the ministers will talk about relations between the EU and Africa, including the future of the European training mission in Mali and the EPs further involvement in the region. The ministers will also touch upon the fight with Russian disinformation and strengthening contacts with African countries.

hol/dr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220827ei8r0000d


World
EU meets to nut out ban on Russia visas
Jacquelin Magnay
448 字
2022 年 8 月 29 日 08:50 GMT
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
英文
© News Pty Limited. No redistribution is permitted.
The EU will look to restrict tourist visas to Russians at a meeting in Prague on Tuesday.

Under pressure from the Baltic States and Ukraine, which have long demanded a blanket visa ban, the EU is to look at making it more difficult for Russians to move about the continent, as well as farther afield.

For example, once Russians are in Europe, they can apply for an Australian tourist visa.

The Schengen visa concept, allowing free travel through all member countries once one has issued a visa, has complicated single-country responses.

Last week German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, mindful of the reliance of his country on Russian gas to get through the coming winter, said he didn’t want to punish ordinary Russians with such a tourism sanction.

“This is Putin’s war, so I have a very hard time accepting that idea,” Mr Scholz said.

It is anticipated that meeting of EU foreign ministers will scrap the preferential treatment Russians enjoy in applying for visas in member states.

But the Baltic states have threatened to go it alone and ban Russian tourist visas, making it more difficult for Russians to move through the rest of Europe, if the EU doesn’t agree to impose a Schengen-wide policy.

“They must be deprived of the right to cross international borders until they learn to respect them,” Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said this month.

Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin said it wasn’t right for Russians to travel as tourists across the continent while their nation was waging war in Europe.

Denmark’s Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod told the Danish news agency: “I consider it shameful that Russian tourists can sunbathe and live in luxury in the south of Europe while Ukrainian cities are bombed beyond recognition.”

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said visiting Europe should be a privilege for Russians. She noted that while air travel from Russia was shut, Schengen countries had continued to issue tourist visas and Russians were flooding into neighbouring countries through land borders. The timing of the visa tightening is curious given that Russians have flocked to the Mediterranean for the summer holidays, which have just finished.

Lithuanian Foreign minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said Russians had been travelling through Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Finland and Poland to get to other parts of Europe. Some were flying via Istanbul, Dubai and Yerevan.

Latvia has already suspended tourist visas for Russians and Finland has cut the number of visas it approves by 90 per cent. In Britain, processing times for Russians applying for visas are so long and cumbersome to render an application virtually meaningless.

Nationwide News Pty Ltd.

文件 AUSTOL0020220829ei8t002gx


EU split on visa bans for Russia, plans Ukraine training missions
The Peninsula Newspaper
400 字
2022 年 8 月 30 日
The Peninsula
PINSUL
英文
© 2022, The Peninsula, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
PRAGUE: Germany and France have issued a joint warning against a ban on tourist visas for Russians, saying such a step, advocated by other European Union member states, would be counter-productive.

The split on tourist visas will be at the heart of a meeting of the bloc's foreign ministers in Prague on Tuesday and Wednesday, as they discuss what further steps they can take to sanction Russia for its six-month old invasion of Ukraine.

Defence ministers meeting in Prague are likely to agree in principle on the less controversial step of organising joint military training missions for Ukrainian troops.

"While limiting contacts with regime representatives and authorities to areas of vital EU interest, we need to strategically fight for the 'hearts and minds' of the Russian population - at least the segments not yet completely estranged from 'the West'," France and Germany said in the joint memo seen by Reuters.

The bloc's two leading countries argue for close scrutiny of visa applications for security risks, but believe visas should still be issued.

"We should not underestimate the transformative power of experiencing life in democratic systems at first-hand, especially for future generations," they said.

Others, including eastern and Nordic member states, argue strongly for a ban.

"It is very provocative to me that you see Russian men on European beaches in Southern Europe and at the same time Ukrainian men between 18 and 60 years cannot even leave their country but have to fight for their freedom," Denmark's Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod said last week.

"We think it is right that we together in Europe can limit and cut off tourists from Russia and it would send a clear message to (President) Putin."

An EU diplomat said on Monday that the foreign ministers might agree in principle on suspending a visa facilitation agreement with Russia, which would mean Russians face a more lengthy procedure and would pay 80 euros instead of 35 euros for EU visas.

Meanwhile, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said he hoped defence ministers would give him a green light to start working on an EU military training mission for Ukraine.

Several EU countries have been training Ukrainian troops, mainly enabling them to operate weapons Western nations are delivering to Ukraine to help its fight against Russia's invasion.

Dar Al Seyassah Press Printing & Publishing (WLL)

文件 PINSUL0020220831ei8u00027


Sanctions on Russian economy work-Borrell tells Prague conference
645 字
2022 年 9 月 5 日 10:58 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds new info from para 15 down.

Prague, Sept 5 (CTK) - The impact of sanctions on the Russian economy is increasing, especially on the aviation, and their influence on its industry will keep rising, EU Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Representative Josep Borrell told the inter-parliamentary conference on foreign, security and defence policy in Prague today.

Borrell, who spoke over the video, said EU foreign ministers debated the sanctions in Prague last week.

Some say Russia has a constant, big inflow of financial means from the sales of gas and petrol. This is naturally true because their price is rising, but the EU influence on the Russian industry and its impact is vital and will keep intensifying, Borrell said.

It will take some time before the sanctions will fully bring to bear, he added.

Russia has decreased its petrol and gas extraction, Borrell said.

This means that the impact of Western technologies and firms having withdrawn from the Russian market is big, he added.

EU countries have adopted six direct packages of sanctions. The latest set was approved in July. EC representatives do not call this the seventh package of sanctions, but the specification of the previously imposed measures.

The set related to the ban on imports of Russian gold and limitation of exports of the products that can be used for military purposes.

The measures against the biggest Russian bank Sberbank were widened. Some 50 Russians and several firms were added to the sanction list.

The continuing war in Ukraine is also a test of capabilities of EU countries, Borrell said.

It is a responsibility of the EU and its countries to resolve the problem of soaring prices and to interrupt energy dependence on Russia. The energy crisis has a big influence on citizens, he added.

Russia uses the prices of gas and petrol as a part of a hybrid war, Borrell said.

Last week, the EU ministers also discussed the influence of the Russian aggression in Ukraine on Africa. Some of its countries are tackling the shortage of food. The Russian narrative says Western sanctions are to blame for this, Borrell said.

The narrative has been accepted by a part of governments, media and society. The EU must be very cautious so that its relations with African countries do not reach the point when it will no longer be possible to maintain them, he added.

Borrell also stressed that EU foreign ministers had agreed on discontinuing the agreement facilitating the issuance of visas to Russian tourists.

However, they did not find consensus on across-the-board issuance of visas to Russian tourists and a considerable decrease in their number, as demanded by Poland, Finland, the Czech Republic and Baltic countries.

The chairman of the Latvian parliamentary foreign committee, Rihards Kols, called on the EU again to be tougher on Russian tourists in its visa policy today.

The argument that the EU should be open to the Russians who want to be inspired by democracy is wrong because Russians could have been inspired by Western democracy since 2014, after the annexation of Crimea, but this has never happened, he added.

Kols said he did not think a visit to Charles Bridge in Prague or European beaches might change anything in this.

He also said one million Russian citizens had crossed the borders of Estonia and Finland since the February start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Borrell then replied that countries could apply national capacities to control the cross-border traffic. Having the visas does not automatically imply that the relevant persons can enter the country.

The ministers have agreed on the implementation of the elements allowing a bigger check and lowering number of the visas, he added.

It is impossible to fully isolate the Russian population from Europe, Borrell said.

pvr/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020220905ei950000t


Global Times
A bitter pill to swallow for Europe: locals gripped with severe energy crisis protest paying price for political games
GT staff reporters
1075 字
2022 年 9 月 7 日
Global Times
GLOTNE
P04
英文
Copyright 2022. Global Times. All rights reserved.
People wave national flags as they protest against Czech government at Wenceslas Square in Prague, Czech Republic, September 3, 2022. According to Czech police, 70,000 people attended a protest calling for the government to resign, while demanding mitigation of the energy crisis and repair of the damage. Photo: VCG

After more than 70,000 protesters filled Wenceslas Square in the Czech Republic to express their anger over soaring energy prices, more people living in Europe are taking to the streets to protest against their governments for putting Ukraine ahead of their own residents' livelihoods.

Some residents reached by the Global Times expressed their worries about a severer energy crisis in the coming winter and complained that they are the ones who are paying the price for their governments' political strategies, which have been kidnapped by values and ideology.

Some said that protests in the Czech Republic and the scattered protests in Germany and France may be just a beginning. More began to step out of their instinctive sympathy for Ukraine and gradually realized that they themselves are swallowing bitter pills for their governments' "political correctness" strategy to follow the US to sanction Russia.

"Me and my pals are organizing protests… We are fed up with the government giving away our money to the capitalists… who are running the energy sector… we are also fed up that our country will be giving 100 billion euros and 2 percent of the GDP to the military for future wars against Russia or China," Tim P., a German student from North Rhine-Westphalia, told the Global Times.

Since Sunday, many people in different cities, including Dusseldorf, Berlin and Cologne in Germany, took to the streets to protest against energy prices and Berlin's refusal to launch the Nord Stream pipeline, calling for a ban on weapons exports to Ukraine.

Tim said that the rise of gas bills has been really severe in Germany while the government has not put forward a useful plan.

The "relief" plan of the German government gives a one-time payment - 200 euros ($198) for students and 300 euros to workers in Germany - but his energy bill surpasses 200 euros, which means the money offered by the government will not help at all.

"By increasing energy prices, the money finally goes back to the pockets of capitalists in the energy sector," Tim P. said.

In July 2022, the average wholesale electricity price in Germany surpassed 315 euros per megawatt-hour, nearly four times the price recorded a year earlier, according to the statista.com website, a world-leading statistic database.

Not only Germany, but also people who live in many other European cities reached by the Global Times also complained about the increasing energy prices and inflation problems. For example, in the UK, natural gas prices rose nearly 96 percent in the year to July, while electricity prices were up 54 percent.

Jimmy Zhao from Paris told the Global Times that the increasing gas price has severely affected many people's lives. "Those who relied on the minimum wage of 1,600 euros for a month cannot afford to raise their children, even with the government's subsidies… the soaring gas bills, prices for daily necessities… all have made their lives harder."

Liu Man, a Chinese student who studies in Paris, gave the details of price increases. "The electricity bill has increased more than 40 percent and the cooking oil, which was sold for three euros, now costs more than four euros… although the local government offered subsidies to low income families, it is far from enough."

The current energy crisis and soaring gas bills may be just the beginning as it is hard for many European countries to fix their gas shortages, given their continuous sanctions on Russia over the conflict with Ukraine, and many European politicians and analysts have warned of a very bad winter for not only residents of Europe but also the economies.

Fu Jialiang, a Chinese student who now studies in Aachen of Germany, said the university has sent emails to students about saving energy, including suspending heating systems in buildings or rooms that have fewer people and suspend heating systems for running water to wash their hands.

Fu also noted that many German residents had complained that the government was "putting Ukraine in the first place, instead of taking care of its own residents," and some said that the German government only cares about how to help Ukraine and never thought that Germans may freeze to death in this winter.

Tim from Germany said that they organized the protest to demand Germany leaves NATO and stops taking part in "imperialistic wars against other countries" because "a military not built to protect the people but the exploitation of resources in Africa and the Middle-East is a waste of money" and this money could have been used for "more important things like school, education, health care and feeding those who can't even afford a decent meal."

At the beginning of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, many European and US people just made an instinctive emotional response to support Ukraine, which in their governments' narratives is the vulnerable one and the victim, said Cui Hongjian, director of the Department of European Studies at the China Institute of International Studies.

But as the conflict continues, people grow more rational and practical over the issue as they get engaged in the conflict more and more deeply, and they started to feel the actual consequences of the European and US' sanctions against Russian, Cui told the Global Times.

Vzglyad, a Russian newspaper, pointed out in an article published on Monday that a conclusion can be drawn from the recent protests in Europe that people here are beginning to recover from Russophobia, as many are demanding their governments lower prices and stop supporting Ukraine.

The European and US governments take actions based on their political interests rather than the interests of the people. The EU is making several mistakes because it is imposing sanctions without doing the proper analyses before. The EU and the US simply "demanded" that those countries join in sanctioning Russia, without being clear on what basis, and now their people are paying the price, observers said.

Huang Ziting and Zhu Haoning also contributed to this story

Global Times Co Ltd

文件 GLOTNE0020220907ei9700009


WRAPUP 1-Putin threatens to halt energy supplies, Czechs get cold feet on price cap
451 字
2022 年 9 月 7 日 10:18 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
PRAGUE/VLADIVOSTOK Russia, Sept 7 (Reuters) - President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that Russia will stop supplying gas and oil if price caps are imposed, while the European Union faced divisions on how to respond to a deepening energy crisis.

Speaking at an economic forum in Vladivostok, Putin blasted Europe's calls for a price cap on Russian gas as "stupid", and said Russia would walk away from its supply contracts if the West imposed price caps on Russia's exports.

EU energy ministers are due to meet on Friday to discuss how to respond to reduced gas supplies from Russia and a surge in prices that threaten to overwhelm businesses and consumers as demand rises in the colder months.

However, a plan to cap prices for Russian gas, one of the main measures being weighed by the EU, was thrown into doubt when a Czech minister said it should be taken off the agenda.

The Czechs are helping to guide discussions as holders of the EU's rotating presidency.

"It is not a constructive proposal, according to me. It is more another way to sanction Russia than an actual solution to the energy crisis in Europe," Czech news agency CTK quoted Industry Minister Jozef Sikela as saying.

The energy crisis facing Europe has grown more acute after Russia's Gazprom fully suspended gas supplied through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to Germany after it said it found an engine oil leak during maintenance work last week.

Putin rejected Western claims that Moscow was using gas as a weapon to break opposition to its invasion of Ukraine.

The Russian president said Germany and Western sanctions were to blame for the pipeline not being operational and that Ukraine and Poland decided on their own to switch off other gas routes into Europe.

He called on Germany to return a turbine for the pipeline's Portovaya compressor station that would allow Russia to resume pumping gas.

The impact of the surge in prices is forcing companies to curtail production and governments to spend billions on support to cushion consumers from the impact.

Europe's electricity industry body urged governments to provide emergency credit to energy companies facing a liquidity squeeze from soaring collateral needs as power prices rise.

In Germany, a survey showed that more than 90% of medium-sized companies see rising energy and raw materials prices as a major or existential threat, highlighting the growing risks for the "Mittelstand" which forms the backbone of Europe's largest economy.

(Reporting by Reuters Writing by Keith Weir, Editing by William Maclean)

Released: 2022-9-7T11:18:37.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220907ei9701yra


UPDATE 1-Czechs say Russian gas price cap not solution to EU energy crisis -CTK
349 字
2022 年 9 月 7 日 09:05 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
(Adds quote, detail)

PRAGUE, Sept 7 (Reuters) - The Czech Republic wants to remove capping Russian gas prices from the agenda of an extraordinary European energy ministers' meeting on Friday, Industry Minister Jozef Sikela said on Wednesday, calling it a political tool and not a solution.

EU energy ministers are set to discuss on Friday ways to tame energy prices which have surged as Russia has halted most gas flows to Europe in response to European sanctions over Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

The Czechs are helping to guide discussions as holders of the EU's rotating presidency.

Sikela told a Czech Senate committee on Wednesday the country would try to remove this option from the agenda of the energy ministers' meeting, according to CTK news agency.

"It is not a constructive proposal, according to me. It is more another way to sanction Russia than an actual solution to the energy crisis in Europe," CTK quoted Sikela as saying. "And we don't want to prepare more sanctions now, but rather solve the situation with energy."

The ministers will consider options including a price cap on imported gas, a price cap on gas used to produce electricity, or temporarily removing gas power plants from the current EU system of setting electricity prices.

Proposals will also include capping price of electricity made in non-gas power plants, and providing liquidity to power traders to cover margins they have to deposit amid market volatility.

The European Commission said on Monday a price cap on Russian pipeline gas would be part of its proposals. France is in favour of putting a cap on Russian gas, President Emmanuel Macron said on Monday.

Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday blasted Europe's idea for a price cap on Russian gas as "stupid," and said it would lead to price rises and that global demand for Russian energy was high. (Reporting by Jason Hovet and Jan Lopatka; editing by Jason Neely and Angus MacSwan)

Released: 2022-9-10T09:05:13.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220907ei9701mpx


Brussels criticised for reacting too slowly as energy crisis unfolds]]
Kira Taylor
1247 字
2022 年 9 月 9 日 07:32 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
There is “cognitive dissonance” between national governments facing public pressure to tackle rising energy bills and the slow reaction from the European Commission, which is not directly accountable to the electorate, the energy advisor of an EU country told EURACTIV.

The scathing criticism came as energy ministers from the 27-country bloc are meeting on Friday (9 September) to discuss ways of reducing soaring energy bills for European households and businesses.

It echoes comments from Charles Michel, the President of the European Council, who said there is not a day to lose in tackling the crisis.

“The Commission has wasted time and that is regrettable,” he said over the weekend[https://www.lalibre.be/international/europe/2022/09/02/charles-michel-il-est-urgent-de-briser-le-cercle-vicieux-cree-par-la-crise-des-prix-de-lenergie-BNGPDQSBDJBBVA4LMZO5C3T4MA/].

In EU capitals, leaders are under huge pressure to lower gas and electricity bills, which have surged on the back of Russia’s war in Ukraine and falling gas deliveries to Europe.

“Prices keep on rising,” a senior EU diplomat said. “Pressure is also rising to make an extra effort,” he commented ahead of today’s extraordinary ministerial meeting.

Over the past week, the European Commission has hastily put several ideas on the table, including a price cap on gas imported from Russia[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/leak-eu-debates-price-cap-on-russian-gas-as-row-with-moscow-escalates/], a demand reduction target for electricity usage at peak consumption times and a “revenue limit[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/leak-eu-plans-revenue-cap-on-power-firms-mandatory-electricity-savings-at-peak-hours/]” for energy firms making windfall profits from the crisis.

But these are only at early draft stage and should have been tabled much earlier, the government advisor said, expressing concern about the looming political fallout from the energy crisis.

“Whether it will be enough to contain the public rage about prices remains to be seen,” he told EURACTIV.

“I’m really afraid we are behind the wave on this. The public would probably trust us more if we had taken those measures in May.”

Last weekend, an estimated 70,000 people protested in Prague against the Czech government, calling on the ruling coalition to do more to control soaring energy prices and voicing opposition to the EU and NATO.

Tens of thousands protest in Prague against Czech government, EU and NATO[https://www.euractiv.com/section/elections/news/tens-of-thousands-protest-in-prague-against-czech-government-eu-and-nato/]

An estimated 70,000 people protested in Prague against the Czech government on Saturday (3 September), calling on the ruling coalition to do more to control soaring energy prices and voicing opposition to the European Union and NATO.

EU energy ministers will discuss the measures laid out by the Commission at an emergency meeting on Friday (9 September).

Unless tangible results come out quickly, “a year from now there will be less than half of the ministers from the Council tomorrow at the table again,” warned the energy advisor.

Diplomats said the European Commission has been tone deaf in preparations for today’s meeting, and sought to delay it until the end of September, a full month after it was convened by Czechia, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency. The reason for seeking a delay was because EU energy commissioner Kadri Simson was travelling to India this week.

Criticisms about the Commission’s handling of the crisis have also come from industry.

Sanjeev Kumar from the European Geothermal Energy Council told EURACTIV that Europe should have learnt from the success of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout and prioritised cross-EU purchasing of renewable energy and energy efficiency technology early this year.

“The rhetoric has been quick. But the actual hard and fast actions have been far too slow,” he said.

Asked by EURACTIV about these criticisms, the European Commission pointed to comments made by its chief spokesperson Eric Mamer on Monday (5 September).

“I believe that we are firmly on track and, once again, that what we will put on the table for the discussion will be all the more helpful because we have taken the time to analyse all the different dimensions of this issue,” the chief spokesperson said.

Some also support the Commission in taking the time to do an in-depth analysis of the emergency measures given the complexity of the energy market.

“We have to consider not only the possible positive implications in the social and economic dimension by the proposed price caps, but also think of the market outcomes that are most likely to happen,” European People’s Party lawmaker Christian Ehler told EURACTIV.

EU chief lays out five measures to tackle energy crisis[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/eu-chief-lays-out-five-measures-to-tackle-energy-crisis/]

Brussels outlined on Wednesday (7 September) five proposals to tackle the high energy prices gripping Europe, including a mandatory target for reducing electricity use, capping the revenues of energy firms, and recycling the money raised to help vulnerable households.

EU countries split on crisis measures

Despite the pressure on EU capitals, energy ministers are not expected to make final decisions on Friday as the European Commission has yet to table formal legislative proposals.

“We have issued a non-paper, which sets out the basic ideas that we want to carry through,” said Eric Mamer, the European Commission’s chief spokesperson.

“A very important step will come tomorrow with the Energy Council, during which we will have an opportunity to discuss with ministers before we finalise our proposals,” he told a regular press briefing on Thursday (8 September).

EU countries still differ in their recommended approaches to the crisis, diplomats said.

While coordinated measures would strengthen the EU’s position towards Russia and avoid disruptions to the EU market, Europe needs to act carefully because countries have different energy mixes, a senior diplomat explained.

Finland, Sweden and Denmark have already thrown their weight behind the EU executive’s plan, with a joint letter to Commission President Ursula von der Leyen from the countries’ prime ministers on Wednesday (7 September).

Several other countries have said they are open-minded about the options but are also cautious about making major changes to Europe’s energy market without proper analysis and the assurance that it will not derail EU climate goals.

And, while a large group of capitals are favourable to capping gas prices, there is disagreement on how to implement such a measure at EU level.

The European Commission favours putting a price cap on Russian gas only, while Italy and Belgium say it should apply to all gas imported into Europe.

Others are opposed to a price cap on Russian gas because of the possible repercussions, an EU diplomat said. Russia has threatened to stop supplying energy to Europe if a price cap comes into force and there is concern among eastern and southern EU countries, which would be particularly affected by a cut-off.

Vienna said it would not agree to the proposal because it could jeopardise security of supply.

Proposals due next week

The next step after today’s ministerial is for the Commission to come up with formal legislative proposals, presumably on Tuesday (13 September).

“We will table the proposal probably next Tuesday, depending on progress, and ministers tomorrow will not decide anything either,” Mamer said.

The quickest way to get the proposals through would be to use emergency Council Regulations, similar to the demand reduction target for gas, which were adopted in less than a week at the end of July[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/eu-27-approves-demand-gas-reduction-plan-after-power-struggle-with-brussels/].

This would only require a qualified majority of EU countries to pass the measures.

However, some are questioning whether the Commission’s proposed price cap on Russian gas could be seen as a sanction, which would require unanimity. Hungary, for one, opposed the demand reduction target in July[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/eu-27-approves-demand-gas-reduction-plan-after-power-struggle-with-brussels/] and may not want to jeapordise its cheap Russian gas contracts.

[Edited by Frédéric Simon]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220909ei9900005


Transitions Online_Around the Bloc - $300 Million of Russian Covert Funding in Foreign Politics, U.S. Intel Says
Transitions Online, 2022 年 9 月 15 日, 959 字, (英文)
Plus: Caucasus ceasefire, Zelenskiy’s car crash, Turkish mystery money, and more The Big Story: Albania, Bosnia, Montenegro Named in Russian Covert Funding Report What happened: Russia has secretly sent at least $300 million to foreign ...

Energo Monitor This Week - September 16, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 9 月 16 日, 16368 字, (英文)
Czechia to support businesses struggling with energy bills, but national windfall tax proposal shelvedCzech Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Sikela said at Wednesday’s press conference that there is a preliminary cabinet agreement to ...

Further anti-Russian sanctions are debated in EU - Lipavsky
354 字
2022 年 10 月 3 日 13:40 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds info on Zeman-Kacer meeting in bottom para.

Prague, Oct 3 (CTK) - Another package of sanctions against Russia is currently being debated in the EU and so there is no point in any further comments on this matter until the debate is over, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said at a press conference today after meeting his Slovak counterpart Rastislav Kacer.

Lipavsky (Pirates) considers keeping the sanctions against Russia in force important, be it over its illegal annexation of Ukrainian regions or the war crimes. There are several open questions on further sanctions, he added.

The EU countries have adopted six direct packages of sanctions. The latest set was approved in July. The European Commission representatives do not call this the seventh package of sanctions, but the specification of the previously imposed measures.

The set related to the ban on imports of Russian gold and the limitation of exports of the products that can be used for military purposes. The measures against the biggest Russian bank Sberbank were widened, too. Some 50 Russian citizens and several firms were added to the sanction list.

The Czech Republic has supported the idea of setting up a special tribunal for war crimes, Lipavsky said. "Nowadays, we do not have a mechanism that would legally unequivocally determine the aggression as the Charter of the United Nations defines it," he added.

The Russian leadership should bear responsibility for its deeds in Ukraine, he said.

Slovakia also supports further tightening of the sanctions.

Kacer said the Russian attack on a sovereign state meant a huge challenge not only for Slovakia, Czechia and the EU, but globally as well. He said the victory of Ukraine was crucial.

"There will be no stability in Europe without free Ukraine with no invaders," Kacer said.

President Milos Zeman received Kacer at the presidential manor in Lany near Prague later today. Presidential Office foreign section head Rudolf Jindrak and Czech Ambassador to Slovakia Tomas Tuhy attended the meeting, shows the photograph on Twitter[https://twitter.com/PREZIDENTmluvci/status/1576879357267968000], released by Zeman's spokesman Jiri Ovcacek.

buj,hol/dr/hol,rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221003eia30000m


UPDATE2: Czech ambassador says EU coordinates new Russian sanctions
284 字
2022 年 10 月 5 日 11:50 GMT
Prime News
PRTASS
英文
© 2022. JSC PRIME. All rights reserved.
(Adds details in last 2 paragraphs)

BRUSSELS, Oct 5 (PRIME) – The permanent representatives of the E.U. countries have coordinated new anti-Russian sanctions, including the legal framework on capping the price of Russian oil, and a technical procedure of formalization has been launched, Czech ambassador to the E.U. Edita Hrda said in a Twitter statement on Wednesday.

“We have just reached a political agreement on new sanctions against Russia … Now a formal procedure is to start, and the sanctions will come in force immediately after publication in the official journal,” she said.

The Czech Permanent Representation to the E.U. said that the new sanctions encompass a ban on transportation of Russian by sea to third countries and on provision of corresponding services if the oil price exceeds the agreed cap.

The new sanctions also expand the ban on imports of some goods like steel and paper products, equipment, chemicals, plastics, cigarettes, and others. The measures will expand a ban on provision of IT-services and legal services to Russian companies, and they include a further ban on exports of technologies to Russia.

The E.U. also plans to expand the blacklists of Russian individuals and companies, and wants to introduce new criteria of punishment for attempts to bypass the sanctions.

Newswire EUobserver reported quoting European diplomats that Russian diamond mining giant ALROSA was not included in the coordinated eighth sanction package.

The package blacklists Russian philosopher Alexander Dugin, caps Russian oil price, and hits the steel and timber industries in the framework of trade measures that total 7 billion euros. The new sanctions should come in force on Thursday, the newswire reported.

End

JSC PRIME

文件 PRTASS0020221005eia5003ux


Prague summit confirmed absolute isolation of Russia - Morawiecki
243 字
2022 年 10 月 6 日 21:33 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Oct 6 (CTK) - The Prague talks of European countries' presidents and PMs have shown an absolute isolation of Russia and its aggressive policy towards Ukraine, none of the leaders talked about compromises with Moscow, Polish PM Mateusz Morawiecki said after the European Political Community summit tonight.

He also told reporters that the EU countries must demonstrate unity and cut themselves off energies from Russia jointly as soon as possible.

Poland is one of the loudest supporters of Ukraine in Europe, promoting a hard approach to Moscow.

Russia is in an absolute isolation, Morawiecki said, adding that this summit was a success as it presented the unity of the countries longing for peace and condemning the aggressive policy of Russia.

He praised that the European Political Community (EPC) format had enabled the participation of British PM Liz Truss whose country was considerably supporting Ukraine financially and with military supplies.

At the same time, Morawiecki questioned the opinion that Hungarian PM Viktor Orban was disrupting unity in the European Union. Orban has been striving for a softer version of anti-Russian sanctions than most other member states in the past months.

"He (Orban) did not prevent the eighth package (of sanctions), he blocked nothing," Morawiecki said, referring to the sanction package passed today.

Orban's long-term good relations with Poland have been complicated over their different views of the war in Ukraine.

hol/dr/kva

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221006eia600003


Prague summit is warning for Russia - Borrell
225 字
2022 年 10 月 6 日 08:17 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Oct 6 (CTK) - With the summit in Prague, Europe is sending a signal to Russia and there is the aim of isolating Moscow, to which another, eighth package of sanctions contributes, High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell told journalists today.

Nevertheless, the effect of the limitations will not come from one day to another, Borrell said.

Russian President Vladimir Putin will not stop the war over the sanctions tomorrow, he added.

However, the Kremlin will feel the impacts on the production of civilian and military technologies, Borrell said.

The sanction measures EU countries will officially approve later today relate to the introduction of a price cap on the Russian oil, the ban on import of some strategic technologies to Russia or the import of Russian commodities such as steal, timber and cigarettes.

This does not mean that the EU wants to isolate Russia forever, but it will not integrate this Russia. The meeting is to send signals to Russia, Borrell said on the forthcoming meeting of European and EU leaders.

Later today, the Prague Castle will host the first ever meeting of the European Political Community (EPC), attended by more than 40 leaders, and an informal summit of the 27 EU countries' leaders will follow on Friday.

pvr/dr/buj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221006eia60001s


CE Noticias Financieras English
Launched in Prague, European Political Community Closes ranks against Russia
566 字
2022 年 10 月 7 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Forty-four leaders of Europe launched on Thursday (6) in Prague the European Political Community (EPC), an initiative to bring together leaders from across the continent to, despite their differences, present a united front against Russia.

This is "an old idea that may be on the way to becoming a reality," French President Emmanuel Macron, who launched the initiative in May of this year, said at the close of the first meeting of the CEP.

The CEP brought together at Prague Castle the 27 countries of the European Union (EU) and the leaders of 17 other invited countries, including the United Kingdom, Ukraine, and Turkey, as well as the heads of the EU institutions.

At the end of a day of dialogues and many bilateral meetings, the leaders agreed to hold a second meeting in Moldova in early 2023, followed by one in Spain in the second half of the year, and then in the UK.

Of all the European leaders, only the Prime Minister of Denmark, Mette Frederiksen, was absent with a warning due to the political crisis in her country.

In closing, Macron praised the "unity of 44 European countries," which "made clear their condemnation of Russian aggression" in Ukraine.

That continental unity was evident in a historic photograph of the European leaders in one of the spectacular halls of Prague Castle.

Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelensky participated in the event by videoconference and called on European leaders to "sanction the aggressor," Russia, and prevent its forces from reaching "Warsaw or Prague.

The European Council had presented the EPC as a "political coordination platform" to address issues of common interest.

This meeting of the EPC took place on the eve of a summit of EU leaders in the Czech capital.

In Prague, the leaders attended a lunch and later split into thematic tables, with time for separate meetings and bilateral meetings, before a closing dinner.

- Delicate Agenda -

Because of its internal contradictions, the meeting turned into a headache for diplomats.

One of these difficulties was the presence of Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a key ally of the Europeans in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) but who maintains strained relations with Greece and Cyprus.

In addition, Turkey makes no secret of its intention to obstruct the entry of Sweden and Finland into NATO if they fail to meet a number of conditions.

Another focus of friction was invitations to Armenia and Azerbaijan, two countries negotiating a peace deal after armed border clashes that left at least 286 dead last month, and accusations of summary executions of prisoners.

At this first meeting of the CEP, Erdogan held a meeting with Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliev and Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan.

Separately, Macron held a bilateral meeting with UK Prime Minister Liz Truss, who, after the meeting, wrote on Twitter that the French president was a "friend."

For Macron, the UK's participation in the CEP "makes sense" as "we share a continent."

The guest list also included countries pushing to become members of the bloc, such as Moldova, Georgia, and the Western Balkan nations (Serbia, Kosovo, North Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia and Montenegro).

All European leaders, however, insisted that the CEP is only a "complement" and not an "alternative" to the EU nor that it replaces the lengthy bloc accession process.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221007eia70030x


CE Noticias Financieras English
Launched in Prague, the European Political Community closes ranks before Russia
650 字
2022 年 10 月 7 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
A total of 44 leaders of Europe launched Thursday in Prague the European Political Community (EPC), an initiative to bring together leaders from across the continent to, despite their differences, present a united front in the face of Russia.

It is "an old idea that may be on its way to becoming a reality," French President Emmanuel Macron, who launched the initiative in May this year, said at the close of the first meeting of the EPC.

The EPC brought together at Prague Castle the 27 countries of the European Union and the leaders of 17 other invited countries, including the United Kingdom, Ukraine and Turkey, as well as the heads of the EU institutions.

At the end of a day of dialogues and many bilateral meetings, the leaders agreed to hold a second meeting in Moldova in early 2023, followed by a meeting in Spain in the second half of the year, and then in the United Kingdom.

Of all the European leaders, only the Prime Minister of Denmark, Mette Frederiksen, was absent with notice, due to the political crisis in her country.

In closing, Macron applauded the "unity of 44 European countries", which "have clearly made clear their condemnation of Russian aggression" against Ukraine.

That continental unity was captured in a historic photograph of leaders from across the continent in one of the spectacular halls of Prague Castle.

On the day, the President of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, connected by videoconference and in his speech called on European leaders to "sanction the aggressor", Russia, and prevent its forces from reaching "Warsaw or Prague".

The European Council had presented the EPC as a "platform for political coordination" to address issues of common interest.

This EPC meeting took place on the eve of a summit of EU leaders in the Czech capital.

In Prague, the leaders shared a lunch and then divided into thematic tables, with time for separate meetings and bilateral encounters, before a closing dinner.

- Delicate agenda

Because of its internal contradictions, the meeting had become a headache for diplomats.

One of those difficulties was the presence of Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a key ally of the Europeans in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), but who maintains sour relations with Greece and Cyprus.

Moreover, Turkey has made no secret of its intention to block the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO if they do not meet a number of conditions.

Another bone of contention was the invitation to Armenia and Azerbaijan, two countries trying to negotiate a peace agreement after armed border clashes that left at least 286 people dead last month, and accusations of summary executions of prisoners.

At this first meeting of the PSC, Erdogan held a meeting with Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev and Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan.

Afterwards, the two Caucasian leaders met with Macron and European Council President Charles Michel, after which they agreed to send an EU mission to the Armenian border area.

Such a mission is due to start in October with the aim of "establishing trust" and "contributing to border delimitation commissions" between the two countries, the sides said in a joint statement.

Separately, Macron held a bilateral meeting with UK Prime Minister Liz Truss, who after that meeting said on Twitter that the French leader was a "friend".

For Macron, the participation of the United Kingdom in the FPC "makes sense", since "we share a continent".

The guest list also included countries pushing to join the bloc, such as Moldova, Georgia and the Western Balkan nations (Serbia, Kosovo, North Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia and Montenegro).

All European leaders, however, insisted that the SPC is only a "complement" and not an "alternative" to the EU, nor is it a substitute for the long-delayed process of joining the bloc.

ahg/eg/dbh/cjc

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221007eia7003bc


Insight EU monitoring - Your Daily Premium Digest
13853 字
2022 年 10 月 7 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2022. Comecon Media GmbH
A full-text overview of today's most important posts on our Insight EU portal

DAILY DIGEST

PREMIUM

www.ieu-monitoring.com[http://www.ieu-monitoring.com]

* The European Political Community discusses energy and security in Prague

* Migration and asylum: EU Asylum Pact remains key for lasting progress

* Insight EU Environment Monitoring 5 October 2022

* Insight EU Climate Monitoring 5 October 2022

* Insight EU Energy Monitoring 5 October 2022

* EU Commission opens investigation into Hydro’s proposed acquisition of Alumetal

* Ukraine: EU agrees on eighth package of sanctions against Russia

* Temporary Crisis Framework : EU Commission proposes prolong and amend to Member States

* Europol: Italian operation takes down criminal group linked to ‘Ndrangheta

* European Political Community: Remarks by EU High Representative Borrell

* Flightright: Judgment of the Court in Case C-436/21 | Air transport from Stuttgart to Kansas City

* MEPs revamp pandemic relief measures for aviation sector

* Iran: MEPs call to sanction officials responsible for Mahsa Amini’s death

* MEPs call for massive increase of military assistance to Ukraine

* EU Parliament demands better protection for oceans and marine biodiversity

The European Political Community discusses energy and security in Prague[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/the-european-political-community-discusses-energy-and-security-in-prague/388860/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Prague, 6 October 2022

On 6 October 2022, the first ever meeting of a broader format of European countries, the so-called European Political Community, took place at Prague Castle. More than forty leaders of European countries debated energy, security, climate and the economic situation in Europe. The future direction of the platform was also discussed.

Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala opened the first meeting of the European Political Community (EPC) with a speech in the Spanish Hall at Prague Castle. This was followed by a plenary session, which was also joined by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyj via a video call. During the day, European leaders discussed security, energy, climate and the economic situation in Europe.

“By expanding European cooperation, we are aiming to solve our problems together, and the fact that we have managed to welcome 43 European leaders in Prague at such a difficult time shows that Europeans know how to discuss solutions to today’s challenges,” emphasized French President Emmanuel Macron, who said it was important to strengthen cooperation in areas such as education and resilience to cyber threats.

A part of the day was reserved for bilateral meetings, which allowed for deeper discussions between the statesmen on each topic. The aim of these meetings was to improve mutual understanding between the states and to set up a constructive dialogue to address the most pressing issues of the day. Many countries took advantage of this opportunity, and in total dozens of bilateral meetings were held. The European Political Community meeting concluded with a joint working dinner.

“We see the EPC as a platform built on the basis of common solidarity and trust. Our goal is to act together so that there is lasting peace and international law is respected. We must continue to support Ukraine in its struggle for sovereignty and together we condemn Russia’s aggression against it and illegal annexations,” said Maia Sandu, President of Moldova.

The future of this new platform was also discussed during the meeting, with the leaders of the countries discussing, for example, the format of future meetings. In the end, it was decided that the next meeting of the European Political Community would take place in Moldova, a non-EU country. This just goes to show how much emphasis the EU places on cooperation with its external partners.

“This platform has clearly proved to be meaningful and we have agreed to meet again. This time in the Moldovan capital of Chișinău,” said Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala, adding that the following meetings of the European Political Community will take place in Spain and then in the UK.

Source – Czech EU Presidency[https://czech-presidency.consilium.europa.eu/en/news/the-european-political-community-meets-for-the-first-time-in-prague-to-discuss-energy-and-security/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=The+European+Political+Community+meets+for+the+first+time+in+Prague+to+discuss+energy+and+security]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/the-european-political-community-discusses-energy-and-security-in-prague/388860/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Migration and asylum: EU Asylum Pact remains key for lasting progress[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/migration-and-asylum-eu-asylum-pact-remains-key-for-lasting-progress/388848/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 6 October 2022

This report [https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/promoting-our-european-way-life/new-pact-migration-and-asylum_en#documents]presents key developments in the area of migration and asylum, and it takes stock of the progress achieved in the New Pact on Migration and Asylum in the past year. It identifies key challenges ahead, highlighting the need for further progress towards a responsible and fair migration management system in the EU.

From Russia’s war against Ukraine causing the largest forced displacement of people in Europe since the Second World War, to the instrumentalisation of migration for political purposes by the Belarusian regime, through a pandemic and unprecedented travel restrictions, all alongside continued and even growing pressure on traditional migratory routes – the EU has over the last year been faced with a series of challenges with major repercussions for migration, asylum and border management. In each instance, the EU has shown itself able to react quickly, with concrete solidarity and effective coordination. Nevertheless, these developments have also been a vivid reminder that structural reforms to the EU’s asylum and migration system are needed to equip the EU to address both crisis situations and longer-term trends.

Vice-president Schinas said:

“When faced with dramatic events having major repercussions for migration, asylum and border management, the EU has shown the combined strength and collective political will to act quickly and resolutely. Outside the EU, determined and united EU action can bring impressive results. Within the EU, the kind of solidarity we showed to Ukrainians must continue to be present in our migration debate and to inspire our future actions.”

Commissioner for Home Affairs, Ylva Johansson, said:

“Ahead of the upcoming Justice and Home Affairs Council, the Commission is presenting this report which highlights clearly the urgent need to Europeanise migration policy. As the migration response to the illegal invasion of Ukraine showed, a joint European response works. The more than 4 million Ukrainians who have been given practical, meaningful help, would agree. Effective external border controls, while respecting fundamental rights, helping those in need and looking after our long-term labour needs, requires Member States to recognise that we can only make progress on migration policy by working together.”

Situational picture

The Commission continues to monitor developments along the main migratory routes:

* TheCentral Mediterranean routeremains the most frequently used route. Almost all arrivals were to Italy, with Malta seeing a substantial decrease.

* Irregular arrivals along the Eastern Mediterranean route doubled compared to 2021, mostly due to heightened migratory pressure in Cyprus, which currently accounts for roughly 60% of arrivals along the route.

* On the Western Mediterranean/Atlantic route, Algeria and Morocco/Western Sahara remain the main countries of departure towards mainland Spain and the Canary Islands.

* Along the Western Balkans route, there were over 86 000 detected irregular border crossings in the first eight months of 2022, nearly three times more than in 2021 and more than ten times the total in the same period in 2019. Given the sharp increase of arrivals, the Commission is monitoring the situation via the Blueprint Network with increased vigilance and is stepping up engagement with partners in the Western Balkans as well as with the most affected EU Member States to address the situation.

* The situation at the Eastern border with Belarus continues to be stable, with a significantly lower number of irregular border crossings than at the peak of the instrumentalisation crisis in 2021.

Key findings of the report

Today’s report takes stock of the progress achieved and the key developments in the area of migration and asylum over the past year, notably highlighting:

* Unprecedented solidarity with Ukraine: Europe has offered an unprecedented welcome to millions of people fleeing the Russian war of aggression against Ukraine, through the first-ever activation of the Temporary Protection Directive; the setting up of a Solidarity Platform and the implementation of a 10-point plan for a coordinated European response (see factsheet).

* Strong external border management: As a core part of the approach of the Pact, strong focus has been paid to ensuring external border management through the implementation of the new IT architecture and interoperability; important steps in building a common EU system of return including through the appointment of a Return Coordinator; and enforcement of a strategic and structured visa policy.

* Working with international partners: Over the past year, the EU has stepped up its work to pursue mutually beneficial cooperation in the area of migration. The EU is a leading global actor and donor in improving the protection and assistance to forcibly displaced people and their hosts, saving lives and laying the foundations for durable solutions. At the same time, there has been progress in addressing issues of returns, readmission, border management and smuggling networks in partnerships with key third countries that reflect a balance of their needs and EU interests.

* Countering hybrid threats: Timely, resolute and united EU outreach to partners can bring impressive results, as demonstrated by the response to the Belarusian regime’s instrumentalisation of migrants. The Commission worked with countries of origin and transit, as well as with airline companies and civil aviation authorities, to build a coalition to counter this hybrid attack.

New Pact on Migration and Asylum

The EU institutions are on good track to making progress on the New Pact on Migration and Asylum, also supported by the Council Presidencies and the European Parliament. The Pact offers the comprehensive approach needed to manage migration in an effective and humane way.

The EU Agency for Asylum, succeeding the European Asylum Support Office, stepped up its operations in January 2022 when the Regulation establishing the Agency entered into force.

At the informal Justice and Home Affairs Council of 3 February 2022, the Presidency proposed a step-by-step approach aimed at ultimately leading to a comprehensive European migration, border and asylum policy. In May 2022, the Return Coordinator took office at the Commission to promote a more coherent and effective approach to returns.

In June 2022, under the French Presidency, Member States agreed on negotiation mandates for the Screening and Eurodac regulations. These are key proposals for better and more effective procedures to help tackle irregular migration, improve returns and better support the asylum system.

Also in June 2022 we welcomed Member States’ political agreement in the Council to start implementing the voluntary solidarity mechanism. This ensures that countries with available reception capacity express their solidarity by welcoming people. The mechanism is already being implemented and the first relocation already took place.

The Commission welcomed the political agreement on 7 September between the European Parliament and the Council. We now have a Joint Roadmap on the Common European Asylum System and the Pact on Migration and Asylum.

See more details in the report[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/promoting-our-european-way-life/new-pact-migration-and-asylum_en#documents].

Next steps and Q&A

steady-paywall

The past year has shown the EU’s capacity to act as a Union of determination and solidarity to address the constantly shifting challenges and opportunities of migration towards our continent.

As key next steps, the Commission calls on the Member States to implement the Voluntary Solidarity Mechanism and on the Parliament and Council

* To implement the joint roadmap with the aim of adopting all proposals on the table by March 2024. The Commission will present this report at the upcoming JHA Council, where the next steps in the implementation of the roadmap will be discussed.

* To swiftly adopt their positions on all the pending proposals.

* To swiftly progress in the negotiations on the Skills and Talent package (the recast of the Directive on long-term residents and the recast of the Single Permit Directive).

The Commission will continue to support these efforts, and to build on other aspects highlighted by this report.

Background

The New Pact on Migration and Asylum is a key part of delivering on President von der Leyen’s commitment in her political guidelines[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/sites/beta-political/files/political-guidelines-next-commission_en.pdf]. The first Report on Migration and Asylum [https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/default/files/report-migration-asylum.pdf]was adopted in September 2021.

The second report covers all aspects of migration management and structural reform of the legislative framework. It also presents the EU’s response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine to welcome those fleeing the war and to give life to temporary migration rights in the EU.

For more information

2022 Report on migration and asylum[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/promoting-our-european-way-life/new-pact-migration-and-asylum_en#documents]

EU solidarity with Ukraine[https://eu-solidarity-ukraine.ec.europa.eu/]

New Pact on Migration and Asylum[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/promoting-our-european-way-life/new-pact-migration-and-asylum_en]

Skills and Talent Package[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_2654]

Schengen Strategy[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52021DC0277]

EU strategy on voluntary return and reintegration[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_1931]

2021-2025 EU Action Plan against migrant smuggling[https://home-affairs.ec.europa.eu/renewed-eu-action-plan-against-migrant-smuggling-2021-2025-com-2021-591_en]

2022 Report on migration and asylum: Questions & Answers

Brussels, 6 October 2022

What are the main actions that the EU has taken to support people fleeing Russia’s invasion of Ukraine?

The EU commitment to protect those fleeing Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is unwavering. The EU’s first-ever activation of the Temporary Protection Directive on 4 March 2022 offered those fleeing the war a clear legal status and unprecedented protection across the EU, with rights to accommodation, education, and healthcare, as well as to access to work.

The Commission intends to make full use of the tools available under the Temporary Protection Directive and allow for the temporary protection granted to be extended for a further year until March 2024.

The Commission has also provided unprecedented flexibility in the use of EU funding to underpin the efforts of Member States, key organisations and civil society to support those in need:

* The Commission has taken swift action to mobilise available resources from Cohesion Policy Funds. The Cohesion’s Action for Refugees in Europe (CARE) proposals made in the immediate aftermath of the invasion allowed Member States to make best use of resources still available under the 2014-2020 Cohesion envelope, including REACT-EU. These were followed up by FAST-CARE, covering the 2021-2027 period. These both help Member States to access the maximum of swift funding through pre-financing and 100% co-financing. Programmes adopted under the European Social Fund (ESF)/ESF+ also concentrate significant efforts towards addressing the consequences of the war.

* The 2014-2020 Home Affairs Funds supported first-reception needs (emergency accommodation, food, healthcare etc.) and implementation of temporary protection (initial processing and registration activities, referral of persons to specialised support services etc.). Part of support should be channelled to civil society organisations and local and regional authorities, which play an essential role in delivering the emergency assistance.

For longer-term needs, significant funding is available under the 2021-2027 financial framework.

How many refugees from Ukraine have arrived in the EU?

More than 4,3 million registrations for temporary protection or adequate protection under Member States’ national law have been recorded, out of which 2,3 million are women. Over half a million Ukrainian children have already been integrated in Member States’ national school systems

What is the situation like on the migration routes?

The Central Mediterranean route continues to be one of the most active route, with most arrivals to Italy and a substantial decrease of the number of arrivals to Malta. Tunisians, Egyptians and Bangladeshi are the main nationalities along the route. Departures take place mostly from Libya and Tunisia, though Turkey now accounts for 16% of total arrivals. 2022 also saw migratory movements from Lebanon directly to Italy.

Irregular arrivals along the Eastern Mediterranean route doubled compared to 2021, mostly due to heightened migratory pressure in Cyprus, which currently accounts for roughly 60% of arrivals along the route. The number of arrivals in Greece remains lower than before the pandemic. Syrians, Nigerians and Turks are the main nationalities on this route.

On the Western Mediterranean/Atlantic route: Algeria and Morocco/Western Sahara remain the main countries of departure towards mainland Spain and the Canary Islands. Main countries of origin are Morocco, Algeria, Senegal, Côte d’Ivoire and Guinea.

In the first eight months of 2022, there were 86 581 detected irregular border crossings along the Western Balkans route, nearly three times more than in 2021 and more than ten times the total in the same period in 2019. The main nationalities were Syrian, Afghan and Turkish.

The Commission and Frontex alongside other EU Agencies are active along the whole migratory routes and have been providing support to Member States. The Commission is also promoting dialogue and cooperation with third countries of origin and transit, so that we can work in partnership and jointly tackle common migration challenges.

How is the increased pressure on the Western Balkan Route being addressed?

This year there has been a particularly strong increase in arrivals on the Western Balkans route. Movements along this route are influenced by several factors, including economic pressures, rising inflation, insecurity along the Syrian border, as well as an increasing number of people arriving by air to Serbia due to the visa-free regimes.

It is crucial that Western Balkan partners align their visa policies with the EU. The Commission is pursuing this issue with the relevant partners bilaterally, in the framework of the visa suspension mechanism, and under the enlargement process.

The Commission and Frontex alongside other EU Agencies are active along the whole migratory route and have been providing support to Member States.

The Commission continues to hold regular meetings with all partners along the Western Balkan Route in the format of the Leaders’ Meeting on refugee arrivals along the Western Balkan route first established in 2015.

Vice-President Schinas undertook a series of visits at the beginning of October to engage with Western Balkan partners, to better understand the situation on the ground and to explore how best to address it in a spirit of cooperation.

The Vice-President’s visits come ahead of the Justice and Home Affairs Council due to take place on 14 October, before which Commissioner Johansson will meet with the most affected EU Member States. Given the sharp increase of arrivals, the Commission decided in September 2022 to activate the EU migration preparedness and crisis management (Blueprint) network to address the situation with increased vigilance.

How is the situation on the Eastern border with Belarus and Russia?

The actions by the Lukashenko regime and its supporters are to be seen as a determined attempt to create a continuing and protracted crisis, as part of a broader concerted effort to destabilise the European Union, testing its unity and resolve.

Our response has been fast, effective and comprehensive. The Commission reached out to the countries of origin and transit and to airlines to prevent more people from being deceived and put at risk by this state-sponsored instrumentalisation.

As a result, the situation at the external border with Belarus has de-escalated significantly.

However, there is recent evidence of a slight increase in attempts of irregular border crossings – still significantly below the peak in 2021 – at the border with Lithuania, Poland and Latvia, while nationalities and routes appear to be shifting, with many arriving in Belarus after travelling legally to Russia.

Between 24 February and 25 September, over 1.3 million entries of Russian citizens were recorded to Latvia, Estonia, Poland, Finland, Lithuania and Norway through Russia and Belarus. Nevertheless, the situation is still volatile, therefore we must remain vigilant.

What is the state of play on the New Pact on Migration and Asylum?

The New Pact on Migration and Asylum remains more relevant than ever. The Commission welcomes the political agreement reached on 7 September on a joint roadmap[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_22_5383] between the European Parliament and the rotating Presidencies of the Council of the EU. The roadmap lays the grounds for an increased dialogue on the New Pact, providing impetus for the conclusion of negotiations by February 2024 on all pending legislative files related to asylum and migration management. The Commission calls on Parliament and Council to swiftly adopt their positions on all the pending legislative files, so that negotiations from autumn 2022 ensure equivalent and balanced progress with the aim of adopting all proposals on the table by February 2024.

What legal pathways will the EU put in place?

Two to three million non-EU nationals already come legally to the EU every year. An ambitious and sustainable legal migration policy, a key component of the New Pact’s comprehensive approach, needed to create safe pathways to Europe and to help attract skills and talent that our economies need, given an ageing population and urgent skills gaps. Forward-looking policies for legal migration to the EU in the medium to the longer term would be focused around three areas of action: care, youth and innovation. These policies aim to attract skills and talent in sectors where there are labour shortages and needs, for example in the long-term care sector.

The Skills and Talent[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/QANDA_22_2655] package aims to address labour market needs linked to current demographic trends and skill shortages in the EU and prepare for future needs. The package includes legal, operational and policy initiatives to benefit the EU’s economy, strengthen cooperation and partnerships with non-EU countries and improve long-term migration management.

The Commission also calls on Parliament and Council to swiftly progress in the negotiations on the legislative proposals included in the package. The recast of the Directive on long-term residents will further improve the rights and the intra-EU mobility of those migrants who are already well integrated in our societies, while the recast of the Single Permit Directive will further streamline and simplify the admission procedures for the benefit of employers, migration authorities and migrants themselves, and improve the protection of non-EU workers. The start of the discussions in Parliament and Council on these proposals will contribute to putting in place a solid framework to attract new talent to the EU.

An ambitious and sustainable EU legal migration policy is also an important component in successful partnerships. The EU Talent Pool proposed in the Skills and Talent package would create the first EU-wide platform and matching tool to help employers find the staff they need and make the EU more attractive for non-EU nationals looking for opportunities. An EU Talent Pool Pilot in an initial phase will help Ukrainians build on their skills and experience. Talent Partnerships with key partners will seek to boost international labour mobility and develop talent to the benefit of Member States, partner countries, and business communities on both sides, as well as for the individuals concerned.

Resettlement is an integral part of the New Pact and an important element of the EU migration policy. The EU contributes a sizeable part to global resettlement efforts and is committed to maintaining this commitment.

How is the EU supporting internally displaced persons in Afghanistan, and refugees from the country?

The EU Commission has been providing people of Afghanistan with humanitarian and basic needs assistance and the countries in the region with humanitarian and development assistance and resettlement.

By mid-2022, around 31,000 Afghans arrived safely in the EU through humanitarian admission, to help vulnerable people, women and girls in particular.

In that context, we are also addressing risks of irregular migration, fighting crimes such as migrant smuggling and trafficking in human beings and ensuring the management of our borders.

The Commission supports these pledges for Afghans at risk through the Asylum and Migration and Integration Fund.

For these efforts to continue to be effective, there is a need for coordination at the global level and we continue engaging with international partners on this.

The EU has assumed a political and financial leadership role on regional displacement from Afghanistan, including through the Chairmanship of the Core Group of the Solutions Strategy for Afghan Refugees Support platform[https://ssar-platform.org/support-platform], through support to the over 5.9 million Afghans estimated to be internally displaced in Afghanistan, as well as to those displaced and their host communities in Iran and Pakistan.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_22_5986]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/migration-and-asylum-eu-asylum-pact-remains-key-for-lasting-progress/388848/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Environment Monitoring 5 October 2022[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-5-october-2022/388808/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

TRIPLE ENVIRONMENTAL CRISIS

* New UNECE report urges Europe to step-up action over triple environmental crisis

FOOD CONTACT MATERIAL

* De la ferme à la table : la Commission sollicite l’avis du public sur une refonte de la législation relative aux matériaux en contact avec les denrées alimentaires

* EU Commission: Revision of EU Rules on FCMs

ECHA

* Highlights from September Biocidal Products Committee (BPC) meeting

POP CHEMICALS

* EU Parliament: Persistent pollutants: EU acts to reduce harmful chemicals

SUSTAINABLE TRADE

* Putting workers and environmental rights at the core of our trade policy – consistent S&D advocacy gets results

THE ROTTERDAM CONVENTION

* Rotterdam COP Bureau meets in Geneva from 25 to 26 October 2022 – Rotterdam Convention

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* CM 4629 2022 REV 1 Working Party on the Environment

* CM 4717 2022 INIT Informal videoconference of the Working Party on the Environment

* CM 4744 2022 INIT JHA Counsellors and Experts (COPEN – Environmental Crime)

* ST 12803 2022 ADD 1 COUNCIL DECISION on the signing, on behalf of the Union, of the Voluntary Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Co-operative Republic of Guyana on forest law enforcement, governance and trade COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion of the Voluntary Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Co-operative Republic of Guyana on forest law enforcement, governance and trade

EU COMMISSION REGISTER

* COMMISSION DECISION on the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and Namibia on a Partnership on sustainable raw materials value chains and renewable hydrogen

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF:

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/]

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: sales[at]ieu-monitoring.com.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-5-october-2022/388808/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Climate Monitoring 5 October 2022[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-5-october-2022/388806/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

CARBON TRACKING

* European Commission Pilot with Citopia & the ITN: CO2 Emissions Tracking

COP27

* COP26 President Alok Sharma’s speech at Pre-COP Congo Basin Forests Dinner

CLIMATE BONDS

* Climate Bonds Standard tackles heavy industry and entity transition — Cement Criteria now available for certification

CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY

* Policy recommendations on Article 15 of the proposed EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive – Germanwatch

EU COMMISSION REGISTER

* COMMISSION NOTICE on the interpretation of certain legal provisions of the Disclosures Delegated Act under Article 8 of EU Taxonomy Regulation on the reporting of eligible economic activities and assets

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Union submission to the International Maritime Organisation’s (IMO) 13th Intersessional Working Group on Reduction of GHG Emissions from Ships on the further development of the proposal for a GHG Fuel Standard

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Union submission to the International Maritime Organisation’s (IMO) 13th Intersessional Working Group on Reduction of GHG Emissions from Ships suggesting to amend the IMO Ship Fuel Oil Consumption Data Collection System (DCS) related to the granularity of data, additional data and their anonymization, rounding and accessibility

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF:

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/]

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: sales[at]ieu-monitoring.com.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-5-october-2022/388806/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Energy Monitoring 5 October 2022[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-5-october-2022/388804/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

REPOWEREU

* Speech by President von der Leyen at the European Parliament Plenary on Russia’s escalation of its war of aggression against Ukraine

ENERGY CRISIS

* Energy prices: MEPs call for EU response to focus on the most vulnerable

* EU-Abgeordneter Ferber zu den Energiepreisen: langfristige Lösungen gefragt

* S&Ds to member states: Put an end to speculations on the energy market now and cap gas prices!

* Renew Europe: EU leaders must heed European Parliament’s call for more ambitious measures on the energy crisis

* Greens/EFA Group call for addition & long term solutions to tackle energy, climate & social crises

* Commissioner Simson in Slovakia to discuss energy situation with local policymakers and stakeholders

* Bundeskanler Scholz: „Die EU muss sich in puncto Energieversorgung noch stärker miteinander vernetzen“

* 6 points for Governments as you implement the EU’s new revenue cap on power generation

HYDROGEN

* BMWK-Kommentar: Europäische Kommission genehmigt zwei wichtige Wasserstoffprojekte: BMWK darf grünen Wasserstoff bei BASF und Dekarbonisierung der Stahlproduktion bei Salzgitter fördern

* Latest Hydrogen headlines

* Tees Valley Hydrogen Hub boosted by £20 million competition

* Billionaire Forrest invests €130m in gas terminal in bid to export green hydrogen to Germany from 2026

* ‘Set a target of heating one million homes with hydrogen by 2035’, influential UK trade association tells ruling party

* Gigantic green hydrogen grant | Chemical giant’s PEM project to receive €134m from Germany after EU approval

* Fortescue and TES Partner on Green Hydrogen Energy Import Facility in Germany

* Tree Energy Solutions and Fortescue Future Industries Team Up to Develop World’s Largest Green Hydrogen Integrated Project

* CELEX:32022B1824: Decision (EU) 2022/1824 of the European Parliament of 4 May 2022 on the closure of the accounts of the Fuel Cells and Hydrogen 2 Joint Undertaking (now the Clean Hydrogen Joint Undertaking) for the financial year 2020

* CELEX:32022B1822: Decision (EU) 2022/1822 of the European Parliament of 4 May 2022 on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the Fuel Cells and Hydrogen 2 Joint Undertaking (now the Clean Hydrogen Joint Undertaking) for the financial year 2020

* Fortescue buys into hydrogen startup TES

* Vestas-backed renewable energy group Sowitec forges Rolls-Royce green hydrogen pact

* OPINION | Is it safe to burn hydrogen in the home? Let’s look at the evidence

* UK Government funds consortium to deliver zero-emission multi-fuel station for hydrogen and electric ships

* MAN Energy Solutions and Fraunhofer IST analyze options for cost-efficient hydrogen supply to Salzgitter industrial cluster

* US funding granted to enhance platinum-based hydrogen electrolyser development

* FFI to invest €130m into German hydrogen

* Salzgitter’s low CO2 steel seals state aid

* Committee votes on AFIR, maritime transport

IAEA

* Update 112 – IAEA Director General Statement on Situation in Ukraine

* Nuclear Power Receives Record National Support at 66th IAEA General Conference

ENERGY DISPUTES

* Secretariat opens case against Bosnia and Herzegovina for diesel toll exemption

GERMANY

* Beschluss nach der Besprechung des Bundeskanzlers mit den Regierungschefinnen und Regierungschefs der Länder am 4. Oktober 2022 in Berlin

* Bundesregierung: Unternehmen in schwieriger Zeit schützen

* Energiepreispauschale für Rentnerinnen und Rentner – Bundesregierung

* VKU zum MPK-Beschluss: Richtung stimmt, aber wir brauchen mehr Tempo. Es geht um Tage, nicht um Wochen!

* BDEW zur Bekanntgabe der vorläufigen Übertragungsnetzentgelte 2023

* Situationsbericht Lage der Gasversorgung in Deutschland (Stand 05.10.22) – Bundesnetzagentur

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* ST 12405 2022 INIT Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices

* ST 13223 2022 INIT Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the position to be taken on behalf of Euratom in the 33rd meeting of the Energy Charter Conference

* ST 13227 2022 INIT COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION on an agreement between the Member States, the European Union, and the European Atomic Energy Community on the interpretation of the Energy Charter Treaty

* ST 13227 2022 ADD 1 ANNEX to the Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council, as well as to the Member States on an agreement between the Member States, the European Union, and the European Atomic Energy Community on the interpretation of the Energy Charter Treaty

* ST 12408 2022 INIT Regulation (EU) 2022/1032 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 June 2022 amending Regulations (EU) 2017/1938 and (EC) No 715/2009 with regard to gas storage

EU COMMISSION REGISTER

* COMMISSION DECISION on the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and Namibia on a Partnership on sustainable raw materials value chains and renewable hydrogen

* Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the position to be taken on behalf of the European Union in the 33rd meeting of the Energy Charter Conference

* Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the position to be taken on behalf of Euratom in the 33rd meeting of the Energy Charter Conference

* COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL, AS WELL AS TO THE MEMBER STATES on an agreement between the Member States, the European Union, and the European Atomic Energy Community on the interpretation of the Energy Charter Treaty

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF:

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/]

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: sales[at]ieu-monitoring.com.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-5-october-2022/388804/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commission opens investigation into Hydro’s proposed acquisition of Alumetal[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-opens-investigation-into-hydros-proposed-acquisition-of-alumetal/388842/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 6 October 2022

The European Commission has opened an in-depth investigation to assess the proposed acquisition of Alumetal by Norsk Hydro under the EU Merger Regulation. The Commission is concerned that the proposed acquisition may reduce competition in the production and supply of aluminium foundry alloys and master alloys in the European Economic Area (‘EEA’).

Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy, said:

“Access to competitively priced green aluminium products is essential to achieve our objectives of fighting climate change. Our in-depth investigation aims to ensure that the acquisition of Alumetal by Norsk Hydro does not have a negative impact on the competitive landscape for certain aluminium markets and in particular green aluminium products for European automotive customers.”

Norsk Hydro and Alumetal are both producers of aluminium foundry alloys, which are semi-finished aluminium products used mainly by the automotive industry to cast auto parts. Alumetal makes these from recycled material. Alumetal also produces aluminium master alloys used to produce casthouse products such as aluminium foundry alloys. The Commission has preliminary concerns that, by acquiring Alumetal, Norsk Hydro may reinforce its leading position as a supplier of aluminium foundry alloys, and may eliminate a growing competitor able to bring cheaper and advanced recycled aluminium products to the market.

The Commission’s competition concerns

The Commission’s initial market investigation raised concerns relating to the parties’ strong market position in the supply of aluminium foundry alloys and aluminium master alloys, in particular in certain segments.

At this stage, the Commission is concerned that the transaction may lead to reduced choice and higher prices for foundry alloys and aluminium master alloys. In particular, the Commission is concerned that:

* By acquiring Alumetal, Norsk Hydro would eliminate one of the most sizable and capable EEA-based competitors. Alumetal is an important competitive force with strong growth potential for the supply of advanced foundry alloys made from recycled aluminium, which are used to produce vehicles that are more fuel-efficient and therefore can reduce emissions. Access to recycled aluminium at competitive prices is essential for European automotive players to meet their climate targets.

* Following the combination of Alumetal’s production of master alloys upstream and Hydro’s production of casthouse products, there would be limited or no credible alternative master alloy suppliers remaining.

The Commission will now carry out an in-depth investigation into the effects of the proposed transaction to determine whether its initial competition concerns are confirmed.

The proposed transaction was notified to the Commission on 1 September 2022. Norsk Hydro and Alumetal decided not to submit commitments during the initial investigation to address the Commission’s preliminary concerns. The Commission now has 90 working days, until 22 February 2023, to adopt a decision. The opening of an in-depth investigation does not prejudge the outcome of the investigation.

Companies and products

Norsk Hydro is a Norwegian aluminium company with activities throughout the aluminium value chain from bauxite and alumina production to energy generation and aluminium recycling.

Alumetal is a Polish producer of aluminium foundry alloys and aluminium master alloys with plants located in Poland (Kety, Gorzyce and Nowa Sol) and Hungary (Komarom).

Merger control rules and procedures

The Commission has the duty to assess mergers and acquisitions involving companies with a turnover above certain thresholds (see Article 1 of the Merger Regulation) and to prevent concentrations that would significantly impede effective competition in the EEA or any substantial part of it.

The vast majority of notified mergers do not pose competition problems and are cleared after a routine review. From the moment a transaction is notified, the Commission generally has a total of 25 working days to decide whether to grant approval (Phase I) or to start an in-depth investigation (Phase II).

In addition to the present transaction, there are currently three other on-going phase II merger investigations: (i) the proposed acquisition of Pfleiderer Polska by Kronospan[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_2284]; (ii) the proposed acquisition of OMV Slovenija by MOL[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3974]; and (iii) the proposed acquisition of VOO and Brutélé by Orange[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_4762].

More information will be available on the Commission’s competition website[http://ec.europa.eu/competition/index_en.html], in the public case register[http://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/index.cfm] under the case number M.10658[https://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/case_details.cfm?proc_code=2_M_10658].

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_6013]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-opens-investigation-into-hydros-proposed-acquisition-of-alumetal/388842/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Ukraine: EU agrees on eighth package of sanctions against Russia[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ukraine-eu-agrees-on-eighth-package-of-sanctions-against-russia/388837/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 6 October 2022

The Commission welcomes the Council’s adoption of an eighth package of hard-hitting sanctions against Russia for its aggression against Ukraine. This package – which has been closely coordinated with our international partners – responds to Russia’s continued escalation and illegal war against Ukraine, including by illegally annexing Ukrainian territory based on sham “referenda”, mobilising additional troops, and issuing open nuclear threats.

This package introduces new EU import bans worth €7 billion to curb Russia’s revenues, as well as export restrictions, which will further deprive the Kremlin’s military and industrial complex of key components and technologies and Russia’s economy of European services and expertise. The sanctions also deprive the Russian army and its suppliers from further specific goods and equipment needed to wage its war on Ukrainian territory. The package also lays the basis for the required legal framework to implement the oil price cap envisaged by the G7[https://www.bundesfinanzministerium.de/Content/EN/Downloads/G7-G20/2022-09-02-g7-ministers-statement.pdf?__blob=publicationFile&v=9].

Specifically, this package contains the following elements:

Additional listings

Additional individuals and entities have been sanctioned. This targets those involved in Russia’s occupation, illegal annexation, and sham “referenda” in the occupied territories/oblasts of Donetsk, Luhansk, Kherson, and Zaporizhzhia regions. It also includes individuals and entities working in the defence sector, such as high-ranking and military officials, as well as companies supporting the Russian armed forces. The EU also continues to target actors who spread disinformation about the war.

EU restrictive measure target key decision makers, oligarchs, senior military officials and propagandists, responsible for undermining Ukraine’s territorial integrity.

Extension of restrictions to the oblasts of Kherson and Zaporizhzhia

The geographical scope of the restrictive measures in response to the recognition of the non-government controlled areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts of Ukraine and the ordering of Russian armed forces into those areas has been extended to cover all the non-government controlled areas of Ukraine in the oblasts of Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson.

New export restrictions

Additional export restrictions have been introduced which aim to reduce Russia’s access to military, industrial and technological items, as well as its ability to develop its defence and security sector.

This includes the banning of the export of coal including coking coal (which is used in Russian industrial plants), specific electronic components (found in Russian weapons), technical items used in the aviation sector, as well as certain chemicals.

A prohibition on exporting small arms and other goods under the anti-torture Regulation has been added.

New import restrictions

Almost €7 billion worth of additional import restrictions have been agreed.

It includes, for example, a ban on the import of Russian finished and semi-finished steel products (subject to a transition period for some semi-finished), machinery and appliances, plastics, vehicles, textiles, footwear, leather, ceramics, certain chemical products, and non-gold jewellery.

Implementing the G7 oil price cap

Today’s package marks the beginning of the implementation within the EU of the G7 agreement on Russian oil exports. While the EU’s ban on importing Russian seaborne crude oil fully remains, the price cap, once implemented, would allow European operators to undertake and support the transport of Russian oil to third countries, provided its price remains under a pre-set “cap”. This will help to further reduce Russia’s revenues, while keeping global energy markets stable through continued supplies. It will thus also help address inflation and keep energy costs stable at a time when high costs – particularly elevated fuel prices – are a great concern to all Europeans.

This measure is being closely coordinated with G7 partners. It would take effect after 5 December 2022 for crude and 5 February 2023 for refined petroleum products, after a further decision by the Council.

Restrictions on State-owned enterprises

Today’s package bans EU nationals from holding posts in the governing bodies of certain state-owned enterprises.

It also bans all transactions with the Russian Maritime Register, adding it to the list of state-owned enterprises which are subject to a transaction ban.

Financial, IT consultancy and other business services

The existing prohibitions on crypto assets have been tightened by banning all crypto-asset wallets, accounts, or custody services, irrespective of the amount of the wallet (previously up to €10,000 was allowed).

The package widens the scope of services that can no longer be provided to the government of Russia or legal persons established in Russia: these now include IT consultancy, legal advisory, architecture and engineering services. These are significant as they will potentially weaken Russia’s industrial capacity because it is highly dependent on importing these services.

Deterring sanctions circumvention

The EU has introduced a new listing criterion, which will allow it to sanction persons who facilitate the infringements of the prohibition against circumvention of sanctions.

More Information

The EU’s sanctions against Russia are proving effective. They are damaging Russia’s ability to manufacture new weapons and repair existing ones, as well as hinder its transport of material.

The geopolitical, economic, and financial implications of Russia’s continued aggression are clear, as the war has disrupted global commodities markets, especially for agrifood products and energy. The EU continues to ensure that its sanctions do not impact energy and agrifood exports from Russia to third countries.

As guardian of the EU Treaties, the European Commission monitors the enforcement of EU sanctions across the EU.

The EU stands united in its solidarity with Ukraine, and will continue to support Ukraine and its people together with its international partners, including through additional political, financial, and humanitarian support.

For More Information

steady-paywall

European Commission website on EU sanctions against Russia and Belarus[https://ec.europa.eu/info/business-economy-euro/banking-and-finance/international-relations/restrictive-measures-sanctions/sanctions-adopted-following-russias-military-aggression-against-ukraine_en]

European Commission website on Ukraine[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/stronger-europe-world/eu-solidarity-ukraine_en]

Q&A on restrictive measures[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_22_5990]

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_5989]

Q&A: Eighth package of restrictive measures against Russia

Brussels, 6 October 2022

Listings

Who have you targeted?

30 additional individuals and 7 entities have been sanctioned, including the illegitimate Russian proxy authorities in occupied territories of Donetsk, Luhansk, Kherson, and Zaporizhzhia regions and other Russian individuals who organised and facilitated the sham referenda in these four occupied areas of Ukraine. We are also targeting more individuals in the defence sector, including several Deputies of the Russian Minister of Defence, a major General who is the Commander of a Russian army unit occupying Ukraine, as well as persons and companies who support the Russian armed forces by providing army equipment and weapons, including missiles and fighter aircrafts, and who benefit from the war. New listings also include those who spread disinformation about the war.

What measures were adopted regarding the Ukrainian territories that Russia illegally annexed?

The restrictions established in February 2022 on trade with the non-Government controlled areas of Ukraine in the oblasts of Donetsk and Luhansk have been extended to the non-Government controlled areas of Ukraine in the oblasts of Kherson and Zaporizhzhia that were illegally annexed by the Russian Federation. This includes the prohibition to import goods originating in those areas, with the exception of goods authorised by the Government of Ukraine, as well as trade in goods and technology for use in certain sectors and services in the sectors of transport, telecommunications, energy or the prospecting, exploration and production of oil, gas and mineral resources,

Import and export restrictions

What new import bans have been introduced?

Finished or semi-finished steel products that either originate in Russia or have been exported from Russia will now be fully banned from being imported into the EU. A three-month wind-down period is envisaged to allow for the execution of contracts signed before the import ban on the semi-finished steel products was adopted. For some semi-finished steel products with strict technical requirements for further processing by EU steel industry (two products), the phase-in of the full ban will take place after a transition period of up to 2 years.

The new package will also extend the ban to imports into the EU of Russian steel products that have been further processed in third countries, within a 1-year period.

Certain types of machinery and appliances, and certain chemical products, including cosmetics are now banned.

Plastics, paper and wood pulp are banned.

Vehicles, textiles, footwear, leather, ceramics and articles of stone are also banned.

A new prohibition on the direct import, purchase or transfer of precious stones, precious metals or metal clad with precious metals.

What export bans have been introduced?

The list of controlled items which might contribute to Russia’s military and technological enhancement or the development of its defence and security sector has been expanded. This includes nine customs codes classifying electronic components found in Russian weapons. 22 additional chemicals have been added to the list of controlled substances, as well as firearms and other goods that could be used for capital punishment or torture, as set out under the EU Anti-torture Regulation 2019/125.

New restrictions on the sale, supply, transfer or export of additional goods used in the aviation sector have been introduced.

Coal exports will be banned subject to a three-month wind-down period of existing contracts signed before the export ban was adopted.

Can trade or service provision be carried out if needed to ensure the security of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant?

Yes. There is an exception for urgent prevention or mitigation of an event likely to have a serious and significant impact on human health and safety, including the safety of infrastructure, or on the environment.

Don’t these measures capture goods and services which are substitutable, i.e. Russians buying (or selling) them from China and other countries not sanctioning Russia for its aggression?

Russia is highly dependent on those items subject to an export ban from the EU and cannot easily substitute them with products from third countries.

The EU is Russia’s main export market for those items subject to an import ban. This high degree of exposure means finding new export markets will be extremely difficult for Russian companies.

Implementing the G7 oil price cap

What does the oil price cap achieve?

The price cap will drastically reduce the revenues Russia earns from oil after its illegal war on Ukraine has inflated global energy prices. The oil price cap can also serve to stabilise global energy prices.

A price cap will help address inflation and keep energy costs stable at a time when high costs – particularly elevated fuel prices – are a great concern to all Europeans.

How will the actual price of the price cap be set?

The G7 coalition will conduct a technical exercise to consider a range of factors to reach international consensus on the level at which the price cap will be set.

Does this involve a weakening of EU sanctions?

No. The G7 price cap does not change our EU oil import ban. It will only involve clinically amending EU sanctions (the maritime services ban) to allow the provision of services to maritime transport below the cap. Services for transport above the cap remain sanctioned. This amendment will actually help strengthen the overall impact of global sanctions against Russia, by creating incentives for a coalition of third countries to trade at or below the cap, thereby reducing Russia’s revenues.

What does this mean for the maritime industries of certain Member States?

The EU’s full import embargo on Russian crude oil and refined petroleum products, already agreed by the Council in June, is not affected – so nothing changes for Member States on this front. As regards maritime services by Member States’ providers covering Russian oil, there is no impact as long as the trades concerned remain at or under the set cap. The Commission will continuously monitor the possible broader economic impact on Member States and will, together with allies, continue to strive for the largest possible price capping coalition, to render this system as effective as possible.

Restrictions on State-owned enterprises

What has changed regarding sanctions on certain state-owned enterprises in Russia?

EU sanctions already banned all transactions with certain State-owned enterprises. The new measures further clarify that this prohibition also includes the holding of posts by EU citizens in their governing bodies.

What is the ban on all transactions with the Russian Maritime Register?

The Russian Maritime Register, a 100% State-owned entity, which performs activities related to the classification and inspection, including in the field of security, of Russian and non-Russian ships and crafts, has been added to the list of state-owned entities that are subject to the transaction ban. This prohibits the provision of any sort of economically valuable benefit to the Russian Maritime Register.

Financial, IT consultancy and other business services

Are more services banned?

Yes, this package widens the scope of services which can no longer be provided to the government of Russia or legal persons established in Russia. It includes the following:

* * Architectural and engineering services: this covers both architectural and engineering services, including integrated engineering services, urban planning and landscape architectural services, and engineering-related scientific and technical consulting services.

* IT consultancy services: this covers consultancy services related to the installation of computer hardware, such as assistance services to the clients in the installation of computer hardware (i.e. physical equipment) and computer networks, as well as software implementation services (including all services involving consultancy services in the development and implementation of software).

* Legal services: this covers the provision of legal advice to customers in non-contentious matters, including commercial transactions, involving the application or interpretation of law, participation with or on behalf of clients in commercial transactions, negotiations and other dealings with third parties, and the preparation, execution and verification of legal documents. This prohibition does not extend to representation, advice, the preparation of documents and verification of documents in the context of legal representation services, namely in matters or proceedings before administrative agencies, courts, other duly constituted official tribunals, and arbitral and mediation proceedings.

What measures were adopted regarding crypto?

The package further tightens the existing prohibitions on crypto assets by removing the threshold for the existing prohibition, thereby banning all crypto-asset wallet, account or custody services, irrespective of the amount of the wallet (previously allowed up to €10,000).

Deterring sanctions circumvention

What does this new proposal mean?

The EU has introduced a new listing criterion, which will allow it to sanction persons who facilitate the circumvention of sanctions. This includes circumvention by EU citizens.

General

What is the rationale of imposing such sanctions?

Sanctions are targeted at the Kremlin. They aim to weaken the Russian government’s ability to finance its aggression against Ukraine and are calibrated in order to minimise the negative consequences on the Russian population.

Sanctions are imposing a direct cost on Russia for its war of aggression and damaging Russia’s industrial and economic ability to wage war, manufacture more weapons, and repair existing weapons systems. The sanctions also deprive the Russian army and its suppliers of the goods and equipment needed to wage its war on sovereign Ukrainian territory.

In addition, sanctions are designed to maximise the negative impact for the Russian economy, while limiting the consequences for EU businesses and citizens. We welcome EU companies’ diligence in complying with the sanctions framework in place.

Ensuring an effective and diligent implementation of sanctions is key to prevent circumvention. This is primarily the responsibility of Member States.

In this process, the European Commission is fully committed to assisting them and ensuring a consistent implementation across the Union.

Are EU sanctions causing a food crisis?

No. It is Russia’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine and Russia’s deliberate actions – such as blocking grain exports from Ukraine, burning crops and silos, stealing Ukrainian cereals, and complicating trade – that is provoking a global food crisis.

None of the EU’s sanctions adopted against Russia prevent the supply of agri-food, medical equipment or medicines for the general population. Agricultural machinery is also not subject to any export ban.

None of the sanctions adopted by the EU in view of Russia’s war of aggression in Ukraine target the trade in agricultural and food products, including cereals and fertilisers, between third countries and Russia.

If third countries wish to buy Russian fertilisers, there are no EU sanctions that would prohibit this.

On 19 September 2022, the EU issued updated guidance to clarify the situation in which EU operators transport a sanctioned item to a third country. It makes it clear that the transfer of Russian fertilisers to third countries is permitted.

In a very challenging environment with rising production costs for farmers, we need to become less dependent on inputs for fertilisers production from unreliable trade partners. We must diversify our sources of supply. The Commission proposed legislation for this diversification, notably the suspension of import tariffs on fertilisers inputs that originate in countries other than Russia or Belarus.

For More Information

Press release – Ukraine: EU agrees on eighth package of sanctions against Russia [https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5989]

Official Journal[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=OJ:L:2022:194:TOChttps://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=OJ:L:2022:194:TOC]

European Commission website on Ukraine[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/stronger-europe-world/eu-solidarity-ukraine_en]

Q&A on restrictive measures[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_22_1401]

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/QANDA_22_5990]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ukraine-eu-agrees-on-eighth-package-of-sanctions-against-russia/388837/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Temporary Crisis Framework : EU Commission proposes prolong and amend to Member States[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/temporary-crisis-framework-eu-commission-proposes-prolong-and-amend-to-member-states/388831/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 6 October 2022

The European Commission has sent to Member States for consultation a draft proposal to prolong and adjust the State aid Temporary Crisis Framework[https://ec.europa.eu/competition-policy/state-aid/ukraine_en], adopted by the Commission on 23 March 2022[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/statement_22_1949] to enable Member States to use the flexibility foreseen under State aid rules to support the economy in the context of Russia’s war against Ukraine. The Temporary Crisis Framework was first amended on 20 July 2022[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_4622], to complement the Winter Preparedness Package[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_4608] and in line with the REPowerEU Plan[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_3131] objectives.

Executive Vice-President Margrethe Vestager, in charge of competition policy, said

“We are facing a severe energy crisis that is affecting households and businesses all over Europe. To this common challenge, we need a common and coordinated response that does not compromise on Europe’s fundamental strength – our Single Market. That is why the Commission has put in place a State aid Temporary Crisis Framework. It sets clear and horizontal criteria, applicable to all Member States, enabling them to provide necessary and proportionate support to their economies in this crisis. As this crisis develops and continues to persist, we are ensuring that the Temporary Crisis Framework remains fit for purpose. We are consulting Member States on a proposal to prolong and amend the Temporary Crisis Framework to address developing needs of Member States and industry. At the same time, the proposal maintains and strengthens important safeguards to preserve a level playing field and to achieve our green objectives.” A full statement is available here[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/statement_22_5999].

In view of the economic fallout of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine and of its impact on the energy situation, the Commission is proposing to prolong and amend the Temporary Crisis Framework. The proposed amendments sent to Member States complement the Commission’s proposal on an emergency market intervention[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_5489], on which a political agreement has been reached in Council on 30 September 2022[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/09/30/council-agrees-on-emergency-measures-to-reduce-energy-prices/]. They aim at ensuring that the Temporary Crisis Framework continues to enable Member States to provide necessary and proportionate support to the economy while ensuring a level playing field. Among others, the Commission is consulting Member States on possible amendments relating to:

* A prolongation of the Temporary Crisis Framework;

* A proportionate increase of maximum aid ceilings foreseen in the provisions on limited amounts of aid, which enable Member States to provide direct grants or other forms of aid to companies in any sector affected by the crisis, including agriculture and fisheries;

* A targeted adjustment, in view of the high market volatility, to further facilitate access to liquidity support to energy companies in order to cover the financial collaterals for their trading activities;

* A simplification of the criteria that enable Member States to support businesses affected by high energy prices, including energy-intensive users, ensuring that support remains targeted and proportionate while maintaining incentives for reducing energy demand;

* A clarification on the criteria that the Commission intends to apply for the assessment of recapitalisation support measures, to preserve effective competition; and

* Additional measures aimed at supporting electricity demand reduction, in line with the Commission’s proposal on an emergency market intervention[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_5489], on which a political agreement has been reached in Council on 30 September 2022[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/09/30/council-agrees-on-emergency-measures-to-reduce-energy-prices/].

Member States now have the possibility to comment on the Commission’s draft proposal.

Background

steady-paywall

The State aid Temporary Crisis Framework[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.CI.2022.131.01.0001.01.ENG], adopted on 23 March 2022[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/statement_22_1949], enables Member States to use the flexibility foreseen under State aid rules to support the economy in the context of Russia’s war against Ukraine.

The Temporary Crisis Framework has been amended on 20 July 2022[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_4622], to complement the Winter Preparedness Package[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_4608] and in line with the REPowerEU Plan[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_3131] objectives.

The Temporary Crisis Framework, as currently in force, provides for the following types of aid, which can be granted by Member States:

* Limited amounts of aid, in any form, for companies affected by the current crisis or by the subsequent sanctions and countersanctions up to the increased amount of 62,000€ and 75,000€ in the agriculture, and fisheries and aquaculture sectors respectively, and up to 500,000€ in all other sectors;

* Liquidity support in form of State guarantees and subsidised loans;

* Aid to compensate for high energy prices. The aid, which can be granted in any form, will partially compensate companies, in particular intensive energy users, for additional costs due to exceptional gas and electricity price increases. The overall aid per beneficiary cannot exceed 30% of the eligible costs and – in order to incentivise energy saving – should relate to no more than 70% of its gas and electricity consumption during the same period of the previous year, up to a maximum of €2 million at any given point in time. When the company incurs operating losses, further aid may be necessary to ensure the continuation of an economic activity. Therefore, for energy-intensive users, the aid intensities are higher and Member States may grant aid exceeding these ceilings, up to €25 million, and for companies active in particularly affected sectors and sub-sectors up to €50 million;

* Measures accelerating the rollout of renewable energy. Member States can set up schemes for investments in renewable energy, including renewable hydrogen, biogas and biomethane, storage and renewable heat, including through heat pumps, with simplified tender procedures that can be quickly implemented, while including sufficient safeguards to protect the level playing field. In particular, Member States can devise schemes for a specific technology, requiring support in view of the particular national energy mix; and

* Measures facilitating the decarbonisation of industrial processes. To further accelerate the diversification of energy supplies, Member States can support investments to phase out from fossil fuels, in particular through electrification, energy efficiency and the switch to the use of renewable and electricity-based hydrogen which complies with certain conditions. Member States can either (i) set up new tender-based schemes, or (ii) directly support projects, without tenders, with certain limits on the share of public support per investment. Specific top-up bonuses would be foreseen for small and medium-sized enterprises as well as for particularly energy efficient solutions.

Sanctioned Russian-controlled entities will be excluded from the scope of these measures.

The Temporary Crisis Framework, as currently in force, is applicable until 31 December 2022 for the liquidity support measures and measures covering increased energy costs. Aid supporting the roll-out of renewable energies and the decarbonisation of the industry may be granted until end of June 2023.

More information on the Temporary Crisis Framework and other actions taken by the Commission to address the economic impact of Russia’s war against Ukraine can be found here[https://ec.europa.eu/competition-policy/state-aid/ukraine_en].

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_6000]

Russia’s war: Executive Vice-President Vestager on proposed amendments to State aid Temporary Crisis Framework

Brussels, 6 October 2022

Russia’s senseless war against Ukraine continues, with its heavy toll on lives and livelihoods. As a result we are also facing a severe energy crisis that is affecting households and businesses all over Europe. There is an urgent need to support the most vulnerable parts of our society, to ensure that critical industries can continue operation, while jointly reducing our energy demand and dependency on fossil fuels.

To this common challenge, we need a common and coordinated response that does not compromise on Europe’s fundamental strength – our Single Market. Effective State aid control is key in preserving the well-functioning of the Single Market and avoiding harmful subsidy races.

That is why already in March this year, the Commission put in place a State aid Temporary Crisis Framework. It sets clear and horizontal criteria, applicable to all Member States, enabling them to provide necessary and proportionate support to their economies in this crisis.

And as this crisis develops and continues to persist, we are ensuring that the Temporary Crisis Framework remains fit for purpose. In July, we first amended the Framework also to include additional possibilities for Member States to help accelerate the rollout of renewable energy as well as the decarbonisation of industries.

We are consulting Member States on a proposal to prolong and amend the Temporary Crisis Framework to address developing needs of Member States and industry. To name a few examples, the proposal aims to further enable Member States to provide necessary liquidity support to energy utility companies in view of market volatility. It clarifies conditions for public recapitalisations with clear strings attached. And it aims to facilitate well-targeted support to businesses affected by high energy prices, including energy-intensive users, while maintaining incentives for reducing energy demand. At the same time, the proposal maintains and strengthens important safeguards to preserve a level playing field and to achieve our green objectives.

The proposal already takes into account input received from Member States in response to a survey launched mid-September. I look forward to continue our close cooperation with Member States in this process.

At the same time, we will remain vigilant that all national support measures are put in place in full compliance with EU rules. We will remain equally vigilant on their implementation and impact on the level playing field.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_22_5999]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/temporary-crisis-framework-eu-commission-proposes-prolong-and-amend-to-member-states/388831/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Europol: Italian operation takes down criminal group linked to ‘Ndrangheta [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/europol-italian-operation-takes-down-criminal-group-linked-to-ndrangheta/388829/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

The Hague, 6 October 2022

Today, some three hundred police officers carried out coordinated raids against the members of this highly professional criminal syndicate linked to the ‘Ndrangheta. Property searches were carried out in the provinces of Reggio Calabria, Vibo Valentia, Bari, Naples, Rome, Terni, Vicenza, Milan and Novara, resulting so far in 31 arrests and 7 million euros worth of criminal assets being seized.

These arrests follow a complex investigation in which over 4 tonnes of cocaine imported by the criminals have been seized, with an estimated street value exceeding EUR 800 million.

The investigation identified a corrupt customs officer who allegedly altered the outcome of an x-ray scan performed on a container containing 300 kilos of cocaine. He is believed to have received a sum equivalent to 3 % of the value of the illicit cargo for this.

In the framework of intelligence activities underway with Europol, the Italian investigators were also able to identify the other members of this criminal network, structured as follows:

* Members of the ‘Ndrangheta, who would arrange for the cocaine to be shipped from South America;

* Field coordinators, who would recruit and manage the corrupted dockers, paying them a commission varying between 7 to 20 % of the value of the illegal cargo;

* Complicit port operators who would arrange for the ‘contaminated’ containers to not be intercepted as they were being smuggled into the port of Gioia Tauro.

The investigation also made it possible to identify the criminal masterminds responsible for organising the massive importation of cocaine from South America to Calabria, characterised by periodic shipments of two tonnes each. These criminals feature among the suspects arrested today.

Europol’s support was central in the development of the Italian investigation, providing tailored expertise and extensive analysis. Europol developed reliable and crucial intelligence concerning the activities of this criminal network and has been working closely with Italian investigators to bring down the whole network.

The Head of the European Serious and Organised Crime Centre at Europol, Jari Liukku, commented:

This investigation uncovered how the ‘Ndrangheta is using corruption to enable its criminal activity and undermine law enforcement’s efforts. Europol sees the use of corruption, in the private or the public sector, as a major enabler of organised crime. In this particular investigation we are very pleased to have joined forces with the Italian Guardia di Finanza to support them in fighting large-scale drug trafficking as well as corruption at an EU entry point. In this regard this investigation sets an example.

This investigation was supported by the EU-funded Project ISF4@ON, an Italian-led initiative to tackle mafia-type organised crime groups active in Europe.

Source – Europol[https://www.europol.europa.eu/media-press/newsroom/news/italian-operation-takes-down-corrupt-port-workers-facilitating-%E2%80%98ndrangheta-drug-trafficking-activities?mtm_campaign=newsletter]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/europol-italian-operation-takes-down-criminal-group-linked-to-ndrangheta/388829/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

European Political Community: Remarks by EU High Representative Borrell[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security/european-political-community-remarks-by-eu-high-representative-borrell/388826/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 6 October 2022

Check against delivery!

Since Russia unleashed its brutal aggression against Ukraine, Europe has entered in a new phase of our history.

Today, 44 European leaders gather here together in order to study how to build a new security structure in Europe. It has to be done without Russia – not because we do not want Russia to be part of Europe, but because Russia’s Putin has taken [itself] out of the European Community.

The European [Political] Community is formed by these 44 States. Some of them are members of the European Union, and others – they are not. Some do not want to; others were members [of the European Union] and they left; and others are still not members, but they will become members.

And all together, [we] have to define a new line for the Europeans.

Europe has to face the crisis created by the war in Ukraine, it has to build a new security order to face the food and energy crises. And this forum, this community, this [European] Political Community is the best way for the Europeans – all Europeans, inside the Union and outside the Union – to face it.

Thank you.

Link to the video:https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/en/video/I-231291[https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/en/video/I-231291]

Source – EEAS[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/european-political-community-remarks-high-representative-josep-borrell-upon-arrival-inaugural_en]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security/european-political-community-remarks-by-eu-high-representative-borrell/388826/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Flightright: Judgment of the Court in Case C-436/21 | Air transport from Stuttgart to Kansas City[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/flightright-judgment-of-the-court-in-case-c-436-21-air-transport-from-stuttgart-to-kansas-city/388824/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Luxembourg, 6 October 2022

PRESS RELEASE No 166/22

The right to compensation for air passengers subject to long delays applies to connecting flights made up of flights operated by separate operating air carriers

Where those flights have been combined by a travel agency which has charged an overall price and issued a single ticket, it is irrelevant that there is no legal relationship between the carriers.

A passenger purchased, through a travel agency, an electronic plane ticket for a journey on 25 July 2018 from Stuttgart to Kansas City made up of three flights. The first flight from Stuttgart to Zurich was operated by Swiss International Air Lines, whilst the two flights from Zurich to Philadelphia and from Philadelphia to Kansas City, respectively, were operated by American Airlines. The electronic ticket number appeared on the boarding passes for those flights. In addition, that ticket showed that American Airlines was providing services and contained a single reservation number relating to the entire journey. Furthermore, the travel agency issued an invoice showing a total price for the whole of that journey and for the return.

While the flights from Stuttgart to Zurich and from Zurich to Philadelphia, respectively, ran to schedule, the arrival of the flight from Philadelphia to Kansas City was delayed by more than four hours. Before the German courts, flightright, a company providing legal assistance to air passengers to which the rights arising from that delay had been assigned, is claiming compensation of € 600 from American Airlines, pursuant to Regulation No 261/2004 concerning compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights.

The German Federal Court of Justice, before which the case has been brought, has put questions to the Court of Justice regarding the ninterpretation of certain parts of that regulation. By today’s judgment, the Court of Justice holds that the concept of a “connecting flight” covers a transport operation departing from a Member State made up of a number of flights operated by separate operating air carriers which do not have a legal relationship, where those flights have been combined by a travel agency which has charged an overall price and issued a single ticket for that operation.

The Court points out that concept of a ‘connecting flight’ must be understood as referring to two or more flights constituting a whole for the purposes of the right to compensation for passengers provided for in Regulation No 261/2004. That is the case when two or more flights were booked as a single unit. In the present case, it appears that the passenger had a ticket constituting proof that the reservation for that passenger’s entire journey from Stuttgart to Kansas City had been accepted and registered by a tour operator. Such a transport operation must be regarded as being based on a single reservation and, therefore, as a ‘connecting flight’.

The flights comprising the connecting flight at issue were operated by separate operating air carriers, namely Swiss International Air Lines and American Airlines, there being no legal relationship between them. The Court considers that no provision of the regulation concerning compensation of air passengers renders the classification as a connecting flight subject to the condition that there is a specific legal relationship between the operating air carriers operating, where relevant, the flights which make up the connecting flight. Such an additional condition would also be contrary to the objective of ensuring a high level of protection for passengers, in that it would be capable of limiting, in particular, their right to compensation, where there is a long delay to their flight.

NOTE: A reference for a preliminary ruling allows the courts and tribunals of the Member States, in disputes which have been brought before them, to refer questions to the Court of Justice about the interpretation of European Union law or the validity of a European Union act. The Court of Justice does not decide the dispute itself. It is for the national court or tribunal to dispose of the case in accordance with the Court’s decision, which is similarly binding on other national courts or tribunals before which a similar issue is raised.

Source – EU Court of Justice – Email

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/flightright-judgment-of-the-court-in-case-c-436-21-air-transport-from-stuttgart-to-kansas-city/388824/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

MEPs revamp pandemic relief measures for aviation sector[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/meps-revamp-pandemic-relief-measures-for-aviation-sector/388822/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 6 October 2022

To better reflect increasing air traffic, Parliament updated the take-off and landing slots rules for airlines and kept some exceptions introduced during the pandemic.

Due to rebounding air-traffic demand, MEPs set a path towards a gradual return to the ‘use it or lose it’ rules on the allocation of slots at EU airports, which were suspended from March 2020 to March 2021 to respond to the pandemic and then gradually reinstated for the following seasons.

As of 30 October 2022, airlines would have to use 75 % of their planned take-off and landing slots (instead of the 80% required before the pandemic) in order to keep them the following season. From the 2023 summer season, the standard 80% slot utilisation requirement will apply.

Parliament also approved further exceptions to justify not using the slots, such as epidemiological emergencies, natural disasters, or widespread political unrest with a disruptive effect on air travel. The European Commission can also lower the minimum slot utilisation rate if air traffic levels fall below 80% (compared with 2019 figures) for two consecutive weeks due to COVID-19, for another epidemiological situation, or as a direct result of Russia’s war against Ukraine.

In addition, the new rules allow for air connectivity to be restored between the EU and Ukraine when the time comes, for example, there would be a 16-week recovery period before slot-use requirements become applicable again once Ukrainian airspace reopens.

MEPs set up these relief measures for two scheduling seasons, from 30 October 2022 until 28 October 2023.

EP rapporteur Dominique Riquet (Renew, FR) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/96885/DOMINIQUE_RIQUET/home]said:

“The European Parliament, which defends the optimal use of existing infrastructure, connectivity, fluidity of transport and citizens’ access to competitive offers, endorsed today a gradual return to standard airport slots operating rules, while maintaining flexibility in a market that remains uncertain due to the epidemiological situation and the Russian military aggression. Still, returning to a higher slots utilisation rate was necessary to guarantee the smooth functioning of the air sector, and permitted by encouraging traffic forecasts for the coming winter season.”

Next steps

The new rules were adopted by 457 votes to three and three abstentions. Parliament and Council consulted each other informally before the vote. Now that MEPs have given their green light, Council also has to approve the rules, so they can enter into force after publication in the Official Journal of the EU.

Background information

Accoding to Eurocontrol, estimated air traffic levels will reach between 83% (low-case scenario) and 95% (high-case scenario) of pre-COVID-19 levels by October 2022.

Source – EU Parliament[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220930IPR41934/meps-revamp-pandemic-relief-measures-for-aviation-sector]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/meps-revamp-pandemic-relief-measures-for-aviation-sector/388822/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Iran: MEPs call to sanction officials responsible for Mahsa Amini’s death[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/iran-meps-call-to-sanction-officials-responsible-for-mahsa-aminis-death/388820/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 6 October 2022

Parliament condemns the death of Mahsa Amini in Iran and asks for EU sanctions against her killers and those involved in quashing the ensuing street protests.

In a resolution adopted on Thursday, Parliament takes stock of developments in Iran following the death of 22-year-old Iranian Kurdish woman Mahsa Amini at the hands of the country’s morality police and the outbreak of subsequent street demonstrations against the hard-line clerical regime.

MEPs strongly condemn Ms Amini’s death and call for an impartial, effective and above all independent investigation into her ill-treatment and tragic killing. Arrested by the police on 13 September for allegedly ignoring Iran’s strict veiling laws, she died in a Tehran hospital three days later following physical abuse while in custody.

The EU must sanction Iranian officials involved in the regime’s repression

While expressing its strong support for the peaceful protest movement in Iran, and in particular the young women leading and participating in the demonstrations , Parliament strongly condemns the widespread and disproportionate use of force by Iranian security forces against the crowds , which has so far resulted in many casualties. MEPs also call on the country’s authorities to immediately and unconditionally release and drop any charges against anyone who has been imprisoned solely for exercising their rights to freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly, as well as all other human rights defenders.

The resolution urges the EU to sanction Iranian officials involved in both Mahsa Amini’s death and the violence against protestors, under the EU Global Human Rights Sanctions Regime.

Calls for a UN investigation into events in Iran

Parliament further calls on the United Nations, and in particular its Human Rights Council, to initiate an investigation into recent events in Iran. MEPs also urge EU member states with a diplomatic presence in the country to coordinate their actions in order to protect human rights defenders, in particular women’s rights defenders, and EU-Iranian dual nationals.

The text was approved by show of hands. For further details, it will be available here[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/plenary/en/texts-adopted.html].

Source – EU Parliament[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220930IPR41936/iran-meps-want-eu-to-sanction-officials-responsible-for-mahsa-amini-s-death]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/iran-meps-call-to-sanction-officials-responsible-for-mahsa-aminis-death/388820/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

MEPs call for massive increase of military assistance to Ukraine[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/meps-call-for-massive-increase-of-military-assistance-to-ukraine/388818/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 6 October 2022

MEPs urge all countries and international organisations to condemn unequivocally the sham referenda in Ukraine and Russia’s attempt to acquire territory by force.

In a resolution adopted on Thursday, MEPs say the results of the sham referenda conducted at gunpoint to annex the Donetsk, Kherson, Luhansk, and Zaporizhzhia oblasts are “null and void” and call on member states to adopt additional severe sanctions.

Increase military assistance to Ukraine

Hailing the courage of the Ukrainian people defending their country and European values, MEPs urge EU member states and other countries supporting Ukraine to increase massively their military assistance, particularly in areas requested by the Ukrainian government. “Hesitating” member states should provide their fair share of necessary military assistance, which will help shorten the war.

The recent Russian threats to use nuclear weapons are irresponsible and dangerous, warn MEPs. They call on member states and international partners to prepare a quick and decisive response should Russia conduct a nuclear strike on Ukraine. Any attempt by Russia to present attacks on occupied territories as an attack on Russia itself, and thus as grounds for a nuclear attack, is illegal and baseless and will not deter the European Union from further assistance to Ukraine’s self-defence.

MEPs condemn the military mobilisation in Russia and measures compelling residents of the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine to serve in Russia’s armed or auxiliary forces, an act which the Fourth Geneva Convention forbids., In order to maintain stability in the South Caucasus and Central Asia, MEPs also call for increased support for countries in the region who experienced an influx of Russian citizens, in particular Georgia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan.

Need to increase the protection of European critical infrastructure

Regarding the explosions on the Nord Stream pipelines, MEPs say there is “increasing speculation that it was a result of a coordinated and deliberate act by a state actor”. The explosions show how dangerous the policy of increasing dependence on Russian fossil fuels was and that the weaponisation of energy has been taken to a new level. The resolution calls on member states to treat the protection of European critical infrastructure as a priority, to increase its resilience against external attacks, and to further support the resilience of the Eastern European and Western Balkans partners.

Finally, MEPs call for the establishment of an ad hoc international tribunal for the crime of aggression against Ukraine, “where Putin and all those Russian civilian and military officials and their proxies responsible for masterminding, launching and conducting the war in Ukraine would be prosecuted”.

The resolution was adopted by 504 votes in favour 26 against and 36 abstentions.

Source – EU Parliament[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220930IPR41935/meps-call-for-massive-increase-of-military-assistance-to-ukraine]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/meps-call-for-massive-increase-of-military-assistance-to-ukraine/388818/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Parliament demands better protection for oceans and marine biodiversity[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-parliament-demands-better-protection-for-oceans-and-marine-biodiversity/388816/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 6 October 2022

To improve ocean protection, Parliament calls on the EU to lead global ocean governance and biodiversity efforts.

Ahead of the upcoming climate and biodiversity conferences COP27[https://cop27.eg/] and COP15[https://www.unep.org/events/conference/un-biodiversity-conference-cop-15], Parliament has adopted a resolution on strengthening ocean governance and the protection of marine biodiversity with 468 votes to 53 votes and 34 abstentions.

MEPs call on the EU to be a leader in protecting, restoring and in raising awareness about the essential role that oceans play in maintaining a liveable planet for humans and animals. They remind that the good health of our oceans is also essential for the long-term sustainability of many activities such as fishing, tourism, research and shipping.

MEPs also underline the importance of oceans in the fight against climate change and for the full achievement of the objectives of the Paris Agreement[https://unfccc.int/process-and-meetings/the-paris-agreement/the-paris-agreement] and the Convention on Biological Diversity[https://www.cbd.int/convention/text/]. In this context, they remind of Parliament’s call for the EU to push for an ambitious post-2020 global biodiversity framework at COP15[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20200109IPR69908/to-save-biodiversity-meps-call-for-binding-targets-at-global-and-eu-level] to halt and reverse biodiversity loss, including through legally binding global restoration and protection targets of at least 30% by 2030.

MEPs consider the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity of areas beyond national jurisdiction for crucial. They are therefore disappointed that, in spite of progress, the Treaty of the High Seas[https://oceans-and-fisheries.ec.europa.eu/news/decisive-progress-high-seas-biodiversity-treaty-2022-08-27_en] was not adopted at the Fifth Intergovernmental Conference. MEPs call on the Commission and the Member States to urgently resume negotiations on the Treaty so that an international framework that is ambitious, effective and futureproof can be adopted as soon as possible.

Source – EU Commission[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220930IPR41937/parliament-demands-better-protection-for-oceans-and-marine-biodiversity]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-parliament-demands-better-protection-for-oceans-and-marine-biodiversity/388816/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

You are receiving this e-mail because you have signed up for the premium version of our Insight EU Monitoring Digest.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any problems in receiving or opening this mail, or if you are interested in other services we offer.

You find more information about us on our FAQ page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] and on our subscription page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/subscribe/]. Or simply contact our publisher[mailto:j.weidemann@ieu-monitoring.com?subject=Letter%20to%20the%20publisher].

Important note

Please do not hesitate to reach out if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues. See also our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

Last, but not least, here are some more useful deep links:

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Insight EU Agenda Weekly: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Insight EU Premium: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium]

* Specialised Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020221007eia700005


Foreign Ministry to have new department of sanction policies
330 字
2022 年 10 月 13 日 17:42 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Oct 13 (CTK) - A new department of sanction policies is supposed to be established by January 1 at the Foreign Ministry (MZV), following the new sanction law that could be passed at the current lower house session, Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) told reporters today.

There is also a new department of energy security at the ministry.

Lipavsky said he considered the new department of sanction policies crucial for fulfilling the agenda.

"Right now, other parts of the ministry deal with this and it is not in the gestion of anyone in particular," he said.

The department will have four members and it will cooperate with the security forces, ministries, board of customs as well as the Financial Analytical Office (FAU).

The bill on national sanctions against foreigners who have performed a serious illegal act will probably be passed by the Chamber of Deputies.

The Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs recommended to the lower house that it shorten the period the government has for reviewing the decision to put someone on a sanction list by one third to 30 days. It might also specify the list of regulations based on which a certain act can be considered punishable in accordance with the sanction law.

The government accelerated its presentation due to the conflict in Ukraine.

Recently, a new department of energy security, also comprised of four members, has been established at the ministry.

The Foreign Ministry was the crucial player in preventing Russia from joining the nuclear programme in Czechia and now the same ministry has a key role in replacing the Russian materials in all energy spheres, Vaclav Bartuska, ministry representative for energy security, told CTK.

He explained that in this respect, it was a natural step to establish an energy security department concentrating experts on energy and interconnecting the state authorities, at least until the insecurity caused by the Russian war against Ukraine ends.

buj/dr/pvr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221013eiad00006


Chamber passes sanction bill against foreigners
680 字
2022 年 10 月 14 日 12:52 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Oct 14 (CTK) - The Chamber of Deputies today passed a sanction bill against foreigners and foreign companies that committed an unlawful act, under which the Czech state can impose a ban on entry and stay on them or freeze their property.

The law will also make it possible to impose restrictions on organisations and regimes that are violating human rights and use terrorist methods and cyber attacks.

The bill, under which other penalties than those on the EU sanction list can be used, will now be passed on to the Senate, the upper house of Czech parliament.

In the Chamber of Deputies, it was supported by 112 out of 130 present MPs, none of them voted against it. The opposition Freedom and Democracy (SPD) MPs abstained from the vote along with Milan Brazdil and Tatana Mala from senior opposition ANO.

„I consider this the result of confident foreign policy. I am glad that the bill won broad support and I hope it will become a full-fledged part of the foreign policy after it is dealt with in the Senate and passes through the Prague Castle,“ Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) told journalists.

The Prague Castle is the seat of the Presidential Office.

The bill says that the government will decide whether to put someone on the sanction list based on the Foreign Ministry's suggestion. Objections to the listing will also be sent to the ministry, and the government will decide on them. The people on the list can defend themselves at court, the Metropolitan Court in Prague will be the court of first instance.

The lower house legal and constitutional committee recommended that the lower house shorten the period the government has for reviewing the decision to put someone on a sanction list by one third to 30 days. The lower house agreed with this today.

It also specified the list of regulations based on which a certain act can be considered punishable in accordance with the sanction law.

Karel Haas (Civic Democrats, ODS) and Helena Valkova's (ANO) adjustments, praised by Lipavsky, are supposed to secure that foreigners and foreign companies will be put on the list justly.

In its policy statement, PM Petr FIala's (ODS) cabinet assumed that the Magnitsky Act, which is to improve the enforcement of human rights protection, would be passed by the end of next year.

The work on the bill was sped up because of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. In the EU, France, the Netherlands, Latvia and Estonia have similar laws.

Lipavsky said Czechia will rely on sanction regimes based on EU legislation. Talks on sanction measures on the European level will be a priority, he said. "If we do not succeed in the EU, we may adopt measures of our won. At the same time, we need to wait for the EU if we recognise that the interest is strong enough," he said.

He noted that a new section for sanction policies will be working at his ministry as of January.

The Magnitsky Act is to improve the enforcement of human rights protection.

The US Congress approved the Magnitsky Act under then president Barack Obama who signed it in December 2012. It bans the Russian representatives involved in human rights infringement and those who might have contributed to Magnitsky's death from entering the country.

The act bears the name of Russian tax lawyer Sergei Magnitsky who died in a Moscow prison in 2009. He was arrested and charged with committing tax fraud in 2008 after having investigated an extensive fraud involving Russian police and judicial officials.

Magnitsky was hired in Russia by Bill Browder, a prominent British-American financier working extensively in Russia after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Browder, who was sentenced to nine years in absentia in Moscow for tax evasion in 2013, published the case and lobbied among American officials to pass a legislation sanctioning Russian individuals involved in corruption. He led the campaign targeting those involved in Magnitsky's death.

buj,kva/dr/kva,pvr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221014eiae0000f


Czech parliament approves Czech Magnitsky Act
Aneta Zachová
231 字
2022 年 10 月 17 日 06:54 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Czech lawmakers approved the Magnitsky Act on Friday, allowing the Czech government to impose sanctions on foreign entities violating human rights, supporting terrorism, or committing cyber crimes.

The Czech government planned to adopt the Magnitsky Act by the end of next year, but the preparation of the draft was accelerated by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

“It will make the Czech Republic the first Central European country to have its instrument to sanction serious human rights violations,” Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavský said.

Among EU countries, France, the Netherlands, Latvia and Estonia have similar laws. The law sets out the conditions for the inclusion of entities on the national sanctions list and the procedure for preparing proposals for the inclusion of entities on the EU sanctions list at the Czech initiative.

According to the proposal, the inclusion on the sanctions list will be decided by the Government on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For example, the state will be able to prevent sanctioned individuals from entering and staying in the country or freezing their assets.

Czech law was inspired by the US Magnitsky Act, named after a Ukrainian-born lawyer and tax advisor who died in Russian state custody in 2009 after he reported on corruption.

The law now needs to be approved by the Senate.

(Aneta Zachová | EURACTIV.cz)

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020221017eiah0000f


Czech minister wants Iran punished for drone supplies to Russia
333 字
2022 年 10 月 17 日 17:03 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Luxembourg, Oct 17 (CTK correspondent) - Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky supported the punishment of Iran for delivering drones to Russia at a meeting of foreign ministers of the EU countries today.

"Iran joined forces with the Russian Federation in the war against Ukraine. It started supplying considerable amount of military equipment, at present we see for example drone attacks," Lipavsky said.

He said the EU must do its utmost so that Russia does not have enough means to wage war.

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, who joined the meeting online from an air-raid shelter, said the unmanned aerial vehicles that attack Ukrainian towns were delivered by Iran. The secret services of the United States and some other EU countries are also convinced about this.

However, EU diplomacy chief Josep Borrell said some EU countries demand the presentation of clear evidence of Iran's deliveries. He said the evidence is being gathered.

The punishment of Iran for the military deliveries was today supported also by the representatives of the governments of Poland and the Baltic states.

The EU today imposed sanctions on 11 Iranian officials and four institutions including the morality police for their contribution to the death of 22-year-old Iranian woman Mahsa Amini and for the subsequent brutal suppression of protests. Amini was supposedly detained over her hijab having been too loose. The police said Amini died of heart attack, but her family and other sources said she died due to the police brutality.

The EU foreign ministers today unanimously agreed to sanction Iran's morality police.

"The Iranian regime brutally suppresses the rights of women and the inhabitants are logically losing patience," Lipavsky said after the meeting in Luxembourg.

So far, 97 officials and eight entities have been punished by the EU for the violation of human rights in Iran. The EU freezes the property of the punished persons and bans them from entering EU territory.

kva/mr/rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221017eiah00009


Czech Republic This Week - October 21, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 10 月 21 日, 5298 字, (英文)
Emerging Europe is growing faster than expected this year but will stagnate in 2023, says wiiwEconomic growth in Emerging Europe has been more resilient than expected to the impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine but growth is already ...

Summary of CTK General News in English, November 16, 21:00
928 字
2022 年 11 月 16 日 20:00 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague - Up to 4,000 Ukrainian soldiers will be trained in Czechia by the end of next year and a group of up to 800 of them this year already, Czech Defence Minister Jana Cernochova said, adding that the government today approved five four-week trainings of Ukrainian soldiers.

Prague - The Czech Republic supports Poland in the investigation into the explosion in its territory and both countries will cooperate in strengthening of the European Union and NATO security, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) tweeted[https://twitter.com/JanLipavsky/status/1592808798292676609] after talking to his Polish counterpart Zbigniew Rau today.

Prague - The Czech Republic is not and was not in security danger, PM Petr Fiala said after a cabinet meeting today in connection with Tuesday's fall of a missile on Polish territory, and expressed sympathy to Poland, whose two citizens perished in the incident.

Prague - Now it is the most important thing to keep quiet, wait for further information and evaluate facts, Czech Chief of Staff Karel Rehka tweeted on the explosion of a Russian-made missile in Poland today.

Prague - The anti-missile and air defence of the countries bordering on Ukraine and Russia should be increased following the recent blast in Poland, former Czech chief of staff Jiri Sedivy told journalists today.

Prague - Czech PM Petr Fiala and Belarusian opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya jointly condemned the support which Belarusian authoritarian President Alexander Lukashenko provides for Russia in its aggression against Ukraine, Fiala tweeted[https://twitter.com/P_Fiala/status/1592928510813016064] after their meeting in Prague today.

Prague - The Prize of the Platform of European Memory and Conscience for 2021 went to the Russian human rights organisation Memorial and presented to its member Boris Belenkin by Belarusian opposition leader Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, Czech Senate head Milos Vystrcil and the Platform head Marek Mutor today.

Prague - ANO MP Klara Dostalova was elected a deputy chairwoman of the Chamber of Deputies in a secret vote today, and she replaced Jana Mrackova Vildumetzova (ANO) who resigned in late September over her contacts with a businessman accused in a corruption case.

Prague - Czech President Milos Zeman welcomed his Slovak counterpart Zuzana Caputova at Prague Castle, the seat of Czech heads of state, this morning, his spokesman Jiri Ovcacek has tweeted.[https://twitter.com/PREZIDENTmluvci/status/1592823556802592768]

Prague - Members of the Chamber of Deputies proposed about 60 financial transfers of 119 billion crowns in total in the state budget for next in the second reading of the budget bill today.

Prague - The Chamber of Deputies, the lower house of Czech parliament, approved the establishment of the state Digital and Information Agency (DIA) to interconnect civil service information systems and secure the sharing of digital services, despite its rejection by the opposition today.

Prague - The Interior Ministry called on seven of 21 presidential candidates to correct errors they have made in their bid, the ministry published its calls on its website[https://www.mvcr.cz/volby/clanek/vyzva-k-odstraneni-zavad-na-kandidatni-listine-volba-prezidenta-republiky-2023.aspx].

Prague - The child benefit will be raised by 200 crowns a month in Czechia based on a bill the cabinet approved on the proposal of the Labour and Social Affairs Ministry today, which will be forwarded to parliament now, PM Petr Fiala (Civic Democrats, ODS) has told media.

Prague - Government human rights commissioner Klara Simackova Laurencikova has invited representatives of the university students who are on strike for climate this week to a joint debate, she has written in her statement.

Prague - The Czech cabinet reacts to the Russian aggression against Ukraine by an amendment to the law on sanctions and draft of a new sanction law, but other legislative changes are needed as well, representatives of NGOs led by the Reconstruction of the State initiative said at a press conference today.

Prague - Canoeists will as of next season no longer face a fine for going down selected sections of Czech rivers under a mild influence of alcohol, based on an amendment to the law on domestic shipping, which President Milos Zeman signed today, his office has announced.

Prague - A Czech prosecutor has shelved the case of statements by Czech Defence Minister Jana Cernochova (Civic Democrats, ODS) on the death of Russian nationalist ideologist Aleksander Dugin's daughter in an assassination in August as Cernochova committed no crime, public Czech Television reported today.

Prague - Czech President Milos Zeman must apologise to his former adviser Zdenek Sarapatka for having stated in 2017 that he had sacked Sarapatka due to incompetence, the Regional Court in Prague ruled today, upholding the previous ruling of the Rakovnik District Court, Central Bohemia.

Prague - The public prosecutor's office has returned the case of well-known Czech psychiatrist and writer Jan Cimicky, accused of rape and extortion of his female patients, to the police to complete the investigation, Prague Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office spokesman Ales Cimbala told CTK today.

Brno - Russia is responsible for the incident in Poland where a missile fell on Tuesday, killing two, because if it were not for the Russian attacks, this would not have happened, an international security organisations and policy expert from the Masaryk University, Zdenek Kriz, told journalists today.

Bratislava/Halic, Central Slovakia - Chiefs of staff of the Visegrad Four, comprised of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland, agreed on a closer cooperation with Ukraine's armed forces today, the spokesman for the Slovak army, Stefan Zemanovic, has told journalists.

Olomouc, Central Moravia - The Czech national team won the football friendly match against Faroe Islands 5-0 this evening.

Karlovy Vary, West Bohemia - The Czech team Karlovarsko lost to Italian Trentino in the 2nd round game of men's volleyball Champions League played at home today.

CTK

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221116eibg00004


world
Czechs warn ‘colonial’ Russia will be a threat even if Putin falls
Catherine Philp, Diplomatic Correspondent
648 字
2022 年 11 月 17 日 14:20 GMT
thetimes.co.uk
TIMEUK
英文
© Times Newspapers Limited 2022
Russia is the “last imperialistic power in the world” and is unlikely to change even if Vladimir Putin were to go, the Czech foreign minister warned, urging the West to stay the course in countering Moscow’s aggression.

In an interview with The Times, Jan Lipavsky warned against the fantasy that the war in Ukraine would end if Putin lost power or that Russia’s ambitions would shrink.

“We have to understand that Russia is the last colonial and imperialistic power in the world,” he told the Times. “The idea of imperial Russia, it’s not only connected to one man or to elites in Moscow, but to the whole concept on which the Russian state is now built upon.”

•

Liberators find dozens of tortured bodies in Kherson[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/ukrainians-find-dozens-of-tortured-bodies-in-kherson-7j6fj87z3]

Eastern Europe’s experience of Moscow’s imperialistic behaviour has made its countries among the most outspoken over Russia’s invasion of

Ukraine[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/topic/ukraine?page=1]

.

“I think it is natural that there are some historical memory connected to Russian imperialism and colonialism,” Lipavsky, 37, the youngest ever Czech foreign minister, said. “It easily and immediately triggers your reaction to the same behaviour of the Moscow leadership in another country.”

It is that experience, he says, that should make western Europe heed the east’s warnings about the challenge

Russia[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/topic/russia?page=1]

will continue to pose even if Putin falls. Russia’s poor management of the invasion has reopened questions about Putin’s future, though much of the harshest criticism comes from right-wing nationalists who believe Putin has simply not gone far enough.

“I don’t want to predict what will be the future of the current Russian leadership. That’s not my role to ever say, it’s for Russian people to have a say in it,” Lipavsky said. “But [while] we have this Russian leadership, we need to be ready to contain it from Europe.

“They will think in the scheme of 19th century, they will think in a scheme of grabbing territory by brute force, which is trying to destroy the charter of UN and the very basic principles, which are carved in stone in the document after the Second World War, that the borders won’t be changed by force.”

The Czech Republic currently holds the EU council presidency, which it has used to promote a message of unity over the European response to Ukraine. Lipavsky described Russia’s invasion on February 24 as “the day when the geopolitical Europe was born again”.

He said: “We have aid sanction packages in the EU. We have many decisions on sanctions down from the platform of the G7, we have a clear and unanimous voice from Nato. The UK and the Czech Republic are strong allies and I would like to underline this, these alliances are very, very important. So the common reaction of the West is strong.

“Yes, we have a lot of ongoing debates. In Europe we have certain differences. We have different accents. But at the end of the day, they are united in protection of our civilisation.”

He described the Czech Republic as in a “constant battle” with Russian influence campaigns against the Czech population trying to weaken its relations with western Europe. “It’s a never ending story of explaining why we do what we do and to explain to the public our actions. And definitely Russian trolls are misusing our weaknesses. The right answer is resilience.”

Europe so far has demonstrated that, he argues. “Putin has been absolutely unsuccessful in dividing the West. He started one year ago when he manipulated the energy market with gas prices and created and helped to create inflation in Europe.

“Putin was unsuccessful when he started the war and united the West. And Putin is unsuccessful now with his hybrid warfare against Europe.”

News UK & Ireland Limited

文件 TIMEUK0020221117eibh002p9


World news
West ‘should not dictate’ peace terms to Ukraine, says Czech foreign minister
Dan Sabbagh Defence and security editor
706 字
2022 年 11 月 17 日 19:28 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2022. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
Jan Lipavský says western backers should recognise Ukraine is fighting against Russia to protect all EuropeRussia-Ukraine war – latest news updates

Western backers of Ukraine “should not dictate” peace terms to Kyiv and recognise that the country is in effect fighting against Russia to protect all of Europe, the Czech foreign minister has said on a trip to London.

Jan Lipavský, whose country holds the EU presidency, also blamed Russia for what appears to be a stray air defence missile landing in Poland[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/nov/15/stray-russian-missiles-feared-landed-poland-ukraine] on Tuesday, because it had attacked Ukraine with “more than 100 rockets”.

“We shouldn’t be in a position where we dictate to Ukraine with other conditions for peace, if they are fighting for their own survival,” Lipavský said, when asked if it was reasonable for Ukraine to demand a restoration of the pre-2014 borders.

At stake, the minister added, were the UN principles of territorial integrity and the international rules-based order. “Putin wants to destroy the principle that the borders of states are not changed by brute force,” he argued.

Lipavský’s comments come as some US figures, led by Gen Mark Milley, the head of the country’s armed forces, have voiced concern that the fighting in the war is likely to descend into a stalemate over the winter and that Kyiv should consider reopening diplomatic discussions with Russia.

But many in Europe have pushed back at the suggestion, believing any halt to the conflict would favour Russia, which still occupies large parts of Ukraine’s territory. Lipavský said countries across the continent were benefiting from providing Ukraine with ongoing military, financial and humanitarian aid.

“Ukrainians made the clear choice they didn’t want to be part of Moscow’s empire,” Lipavský said. It was necessary for the west to help protect Ukraine over the long haul, he added, because their battle against their neighbour “is also protecting us”.

Prague has been the site of pro- and anti-government demonstrations in the past few weeks amid rising prices that critics of the country’s centre-right government want to pin on the government’s pro-Ukraine policy.

Lipavský, though, said he was confident that the Czech Republic would not relent in its support of Kyiv and referenced its mid 20th-century history of being dominated by Nazi Germany and then the Soviet Union.

“Freedom is not for free,” the minister said, adding that his country had suffered heavily in the 50 years before the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. “So maybe this winter will be harsher. But the price we would pay for not being free? It’s much, much, much, much higher.”

The foreign minister said it was “quite easy to answer who’s to blame” for the deaths of two Poles on Tuesday after a stray missile – believed to be from a Ukrainian S-300 air defence system – landed on a farm about four miles from the border.

“More than 100 Russian rockets on Tuesday were flying towards Ukraine with one clear aim: to destroy and cripple Ukrainian energy infrastructure, to kill people, to sow terror,” he said, arguing that Kyiv had a right to defend itself against the assault.

The Czech minister said the EU was “working on a ninth round” of economic sanctions directed against Russia, but would offer no specifics of what they could contain, reflecting wrangling among the bloc’s members about what they can agree on to target and worries about the cost of getting Hungary to sign up.

Hungary, led by prime minister Viktor Orbán, the EU leader most sympathetic to Russia, has increasingly raised questions about additional sanctions and has run a public campaign describing them as bombs that punish Europeans financially. When asked if Hungary was a problem, Lipavský paused and tactfully described the country as “a member of the EU and Nato”.

The foreign minister was in the UK to collect a Magnitsky human rights award for his part in the Czech Republic passing a law last month allowing the country to sanction Russia or other foreign entities violating human rights, supporting terrorism, or committing cybercrimes.

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020221117eibh002gz


Sport
A player can make himself an icon with one moment of bravery
AIDAN FITZMAURICE
1014 字
2022 年 11 月 19 日
Irish Independent
IINM
1; National
11
英文
(c) 2022 Independent Newspapers Ireland Ltd
A

S JAMES McCLEAN usually discovers around this time of the year, taking a stance on a point of principle can leave a footballer exposed and alone. The fact that McClean continues to refuse to wear a poppy on his shirt every November, despite the anger and anguish that lands on his shoulders as he insists he's right, is admirable.

Staying silent would make life easier and McClean knows that the flak he will get for his stance will follow him around long after he's retired from playing.

But the principled Derryman does not want that easy life if it means surrendering his beliefs.

Football over the next month will show us how much footballers care about what goes on beyond the pitch, and what they are willing to do about it.

Certain teams have already raised their voices, as a collective, about how they feel about the host nation and its treatment of migrant workers, the LGBTQ+ community and females.

There are no 'out' gay players at this World Cup but it's inconceivable to believe that not one squad member has a relative or close friend who is gay.

So spending a month in a country where homosexuality is illegal has to be uncomfortable for someone with a sibling or friend who happens to be gay.

We have seen figures within football lose their dedication to causes once the dollar signs are flashed. Hence David Beckham's fall from grace from being an icon of the LGBTQ+ community who was left with "a sick feeling in your mouth" after Qatar won the World Cup hosting rights to a paid emissary of the Qataris.

Others have simply lost a once-powerful voice. The 1997-era Robbie Fowler pulled up his Liverpool jersey to show off a t-shirt supporting a dockers' strike in his home city, aware he would be fined by UEFA. The 2022 version of Robbie Fowler comes to Dublin earlier this month on a paid gig for a beer company but insists he will only do interviews if he's not asked about three topics, one of which is Qatar.

When the Irish Independent's man on site asks Fowler about England captain Harry Kane wearing a rainbow armband in Qatar as a gesture of solidarity to the LGBTQ+ community, the PR handler stepped in to stop the conversation. Maybe Fowler only cares about the poorly treated working class if they are English.

The stance by the Danish and Australian squads, and pledges by captains like Kane to wear a rainbow armband, are welcome, but is that it? With the world watching, will any player break away and become their own James McClean, take a stand on an issue no matter the fallout?

It's not an easy thing to ask as breaking the law in a country like Qatar could have serious consequences, even for a famous athlete.

Poland were refusing to play Russia even if it meant forfeiting the World Cup

US basketball player Brittney Griner had a relatively high profile but that did not prevent her from her bruising encounter with Russia's judicial system, as she now serves a nine-year sentence in a Russian penal colony, over a trumped-up drug-possession charge.

If Qatar's royal family can ban the sale of alcohol at all stadiums overnight, causing massive losses for a world brand like Budweiser, would the third-choice goalkeeper from Australia really be confident he'd avoid any sanction from local police by unfurling a rainbow flag?

This World Cup had already shown the potential for player power and illustrated the vast gulf between heartless blazers like Putinworshipper

Gianni Infantino and footballers with a conscience.

To recap what happened for the qualifiers: Poland were due to play Russia in Moscow in a World Cup play-off semi-final last March, with either Sweden or the Czech Republic facing the winners of that tie.

Right after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, a pathetically weak-minded FIFA wanted the Russia-Poland game to go ahead, content to leave Russia still in with a chance to make it to the World Cup finals.

Their recognition that Russia had invaded a neighbour was to suggest moving the game away from Moscow, and downgrade Russia's status as a team by asking them to not use their flag, anthem and play under a makey-up name. Probably the "most FIFA" thing that FIFA have done in a decade.

What happened next was remarkable and admirable. The FAs of Poland, Sweden and Czech Republic all said they would refuse to play Russia, even if it meant missing out on the World Cup.

But the origin of Poland's stance came from their players. Goalkeeper Wojcheich Szczesny had a personal insight: his wife is Ukrainian so he knew better than most.

"I refuse to play against players who choose to represent the values and principles of Russia!

"I refuse to stand on the pitch, wearing the colours of my country and listen to the national anthem of Russia," the 'keeper said in a social media post.

Kane a rainbow captain's armband Pride June

When captain Robert Lewandowski backed Szczesny's stance it was game over as that position, refusing to play Russia even if it meant forfeiting the World Cup, became the FA's position.

FIFA may have eventually kicked Russia out of the competition but Szczesny being so vocal so early forced everyone's hand.

Not everyone is as brave, and not everyone is as invested as Szczesny was due to his family link. James

McClean is surely not the only Irish footballer in England who feels uncomfortable wearing a poppy but he's the only one willing to take a stand on it as others go with the flow.

The next month offers dozens of footballers an opportunity: to break away and become and McClean, or stay quiet, plead ignorance and take the money like Fowler.

Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited

文件 IINM000020221119eibj0004m


Czech premier to attend V4 meeting after parliamentary leaders boycott it
491 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日 06:51 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala will attend the Visegrad Group (V4) meeting on November 24 hosted by Slovakia in its second largest city in Kosice not far from the Ukrainian border. The decision comes after Parliamentary Speaker Marketa Pekarova Adamova and Czech Senate President Milos Vystrcil boycotted meeting their Hungarian counterparts over the Hungarian stance towards Ukraine and its energy policies.

“Hungarians bilaterally negotiate with Russia over supplies of energy commodities,” Vystrcil told local media, adding that this prevents a “united stance of EU countries and implementation of our goals in this energy crisis” and that the boycott is a “rational and sober way to express disagreement” on the V4 level. The war in Ukraine, the energy crisis and migration are key agenda topics in Kosice.

Pekarova Adamova called Hungary a “trojan horse of Russia” in line with comments of other Czech representatives such as the lower house's vice-speaker Olga Richterova from last week. “It is always Hungarians who agree with the sanction packages last” […], “blackmailing further sanctions, and they are exploiting the war themes domestically against the EU,” Pekarova Adamova said.

Fiala said he wants to discuss “common approach and common rules” on supporting the economy during the energy crisis, pointing to the German €200mn package, which “causes concern among EU member states”. In an interveiw for Czech newsite Seznam Zpravy, Fiala said that after a dialogue “Hungary supported all the key decisions during EU negotiations".

Prior to the war Fiala and Vystrcil’s rightwing ODS avoided criticism of Fidesz and maintained friendly ties with it. ODS MEP Jan Zahradil, who represents the strong conservative and eurosceptic wing within the party, called on the EU to accept Hungarian strongmanViktor Orban after Fidesz’s flawed general election victory in April. Another MEP Alexandr Vondra, a former liberal dissident who has moved to the right, also defends Fidesz rule in Hungary.

One of Fidesz’s 1988 co-founders and the current Speaker of the National Assembly Laszlo Kover issued a press statement in which he regretted the V4 house speakers' meeting was postponed as a result of the Czech boycott.

“The remarks of the speakers of the Czech Parliament concerning our country are untrue and disrespectful,” Kover wrote, highlighting that these “do not correspond to the facts and they call into question the right of the Hungarian government to shape its policy according to the interest of the Hungarian nation”.

Czechia holds the EU’s rotating presidency and its Europan Affairs Minister Mikulas Bek chairs EU discussions over the breaches of rule of law, civil liberties, and democracy in Hungary. Last week Bek criticised Hungary for obstructing the EU’s efforts to raise cash on financial markets for a loan to Ukraine, warning it could alienate EU officials in the upcoming response to Hungary’s proposals to unlock the rule of law conditionality to gain access to EU funds.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020221121eibl000xd


News
Czech premier to attend V4 meeting despite boycott of Hungary by parliamentary leaders
Albin Sybera
715 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日 06:51 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala will attend the Visegrad Group (V4) meeting on November 24 hosted by Slovakia, even though Parliamentary Speaker Marketa Pekarova Adamova and Senate President Milos Vystrcil boycotted meeting their Hungarian counterparts over Budapest's stance towards Ukraine and its energy policies. The meeting is being held in Slovakia's second largest city in Kosice, not far from the Ukrainian border

Hungary is becoming increasingly isolated in the EU and among its regional allies, the V4 countries, for its more pro-Russian position in Moscow's war against Ukraine and for blocking EU initiatives to punish Moscow for its aggression and help Ukraine. These differences have rendered the regional group moribund since Russia's invasion.

But there are differing views within the V4, the Czech coalition government and even within the rightwing Czech Civic Democrats on how tough a stance to take towards Viktor Orban's radical rightwing regime.

“Hungarians bilaterally negotiate with Russia over supplies of energy commodities,” Vystrcil told local media, adding that this prevents a “united stance of EU countries and implementation of our goals in this energy crisis” and that the boycott is a “rational and sober way to express disagreement” on the V4 level. The war in Ukraine, the energy crisis and migration are key agenda topics in Kosice.

Pekarova Adamova called Hungary a “trojan horse of Russia” in line with comments of other Czech representatives such as the lower house's vice-speaker Olga Richterova from last week. “It is always Hungarians who agree with the sanction packages last” […], “blackmailing further sanctions, and they are exploiting the war themes domestically against the EU,” Pekarova Adamova said.

Fiala said he wants to discuss “common approach and common rules” on supporting the economy during the energy crisis, pointing to the German €200mn package, which “causes concern among EU member states”. In an interveiw for Czech newsite Seznam Zpravy, Fiala said that after a dialogue “Hungary supported all the key decisions during EU negotiations".

Prior to the war Fiala and Vystrcil’s rightwing ODS avoided criticism of Fidesz and maintained friendly ties with it. ODS MEP Jan Zahradil, who represents the strong conservative and eurosceptic wing within the party, called on the EU to accept Hungarian strongmanViktor Orban after Fidesz’s flawed general election victory in April. Another MEP Alexandr Vondra, a former liberal dissident who has moved to the right, also defends Fidesz rule in Hungary.

One of Fidesz’s 1988 co-founders and the current Speaker of the National Assembly Laszlo Kover issued a press statement in which he regretted the V4 house speakers' meeting was postponed as a result of the Czech boycott.

“The remarks of the speakers of the Czech Parliament concerning our country are untrue and disrespectful,” Kover wrote, highlighting that these “do not correspond to the facts and they call into question the right of the Hungarian government to shape its policy according to the interest of the Hungarian nation”.

Czechia holds the EU’s rotating presidency and its Europan Affairs Minister Mikulas Bek chairs EU discussions over the breaches of rule of law, civil liberties, and democracy in Hungary. Last week Bek criticised Hungary for obstructing the EU’s efforts to raise cash on financial markets for a loan to Ukraine, warning it could alienate EU officials in the upcoming response to Hungary’s proposals to unlock the rule of law conditionality to gain access to EU funds.

Poland and Slovakia have also strongly criticised Hungary's stance towards Russia and Ukraine. In an interview published on November 9, Slovak Foreign Minister Rastislav Kacer (a former Slovak ambassador to Hungary) told the Slovak website Napunk [https://napunk.dennikn.sk/hu/3097730/rastislav-kacer-kulugyminiszter-orbanek-ervei-a-szankciokrol-mintha-a-kreml-kezikonyvebol-szarmaznanak/?utm_source=Insight+Hungary&utm_campaign=690d815a00-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2022_11_17_06_09&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_-690d815a00-%5BLIST_EMAIL_ID%5D](published in Hungarian) that Hungary's arguments against sanctions "seem to come from the Kremlin playbook".

"The arguments we hear from the Hungarian government are often the same as those used by the Kremlin's propaganda in its information war. I do not understand. These sanctions are in no way more damaging to Europe. Some even say they are helping Russia – if that were true, Russia wouldn't be rebelling against them. Hungary is alone in the European Union with this view and is completely isolated from its other Western allies"

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020221121eibl001md


U.S. Presses Allies To Tighten Up Russia Sanctions
By Ian Talley
1036 字
2022 年 11 月 22 日
The Wall Street Journal
J
A1
英文
Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON -- U.S. officials are jetting around the globe in a quiet diplomatic push to get Russia's major trading partners to enforce sanctions and trade controls, as exports to the country pick up after diving in the weeks following Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.

The U.S. and its allies claimed early successes in their international pressure campaign, which disrupted Russia's military supply chains and pitched its economy into a steep contraction.

But so-called sanctions leakage -- in which weak enforcement enables banned finance and trade to flow -- is undermining the campaign, aiding Russia's economy and potentially prolonging the war, according to senior Western officials.

"We want to avoid circumvention, both within Europe and then with third countries," European Commission financial-services commissioner Mairead McGuinness, whose office oversees European Union sanctions policy, said in an interview. "The longer we have any leakage . . . the more difficult it is to see things coming to a conclusion."

Ms. McGuinness's office is sifting through European customs data to root out evasion, she said.

To tighten the finance and trade cordon established by Western countries, the U.S. is sending senior officials from major cabinet agencies to foreign capitals. Their mission: to share intelligence on sanctions evasion networks, quietly threaten reluctant authorities and firms with punitive action, and gather information on groups suspected of ferrying supplies into Russia, according to administration officials.

Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen pressed the case with counterparts at the Group of 20 industrialized and developing nations in Bali, Indonesia, last week. Earlier this month, Deputy Treasury Secretary Wally Adeyemo went to Brussels, London and Paris. Elizabeth Rosenberg, assistant secretary for terror finance and financial crimes, was recently in Japan on the same mission.

Lower-level officials from the Treasury, Commerce and State departments are also jetting around the globe.

"There are public reports that Russian money laundering is active in the Arab world," Ms. Rosenberg told a Union of Arab Banks conference late last month, using unusually pointed language that U.S. officials said was intended as a warning. "This is something we all have a vested interest in preventing, investigating and eliminating."

Trade data through the second quarter show exports to Russia from many of the world's largest economies collapsed by more than 50% in the wake of the sanctions imposed in late February. But exports are recovering from many of those countries, including the U.S.'s traditional allies, according to a Wall Street Journal analysis of trade data.

Exports from allies South Korea and Japan remain below presanction levels but have recovered nearly a third of their initial losses, according to the Journal's analysis.

The EU has continued to expand the total share of exports banned under the Russia sanctions, but it has also erased some of its initial trade declines.

Western officials and some senior compliance officers are concerned that banks in Austria, the Czech Republic and Switzerland -- a non-European Union member that has adopted the EU sanctions -- are taking a relaxed view of sanctions enforcement.

While most companies and banks are avoiding transactions that could potentially breach the sanctions, "some industry players see this as an opportunity," said George Voloshin, a Russia sanctions investigator at the Association of Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialists. "For example, they are very relaxed when working with Russian government officials."

Swiss financial authorities in April said the country froze about $8 billion in Russian assets, but by May said that they had released about $3 billion of those assets. Industry analysts estimate the sum of Russian oligarchs' assets held in Switzerland to be much higher.

Antje Baertschi, spokeswoman for Switzerland's State Secretariat for Economic Affairs, said the level of assets frozen by the government was "high by international standards as well as in comparison to other sanctions regimes."

"We are completely unaware of any criticism," Ms. Baertschi said.

Austria's Raiffeisen Bank International said in March that it would review its exposure to Russia, a source of significant business, including possibly exiting the country. Months later, it said in its third-quarter report that it was still assessing its strategic options in the country. By contrast, most Western banks immediately restricted financial dealings with Russia after the February invasion.

"RBI Group is, of course, complying with all applicable sanctions," said Ingrid Ditz, Raiffeisen Bank spokeswoman. She said the bank had reduced its loans to customers in Russia by 25% in rubles since the beginning of the year and limited new lending.

Exports to Russia from China -- which hasn't backed the Western pressure campaign -- are now larger than they were when sanctions were imposed. U.S. officials are concerned that China will provide the financing and goods critical to Russia's war effort and economy. Beijing has said it won't comply with Western sanctions it says are illegal.

"Sino-Russian relations are rock-solid," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said at a regular news briefing this month.

Exports to Russia from Turkey -- a North Atlantic Treaty Organization member that has supplied Kyiv with armed drones and played a key role in diplomatic talks over Ukrainian grain exports -- were up about 25% at the end of the second quarter from before the sanctions. Recent data show that exports from Turkey to Russia have picked up further since.

Nureddin Nebati, the country's finance minister, said his nation isn't undermining the pressure campaign. "We are continuing our trade with Russia in areas that are not subject to any sanction," he told the Journal in an interview.

Ankara said it had halted plans in its banking sector to connect Turkey's financial industry to Russia's payments system, which would have provided Moscow with an important link to the global financial system. Most of Russia's banking system has been sanctioned.

"It is a global effort," Brian Nelson, undersecretary for terrorism and financial intelligence, said in an interview. That means, "going after sanctions evasion, targeting our efforts to have an impact on the battlefield, and going after those who continue to allow President [Vladimir] Putin to project power."

---

Andrew Duehren and Caitlin Ostroff contributed to this article.

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 J000000020221122eibm0003v


Russia war in Ukraine is lesson in combined attacks - Czech PM
451 字
2022 年 11 月 22 日 11:58 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Nov 22 (CTK) - The Russian aggression in Ukraine is a lesson in combined conventional and hybrid attacks and Czechia must use this experience when it will be updating its strategic documents next year, Prime Minister Petr Fiala (Civic Democrats, ODS) said at a gathering of the Czech military command today.

Fiala said the recent fall of missiles in Polish territory showed that there is always a risk of escalation of the conflict.

He said Russia systematically undermined international order, violated unwritten rules of international relations and concrete agreements many times in the last ten years.

"The current aggression against Ukraine that has been lasting for nine months, this is something absolutely extraordinary," Fiala said.

He said the Czech position remains clear from the very beginning - it is necessary to help Ukraine and contribute to that the Russian aggression ends as soon as possible. "This is in our interest to weaken the Russian threat against Europe," he said.

Fiala thanked the military for managing to quickly arrange arms and ammunition deliveries to Ukraine. "First of all thanks to you we have become one of the most important supporters of Ukraine in Europe," he said.

He also mentioned the training of Ukrainian soldiers in Czechia that his government approved last week. Up to 4,000 Ukrainian soldiers will undergo training on Czech territory by the end of next year, 800 of them this year already.

The Russian war in Ukraine is a hard lesson, he said. "It turns out that waging a war on the ground, in the air and on sea is not something from the past as somebody expected. The war did not move but it rather extended," Fiala said.

Conventional and hybrid fighting is parallel, through economic pressure and espionage, he said.

Czechia must be alert all the time because it faces an unprecedented combination of threats, he added, mentioning risks of attacks against critical infrastructure, Russian hybrid attacks and propaganda but also misuse of migration and destabilisation of the energy market.

The war in Ukraine led to a stronger unity of Western countries and the readiness of international institutions for action, Fiala said. "Unlike previous Russian provocations, the Western democracies did not issue just diplomatic notes and symbolical sanctions this time," he said.

The primary framework of Czech security is NATO, Fiala said. He also appreciated that the European Union was able to quickly agree on sanction packages imposed on Russia.

Fiala repeatedly said the government is ready to spend 2 percent of GDP on defence as of 2024. He thanked Defence Minister Jana Cernochova (ODS) for her effort to speed up military purchases.

kva/dr/pvr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221122eibm0000m


Czech Republic This Week - November 25, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 11 月 25 日, 8558 字, (英文)
CNB head resolved not to raise interest rates but to intervene to defend Czech currencyCzech National Bank (CNB) Governor Ales Michl said at a lecture at Masaryk University in Brno on Wednesday November 23 that raising of interest rates ...

Turkey This Week - November 25, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 11 月 25 日, 18479 字, (英文)
Nomura says Egypt, Romania, Turkey, Czechia and Hungary among nations at high risk of currency crisisNomura has identified seven countries—Egypt, Romania, Sri Lanka, Turkey, Czech Republic, Pakistan and Hungary—that it says are now at a ...

Senate passes bill on sanctions over foreigners' unlawful acts
644 字
2022 年 12 月 1 日 12:00 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Dec 1 (CTK) - The Senate, the upper house of Czech parliament, as expected passed today the bill on national sanctions targeting foreign firms and individuals committing serious unlawful acts, which will enable the state to deny their Czech entry or stay or freeze their property, among others.

The piece of legislation, related to the Russian aggression against Ukraine, will also make it possible to impose restrictions on organisations and regimes that are violating human rights and use terrorist methods and cyber attacks.

The bill was supported by 53 out of the 65 senators present.

The Chamber of Deputies, the lower house, passed it in mid-October. Now it will be sent to President Milos Zeman to sign it into law.

Only senator Jana Zwyrtek Hamplova (fro Independents) criticised the legislation saying it was unclear.

Under the bill, that the government will decide whether to put someone on the sanction list based on the Foreign Ministry's suggestion. Objections to the listing will also be sent to the ministry, and the government will decide on them. The people on the list can defend themselves in court, the Metropolitan Court in Prague will be the court of the first instance.

The new legislation will enable to apply even other sanctions than those included on the EU sanction list.

The lower house met its legal and constitutional committee recommendation and shortened the period the government had for reviewing the decision to put someone on a sanction list by one third to 30 days. It also specified the list of regulations based on which a certain act can be considered punishable in accordance with the sanction law.

In its policy statement from early 2022, the government of Petr Fiala's (Civic Democrats, ODS) outlined the introduction of the law, known as the Magnitsky Act, aimed to improve the enforcement of human rights protection until the end of 2023. The drafting of the bill accelerated in reaction to the February 2022 start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Out of the EU states, similar laws are in force in France, the Netherlands, Latvia and Estonia.

The law defines the conditions for subjects to be put on the national list of sanctions, and the steps to prepare Czech proposals for subjects' EU listing.

Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) previously said Czechia would lean on the sanction regimes stemming from the EU law. Negotiations about sanctions on the EU level will be the priority, he added.

"If we do not succeed in the EU, we can adopt our own measures. At the same time, it is true that we need not wait for the EU if we find out that the interest [in listing a subject] is strong enough," Lipavsky said earlier.

He mentioned the planned establishment of a new department for sanction policies at the Foreign Ministry as of the beginning of next year.

The US Congress approved the Magnitsky Act under then president Barack Obama who signed it in December 2012. It bans the Russian representatives involved in human rights infringement and those who might have contributed to Magnitsky's death from entering the country.

The act bears the name of Russian tax lawyer Sergei Magnitsky who died in a Moscow prison in 2009. He was arrested and charged with committing tax fraud in 2008 after having investigated an extensive fraud involving Russian police and judicial officials.

Magnitsky was hired in Russia by Bill Browder, a prominent British-American financier working extensively in Russia after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Browder, who was sentenced to nine years in absentia in Moscow for tax evasion in 2013, published the case and lobbied among American officials to pass a legislation sanctioning Russian individuals involved in corruption. He led the campaign targeting those involved in Magnitsky's death.

hol/dr/pvr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221201eic10000o


EU increasing help for Ukrainian media - Czech EU commissioner
457 字
2022 年 12 月 1 日 11:02 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Dec 1 (CTK) - The EU increased its financial aid to the independent Ukrainian media after the start of the Russian invasion and now the sum amounts to 23 million euros, Czech Vice President of the European Commission for Values and Transparency Vera Jourova told the media conference of the Eastern Partnership today.

Jourova is in charge of the media.

The EU is now coming to terms with three challenges regarding the Ukrainian media. These are the security of journalists, the help with economic survival and maintenance of independence of the media and the fight against disinformation spread by the Kremlin, Jourova said.

Before the war, the EU focused its help especially on the building of capacities and education, but now the support goes directly to the Ukrainian independent media. This entails financial help for the staff and operation, the measures in the sphere of cyber security and financing of protective equipment such as bullet-proof vests, she added.

It is of major importance to fight Russian disinformation, Jourova said.

Some of the anti-Russian sanction packages the EU passed included some media outlets, such as Russia Today or Sputnik. The prepared ninth package may include others, the tools of war propaganda of Russian President Vladimir Putin, she added.

Jourova mentioned the idea of founding the radio station Free Russia along the model of Radio Free Europe.

"I believe that many Russian citizens want to hear other reports than those they hear from the Kremlin," she said. This would be no propaganda, but information about the real situation back at home, she added.

The work of journalists in Ukraine is also important because they take part in the collection of evidence on war crimes, Jourova said.

The gathering of the evidence has started in 14 EU countries and the International Criminal Court has joined the effort.

Independent media is vital in general, Jourova said.

The freedom of speech is one of the foundations on which the EU is built. Independent and quality media is essential for the provision of trustworthy information so that citizens could make informed decisions and take part in the democratic process, she added.

The sound and free media environment is also important in the fight against organised disinformation campaigns, Jourova said."Such campaigns do not end at national borders. We are all interested in battling the hostile and harming disinformation campaigns in the EU and Eastern Partnership countries," she added.

The EU is supporting independent media environment in eastern countries with more than 30 million euros. It has set the ambitious target of supporting at least 120 independent media outlets and 2,000 journalists in the years to come, Jourova said.

pvr/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221201eic10000s


EU increasing help for Ukrainian media - Czech EU commissioner
673 字
2022 年 12 月 1 日 11:41 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds new info from para 15 down.

Prague, Dec 1 (CTK) - The EU increased its financial aid to the independent Ukrainian media after the start of the Russian invasion and now the sum amounts to 23 million euros, Czech Vice President of the European Commission for Values and Transparency Vera Jourova told the media conference of the Eastern Partnership today.

Jourova is in charge of the media.

The EU is now coming to terms with three challenges regarding the Ukrainian media. These are the security of journalists, the help with economic survival and maintenance of independence of the media and the fight against disinformation spread by the Kremlin, Jourova said.

Before the war, the EU focused its help especially on the building of capacities and education, but now the support goes directly to the Ukrainian independent media. This entails financial help for the staff and operation, the measures in the sphere of cyber security and financing of protective equipment such as bullet-proof vests, she added.

It is of major importance to fight Russian disinformation, Jourova said.

Some of the anti-Russian sanction packages the EU passed included some media outlets, such as Russia Today or Sputnik. The prepared ninth package may include others, the tools of war propaganda of Russian President Vladimir Putin, she added.

Jourova mentioned the idea of founding the radio station Free Russia along the model of Radio Free Europe.

"I believe that many Russian citizens want to hear other reports than those they hear from the Kremlin," she said. This would be no propaganda, but information about the real situation back at home, she added.

The work of journalists in Ukraine is also important because they take part in the collection of evidence on war crimes, Jourova said.

The gathering of the evidence has started in 14 EU countries and the International Criminal Court has joined the effort.

Independent media is vital in general, Jourova said.

The freedom of speech is one of the foundations on which the EU is built. Independent and quality media is essential for the provision of trustworthy information so that citizens could make informed decisions and take part in the democratic process, she added.

The sound and free media environment is also important in the fight against organised disinformation campaigns, Jourova said."Such campaigns do not end at national borders. We are all interested in battling the hostile and harming disinformation campaigns in the EU and Eastern Partnership countries," she added.

The EU is supporting independent media environment in eastern countries with more than 30 million euros. It has set the ambitious target of supporting at least 120 independent media outlets and 2,000 journalists in the years to come, Jourova said.

In the 1990s, the media space in Russia was relatively free, but now there is no space for freedom in it, there is just propaganda, Deputy Foreign Minister Jaroslav Kurfurst told the conference. He mentioned the editor-in-chief of the state-run television channel RT Margarita Simonyan and general director of the media holding Rossiya segodnya Dmitry Kiselyov.

"We are living in a special time, seeing the ascendancy of propagandists and technologies transforming the media landscape," he added.

This is nothing unknown. In the new dimension, the Czech Republic saw the lies and propaganda in the debates about the installation of the U.S. radar system in 2008, the migration wave in 2015 and now in the war in Ukraine, he added.

"We see a stream of hatred, militant imperialism," Kurfurst said. "Along with the ascendancy of propagandists, we can see attacks on independent journalists," he added.

Hundreds of them have had to leave not only Russia, but also Belarus and other countries.

Kurfurst said that while the Belarusian government did not cooperate with the Eastern Partnership, Belarusian journalists and civic society do. "This is proof that Belarus is part of this family. The Belarusian past is European and the Belarusian future will be again European," he added.

pvr/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221201eic10000p


Czech Republic This Week - December 2, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 2 日, 4815 字, (英文)
Czechia set to be independent from Druzhba oil imports by 2025Owners of the oil pipeline TAL agreed with the intensification plans which will see increase of oil transportation to Czechia within 25 months. Czechia will then become ...

Czech Republic This Week - December 16, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 16 日, 18269 字, (英文)
IMF: Global food prices to remain elevated amid war, costly energy, La Niña.Interest rate hikes have eased price pressures, but the weather, war and material costs could keep food prices elevated for longer.

Czech EU presidency successful - top EU leaders
449 字
2022 年 12 月 16 日 06:47 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Brussels, Dec 16 (CTK special correspondent) - The Czech EU presidency was very active and committed and Prime Minister Petr Fiala and his team in Brussels and Prague deserve admiration, the president of the European Council, Charles Michel, told journalists after a one-day EU summit last night.

The president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said Europe had a debt towards the Czech Republic given its work in the past six months.

The Czech Republic took up the presidency amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine and at the start of the energy crisis, but still it managed to achieve compromises, to proceed in a collective way and to continue with the help to Kyiv, Fiala said, adding that the talks were not always simple, but thanks to a joint effort, they were always led to the finish.

At the end, Fiala thanked von der Leyen and Michel and wished successful presidency to Sweden that he will take it up on January 1.

"The whole presidency was a big challenge," Fiala said, replying to the question of what was the most difficult moment.

The talks with Hungary were delicate, he added.

Von der Leyen stressed "excellent cooperation" with the Czech Republic.

Michel said there had been no doubts that Czechs would be good.

Michel appreciated the way Czech representatives behaved during the presidency in order to protect the unity and credibility of the EU.

Von der Leyen said there had always been the idea that the Czech Republic was wonderful and the past six months had shown that it was even more so.

The summit was the last during the ending Czech EU presidency.

At the summit, the EU ambassadors agreed on a new package of sanctions against Russia. The EU countries also approved the compromise relating to Hungary's access to EU funds, financial support to Ukraine next year and introduction of minimal tax for multinational corporations.

Fiala, too, appreciated the results of the talks.

"This collective approach was confirmed by the approved package with macro-financial help to Ukraine and the ninth sanction package today," Fiala said.

"Perhaps we had to devote even more time, work and attention to the economic impact of the war, especially to the soaring prices of energy that have affected, in a varying way, but without exception, all citizens of membership countries," he added.

The last crucial step will be taken on Monday, at the session of energy ministers when the capping of gas prices is supposed to be passed, Fiala said.

He said a major shift had been achieved, though some compromises were still needed to reach the resulting consensus.

pvr/mr/buj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221216eicg0000l


Russian hurdler stripped of 2012 Olympics gold for doping
281 字
2022 年 12 月 21 日 16:21 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
MONACO (AP) — Russian 400-meter hurdler Natalya Antyukh will lose her gold medal from the 2012 London Games due to doping, putting American Lashinda Demus in position to be named the champion more than a decade after the race.

The Athletics Integrity Unit, which oversees doping cases in track and field, announced Wednesday that Antyukh had not appealed a penalty handed down two months ago that included the stripping of her results from July 2012 through June 2013. The AIU said the IOC could now “proceed with the reallocation of medals and the update of the IOC database.”

Zuzana Hejnová of the Czech Republic and Kaliese Spencer of Jamaica are in line to receive silver and bronze.

AIU said Antyukh, who had already been serving a four-year ban, received the added sanction of having the 2012 results stripped because of evidence that came from a database kept at the Moscow antidoping laboratory. Though AIU offered no specifics, data from that lab was used to corroborate findings in a number of cases that came out of Russia's state-sponsored doping scandal.

At the London Games, Antyukh finished in 52.70 seconds, lowering her personal best by .22 to beat Demus by .07.

Demus, who also won world championships in 2011, stopped competing in 2016.

In an email exchange with NBC Sports when the initial decision was released, Demus said “I’m not afraid to say that I then deserve the official title, medal, recognition, and missed compensation that goes along with it all.”

___

AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/sports[https://apnews.com/hub/sports] and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports[https://twitter.com/AP_Sports]

Eds: UPDATES: With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020221221eicl00mzt


Czechia fulfilled EU-presiding country role consistently-experts
768 字
2022 年 12 月 21 日 13:12 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Brussels, Dec 21 (CTK correspondent) - Three political analysts in Brussels addressed by CTK have assessed the ending Czech EU presidency positively as successful and excellent, doing a lot of good work.

The experts appreciated the way of the Czech Republic moderating debates among the EU member states and highlighted the reached deals concerning support for Ukraine and the climate policy. At the same time, they expressed hope that Czechia would remain active on the EU scene even after transferring the presidency of the European Council to Sweden.

Excellent work on the whole, Georgina Wright, from the Paris-based Institute Montaigne, assessed the Czech EU presidency.

Wright, an analyst who previously worked in international institutions, including the European Commission, called the mapping of particular member countries' positions before Czechia assumed the presidency the key to its success. It worked hard and managed to make 27 countries reach consensus on significant drafts that would create the EU future, she summarised it.

The task of the country holding the six-month EU presidency is primarily to moderate the talks on legislative proposals and seek the path to achieve the needed support regardless of its own stance.

Commenting on the Czech performance in this respect, all the three analysts compared the developments in the past six months to the previous half a year of the French presidency.

It was clear that the French would rather push for the topics important to them, said Ziga Faktor, head of the Brussels-based section of the Europeum Czech institute. Czechs were playing the role of an unbiased negotiator much more and managed it very well even in the squabbles about the gas price capping, he noted.

Elizabeth Kuiper, from the European Policy Centre (EPC) think-tank, reminded that information had emerged during the previous EU presidency about delays in the EU processes as a consequence of the centralisation of the French bodies in Paris during the French presidency. She said she had heard that everything was running smoothly during the Czech presidency.

One of its main challenges in the summer was to preserve the EU unity in support of Ukraine and sanctions against Russia, waging war against this country since February. Hungary criticises the hard anti-Russian sanctions after some time, and blocked the new joint loan for Kyiv in the autumn. However, in the end, the EU unanimously approved another three sanction packages and financial aid to Ukraine worth 18 billion euros for next year under the Czech EU presidency.

Faktor said that in this case, the Czech EU presidency was "a blessing" for the European Union, referring to cultural bonds between the Czech Republic and Ukraine. It was a very hard task to maintain this consensus for further months in connection with the energy crisis and another possible migrant crisis, he pointed out, adding that Czechs passed the test excellently.

Wright and Kuiper also highlighted the approval of the crucial parts from the EU plan of 55 percent cutting the carbon dioxide emissions by the end of this decade.

There was slight scepticism at the beginning, as Czech EU presidency had a lot of work, but it became apparent that it had actually scored quite many successes when it came to stricter rules for the carbon dioxide emissions from cars and the review of the carbon credit trading system, Kuiper said.

The analysts did not raise many objections to the Czech EU presidency.

Wright only said the Czech government could improve communication to inform even the people who were not much observing the EU processes about its results.

Faktor said he regretted the Western Balkans issue being a bit dwarfed and with the misleading communication about the progress in the EU accession process of North Macedonia and Albania.

Kuiper mentioned the need to "increase ambitions" when it comes to the reform plans ensuing from the conference on the future of Europe. She added that in her opinion, many analysts as well as citizens were disappointed with the result.

Sweden will assume the Czech presidency in January, while the Czech Republic will get an opportunity to use the experience from its presidency to a more assertive performance on the EU level.

Wright said she hoped that the Czech Republic would continue being influential and loud in the issues it cared for in the future as well, since the Czech positions on some matters had not been very clear so far.

According to Faktor, the Czech Republic should keep actively participating in the EU policy and not neglect the bonds created during its presidency.

hol/mr/kva

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221221eicl0000u


Czech Republic This Week - December 23, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 23 日, 3987 字, (英文)
THE MITTELEUROPEAN VIEW: Western banks go back to square one in CEEThe key messages of this year's Raiffeisen Research CEE Banking Sector Report at the industry level are as follows: Geopolitically, the leading CEE banks in Eastern Europe ...

Czechia surprises as EU presiding country - presidency team head
610 字
2022 年 12 月 23 日 11:53 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds statements by Lipavsky in paras 3,11,12.

Brussels, Dec 23 (CTK correspondent) - Czechia did better job leading the EU than most diplomats had expected six months ago when the Czech presidency started, Czech Ambassador to the EU Edita Hrda has told CTK, adding that most diplomats appreciated Czechia having always sought unanimous agreement of all 26 states.

The presidency team has fulfilled the key task and kept the unity of EU member states in their stance on Ukraine and the pressure on Russia, she said.

Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) also told CTK that the Czech EU presidency has been successful.

Hrda said the disagreement on Romania and Bulgaria extending the Schengen area is a disappointment.

The Czech presidency managed to lead the EU to agreement on three sanction packages against Russia and to the passing of the financial aid for Ukraine worth the total of 18 billion euros, an equivalent to some 440 billion crowns. Hrda said the debates on these topics had been very difficult but they had also shown that the member states were determined to stand on Ukraine's side.

"There is huge will to continue. We all know that until we stop (Russian) President (Vladimir) Putin, we cannot slacken. There are some ideas what more would be worth doing and the preparation is continuous," Hrda said.

Unless the situation in Ukraine changes radically, it is almost certain that the EU will pass the tenth sanction package by late February, she noted.

Czechia was trying to achieve consensus in the debates concerning the war in Ukraine, which was one of the most appreciated characteristics of the Czech presidency, Hrda said.

Despite taking the comfort of all states into account and not wanting to push anyone into anything, as Hrda pointed out, Czechia managed to push through sanctions including the reduction of the import of Russian oil, although some states were against it at the beginning.

Czech negotiators also achieved consensus on Croatia extending the Schengen area, unlike Bulgaria and Romania which did not succeed due to the veto from Austria and the Netherlands.

Lipavsky also said Czechia failed to reach agreement on the entry of latter two countries to the Schengen system. "I see that especially in Romania it is rather hard for them to bear it. On the other hand, in such complicated affairs a lot of persistence is necessary," he said.

Lipavsky said the EU had crucial impact on the countries that are moving towards it. "There is no country that would be fully ready to enter the EU and would be only waiting for the door to be opened. These countries have each gone to various distances in this process, but nobody has fulfilled 100 percent of it," he said.

Prague earmarked much less money for the presidency than in 2009 when Czechia presided the EU for the first time. Some diplomats said it would be very difficult to lead the EU with a team of some 250 people, however, the Czech negotiators managed to find agreement on several key norms from the climatic package and the cap on gas prices. All this despite the fact that the debates often took place within a single day.

"I think the Brussels administrative is surprised with the quality of our clerks and diplomats," Hrda said, also praising some 60 interns.

The six months of the Czech presidency definitely put the Czech diplomacy on the map, she noted.

"It is only up to us how we will handle it," she concluded, saying the Czech presidency is the peak of her career.

buj,kva/dr/kva,buj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221223eicn00009


Ukraine, energy crisis are Czech EU presidency's main challenges
1085 字
2022 年 12 月 29 日 09:54 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2022 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Dec 29 (CTK) - Selected data on the Czech Republic's six-month presidency of the European Union Council that ends on December 31:

- The Czech Republic assumed its second EU presidency in history on July 1, 2022. For the first time, Czechia presided over the EU in the first half of 2009. Like previously, it formed a "presidency trio" with France that the Czech Republic replaced in mid-2022, and Sweden that will take over the presidency on January 1, 2023.

- The biggest challenge of the Czech presidency was the continuing war in Ukraine, which Russia invaded on February 24, and the energy crisis deepened by the war. These two points were the crucial of the five priorities that the Czech presidency presented at its start. The others are strengthening of European defence capacities, cyber space security and resilience of European economy and democratic institutions.

- When it comes to the energy crisis, the EU countries agreed during the Czech EU presidency on reducing electricity consumption in peak time and on windfall tax or taxation of extraordinary profits of power plants and fossil fuel suppliers. After weeks of negotiations, they also reached consensus on the parametres of the emergency restriction of gas prices in the case of their exorbitant rise. The Czech EU presidency compromise proposal was eventually supported by a crushing majority of member states, including Germany that had long opposed it.

- One of the Czech presidency's main challenges in the summer was to preserve the EU unity in support of Ukraine and sanctions against Russia. Hungary criticised the hard anti-Russian sanctions after some time, and blocked the new joint loan for Kyiv in the autumn. However, in the end, the EU unanimously approved another three sanction packages and financial aid to Ukraine worth 18 billion euros for next year.

- The Czech presidency representatives have agreed with MEPs, among others, on a significant restriction on the sale of new combustion-engine cars by 2035, a reform of the carbon credit market and a binding goal for the carbon dioxide absorption in soil and forest management, by which they followed the core of the Green Deal for Europe. The reform of carbon credit market became a target of criticism by the opposition and some economic branches. The opposition mainly minds extending the market with carbon credits to apply to emissions from heating and road and sea transport as well. The steal producers' union called the EU decision to review the system of carbon credit trading as well as the emergency capping of gas prices beyond reality. However, the Czech Confederation of Industry and the Chamber of Commerce welcomed the EU agreement on capping gas prices at the stock exchange.

- According to the government, the Czech EU presidency scored success in unblocking the EU accession talks with Albania and North Macedonia, and giving the EU candidate status to Bosnia and Herzegovina. The EU also accepted Kosovo's bid for membership and launched talks about the EU accession of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia. Besides, Czech negotiators managed to reach consensus on the admission of Croatia to the Schengen Area as of 2023. On the contrary, Bulgaria and Romania failed with their effort to enter Schengen due to the veto by Austria and the Netherlands.

- During the presidency, Czechs chaired 12 ministerial councils, 24 meetings of ambassadors and 31 talks on the final shape of bills with MEPs, the paper Financial Times has written. Besides, the EU energy ministers' special meetings took place eight times, which was the highest number of such events during an EU presidency, Czech Industry and Trade Minister Jozef Sikela said.

- The largest events in the Czech Republic under the aegis of its EU presidency were two summits. The first summit of the European Political Community (EPC), a broader format of European countries, in history was held in Prague on October 6, bringing together more than 40 supreme representatives of European countries, which was followed by the EU informal summit a day later.

- Not only the Czech government politicians, but also the EU top officials called the Czech EU presidency a success. European Council President Charles Michel said the Czech presidency was very active and committed. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Europe owed Czechia a lot for its work in the past six months. European Commission (EC) Vice-President Frans Timmermans said the Czech presidency was one of the most successful presidencies in the past decades.

- The Czech presidency costs amounted to 1.835 billion crowns from the central budget, and further 0.5 billion from the chapters of particular sectors, so the total costs were 2.3 billion crowns. In 2007-2009, 3.75 billion crowns were earmarked for the preparation of the Czech EU presidency.

- The first Czech EU presidency in 2009 also dealt with the energy crisis. At the beginning of 2009, it had to tackle the dispute between Russia and Ukraine about gas supplies, the interruption of which affected European countries as well. Czechia convoked an extraordinary EU summit in Brussels for March 1, 2009 due to the financial crisis, and the EU regular summit also focused on the crisis. At the end of April 2009, then Albanian PM Sali Berisha officially submitted the country's request for EU membership in Prague. However, the presidency did not succeed in resuming the accession talks with Croatia that Slovenia blocked in December 2008 over the dispute about their joint border. Croatia joined the EU eventually in 2013. The Czech EU presidency then sent Montenegro's EU bid to further talks and registered a new applicant, Albania. No major progress was achieved in the EU accession talks with Turkey during the Czech presidency either.

- The EU-USA summit with then US president Barack Obama and the EU 27 countries' heads of state and government was staged during the first Czech EU presidency in early April 2009. In May, the summit of the EU and six post-Soviet republics took place in Prague, officially launching the Eastern Partnership project.

- Many analysts agree that the Czech Republic did not have a good starting position in 2009. It had to primarily tackle the economic crisis that for some time overshadowed even the EU immense problem with the Lisbon Treaty. Moreover, Czechs complicated the situation themselves when the lower house of parliament voted no confidence in the Czech government in March 2009 amid the EU presidency.

($1 = 22.796 crowns)

hol/dr/pvr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020221229eict0000d


Czech Republic: Moneta stops processing payments to Russia, Belarus
M-Brain
127 字
2023 年 1 月 2 日
Esmerk CIS News
ESMKCIS
英文
Copyright 2023. M-Brain
Ceské Noviny, 02 Jan 2023, online:- Moneta Money Bank in the Czech Republic has stopped sending payments to Russia and Belarus from 1 January 2023. The bank has stated the reason as not being able to control if the payments are going to entities under sanctions unlike large Czech banks. Incoming payments from both countries will continue to be accepted by Moneta. Komercni Banka (KB), CSOB and Raiffeisenbank all continue to process payments to Russia and Belarus in line with current legislation and sanction policy, however, the payments are subject to strict control. UniCredit Bank does not support payments to Belarus and only processes payments to Russia in exceptional circumstances in line with all current policies.

M-Brain Insight Oy

文件 ESMKCIS020230104ej1400002


Report: Czech Republic freezes VEB.RF's money in bankrupt firm
115 字
2023 年 1 月 17 日 05:20 GMT
Prime News
PRTASS
英文
© 2023. JSC PRIME. All rights reserved.
PRAGUE, Jan 17 (PRIME) -- The Financial Analytical Office of the Czech Republic has frozen U.S. $7.9 million of Russia's VEB.RF investment on accounts of bankrupt company Pilsen Steel, Czech Television reported late on Monday.

According to the channel, VEB.RF used to control Pilsen Steel that went bankrupt in 2019, after which its assets were frozen.

"In accordance with a new sanction law, the Foreign Ministry of the Czech Republic is preparing a so-called National Blacklist, cooperating with the police and intelligence. The information about the first entities to be listed could be announced soon," the channel reported.

End

JSC PRIME

文件 PRTASS0020230117ej1h000dx


CIA: Czech News Digest - Business
1445 字
2023 年 1 月 26 日
CIA - Daily News
CZPRDI
英文
© 2023, Ceska informacni agentura s.r.o. Specialist in briefing and Hotline News Services Tel: +420-2-6278651, Fax:+420-2-6278717, E-Mail: redakce@pointa.cz
(CIANEWS) - The Škoda Group will deliver 10 more trains to the Estonian carrier Eesti Liinirongid (Elron) under an option to supply electric units. The first unit from this order is already in production, which now totals 16 vehicles. Production is taking place at the production plant in Ostrava. The contract with Elron totals more than CZK 3.5bn. The delivery of the first six trains is scheduled for completion by the end of 2024. The units are built on the RegioPanter platform (trains in the Czech Republic and Slovakia), which was also used in the design of trains to neighbouring Latvia.

GARBE will build the first 10,000 m2 for Taconova in its industrial park in České Budějovice. This will include 9,240 m2 of industrial space and 1,240 m2 of office space. The transaction was brokered by CBRE. Taconova will use the hall for warehousing and light manufacturing. The construction envisages the introduction of sustainable solutions. A green facade is planned and the park will be equipped with heat pumps and solar panels. Another 9,500 m2 will be delivered to the market by GARBE on a speculative basis.

AMiT, a manufacturer of control systems for industrial automation and electronics for rolling stock and public transport, plans to spend tens of millions of crowns on foreign projects and the development of new technologies in the coming years. This is expected to help it triple the turnover of the AMiT automation division within five years, which reached CZK 88m in 2022. The entire company reported an economic result exceeding CZK 500m.

Raiffeisenbank will stop making outgoing payments to Russia and Belarus as of February 15, 2023. Until now, the bank has been monitoring the payments and assessing their compliance with the applicable sanction regulations. Due to the development of the situation in Ukraine and after further tightening measures, the company has decided to stop their implementation.

Wolt has established cooperation with Shoptet. The Wolt Drive add-on will enable online retailers to deliver goods to customers in tens of minutes. In the first week, dozens of businesses have downloaded the app, for which express shipping is a step towards improving the customer experience. The plan is to expand the service to the Hungarian and Slovakian markets, where both entities operate.

E-shops with clothes and sneakers Footshop and Queens closed the year 2022 with a turnover of more than CZK 1bn. Footshop received 455,000 orders and sold 261,000 pairs of sneakers. The e-shop was visited by 30 million users and exceeded 1.5 million fans on social networks. Stone stores in Prague, Bucharest and Budapest were visited by 615 thousand customers. In 2023, Footshop plans to increase its e-commerce turnover by at least 10%, Queens by 35%. Queens is looking for a brick-and-mortar location in Prague, while Footshop is interested in opening a brick-and-mortar store in Poland and Slovakia.

The Regional Court in Ostrava ruled on the bankruptcy of the engineering company GEARWORKS from the WITKOWITZ group on January 24, 2023. The petition was filed by the company itself. It stated that it was negatively affected by the shortage of materials and their price increase as a result of the pandemic situation and the suspension of projects to the Russian Federation and Ukraine. GEARWORKS has 201 creditors, among the largest of which is Shape Steel with a claim of CZK 1.39m and Cilso International with CZK 1.02m.

The National Motorway Company (NDS) has confirmed CzechToll's victory in the tender for the supply of an electronic toll collection system including technical support. In its bid, CzechToll committed to develop and deliver the IS for EUR 13.8mexcluding VAT within 13 months of signing the contract. CzechToll CEO Petr Chvátal added that the system will enable the Slovak Ministry of Transport and NDS to implement strategic changes in the area of freight transport charging.

Financial group Moneta has increased the share of electric vehicles in its corporate fleet to 46% by the end of 2022. It currently owns 130 pure electric cars. By the end of 2023, it will have acquired nearly 60 new electric vehicles. Zuzana Filipová, the group's sustainability and communications director, added that the bank wants to achieve carbon neutrality by 2025 not only by exclusively purchasing electric vehicles, but also by reducing its fleet from the current 216 to 200 vehicles.

TTC Controls, owner of the UniControls brand, has entered into an exclusive distribution agreement with A-Paul Software Systems of India. The company will exclusively supply UniControls' technology transfer products to the Indian market, particularly in the area of overhead control and rolling stock information systems (TCMS).

The US OFAC has extended Sberbank CZ's exemption from sanctions imposed on selected Russian banks until January 31, 2024. The authority granted the insolvency administrator's request based on the steps it took to sell Sberbank's loan portfolio. The extension of the waiver is one of the main conditions for the settlement of the purchase agreement with Česka spořitelna (CS), which was signed in December 2022. Once CS pays the agreed purchase price, the migration of Sberbank's clients will begin. In the coming weeks, Sberbank plans to offer for sale the corporate bonds and the rest of the loan portfolio that are not part of the purchase agreement.

Prima group will launch its own video service on February 8, 2023. Prima+ will offer thousands of film and series titles alongside TV previews, including exclusive series under the Prima+ ORIGINALS banner. The streaming service will be available in three subscription tariffs ranging from a premium version without ads to ad-free viewing.

Jiří Rusnok will be an advisor to the board of directors of Allianz insurance company from February 1, 2023. Stefan de Goeij is the ESG and Energy Lead of the CTP Group. Zbyněk Slivoň is the CEO of AGC Automotive Czech. According to the Commercial Register, Tomáš Vlček has become Managing Director of ELDIS Pardubice.

Czech investment company McWin, which specialises in the food services sector, has bought a majority stake in German chain L'Osteria. The transaction values the acquired company at around EUR 400m. The acquisition is subject to regulatory requirements and is expected to close in 1Q 2023. L'Osteria operates 157 Italian restaurants in eight European markets.

In the year and a half since its launch, ČEZ Group's Lighting for CZK 1 project has saved municipalities an average of 78% of electricity. The power engineers have replaced a total of 6034 luminaires in 38 municipalities, whose total consumption has been reduced from 2189 MWh to 481 MWh. Municipalities do not buy the luminaires, but rent them. ČEZ Energetické služby pays for the renewal costs from the savings generated by replacing the old system with a new one.

The Liberec and Jablonec nad Nisou Municipal Transport Company (DPMLJ) has received eight SOR NS 12 buses for the end of 2022. This is the last part of the delivery from SOR Libchavy out of a total of twenty buses purchased at a cost of CZK 103m. They will gradually replace the outdated buses. The framework contract for the purchase of new diesel low-floor double-axle, three-door buses was signed in February 2020. The buses are diesel-powered and include passenger count monitoring equipment.

The Statutory City of Hradec Králové informed about the issuance of a building permit for the project: new construction of residential buildings (BD). The buildings will have one underground and seven above-ground floors. BD entrance A will have a built-up area of 1116.7 m2 and will house a total of 52 residential units. BD entrance B and C with a built-up area of 1574.6 m2 will have 97 residential units. The applicant is TOMAS INVEST. The town of Břeclav publishes information about the commencement of the construction procedure for the project: roads and pavements. The Statutory City of Karviná publishes information on the lease of business premises. The Statutory City of Pardubice informs about the lease of a restaurant.

The Moravian-Silesian Region (MSK) has announced a tender for the reconstruction and modernisation of the II/442 road in the section VD Kružberk - Svatoňovice - Čermná in Silesia for CZK 68.77m. The town of Jaroměř is requesting the lease of speed measuring equipment for CZK 43m. Mendel University in Brno (MENDELU) is looking for a supplier of information technology in a tender work CZK 40m. The City of Písek has launched a tender for CZK 42.47m for the reconstruction of building no. 85 on Alšovo náměstí square.

Ceska Informacni Agentura SRO

文件 CZPRDI0020230126ej1q00001


CIA: Rubriky Reuters - Reuters - Finance - Banks and Financial Services
5033 字
2023 年 1 月 27 日
CIA - Weekly Industry Profiles
CIAINP
英文
© 2023, Ceska informacni agentura s.r.o. Specialist in briefing and Hotline News Services Tel: +420-2-6278651, Fax:+420-2-6278717, E-Mail: redakce@pointa.cz
Dear readers, as we have already announced, we are currently gradually optimizing the offer of sector digests in the application. In this context, from 27 January 2023, FINANCE - Daily News digest you subscribed to will be automatically replaced by its new version with a more detailed structure, more comprehensive content and more precise targeting of individual sections.(ČIA)

Bezrealitky, a member of the European Housing Services (EHS) real estate group, and interior design startup Room Story are offering a new service called Quick Renovation to owners of older apartments in need of renovation. Under the scheme, the companies guarantee that the apartment will be renovated and fully furnished within three months at a pre-determined price. The service targets small investors. According to EHS Group head Hendrik Meyer, the platform aims to contribute to the transformation of the Czech housing market, which will increasingly lean towards rentals in the coming years. The number of people living in rentals in Prague could rise from around 35% at present to more than 45% in the next few years.(ČIA)

DAKO-CZ plans to establish a subsidiary in India, DAKO-CZ India, in 2023. It has set up two joint ventures in the country in 2022. Orders for the Indian market account for about a third of turnover. It expects further growth in Europe, Africa, and South America, where a completely new braking system will be implemented on the Automated People Mover project. This special train will operate at Brazil's Sao Paulo International Airport. For the coming years, DAKO-CZ also plans to expand into the North American market. The manufacturer of braking systems and components for rolling stock surpassed the two-billion-CZK sales mark for the first time in 2022, specifically rising year-on-year to CZK 2.09bn from CZK 1.55bn. Three-quarters of its production is exported.(ČIA)

The Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic (MO) has received its first payment of EUR 6.5m from the EU as compensation for military material delivered to Ukraine. The compensation is being made through the European Peace Facility (EPF), which is used to finance EU priorities in the field of defence and security. So far, the Czech Republic has been recognised for reimbursement for supplies worth around EUR 80m, which will be paid out over the period 2023-2027. A total of EUR 3.1bn has been approved for compensation to EU member states so far. The EPF also finances, among other things, the EU's deployment mission to Ukraine (EUMAM), in which the Czech Republic is involved from December 2022.(ČIA)

Mortgage repayments on new flats in Prague could fall below the level of rent payments at the end of 2024. While the interest rate on mortgages was around 6% in December 2022, under the optimistic scenario it could fall to 4.5% at the end of 2023 and 3% per annum in December 2024. Rents in the metropolitan area rose by more than 20% y/y. The rate of growth is expected to slow slightly to 15% per annum this year and next. For a 70 m2 apartment, the monthly rent is expected to be CZK 37,600 in December 2024. The repayment for a 30-year mortgage at 3% interest would be CZK 35,800.(ČIA)

AMiT, a manufacturer of control systems for industrial automation and electronics for rolling stock and public transport, plans to spend tens of millions of crowns on foreign projects and the development of new technologies in the coming years. This is expected to help it triple the turnover of the AMiT automation division within five years, which reached CZK 88m in 2022. The entire company reported an economic result exceeding CZK 500m. AMiT was acquired by the industrial investment company Central Europe Industry Partners in August 2022. Aleš Krutina became the CEO.(ČIA)

Raiffeisenbank will stop making outgoing payments to Russia and Belarus as of February 15, 2023. Until now, the bank has been monitoring the payments and assessing their compliance with the applicable sanction regulations. Due to the development of the situation in Ukraine and after further tightening measures, the company has decided to stop their implementation. Incoming payments will be accepted if they do not contravene the applicable sanctions regulations and the Bank's sanctions policy.(ČIA)

The Agency for Enterprise and Innovation (API) has arranged over CZK 12bn in subsidy titles of the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness (OP PIK) in 2022. In total, it processed more than 3,000 payment requests. The largest volume of support was drawn by entrepreneurs in the Applications, Energy Savings and Innovations programmes. Last year, the first calls were also announced in the follow-up Operational Programme Technology and Applications for Competitiveness. API received 360 applications for almost CZK 4.5bn. The biggest interest was in the Energy Savings, Innovation and Renewable Electricity - Wind Power call.(ČIA)

Financial group Moneta has increased the share of electric vehicles in its corporate fleet to 46% by the end of 2022. It currently owns 130 pure electric cars. By the end of 2023, it will have acquired nearly 60 new electric vehicles. Zuzana Filipová, the group's sustainability and communications director, added that the bank wants to achieve carbon neutrality by 2025 not only by exclusively purchasing electric vehicles, but also by reducing its fleet from the current 216 to 200 vehicles. The bank will save not only on the operation of electric cars, but also on unpaid parking in Prague's blue zones.(ČIA)

The US OFAC has extended Sberbank CZ's exemption from sanctions imposed on selected Russian banks until January 31, 2024. The authority granted the insolvency administrator's request based on the steps it took to sell Sberbank's loan portfolio. The extension of the waiver is one of the main conditions for the settlement of the purchase agreement with Česka spořitelna (CS), which was signed in December 2022. Once CS pays the agreed purchase price, the migration of Sberbank's clients will begin. In the coming weeks, Sberbank plans to offer for sale the corporate bonds and the rest of the loan portfolio that are not part of the purchase agreement.(ČIA)

The Škoda Group will deliver 10 more trains to the Estonian carrier Eesti Liinirongid (Elron) under an option to supply electric units. The first unit from this order is already in production, which now totals 16 vehicles. Production is taking place at the production plant in Ostrava. The contract with Elron totals more than CZK 3.5bn. The delivery of the first six trains is scheduled for completion by the end of 2024. The units are built on the RegioPanter platform (trains in the Czech Republic and Slovakia), which was also used in the design of trains to neighbouring Latvia.(ČIA)

Czech investment company McWin, which specialises in the food services sector, has bought a majority stake in German chain L'Osteria. The transaction values the acquired company at around EUR 400m. The acquisition is subject to regulatory requirements and is expected to close in 1Q 2023. L'Osteria operates 157 Italian restaurants in eight European markets. The investment increases the number of restaurants in the portfolio of McWin and its affiliates to more than 1,500 across Europe.(ČIA)

Agency Moody's assigned J&T Bank an investment rating of Baa2 with a stable outlook and a short-term deposit rating of Prime-2. With this step, the bank joined several companies that have this rating in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. J&T CEO Štěpán Asher said that the bank's investment-grade rating opens up opportunities to raise capital on European and global markets.(ČIA)

The Railway Administration (SŽ) will spend an additional CZK 2.5bn on the reconstruction of dozens of station buildings in 2023. The company should, for example, start the renovation of buildings in the Ostrava-Vítkovice, Jaroměř, Letohrad, Hodonín, Hlinsko in Bohemia, Střelice, Senice na Hané or Jindřichov in Silesia stations. In 2022, SŽ invested approximately CZK 2.3bn in the repair of 36 buildings. Among the completed projects were the renovation of the facade of the Fanta building in Prague or the reconstruction in Havířov. From 2016 to 2021, SŽ repaired 284 buildings.(ČIA)

In 2022 there was an increase of 2,159 entities (13 % year-on-year) that do not pay VAT reliably or are marked as unreliable persons in the Czech Republic. Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) currently blacklists 26,158 entities. Of these, 4,934 are unreliable VAT payers and 21,224 are unreliable persons. D&B analyst Petra Štěpánová added that the number of unreliable VAT payers has slightly increased, which had started to decrease in 2018. On the contrary, the number of unreliable persons has been increasing continuously since 2017. The most unreliable companies are engaged in real estate rental and management, wholesale mediation and services.(ČIA)

Carriers paid CZK 14.85bn for the use of toll roads in the Czech Republic in 2022, a year-on-year increase of 4.6 %. Of this, CZK 13.22bn went to highways. CzechToll informed about this, stating that the total costs for the operation and development of the electronic toll system remained below CZK 1bn. In relation to revenues, as in the previous year, they did not exceed 7 %. Foreign carriers paid 51.5 % of the total collected tolls. In December alone, carriers paid CZK 1.05bn (-3 %). By the end of 2022, more than 743,000 vehicles with a weight over 3.5 tons (+100,000) were registered in the system. The number of on-board units issued to carriers exceeded 596,000.(ČIA)

The aggregate indicator of confidence in the economy expressed by the basic index increased by 2.3 points month-on-month to 92.0 in January 2023. The Czech Statistical Office reported that the confidence indicator of entrepreneurs increased by 1.3 points to 93.8 and that of consumers by 7.4 to 82.9. Business sentiment lifted after a five-month straight decline in industry. It also grew in trade and slightly in selected service sectors. In construction, it decreased for the second time in a row. The number of households assessing their current financial situation as worse than in the previous 12 months has fallen. The number of respondents expecting further deterioration of the situation in the next 12 months also decreased. Households are also less concerned about the deterioration of the overall economic situation. Around 28 % barely make ends meet with their finances and 10 % resort to savings or borrowing.(ČIA)

HR agency Předvýběr.CZ earned a total of CZK 76m in 2022. The company increased the number of employees to 60 last year and opened a branch in Brno. In addition to standard business activities supporting client relationships, the agency expanded its marketing care for job seekers and started to establish cooperation with universities. Předvýběr.CZ’s director František Boudný said that the company cooperates with the University of Economics in Prague and has started cooperation with the Czech Technical University.(ČIA)

Arete Investment and Real Estate Group, the umbrella fund of Arete Industrial, has signed contractual documentation with a consortium of banks Česká spořitelna (ČS) and Slovenská sporiteľňa (SLSP) to finance the fund's portfolio with more than EUR 100m (CZK 2.5bn). Arete Group’s co-founder Lubor Svoboda said that they will use these funds to build new industrial parks and for planned acquisitions of income properties. The aim is to build a portfolio of assets under management worth more than EUR 300m by the end of 2023.(ČIA)

President Miloš Zeman won the trust of 38% of Czechs at the turn of 2022 and 2023. Trust in the government has risen from 28% to 34%, according to a survey conducted by the Centre for Public Opinion Research (CVVM) of the Institute of Sociology of the Academy of Sciences, adding that of the constitutional institutions, respondents trusted mayors (71%) and municipal councils (69%) the most. The credibility of the Senate increased by 7 pp to 41%, while trust in the Chamber of Deputies increased by 5 pp to 33%. 16% of citizens were satisfied with the current political situation. 59% expressed dissatisfaction.(ČIA)

Filuta AI has received an investment of almost CZK 56m in a pre-seed round. The startup was supported by Nation 1, CzechFounders, SPM invest, as well as Microsoft's program for promising startups and the EU Horizon project for research and innovation. Filuta AI represents a new generation of composite AI that accelerates the actual development of automation by an order of magnitude, can optimize even complex processes and is accessible to small and medium-sized companies. It will use the funding to grow the team and accelerate technology development. CEO and co-founder Filip Dvořák said that development required 10 years of work and it would take the two founders five years to deliver the product to market. With 12 people, he can deliver it significantly sooner. This is a record amount raised by a Czech startup in a pre-seed round. The founders are already planning another investment round in 2024. Filuta is already piloting its business for Bohemia Interactive or Liftago, for example.(ČIA)

Coinwage and Fintree have entered into a strategic partnership that will bring synergies across both companies. Among other things, it will expand the market reach and a joint entry into Slovakia or Poland is being considered. Fintree will launch the partnership by allowing a portion of its payroll to be received in bitcoin through Coinwage. Fintree co-founder Radim Oulehla added that the company is also buying a minority stake in Coinwage.(ČIA)

Trinity Bank has increased its share capital to CZK 2.76bn. The change was registered in the Commercial Register on January 20, 2023. The original amount was CZK 2.31bn.(ČIA)

SupplyDo reached a turnover of CZK 11m in 2022 and wants to increase it to CZK 250m in four years. Investors should help, with whom the Zlín-based startup is currently negotiating investments of up to tens of millions of CZK. The goal is also to expand the B2C segment and customer ranks to include Czech and European e-shops. SupplyDo was created a year ago in response to the needs of the changing supply environment and the growing demands of e-commerce. Founder David Klimek said SupplyDo offers services ranging from packaging and print design to product packaging and distribution for B2B and B2C customer networks.(ČIA)

Restaurants, pubs, and bars saw a 40% y/y increase in sales in 2022, according to data from the operator of the Dotykačka POS system for catering establishments, published by the Confederation of Commerce and Tourism of the Czech Republic. Owners in Prague are doing best, where the price increases that occurred last year have so far had the least effect. The Prague market is thus separating itself from the rest of the Czech Republic, according to Dotykačka director Petr Menclík. Village pubs are the worst off.(ČIA)

In 2022, Czech insurer Česká podnikatská pojišťovna (ČPP) solved a record number of insurance frauds worth almost CZK 90m. There were about 1,100 cases, which is almost double the year-on-year increase. The most numerous were frauds connected with car insurance. The ČPP stated that the number of insurance fraud attempts is gradually increasing. The reason is primarily the larger number of clients of the insurance company. The ČPP dealt with the most suspicions of fraud in Prague (17%) and in the Ústí Region (13%).(ČIA)

Welcome to the Jungle, which also operates in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, received an investment of almost CZK 1.2bn from its partners. The French company, which focuses on employer branding and employee recruitment, plans to use it for further development and expansion into Europe and the US. Jan Klusoń, who is the CEO of the Czech and Slovak branches, stated that in 2022 the company grew by 100 new employees and the average monthly website traffic reached almost 3 million unique visitors. Welcome to the Jungle had a turnover of EUR 30m and registered 5,000 clients.(ČIA)

Kooperativa pojišťovna, Vienna Insurance Group will manage property and liability insurance for the Liberec Region (LBK) and its 87 contributory organizations from April 1, 2023. LBK informed about this with the fact that the winning bid price for both types of insurance amounts to CZK 21.33m without VAT for one year of performance. In the past, LBK and his organization were taken care of by the same insurance company. About CZK 4.6m was paid for property insurance and CZK 3.5m per year for liability.(ČIA)

Erik Müller is the head of Cushman & Wakefield's (C&W) Residential Advisory Services team. He previously worked at Spaceti and White Star Real Estate.(ČIA)

The capital city of Bratislava has announced a tender for the services of architects and designers of residential and multifunctional buildings. The total estimated value of the public contract is EUR 1.60m excluding VAT. Bids can be submitted until February 20, 2023, the Public Procurement Office informed.(ČIA)

The high cost of security solutions and services is considered by 53% of executives to be the biggest barrier to ensuring a company's cybersecurity. The proble is reported by smaller enterprises (59%) more often than big businesses. The Sophos survey also shows that this problem is closely related to the lack of qualified staff, which is declared by 28% of executives. Lack of employee awareness was cited by 25% of managers. Problems related to the increased demands of remote working were cited by 27% of respondents. Employees' reluctance to implement protective measures is an obstacle to cybersecurity in 16% of Czech companies.(ČIA)

Insurer Allianz pojišťovna increases the amount of funds it protects each year against unauthorised payments to fraudsters. In 2022, this included 2,470 cases worth €368 million. CZK. Most cases were detected in Prague, where Allianz detectives focused on 423 cases with a total value of CZK 70.2m. The Central Bohemian Region came in second place with a volume of detected fraud worth CZK 41.2m The Ústí nad Labem Region came third with CZK 38.3m worth of detected fraud.(ČIA)

Insurer Slavia pojišťovna has started to use artificial intelligence services in claims handling. It offers a web application from Audatex to its auto insurance clients. Thanks to it, they don't have to wait for a mobile technician to arrive, but the software guides them on what to fill in and photograph. If the paperwork is in order, a quarter of claims are paid within two days and 60% within five days.(ČIA)

The State Fund for Promotion of Investments (SFPI) as of January 24, 2023, registered 1012 applications for subsidies in the Zivel Programme for assistance in tornado-affected areas. In total, 828 contracts had been concluded with a volume of CZK 1.13bn. The last date to apply for support for the reconstruction of a dwelling affected by the natural disaster of June 24, 2021 is June 23, 2023. A grant of up to CZK 2m and a loan of up to CZK 3m can be used for the reconstruction of dwellings. In the case of the loan, the interest rate is fixed for the entire repayment period and is 1 % pa, with a maximum repayment period of up to 25 years. The support is drawn down gradually.(ČIA)

The Ostrava Transport Company (DPO) recorded 90.14 million passengers on its connections in 2022. In 2021 there were 78.89 million passengers, before the pandemic the number of passengers exceeded 90 million every year. Fare revenue also rose to CZK 421.9m from CZK 357.1m. In 2019, the revenue reached CZK 441.3m. In 2022, the DPO, among other things, reconstructed and paved the tram line in Poruba or accelerated the line to Dubina. The general director and chairman of the board of directors, Daniel Morys, said that in 2022, thanks to the support of the city, fares did not become more expensive and, on the contrary, the 10+2 loyalty programme was introduced.(ČIA)

Stefan de Goeij became ESG and Energy Lead of the CTP Group. He joins from real estate consultancy Avison Young. Prior to that, he held management positions at CTP Invest.(ČIA)

Law firm Allen & Overy (A&O) advised Raiffeisenbank on the issue of senior non-priority sustainable bonds eligible for MREL in the amount of EUR 500m. The amount corresponding to the net proceeds will be used to finance or refinance loans for projects and activities that support climate protection and other ecological or sustainable projects.(ČIA)

Since the launch of the pilot operation of electronic property auctions in 2019, the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic has conducted a total of 1,360 auctions, the revenue of which reached CZK 327m . A total of 3,600 users have created an account in the Application for Electronic Auctions (APED). Another 220 applicants have applied for it. The General Financial Directorate (GFD) informed that a change in the method of ending the auction is new for 2023. It does not end at the set time, but 5 minutes after the last bid made in the last minutes of the set time.(ČIA)

UniCredit Bank Czech Republic and Slovakia has launched a transparent account service for retail, small business and corporate clients in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The account is intended for foundations, non-profit organizations, charitable associations, housing cooperatives and municipalities or politicians. The company thus fulfills the legal obligation, which from January 1, 2023 requires all banks in Slovakia to offer a transparent account.(ČIA)

Beginning female entrepreneurs can apply to the third year of the Academy for Women Entrepreneurs (AWE) program initiated by the US government until February 10, 2023. In 2022, it was used by female entrepreneurs in more than 80 countries. In the Czech Republic, this program is implemented by the organization Business & Professional Women CR (BPWCR), with the support of the US Embassy in the Czech Republic. The winner will receive CZK 50,000. In previous years, Helena Bartošová (Philharmonic Orchestra) and Klára Hrdá (Semínkovna) won.(ČIA)

Since January 2023, Petr Buchbauer has been working as the CEO of the consulting-technology company Lundegaard. The company specializes in the development of software tools and the provision of digital transformation services. In his new role, he will be responsible for both the operation and development of the company, as well as strategic planning and the subsequent implementation of business plans. P. Buchbauer previously worked at IBA CZ.(ČIA)

 Retail chain Kaufland opened a new store in Veľký Meder on January 19, 2023. It will also offer more than a thousand products of its own brand K-Classic. The 2,592 m2 store includes self-service checkouts and an info desk for customers. They can take advantage of the Kaufland Card loyalty programme. The store also has 218 parking spaces. The chain already has 75 stores in Slovakia.(ČIA)

The number and intensity of DDoS attacks on Czech companies in December 2022 were above average. The three main trends were the use of less common internet protocols, the increase in the duration of attacks and attacks on a larger number of IP addresses at once. This is according to a regular monthly analysis of FlowGuard service traffic statistics by Czech IT firm ComSource, with more than 200 countries targeting companies and institutions in the Czech Republic. The total volume of filtered malicious traffic remained at the November level in December.(ČIA)

 Job security is important for 95% of Czech employees, up 4 pp y/y. Randstad ČR CEO Martin Jánský also said that, based on the Workmonitor survey, half of the respondents are worried about the impact of the economic situation on their job security and 40% are afraid of losing their job. More than a quarter of employees are compensating for higher expenses with a second job, 14% have increased their working hours and 25% have postponed retirement. Respondents expect help from their employer. Half prefer a pay rise and a third prefer compensation for travel, utilities and other expenses. The possibility to work remotely is important for 53% of Czechs (+6 pp).(ČIA)

The number of people included in the labour force (employed and unemployed) rose to almost 5.6 million in 2021 from 5.1 million in 2011. This corresponds to 53.5% of the population with identified economic activity. The number of working pensioners has more than doubled over the time period. In 2021 there were 566,000 working pensioners, who accounted for 10.7% of all employed people. The Czech Statistical Office reported that 27.5% of the employed persons worked in industry.(ČIA)

The Fabini brand increased its net sales y/y to CZK 35.3m in 2022 from CZK 19m. The company sold a total of 16,817 pieces of tableware. Founder and CEO Jan Fabini said the company has invested in developing its own product department. He added that in 2023, the company has plans for further growth, targeting to almost double its turnover again. In particular, it wants to expand its range, with plans to launch two collections in new materials and a new collection in multi-layer stainless steel.(ČIA)

Integrated Transport System coordinator KORDIS JMK, which operates the Transport Clearing Centre, has signed a contract for the delivery of new vending machines for Moravia trains and validators for railway stations and some buses. The contract is worth CZK 55.5m. KORDIS JMK has thus started the final stage of modernisation of passenger clearance in Brno and the South Moravian Region (JHM). The contract provides for the delivery of a total of 76 vending machines and 300 validators to railway stations, 100 validators to buses. Most of the electronic passenger check-in equipment should be installed during 2024.(ČIA)

 Jiří Kos has been appointed Sales Director of Obermeyer Helika. He will focus on the acquisition of new projects and clients. Previously, he worked at the architectural firm Chapman Taylor.(ČIA)

In Europe, consumer spending on sporting goods, services and related experiences grew by 37% y/y in 2022. This stems from Mastercard's Sports Economy Index, with the fact that 54% (+12 pp) of people visited sports events and 54% (+10 pp) of respondents actively played sports regularly. The digital footprint in sports has also grown, with 61% using technology as their main means of following their favorite events, teams, and competitors. 52% of Europeans had a game console. Over 25% of people have experienced sport in virtual reality and 50% of respondents want to enjoy it in 2023. A third of those surveyed are planning a trip abroad for a sporting event.(ČIA)

Dominique Hermans holds the position of the executive director of Randstad, according to the Commercial Register. The position was registered with the Commercial Register as of January 1, 2023.(ČIA)

Expobank CZ, which has been operating under the new name Max banka since October 4, 2022, reported a net interest income of CZK 357 million in 2021, compared to CZK 371 million in 2020. Net income from fees and commissions reached CZK 21 million, a year earlier it was CZK 29 million. Deposits totaled CZK 13.99 billion. In March 2022, the shareholders of Expobank CZ announced an agreement to sell 100% of the shares to a consortium of Latvian Signet Bank and American investors. This follows from the annual report published in the commercial register.(ČIA)

The Hradec Králové Region (HKK) awarded the public contract for Management of employee benefits - employee meal cards, benefits, services and products (cafeteria) to Sodexo Pass Česká republika.(ČIA)

Petr Gremlica holds the position of a member of the administrative board of O.O.Z. Zlín, according to the Commercial Register. The position was registered with the Commercial Register as of January 1, 2023, and membership was established on January 1, 2023.(ČIA)

The firm Všeobecná úverová banka, pobočka Praha; zkráceně: VUB, pobočka Praha reported net interest yield totalling CZK 366,00m for the period ending on December 31, 2021. This stems from the annual report made public in the Commercial Register on January 20, 2023.(ČIA)

The firm VFS Trading reported turnover totalling CZK 476,22m for the period ending on December 31, 2021. This stems from the annual report made public in the Commercial Register on January 19, 2023.(ČIA)

Ioana Camelia Stanley holds the position of the executive director of Luxury Hotel Management of Czech Republic, according to the Commercial Register. The position was registered with the Commercial Register as of December 1, 2022.(ČIA)

The firm STAMONT-METAL International reported turnover totalling CZK 219,52m for the period ending on December 31, 2021. This stems from the annual report made public in the Commercial Register on January 12, 2023.(ČIA)

The firm B E K O Engineering reported turnover totalling CZK 156,23m for the period ending on March 31, 2022. This stems from the annual report made public in the Commercial Register on January 18, 2023.(ČIA)

The firm Pento reported turnover totalling CZK 163,46m for the period ending on December 31, 2021. This stems from the annual report made public in the Commercial Register on January 18, 2023.(ČIA)

DCIT reduced its share capital to CZK 4.7 million. The original amount was CZK 4.96 million.(ČIA)

Michaela Flanderková holds the position of the chairman of the supervisory board of S invest group, according to the Commercial Register. The position was registered with the Commercial Register as of January 12, 2023, and membership was established on January 12, 2023.(ČIA)

Karel Doubek holds the position of the executive director of Národní Agentura Pro Dotace, according to the Commercial Register. The position was registered with the Commercial Register as of January 13, 2023.(ČIA)

Zdeněk Novák holds the position of the executive director of AOF, according to the Commercial Register. The position was registered with the Commercial Register as of January 9, 2023.(ČIA)

Ceska Informacni Agentura SRO

文件 CIAINP0020230127ej1r0000b


Czech Republic This Week - March 3, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 3 月 3 日, 16705 字, (英文)
Net income of largest Czech banks increased by 31% y/y in 2022The net income of the six largest banks in Czechia was CZK76.25bn (€3.25bn) in 2022, which is an increase of 30.6% year-on-year.

Slovakia This Week - March 3, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 3 月 3 日, 13602 字, (英文)
Industrial producer prices in Slovakia up 33.6% y/y in JanuarySlovak industrial prices for the domestic market were higher by 33.6% year-on-year in January and rose by 8.6% month-on-month, the Statistical Office of the Slovak Republic ...

Horse probably owned by Kadyrov stolen from stable in Czechia
582 字
2023 年 3 月 7 日 17:21 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds info, statements in last six paras.

Roudnice nad Labem, North Bohemia, March 7 (CTK) - An English thoroughbred worth almost 400,000 crowns, which is owned by Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov according to the server Jezdci.cz[https://www.jezdci.cz/clanky/zazou-beze-stopy-zmizel-nocni-unos-kadyrovova-hrebce-setri-policie/], has been stolen from a stable in Krabcice, North Bohemia, police spokeswoman Pavla Kofrova has said.

Kadyrov's stable has been registered with the Czech Jockey Club organisation since 2012. After Russia invaded Crimea in 2014 and the EU sanction became effective, the Czech Finance Ministry reduced the finance flow of the stable.

Last year, the daily Mlada fronta Dnes (MfD) wrote that Kadyrov owned exactly the Krabcice Darhorse stable.

The Chechen leader is one of the most powerful men in Russia and he keeps close relations with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

The police said an unknown offender had probably stolen the horse in the night from Friday to Saturday. The sixteen-year-old bay horse has a white star-shaped mark on its forehead and part of his right back leg is also white.

The police are currently searching for the stolen horse and they ask the public for cooperation. In case anyone can provide any information, they are supposed to call the 158 police line or come directly to the nearest police station, Kofrova said.

The server Jezdci.cz said Kadyrov had bought the horse named Zazou in 2012. The horse has completed in the total of 36 races, having won nine times, winning over 1.2 million euros in total. Kadyrov has not been able to manipulate with the horse due to the anti-Russian sanctions.

Last January, that is before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, a couple of Russian-speaking men tried to transfer the horse from the stable, Czech Radio's Radiozurnal station reported, adding that Rostislav Kopecky, the owner of the stable, refused to give it up.

"They argued that they would take it to Poland and that they were allowed to transfer the frozen property within the EU," Kopecky told Radiozurnal.

He said the state had originally blocked five horses of Kadyrov. One of them, a stud horse, died last year. It was that horse, along with Zazou, that were probably the most valuable of all. The remaining three horses have been distributed each to a different stable in Czechia to stay there until the end of their life.

The Krabcice stable also previously hosted another stud horse, the ownership of which, however, Kadyrov transferred onto another person still before the sanctions were imposed on him. This horse has been exported from Czechia, according to Radiozurnal.

Confirming the information that the owner of Zazou is Kadyrov, Finance Ministry spokeswoman Michela Lagronova told Radiozurnal that if the owner of an animal, which is a racehorse in this case, appears on the list of those sanctioned, the state confiscates the animal but secures its prosperity. This applies to all animals. That is why the given horses have been entrusted to various stables to take care for them, Lagronova said.

The horses could continue racing, but the possible gains could not go to a person figuring on the list of sanctions.

"If the sanctions last long and the animal dies in the meantime, no duty of the state arises from this towards the person under sanctions," Lagronova said.

She would not comment on alleged attempts to export Kadyrov's horse from Czechia.

($1 = 22.112 crowns)

buj,rtj/dr/hol,kva

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230307ej3700007


Ideas
Czechs stand with Ukraine
Borek Lizec
National Post
1150 字
2023 年 3 月 8 日
National Post
FINP
National
A15
英文
© 2023 National Post . All Rights Reserved.
For a Czech, it is particularly emotional to watch the war in Ukraine. Our historical experience of the 20th century urges us to think how much we have learnt from the past. Under the Munich Agreement of September 1938, Hitler and Mussolini, as well as our allies Chamberlain and Daladier, demanded that Czechoslovakia cede its border regions to Nazi Germany. This was supposed to be Hitler's last territorial demand in Europe. Peace in Europe was to be saved. Half a year later, in March 1939, Germany invaded the rest of the Czech lands, defenceless after giving up its fortifications along with the surrendered territory. The world just watched. Hitler gained the strong Czechoslovak war production capacity (Czechoslovakia with its major industrial base ranked among the world's 10 most developed countries) and grew in strength.

As the West, we neglected to respond to the "Munich moment" when Russia annexed Crimea. However, we did act on the "March 1939 moment" by intervening when the ruthless aggressor, with a total disregard for human life, grasped for the whole country. As we learned in 1938, appeasement does not lead to a lasting peace. It is such a relief for the Czech to see this historical lesson reflected in the actions of the united West.

Czechs also experienced a Russian invasion when they tried to break away from the Soviet empire of evil in 1968. We could not be helped. The risk of nuclear confrontation must have seemed too great for the West to intervene. We had to stay behind the Iron Curtain. The devastating Russian occupation lasted more than 20 years. The videos of Ukrainians waving their flags, shouting at the occupants to go home, are very familiar to me. I know them from films of 1968 Prague. With my experience of growing up behind the Iron Curtain, it is wonderful to see the shared determination of the West to help Ukraine liberate its whole territory and get those taken to Russia back home, starting with children. No Ukrainian must be left behind the new Russian Iron Curtain.

We will never forget that Canada stood by us when we faced the Nazi and Soviet occupations. During the Second World War, Canada, among other things, supported the Czechoslovak government in exile, trained our RAF pilots and even helped us succeed in one of the most important acts of Nazi resistance on occupied territories during the war - the assassination of a principle architect of the Holocaust, Reinhard Heydrich. During the Cold War, Canada admitted more than 36,000 Czechs and Slovak emigrants. Today, Canada stands firmly with us again. You were helping Europe face the Russian threat well before the invasion. You have led the NATO mission deterring Russia from attacking Latvia. The training you have provided to more than 35,000 Ukrainian soldiers has been an important factor in the war.

It has been an honour for the Czech Republic to be one of Ukraine's strongest partners in its fight for freedom and humanism. The Czech government has provided more than $600,000 in military aid, and the Czech defence industry has added $1.8 million. These supplies have included 89 tanks, 226 combat and armoured vehicles, 1.5 million pieces of ammunition, including 60,000 rockets, four combat helicopters, 38 howitzers, six anti-aircraft defence systems, and 900 metres of bridge structures. I shall add that our allies have been supporting us in these efforts by granting us compensation for the donated equipment. The U.S. has provided us with Viper and Venom helicopters, and Germany has supplied Leopard tanks. I am proud of Czech citizens and the support they have extended to the brave people of Ukraine. Czechs have accommodated in their homes a high share of the 460,000 refugees who have applied for temporary protection status in our country (Czechia has received the highest number of refugees per capita of all countries), raised more than $245 million, and even bought a tank nicknamed "Thomas the Tank."

The wave of support among Czech Canadians, from descendants of the first Czech cowboys in the Prairies to those who have arrived recently, has impressed me as well. Some of the efforts have been quite creative. The New Moon tattoo studio in Ottawa offered special motifs of a Molotov cocktail or a tank pulled by a tractor for a donation of $100 for Ukraine. This is how Milena Fusco wanted to commemorate the fate of her mother, who fled Czechoslovakia in 1968.

Many of those who have had a family experience with the Soviets seizing control of my country have been making sure throughout their lives that the communist crimes are not forgotten. Among them, long-term community leader Robert Tmej has supported the creation of the Victims of Communism monument in Ottawa. After the outbreak of war in Ukraine, Russia found a peculiar way to "reward" him for his efforts. Together with the highest representatives of Canada, Moscow put him onto its sanction list. This step illustrates how strongly Vladimir Putin's Russia positions itself in the role of the Soviet Union's direct successor. It does not distance itself even from the horrors committed by communist regimes.

Determined to recreate the Soviet Empire, Putin has demanded the clock be rolled back to 1997. The Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary joined NATO in 1999. At this point, we should believe that he will attempt to do what he says, no matter how crazy and overambitious such plans may sound. It was a mistake for the world not to believe Hitler's Mein Kampf in 1938. Putin seems to have followed his long-term plans. Last year's invasion seems to explain why Russian agents blew up the Vrbetice depots in the Czech Republic, a unique source of Soviet-type artillery ammunition that was destined for Ukraine, back in 2014.

Ukraine is fighting for democracy, humanism, rules-based order, and the survival of countries at least in its vicinity, including the Czech Republic. We shall never forget the sacrifices made by the Ukrainian people, unimaginable for our generations who grew up in peace. Our transatlantic friend, Canada, deserves our gratitude for its lasting support as well.

Special to National Post Borek Lizec is Ambassador of the Czech Republic to Canada

John Moore, Getty Images / A woman places food atop the grave of her son in the soldier's section of a cemetery Tuesday in Kharkiv, Ukraine. Czech ambassador Borek Lizec warns that the conflict in Ukraine may just be the beginning for .; John Moore, Getty Images / A woman places food atop the grave of her son in the soldier's section of a cemetery Tuesday in Kharkiv, Ukraine. Czech ambassador Borek Lizec warns that the conflict in Ukraine may just be the beginning for . [NTNP_20230308_National_A15_01_I001.jpg];

Postmedia Network Inc.

文件 FINP000020230308ej3800004


Ukraine needs more sanctions against Russia - Czech diplomat
469 字
2023 年 3 月 12 日 18:45 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, March 12 (CTK) - It is important for Ukraine to strengthen sanctions against propagandists of the Russian regime of Vladimir Putin, against celebrities that influence opinions in Russian society, Czech ambassador to Kyiv Radek Matula has told CTK.

"These people speak against Ukraine, against Ukrainian partners. At the same time, they travel to the countries of the European Union, to the United States without any limits. If they are artists, they have concerts there, spend their holidays there, their children study there," he said.

Matula said Ukraine will certainly keep calling for stricter sanctions imposed on Russian financial institutions, against banks. He also expects Ukrainian demands for trade restrictions and sanctions that would prevent production of the Russian military industry complex.

At the end of February, the EU agreed on the tenth package of sanctions that includes more restrictions of exports of dual use products and measures against entities supporting war, spreading propaganda or delivering drones that Russia uses in attacks.

Matula said the Ukrainian representatives are aware of that three sanction packages were approved during the six-month Czech presidency of the Council of the EU.

In late March, a so-called sanction forum will take place in Kyiv in which sanction coordinators from Western countries will participate.

Matula said the sanctions are not devastating for the Russian economy, but they often affect it only after some time.

He said that the West knows that Ukraine must not lose the war. "If Ukraine loses, it will be a signal for Russia that it may go further in its imperial ambitions," he pointed out. If Ukraine falls, it is only a question of time when Russia will want to move further on," Matula said.

As for military support, deliveries of anti-aircraft defence systems and artillery ammunition are the priorities for Ukraine now, he said.

Matula said Ukraine is letting us know that it is ready to defend the NATO territory and Western values. "We support Ukraine's membership in NATO as soon as it is possible. It is not possible at present when there is the war," he noted.

Czechia also clearly supports the EU accession process for Ukraine. "The Ukrainian side has been doing its utmost to meet all the seven conditions set by the European Commission with the candidate status as soon as possible," Matula said. However, this is not easy in a standard situation, and Ukraine is in a nonstandard one, he noted.

The Ukrainian leaders have the advantage that the public supports the memberships of the EU and NATO, he said. "Ukrainians want to be part of our space. They don't want to be part of the post-Soviet space and they certainly don't want to be part of Russia," Matula said.

kva/dr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230312ej3c00007


Dozens of Czech castles are controlled by Russian oligarchs
329 字
2023 年 3 月 22 日 06:48 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Ownership of dozens of historical castles and chateaus in Czechia is linked to sanctioned oligarchs from Russia, public broadcaster Czech Television (CT) reported[https://ct24.ceskatelevize.cz/domaci/3573447-rusti-podnikatele-v-cesku-vlastni-desitky-historickych-budov-investice-vysetruje]. Some of these include the picturesque Hruba Skala chateau located in the Cesky Raj nature park or the baroque chateau in the South Bohemian town of Protivin.

“The chateau is not owned by the town, it has a private owner,” Protivin town counsellor Milan Mraz told CT. The chateau was bought by Malaysian sultan Muhammad V. of Kelantan, and according to the business registry, it is controlled by a Manchester-based company represented by Russian businessman Khasan Kuchakov.

Chateau representative Vera Nagyova told CT that neither she nor Kuchakov was ever in the ownership structure.

The Financial and Analytical Office has been investigating ownership structures of some 30 chateaus, and CT reported that more Czech chateaus and castles are on sale at the Russian websites. Czech authorities are working on a national sanction list, with the first names expected to be known in two months.

Czechia has been for years a popular destination for Russian oligarchs and the affluent Russian elite. Since the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February, Czech media and authorities have been paying increased attention to Russian-owned properties and some of their local business partners.

Many of the owners, including AFK Sistema of Putin ally Vladimir Yevtushenkov, which owned electronics company STROM, or Evraz shareholders Alexander Abramov and Alexander Frolov, who owned the Oaks Prague real estate project, have sold or passed on the control of their assets in Czechia.

Earlier this week, Russian oligarch and former vice president of Transneft Mikhail Arustamov was reported to have shifted ownership of many of his real estate assets in Prague. Arustamov has been the beneficiary of a long-term cheap rent contract concluded in the 1990’s with Prague municipality for the lucrative business and cultural complex Slovansky dum [Slavonic house] in the city centre.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230322ej3m000xe


Czech Republic This Week - March 24, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 3 月 24 日, 7557 字, (英文)
Czech population grows thanks to net migrationCzechia’s population increased from 10.517mn persons to 10.533mn in 2022, the Czech Statistical Office (CZSO) reported. The 16,700 year-on-year increase in population was due to the positive net...

Czech Foreign Minister to focus on security affairs in Latvia
225 字
2023 年 4 月 20 日 15:04 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, April 20 (CTK) - Security affairs are one of the key aspects of Czech-Latvian relations, Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) told journalists today, adding that he is going to talk about them with his Latvian counterpart Edgars Rinkevics in Riga on Friday.

Lipavsky said he plans to discuss the response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, cooperation in the European Union as well as China, the Indo-Pacific and sanctions with Rinkevics.

"Latvia is a model for us on sanction issues, so we will discuss the functioning of the Magnitsky Act and how we can help each other," he said. Last year, the Czech Republic adopted a law that allows the creation of a national sanctions list.

Lipavsky will also be received by Edvards Smiltens, the speaker of the Latvian parliament Saeima.

His programme will also include a visit to the Adazi military base where he will meet members of the Czech engineering unit deployed there as part of NATO's enhanced forward presence in Latvia.

In February, Czech Defence Minister Jana Cernochova (Civic Democrats, ODS), Chief of Staff Karel Rehka and a group of Czech lawmakers visited this unit in Adazi. The multinational battlegroup is tasked with reinforcing the Alliance's eastern border in response to Russia's aggressive advance.

kva/dr/rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230420ej4k0000f


Czech Republic puts Patriarch Kirill on a sanction list
Ileana Ferrer Fonte
157 字
2023 年 4 月 26 日
Prensa Latina
PRSLAT
英文
© 2023 ACN. All rights reserved © - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Prague, Apr 26 (Prensa Latina) Czech Republic's authorities announced Wednesday that Patriarch Kirill, the highest representative of the Orthodox Church in Russia, is included in the list of sanctioned persons of the Eurasian nation. The post Czech Republic puts Patriarch Kirill on a sanction list first appeared on Prensa Latina.

According to a statement released by the Ministry of Interior on its website, the measure implies banning his entry into the country and carrying out financial operations through banking entities of this European nation.

Kirill will have his accounts and assets frozen under the argument of supporting Moscow’s special military operation in Ukraine, assumed by Russia to denazify Kiev and stop the expansion of troops from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).

Patriarch Kirill, 76, also appears on a similar list of sanctions in the United Kingdom, Canada, Lithuania, and Ukraine.

ef/iff/ro/dgh

ACN Agencia Cubana des Noticias

文件 PRSLAT0020230426ej4q000un


News
Czechs look to dump Russian nuclear fuel
Tim Gosling
1415 字
2023 年 5 月 4 日 13:05 GMT
Al Jazeera English
AJAZEN
英文
Copyright 2023 Al Jazeera English.
Pressure is rising to include the Russian nuclear sector in the European Commission’s 11th sanction package plans.

Click to view image[https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&tid=UA-1615344-99&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.aljazeera.com%2Fnews%2F2023%2F5%2F4%2Fczechs-look-to-dump-russian-nuclear-fuel&cid=cGFydG5lci1kb3dqb25lcw%3D%3D&t=pageview&cd2=post-aje-2182981&cd3=cGFydG5lci1kb3dqb25lcw%3D%3D]

Prague, Czech Republic – One chilly night in early April, a pair of Spanish-owned planes left Helsinki Airport loaded with pipes bearing radiation hazard symbols.

Their destination was Brno, the Czech Republic’s second city.

These nocturnal manoeuvres have become regular over the past 14 months.

With Russian planes banned from European Union skies, Finland is now a regular stop for imports of nuclear fuel from the east, which currently runs approximately 20 percent of Europe’s nuclear fleet.

Dependence among former Eastern Bloc countries operating Soviet-built reactors is especially heavy, and has helped block efforts to levy sanctions against Rosatom, Russia’s state nuclear agency.

But the client list of TVEL, Rosatom’s fuel arm, is shrinking. From 2024, Finnish air cargo handlers should no longer be required to load planes bound for the Czech Republic, and other routes could also soon be abandoned.

In March, Czech state-controlled energy group CEZ announced that from next year Westinghouse will supply fuel for the Dukovany nuclear power plant’s (NPP) four Soviet-supplied VVER-440 units.

France’s Framatome joined the US company in signing a similar deal to fuel Temelin’s twin VVER-1000 reactors last year.

Click to view image[https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/INTERACTIVE-Russian-gas-imports-in-2019.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C770]

Race

“After the war in Ukraine broke out last year, CEZ immediately started talks to find a new fuel supplier for security reasons,” the Czech company said.

But as a staunch supporter of Ukraine, the Czech Republic – which holds reserves to last three years – also understands that reducing dependence on Russian fuel should help open the way to sanction Rosatom, which helps fill the Kremlin’s war chest and, as Ukraine’s ambassador to the EU Vsevolod Chertsov told a European Parliament meeting on April 25 “works hand in hand with the Russian military”.

Pressure to include the Russian nuclear sector has built as the European Commission plans an 11th package of sanctions. However, the discussion is far from straightforward.

Rosatom supplies fuel to more than a dozen European NPPs, according to Olena Pavlenko from Ukrainian energy think tank Dixi, and controls close to 50 percent of the global uranium enrichment market.

With this in mind, Rosatom’s Western competitors have been racing to develop fuels that can replace TVEL’s.

Russia insists that is a risk.

“Safety must remain the top priority,” TVEL told Al Jazeera. “Decisions must be based on transparency and technological efficiency, rather than political considerations.”

And even campaigners like Vladimir Slivyak at Russian NGO Ecodefense acknowledge “it’s a question whether Westinghouse can really supply this fuel by 2024”.

Many nuclear experts suggest that developing a new fuel usually takes at least two years. Westinghouse did not respond to questions regarding its progress.

National regulators also need to license new fuels.

“It typically takes around seven-eight years,” claims TVEL, “before a new supplier may begin full-scale commercial fuel supplies.”

However, given the political impetus, it seems likely that licensing decisions could be swift. The European Commission pledged last year to help fast-track the process.

War chest

Nuclear fuel sales contribute relatively little to the Kremlin’s coffers, but the nuclear sector as a whole drives significant income and access to key technology from overseas. Rosatoms’s earnings in 2021 ran to about $20bn.

“Rosatom controls a nuclear market valued at 180 billion euros,” says Lithuanian MEP Andrius Kubilius. “The obvious question is why the EU is not sanctioning this company.”

But the answer is just as clear: Russia’s control of the fuel and enrichment market.

Washington is in a similar bind. Rosatom holds a share of the US enrichment market. However, it is claimed that the White House is ready to move regardless.

“The Biden administration understands that certain EU member states oppose sanctioning Rosatom and is hesitant to proceed without a consensus,” suggest analysts at Washington, DC-based think tank Foundation for Defense of Democracies.

Bulgaria, Hungary and France are believed to be the main obstacles to waging EU sanctions.

The former pair rely on Russian fuel. France produces its own, but sources 15 percent of the enriched uranium it needs from Russia.

However, change is in the air.

The CEZ’s Ledvice coal-fired power plant [File: David W Cerny/Reuters][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/2016-03-15T120000Z_472254050_D1AESSQZOMAH_RTRMADP_3_CZECH-ENERGY-1683016470.jpg?w=770&resize=770%2C447]

Against the grain

On April 16, Paris signed an agreement alongside the United States, Canada, Japan, and the United Kingdom, to squeeze Russia out of the international nuclear fuel market.

Meanwhile, like the Czechs, Bulgaria and others operating Soviet-era NPPs – which are currently fully dependent on TVEL – are pushing to diversify.

Last year, Sofia signed deals with Westinghouse and Framatome for fuel supplies for the two reactors at the Kozloduy plant starting in 2024 and 2025. Slovakia has launched a tender for a new supplier and is talking with the same suppliers.

Finland is also planning to dump TVEL when its contracts expire in 2030, while a contract for Rosatom to build a new reactor has also been terminated.

The trend is keenly encouraged by Ukraine. Kyiv’s bid to break with TVEL began after Russia’s 2014 occupation of Crimea, and by 2019 one of its VVER-1000 units was loaded with US fuel.

“Ukraine is the first country that managed to diversify. We’ve shown it’s possible to find an alternative fuel and certify it,” says Chertsov. “But some EU countries still seem unwilling.”

That barb is aimed squarely at Hungary, which as so often is going against the grain. Viktor Orban’s government has refused to pivot away from Putin and Budapest has instead worked to complicate EU sanctions. It has threatened to veto any action against the Russian nuclear sector.

A 2014 contract that Orban struck directly with the Russian president to expand the Paks NPP, which provides about 40 percent of Hungary’s power, is key to that stance. Under the deal, Moscow is providing 10 billion euros ($11bn) in financing.

“Paks 2 is the elephant in the room when it comes to agreeing EU sanctions against Rosatom,” says Slivyak.

On the one hand, Orban appears determined to see the project through. On the other, it is badly behind schedule as Rosatom struggles to meet EU safety requirements. But Budapest this month dismissed the opportunity to back out to agree on amendments to the contract.

Budapest is already under immense pressure from Western partners, and its track record suggests it is unlikely to continue to block nuclear sanctions should it find itself standing alone.

Many suspect that, as with oil and gas sanctions, Hungary is hanging on in the hope of winning a carve to allow Rosatom to build Paks 2.

Two-way street

Hungary’s EU partners could hand over that plum and yet prevent Russia from building a new NPP inside the bloc.

“Sanctioning the nuclear sector would be great, but there’s another route also,” says Sebastian Rotters from German NGO Urgewald. “The dependency goes both ways. Rosatom relies on the likes of France and Germany to supply high-tech equipment. Halting such exports wouldn’t need agreement from 27 states.”

Leveraging that dependency could stop Paks 2. Hungary complains that Berlin is “blocking” Siemens from delivering control systems for the project.

But it could also be used to have a deeper and wider effect, should Western governments find the courage to take on such powerful companies.

While nuclear fuel is a relatively minor earner for Russia, Rosatom’s operation constructing new NPPs around the globe is far more lucrative, both financially and in terms of geopolitical influence.

The company hopes to build 30 NPPs across Asia, North Africa, and South America, among other spots, in the coming years, asserts Pavlenko from Dixi.

Akkuyu, Turkey’s first NPP, built and operated by Rosatom, was inaugurated in late April.

“Framatome and Siemens are supplying the ‘brains’ for Rosatom’s NPPs,” Pavlenko says.

“If these companies didn’t ship key technologies it would prevent Russia spreading its influence and the potential for further nuclear terrorism,” she says, pointing at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia plant, Russia’s occupation of which has spurred deep safety concerns.

“It could also stop Rosatom’s habit of passing on certain equipment to the Russian military,” says Rotter.

Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy and Czech President Petr Pavel attend a joint news briefing [File: Viacheslav Ratynskyi/Reuters][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/2023-04-28T141404Z_449240838_RC2ON0AXJK5T_RTRMADP_3_UKRAINE-CRISIS-SLOVAKIA-CZECH-1683015968.jpg]

Al Jazeera International

文件 AJAZEN0020230504ej54000jr


Media_How Russian Journalists Navigate Life in Latvian Exile
Transitions Online, 2023 年 5 月 16 日, 3063 字, (英文)
A year after dozens of reporters sought safety in Riga, they are facing a distrustful public and stricter immigration laws. From the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism.

CTK's Business News in Brief
1347 字
2023 年 5 月 17 日 18:41 GMT
CTK Business News
CTK
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Company transformation to require fewer votes - bill

------------------------------------------------------------

Prague - The government today approved a bill that reduces the required majority of shareholder votes for the transformation of companies from the current 90 percent to 75 percent of the votes of the shareholders present at a general meeting, Justice Minister Pavel Blazek told the press after the cabinet meeting.

At the same time, the required quorum will increase to more than two-thirds of the share capital. The Justice Ministry's original proposal envisaged 85 percent of the votes of those present upon a two-third attendance. In January, the government's Legislative Council did not recommend adopting this passage, which reacted to the state's position in the CEZ energy group. The state owns 70 percent of CEZ. Prime Minister Petr Fiala said earlier the government is counting on restructuring the company, with one of the options being its division. The aim should be for the state to gain control over the energy infrastructure.

Small farmers support cuts in non-investment subsidies

------------------------------------------------------------

Prague - The Association of Private Farming, which associates small farmers in Czechia, agrees to cuts in non-investment subsidies within the government's plan to reduce the state budget deficit, the association's board said in a press release today.

National subsidies in the Czech Republic are the fifth highest in the EU, and thanks to lobbying, the biggest companies have drawn them in recent years, the association said. A decade ago, the volume of national subsidies was around Kc1bn a year, and last year it rose to Kc5bn mainly in favour of large companies, according to the association. The subsidies need to have a limit, it added. In its plan to consolidate public finances, the government has said it wants to save more than Kc10bn in national agricultural subsidies over the next two years.

ERU plans to increase fees for gas transport through Czechia

-----------------------------------------------------

Prague - The Czech Energy Regulatory Office (ERU) is planning to sharply raise fees for gas transport across the Czech territory from January 1, 2024, Czech economic daily Ekonomicky denik[https://ekonomickydenik.cz/energeticky-regulator-pomuze-spolecnosti-net4gas-skokove-zvysi-poplatky-za-prepravu-plynu-pres-cesko/] reported today.

According to the daily, ERU will thus aid gas transporter Net4Gas, which is sustaining losses as less gas is flowing through the Czech Republic after the Nord Stream pipeline was shut down. The impact on prices for Czech customers should be negligible, according to ERU's estimates, the daily's website noted.

Shift from coal to cause long-term electricity deficit - association

------------------------------------------------------------

Prague - The planned shift away from coal will put Czechia into a large and long-term electricity deficit, which will lead to a significant increase in market prices, representatives of the Realistic Energy and Ecology group told journalists today.

The government's plan to phase out coal-fired power generation by 2033 is hasty because there is no relevant replacement for it now, according to the group that associates about 30 Czech scientists and experts. The situation will not be solved by the possible replacement of coal by a large number of new solar power plants, they said, pointing to problems in winter, during which the share of photovoltaics in the total production is minimal. The association also sees the possible replacement of coal with gas as a serious risk, as it would be necessary to secure large quantities of the commodity. The future lies in nuclear energy, the association said. According to nuclear scientist Vladimir Wagner, Czechia needs to gradually build two new reactors at Dukovany and then at Temelin, and eventually decide on other sites for large units and small modular reactors.

Aero Vodochody opening development centre in Brno

------------------------------------------------------------

Brno - Aircraft manufacturer Aero Vodochody is opening a development centre in Brno and plans to take on about 30 employees by the end of this year, vice president Petr Jinda said in a press release.

The development centre focuses on the development of avionics systems and interactive interface documentation for the L-39NG trainer aircraft. Aero is currently continuing production of the first L-39NG aircraft for Vietnam. The company is to complete 10 units this year, 16 units next year, and the production capacity on the recently launched production line may rise to two aircraft a month in the coming years. Aero now has orders for 34 units, with customers including Hungary. Other contracts are being negotiated, for example with Slovakia. Its production capacity is full until 2025.

Skoda JS removed from US sanctions list - company spokesman

----------------------------------

Plzen, West Bohemia - Czech nuclear energy equipment producer Skoda JS has been removed from the US sanctions list, as the company has been fully owned by Czech energy group CEZ since last November, when CEZ acquired it from Russia's engineering group OMZ controlled by Gazprombank, Skoda JS spokesman Jan Stolar told CTK today.

As of May 12, Skoda JS is no longer subject to restrictions based on US sanction legislation with respect to Russia, Stolar said. The Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) of the US Department of the Treasury has published an official notification of Skoda JS's removal from the Sectoral Sanctions Identifications List, available at https://ofac.treasury.gov/recent-actions/20230512,[https://ofac.treasury.gov/recent-actions/20230512,] he said. By buying Skoda JS from OMZ, CEZ significantly boosted Czechia's energy security, according to Stolar.

Amazon to rent hall in northern Bohemia to print T-shirts

--------------------------------------------------

Chomutov, North Bohemia - Internet retailer Amazon will rent a hall in a zone near Chomutov to print T-shirts, with 200 people to get jobs in the facility, as Amazon has taken over the building from developer Panattoni, Panattoni told CTK.

The area of the Amazon facilities is almost 15,000 square metres. The hall will be used to produce custom-printed T-shirts and accessories as part of the Amazon Merch[https://merch.amazon.com/landing] service. The hall will start operating by the end of this year, Amazon spokesman in Czechia Noah Zyla told CTK. It will serve both Czech and foreign customers, Zyla added. In Czechia, Amazon operates distribution centres in Dobroviz near Prague and in Kojetin, northern Moravia.

Interest in material handling equipment on rise in Czechia

--------------------------------------------------

Prague - There is a growing interest in material handling equipment (MHE) in the Czech Republic, with 12,090 units of all types and brands sold in 2022, 11 units more than in the record year of 2021, MHE company Jungheinrich said.

Demand increased mainly in electrically driven equipment, while internal combustion engine technology saw a decline, according to Jungheinrich. Sales of MHE in the Czech Republic increased despite a 12 percent annual drop in demand across Europe.

Skoda's new car sales in EU up 42.1 pct yr/yr in April - ACEA

-------------------------------------------------------

Brussels - Czech carmaker Skoda Auto, a unit of German group Volkswagen, saw its new passenger car sales in the European Union rise by 42.1 percent yr/yr to 45,922 units in April, the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association (ACEA) said in a press release[https://www.acea.auto/pc-registrations/new-car-registrations-17-2-in-april-battery-electric-11-8-market-share/] today.

Skoda's share in the EU market thus rose to 5.7 percent from 4.7 percent a year ago, ACEA said.

Slovakia to take measures to consolidate public finance

------------------------------------------------------------

Bratislava (CTK correspondent) - Slovakia will have to take measures to consolidate public finances as it cannot afford to continue running a high deficit, and decisions will have to be made on both the revenue and expenditure sides, Prime Minister Ludovit Odor and Finance Minister Michal Horvath told journalists today.

Odor's caretaker cabinet will prepare proposals for the next government that will emerge from the early election in September. For this year, the Slovak state budget expects the share of the public sector deficit in GDP to reach up to 6.44 percent. "This figure is high in European comparison. It is not a problem to have a 6 percent% deficit in one year, but it is a problem if we do nothing and the 6 percent deficit continues," Odor said. "Unless the state takes further measures, the public finance deficits in the coming years will be unsustainable for Slovakia. We will have to consolidate public finances," Horvath said.

hel,hja,tam/er

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTK0000020230517ej5h00003


Firm seated in Czechia target of new US anti-Russian sanctions
162 字
2023 年 5 月 19 日 15:53 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Washington, May 19 (CTK) - The Versvet company, seated in the Czech Republic, is the target of a new package of anti-Russian sanctions of the United States, as it helped a Russian firm circumvent trade restrictions, the U.S. Treasury Department has announced[https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1494].

According to Washington, the company was involved in the Russian firm Radioavtomatika's efforts to import electronics despite being placed on the sanctions since the start of Russia's aggression against Ukraine.

Radioavtomatika specialises in providing foreign equipment for Russia's defense industry and has repeatedly sought to import it through various intermediaries since it was sanctioned last year. One of them was Versvet, which is owned and controlled by Russian citizen Svetlana Verkhovtseva, according to the U.S. statement.

The U.S. Department of the Treasury sanction body, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), today imposed sanctions on both Verkhovtseva and her company.

hol/mr/rtj

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230519ej5j0000b


Firm seated in Czechia target of new US anti-Russian sanctions
402 字
2023 年 5 月 19 日 17:48 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Adds Czech ministry's reaction in paras 2, 7.

Washington, May 19 (CTK) - The Versvet company, seated in the Czech Republic, is the target of a new package of anti-Russian sanctions of the United States, as it helped a Russian firm circumvent trade restrictions, the U.S. Treasury Department has announced[https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1494].

Addressed by CTK, the Czech Finance Ministry said that it can only enforce sanctions figuring on the lists of the EU and the UN, and those on Czechia's own national list of sanctions.

According to Washington, the company was involved in the Russian firm Radioavtomatika's efforts to import electronics despite being placed on the sanction list since the start of Russia's aggression against Ukraine.

Radioavtomatika specialises in providing foreign equipment for Russia's defence industry and has repeatedly sought to import it through various intermediaries since it was sanctioned last year. One of them was Versvet, which is owned and controlled by Russian citizen Svetlana Verkhovtseva, according to the U.S. statement.

The U.S. Department of the Treasury sanction body, the Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), today imposed sanctions on both Verkhovtseva and her company.

Versvet is based in Karlovy Vary, west Bohemia, on Belgrade Street that, is in the town's commercial and administrative centre. Apart from the spa zone, this part of town is one of the most attractive.

The Czech Finance Ministry told CTK that all information about the U.S. actions has been monitored by the Financial Analytical Office (FAU), which is in charge of sanctions-related measures in the Czech Republic. However, based on the current regulations, it can only carry out these measures on persons or entities on the EU or UN sanctions lists, or on the Czech list based on the so-called Magnitsky Law, ministry spokeswoman Michaela Lagronova said.

Today, the OFAC is targeting additional individuals and entities affiliated with Radioautomatic, the U.S. Treasury Department has written.

In total, it today cracked down on 22 people and 104 entities with points of contact in more than 20 countries or jurisdictions. These sanctions mean that all assets of the named entities are blocked in the U.S., and that U.S. citizens and persons on U.S. soil are prohibited from conducting transactions with the entities unless authorized by the OFAC.

hol,rtj/mr/rtj,kva

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230519ej5j00005


Commentary: Saving Moldova While There’s Still Time
Transitions Online, 2023 年 5 月 30 日, 973 字, (英文)
The Kremlin is working tirelessly to reverse the country’s European course. Moldova needs rapid assistance to sustain its Western orientation. From CEPA.

Businessman Yevtushenkov, his son put on Czech sanction list
244 字
2023 年 6 月 28 日 21:54 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, June 28 (CTK) - The Czech Republic has put Russian businessman Vladimir Yevtushenkov and his son Felix on its internal sanction list, the government decided at its meeting today, according to the list on the website[https://www.mzv.cz/jnp/cz/zahranicni_vztahy/sankcni_politika/sankcni_seznam_cr/vnitrostatni_sankcni_seznam.html] of the Foreign Ministry.

Two months ago, Patriarch Kirill of Moscow was the first person placed on the list due to his support for the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Persons on the list are banned from entering Czechia, any assets they would have in the country are frozen, and no financial operations through Czech entities is allowed.

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) said tonight that the Yevtushenkov family could have and still may have some property in Czechia. The Financial Analytical Office will check this and freeze the possible property.

Lipavsky said that the business of Yevtushenkov in Russia concerns military industry. Companies connected with the JSFC Sistema concern founded and co-owned by Yevtushenkov make and deliver arms systems for Russian arms forces.

Czech Radio reported last year that Yevtushenkov owns the Savoy Westend Hotel in the Czech spa town Karlovy Vary.

Lipavsky said Vladimir Yevtushenkov and his son provides considerable sources to the Russian government. "In the past, he repeatedly stayed on Czech territory, which he cannot do any more," Lipavsky said.

The inclusion on the national sanctions list is made possible by the government's "Magnitsky law," which came into force in January.

kva/dr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230628ej6s00001


Prague blacklists Russian businessmen Vladimir and Felix Yevtushenko
139 字
2023 年 6 月 29 日 00:22 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
Russian businessmen Vladimir and Felix Yevtushenko have been put on the Czech national sanction list, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said on Wednesday evening after a cabinet meeting.

"The government has decided to put two more people on the [Czech national] sanction list. They are Vladimir Petrovich Yevtushenko and Felix Vladimirovich Yevtushenko. Moreover, we will recommend these two manes be put on the European Union’s sanction list," he told a televised news conference.

According to Lipavsky, Vladimir Yevtushenko, a big Russian businessman, and his son Felix provided the Russian government with large financial incomes. He visited the Czech Republic many times, he added.

It was reported on April 26 that the Czech Republic blacklisted Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia Kirill for his support for Russia’s actions in Ukraine.

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020230629ej6t00001


FRA - Protecting human rights defenders at risk: EU entry, stay and support: Annexes I and II / 44508 / Agency ( 11/07/2023 )
FRA - European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights published this content on 11 Jul 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 11 Jul 2023 04:13:37 UTC.
1077 字
2023 年 7 月 11 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://docs.publicnow.com/03AF823569D87A73F0AA8979EB651B2D381CF621]

Protecting human rights defenders at risk: EU entry, stay and support: Annexes I and II / 44508 / Agency ( 11/07/2023 )

Annex I: Member State practices

Member States practices are provided in the tables below, listed in alphabetical protocol order.

Czechia

 Name of scheme           -
                           
 Link                     -
                           
 Potential beneficiaries  Human rights defenders at risk globally
                           
 Number of beneficiaries  Depending on the year, between a few to several
                          hundred
                           
 Visa type                Schengen C visa
                           
 Residence permit         No
                           
 Relevant legislative act EU Visa Code linked to §20 of the Act No. 326/1999
 and article (link)       Coll. on the residence of foreigners in the territory of
                          the Czech Republic (Zákon o pobytu cizinců na území
                          České republiky), 1 January 2000
                           
 Length of stay           Up to 3 months
                           
 Vetting process          Through national NGOs working with civil society
                          abroad and embassies
                           
 Family members covered   Yes
                           
 Financial support        No (not from the state, but through cooperating NGOs)
                           
 Provision of housing     No (not from the state, but through cooperating NGOs)
                           
 Work permit              No
                           
 Access to banking        No
 services                  
                           
 Health insurance         No
                           
                           
Additional support

Advocacy support given to beneficiaries through cooperating NGOs

Alternative text: See descriptions in text ([https://fra.europa.eu/en/publication/2023/human-rights-defenders] Chapter 4.2[https://fra.europa.eu/en/publication/2023/human-rights-defenders] )[https://fra.europa.eu/en/publication/2023/human-rights-defenders].

Source: FRA, 2023.

Name of scheme             Civil Society Programme
                            
Link                       https://www.mzv.cz/jnp/cz/informace_pro_cizince[https://www.mzv.cz/jnp/cz/informace_pro_cizince/aktuality/program_obcanska_spolecnost.html]
                           /aktuality/program_obcanska_spolecnost.html[https://www.mzv.cz/jnp/cz/informace_pro_cizince/aktuality/program_obcanska_spolecnost.html]
                            
Potential beneficiaries    Human rights defenders from Russia and Belarus
                            
Number of beneficiaries    Quota of 500 per year
                            
Visa type                  Various national long-stay visa (such as: work permit;
                           long-term residency visa for the purpose of studies;
                           long-term visa for scientific research; long-term visa for
                           business purposes; long-term visa for other purposes)
                            
Residence permit           Yes for Russian and Belarus defenders under this
                           scheme
                            
Relevant legislative act   Resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic of
and article (link)         18 May 2022 No 418 (208)
                            
Length of stay             1 year with possibility of applying for a long-term
                           residence
                            
Vetting process            Through specified partner NGOs in cooperation with
                           MFA
                            
Family members covered     Yes
                            
Financial support          No (not from the state - cooperating NGOs undertake
                           to cover their expenses)
                            
Provision of housing       No (not from the state - cooperating NGOs undertake
                           to cover their expenses)
                            
                            
* Government of the Czech Republic (2022), 'Resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic of 18 May 2022 No 418', (" Usnesení vlády české republiky[https://www.vlada.cz/assets/urad-vlady/poskytovani-informaci/poskytnute-informace-na-zadost/usneseni-vlady-c--418.pdf] "), 18 May 2022.

Work permit       Yes for Russian and Belarus defenders in case of
                  employment / study visa, no for all others
                   
Access to banking Yes
services           
                   
Health insurance  No
                   
Alternative text: See descriptions in text ([https://fra.europa.eu/en/publication/2023/human-rights-defenders] Chapter 4.2[https://fra.europa.eu/en/publication/2023/human-rights-defenders] )[https://fra.europa.eu/en/publication/2023/human-rights-defenders].

Source: FRA, 2023.

Estonia

Name of scheme           -
                          
Link                     -
                          
Potential beneficiaries  Human rights defenders from Russia and Belarus,
                         independent journalists from Russia and Belarus
                          
Number of beneficiaries  No publicly available
                          
Visa type                Various (visa on humanitarian grounds to enter,
                         national long-term visa to stay and work)
                          
Residence permit         Yes (to stay and work as a journalist; additionally for
                         Belarus citizens, to stay and work in the ICT sector)
                          
Relevant legislative act Regulation by which the State imposed restrictions and
and article (link)       derogations from restrictions (209)
                          
* Riigi Teataja (2022), 'Imposition of a sanction by the Government of the Republic in connection with the aggression of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus in Ukraine' (" Vabariigi Valitsuse sanktsiooni kehtestamine seoses Venemaa Föderatsiooni ja Valgevene Vabariigi agressiooniga Ukrainas[https://www.riigiteataja.ee/akt/120052023004] "), 8 April 2022.

Length of stay         In the case of a visa on humanitarian grounds up to 3
                       months, long-term visa up to 12 months, residence
                       permit up to 5 years.
                        
Vetting process        Journalists must be accredited by the Ministry of
                       Foreign Affairs of Estonia
                        
Family members covered It is possible to apply for a visa or residence permit as a
                       family member according to the regular rules.
                        
Financial support      No
                        
Provision of housing   No
                        
Work permit            Yes, if applicable (needed in case of staying on the basis
                       of a long-term visa)
                        
Access to banking      Yes
services                
                        
Health insurance       Yes
                        
Additional support     No
                        
Alternative text: See descriptions in text ([https://fra.europa.eu/en/publication/2023/human-rights-defenders] Chapter 4.2[https://fra.europa.eu/en/publication/2023/human-rights-defenders] )[https://fra.europa.eu/en/publication/2023/human-rights-defenders].

Source: FRA, 2023.

Finland

 Name of scheme          Emergency hosting for artists at risk
                          
 Link                    www.artistsatrisk.org[http://www.artistsatrisk.org/]
                          
 Potential beneficiaries Artists and cultural professionals including journalists
                         under threat
                          
 Number of beneficiaries 38 in 2022
                          
 Visa type               Schengen visa
                          
 Residence permit        Residents can apply for work-based residency permits
                         for visits lasting more than 90 days. Temporary
                         protection status is provided for artists from Ukraine.
                          
                          
                         121
 Relevant legislative act Ukraine: https://migri.fi/en/ukraine[https://migri.fi/en/ukraine]
 and article (link)       Others: https://migri.fi/en/residence-permit-for-an-[https://migri.fi/en/residence-permit-for-an-employed-person]
                          employed-person[https://migri.fi/en/residence-permit-for-an-employed-person]
                               
 Length of stay           Between 2-24 months depending on type of visa or
                          residence permit
                               
 Vetting process          By Artists at Risk employed specialists carrying out
                          background checks and assessments.
                               
 Family members covered   Yes  
                               
 Financial support        Yes (incl. emergency living grants, travel expenses,
                          travel insurance, housing costs)
                               
 Provision of housing     Yes  
                               
 Work permit              Artists at Risk-residents staying more than 90 days can
                          apply for a work permit. Artists from Ukraine may work
                          in Finland after they have applied for temporary
                          protection after their arrival
                               
 Access to banking        Yes for residents with a work permit and for Ukrainians
 services                 with temporary protection.
                               
 Health insurance         Artists at Risk-residents with 90 days Schengen visas
                          have travel insurance from their country of origin.
                          Artists at Risk-residents with work permits can apply
                          for a KELA card, which entitles an access to Finnish
                          healthcare.
                               
 Additional support       Working together with Artists at Risk-Finland Residency
                          hosts, the AR-Finland Residency Coordinator and AR-
                          Safe Haven Helsinki Residency Assistant support artists
                          on a variety of issues such as:
                          ■   receiving payments
                          ■   SIM and travel cards,
                          ■   opening bank accounts as well as
                          ■   visa issues,
                          ■   health matters,
                          ■   schools or kindergartens,
                          ■   language learning and
                          ■   psychological support (if required)
                          If the artists want to practise their art, the
                          development of artistic productions are supported, and
                          networks are created for artistic work.
                               
                               
                              122
* This content was originally posted here[http://fra.europa.eu/sites/default/files/fra_uploads/2023.2911_new_hrd_entry_and_stay_report_draft_for_editing-annex-i-ii_en.pdf]

Disclaimer

FRA - European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights published this content on 11 July 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 11 July 2023 04:21:30 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020230711ej7b001xm


Poland This Week - July 14, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 7 月 14 日, 8243 字, (英文)
Czechia terminates oil transportation contract with PKN OrlenState-owned company Mero, which operates the oil pipeline infrastructure and oil reserves in Czechia, terminated the contract with Polish oil importer PKN Orlen’s Czech branch ...

Czechia urges outreach to third countries before further Russia sanctions
Aurélie Pugnet
565 字
2023 年 7 月 20 日 10:30 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2023. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Even if the EU continues economic sanctions on Russia, focus should be put on rallying the rest of the world’s support for Ukraine, Czechia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Jan Marian told EURACTIV in an interview.

EU member states approved in June the latest eleventh Russia sanctions package[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/eu-greenlights-11th-russia-sanctions-package-mostly-targeted-at-stuffing-loopholes/] since Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine, designed to prevent third countries and companies from circumventing the bloc’s existing measures.

“There is definitely room for another [package] plus looking into loopholes and evasion of sanctions,” Marian said.

With negotiations becoming more and more difficult when it comes to agreeing on economic sanctions, Europeans have been looking at filling in the gaps in the sanctions and promoting their measures to third countries in the hope they will follow them.

“The buzzword now is outreach and (…) talking to third countries, in bordering regions being Central Asia or the Caucasus, talking to the partners in the South, with Africa or South America,” he added.

He stayed firm on continuing sanctions against Moscow, in whatever form they might take.

“As people say, the biggest room in the world is the room for improvement, and I think there are many areas we can still touch upon,” Marian said about implementing EU sanctions without going into specifics.

“Of course, there might be some logical national sensitive issues, some dependencies,” to take into account, he added.

The Czech Republic still benefits from imports of Russian oil,[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/hungary-wants-russia-sanctions-exemption-extended-ensure-oil-exports-to-czechia/] on which it depends for its energy security.

For the same reason, it has been reluctant, alongside other member states – to sanction nuclear energy imports provided by Russia to the bloc, although Baltic countries and Poland, especially, have been calling for the EU to sanction state company Rosatom[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/pressure-mounts-on-eu-to-sanction-rosatom-in-next-russia-sanctions-package/].

Outreach key

Marian said that EU member states would need to reach out to third countries more to rally them to the Ukraine cause.

Outreach “is something we do both on the EU [and the national level], and we coordinate with other like-minded colleagues”, he added.

While EU sanctions had been planned in coordination with G7 partners and have been followed by other European countries, for instance, in the Western Balkans, the bloc has faced backlash from third countries[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/how-europe-seeks-to-battle-russias-charm-offensive-in-africa/], which have been hesitant to condemn Russia’s aggression against Ukraine.

Russia’s President Vladimir Putin has accused the West of being responsible for risking food security[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-breaks-fertiliser-deadlock-approves-ninth-russia-sanctions-package/] around the world by imposing sanctions on Russia.

“We talked to the Ukrainians who are more active in Africa now. We help them. And I think this is very important,” Marian said about Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky’s recent diplomatic outreach to African countries.

National initiative

With its national equivalent of the American ‘Magnitsky Act’, a human rights violation sanctions regime, the Czech Republic has been able to sanction individuals the EU member states have not.

Three Russians have been blacklisted by the Czech Republic, including Patriarch Kirill, the listing of whom was refused by Hungary multiple times, who “was joined by another two businessmen from Russia who have properties in Czechia”, Marian said.

“There are more to come,” he said, adding that the national sanctions regime would be “a complementary tool”.

“In case there is not an agreement on the EU level, we can still do something on the national level, Marian said.

[Edited by Alexandra Brzozowski/Alice Taylor]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020230720ej7k0002v


Summary of CTK General News in English, July 20, 21:00
547 字
2023 年 7 月 20 日 19:00 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Katowice - Czechia and Poland share the same basic goals in their efforts to combat illegal migration and differences in strategy regarding the reform of the EU's migration rules do not change that, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala told journalists after today's joint meeting of the Czech and Polish cabinets.

Katowice - After Russia's withdrawal from the Black Sea grain deal, it is necessary to allow the corridors to be cleared as quickly as possible and to allow the transport of grain to countries outside the European Union, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala told journalists today.

Katowice - Czech and Polish foreign and defence ministers discussed the results of the recent North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) summit in Vilnius and the security situation in Eastern Europe in Katowice today, the Czech Foreign Ministry diplomacy has said in a press release.

Katowice - The Czech and Polish governments also discussed energy issues, such as the Stork II gas pipeline and the development of nuclear energy, as well as transport infrastructure, Czech PM Petr Fiala told journalists after a joint meeting of the two cabinets in Katowice today.

Prague - The Czech pension insurance system deficit exceeded 40 billion crowns in the first six months of 2023 when it reached 40.3 billion, being almost as high as in the entire year of 2020 affected by the COVID-19 crisis when part of the economy came to a standstill, the Finance Ministry's latest data[https://www.mfcr.cz/cs/verejny-sektor/statni-rozpocet/hospodareni-systemu-duchodoveho-pojisten] show.

Prague - Czech Interior Minister Vit Rakusan (Mayors and Independents, STAN) and Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) will examine the possibility of adding Rostislav Zorikov, the son-in-law of Russian arms dealer Boris Obnosov, to the national sanction list, Rakusan said on Twitter[https://twitter.com/Vit_Rakusan/status/1681960462424985600?s=20] today.

Prague - A new group of experts from ministries and NGOs will focus on fighting anti-Ukrainian disinformation among the Roma, and another team will draft instructions for municipalities to prevent conflicts and their escalation, Czech Government Commissioner for Roma Affairs Lucie Fukova told journalists today.

Prague - President Petr Pavel will probably appoint the new chairperson of the Czech Constitutional Court (US) on August 4, replacing its current head Pavel Rychetsky whose mandate expires in August 7, Pavel told the Denik daily web today, without elaborating about the name.

Prague - President Petr Pavel handed over a flag to the Czech Scouts that will travel with them to the upcoming World Scout Jamboree in South Korea at the Prague Castle today, Barbora Trojak, spokeswoman for the organisation, has told CTK.

Prague - President Petr Pavel today appointed neurologist Martin Bares, 54, as the rector of the Masaryk University in Brno, the second largest university in the Czech Republic, for another four years, upon the proposal of the school's Academic Senate.

Kolin, central Bohemia - A firefighter died in Kolin today in a crash of a fire tanker on its way to fire of a family house, three other firefighters suffered injuries in the accident.

Bratislava - Slovak Defence Minister Martin Sklenar today signed an agreement under which Slovakia accepted an offer from the United States for supply of 60 US light armoured vehicles (JLTV) 4x4 from the Oshkosh producer for almost $190 million to be funded with a grant from the United States.

CTK

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230720ej7k00001


Czechia may add Russian arms dealer's son-in-law to sanction list
360 字
2023 年 7 月 20 日 12:09 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, July 20 (CTK) - Czech Interior Minister Vit Rakusan (Mayors and Independents, STAN) and Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) will examine the possibility of adding Rostislav Zorikov, the son-in-law of Russian arms dealer Boris Obnosov, to the national sanction list, Rakusan said on Twitter[https://twitter.com/Vit_Rakusan/status/1681960462424985600?s=20] today.

Czech diplomacy head Lipavsky told CTK that he would not comment on the process of adding people to the list because it is in a classified mode.

The Aktualne.cz[https://zpravy.aktualne.cz/domaci/rus-bohatne-na-valce-zije-v-praze/r~73afed5623f811eeb1f50cc47ab5f122/] server reported today that Zorikov lives in Prague and is using money from Russia's aggression in Ukraine to buy real estate and cars. The web writes that a week ago, he also got into a scuffle with an activist in Prague's Zizkov district who wanted to protest against the family's involvement in war production.

The server says that Obnosov's company, KTRV, manufactures missiles, and part of the profits from the arms production go to the businessman's daughter Olga and her husband Zorikov in Prague.

"The Czech Republic should not serve as a base for people who benefit from Putin's war against Ukraine," Rakusan said today.

According to Aktualne.cz, Zorikov is a permanent resident of the Czech Republic and owns two apartments and several luxury cars in addition to his company in Zizkov.

The Czech Republic has so far placed three people on the national sanction list. Russian businessman Vladimir Yevtushenko and his son Felix Yevtushenko and Moscow patriarch Kirill. It did so because of their support for the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

For the people concerned, the inclusion in the sanctions list means a ban on entry into the Czech Republic, the prevention of any financial transactions through Czech entities and the freezing of any assets in the country.

The government is able to put people on the national sanction list on the basis of the "Magnitsky Act" aimed to improve the enforcement of human rights protection, which came into force the country in January. The Czech Republic will also propose names to be added to the EU sanction list.

buj/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230720ej7k0000a


Activists want Russian arms dealer's family to be blacklisted
308 字
2023 年 7 月 25 日 19:01 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, July 25 (CTK) - About thirty activists called for putting the family of Russian arms dealer Boris Obnosov on the EU and Czech sanction lists outside the family's house in Prague on Monday evening,

Obnosov is the head of Tactical Missiles Corporation, a major Russian manufacturer of weapons.

The activists screened pictures of places in Kyiv, Odessa, Dnipro and other Ukrainian cities and places hit by missiles and slogans This House is Owned by Terrorists and Russia is a Terrorist State on the facade of the family's house.

The Voice of Ukraine group that organised the protest said they ask the Czech Republic to keep exerting economic pressure on Russia. They also asked for faster use of sanctions as an instrument of resistance in reaction to the Russian military aggression.

MP Martin Exner (Mayors and Independents, STAN) supported the placing of Obnosov's family members on the sanction list. Last week, Czech Interior Minister Vit Rakusan (STAN) said he would check with the foreign minister the possible placing of Obnosov's son-in-law Rostislav Zorikov on the Czech sanction list.

Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky (Pirates) told CTK earlier that he would not comment on the placing of people on the sanction list because it is done in a classified regime.

Czech news server aktualne.cz wrote that Zorikov is living in Prague and has permanent residence in Czechia, and that he is buying real estate and luxury cars for money from the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The server said there was a skirmish of Zorikov and an activist who wanted to protest against the involvement of the family into war production.

Czechia has put three persons on its sanction list: Russian businessman Vladimir Yevtushenko and his son Felix Yevtushenko and Moscow Patriarch Kirill.

kva/dr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230725ej7p00004


CE Noticias Financieras English
The strange sanction at WTA Prague that vetoes Russian and Belarusian tennis players
613 字
2023 年 7 月 29 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Clashes between Ukrainian sportswomen and Russian and Belarusian sportswomen are becoming more and more common in the world of sports. Tennis is one of the main scenarios where, due to its multiplication of clashes, the conflict between Ukraine and Russia after the Russian invasion is more evident. One of the most tense moments was experienced at Roland Garros, when the Belarusian Aryna Sabalenka, world number 2, defeated by a resounding 6-3 and 6-2 to the Ukrainian Marta Kostyuk, who refused to greet her because of the Ukrainian conflict, receiving boos from the stands in Paris. Elina Svitolina, also Ukrainian, opted for the same measure.

The Ukrainian, who has moved to Monte Carlo because of the war, says the world number two should answer the question of who she wants to win the war: "Let her say who she is going with. I have never said I hate her, but obviously I don't respect her. It's been 15 months since it all started and no Russian or Belarusian has taken any interest in my situation."

Likewise, at Wimbledon, where unlike last year the veto on Russian athletes was lifted, Belarusian Sabalenka admitted that she "was not going to talk about politics and was only going to talk about tennis." For his part, Daniil Medvedev said "I can't talk about what other players say, nor can I force them to say anything . If others don't want to speak out, that's their position. Mine is the same, I support peace, there is not much more I can add."

This time, the conflict escapes from the clutches of the WTA itself, the organization of the women's circuit, which stated that no tournament had in its power to veto players based on their nationality. And is that, as reported by the Associated Press, the Czech tournament will veto the entry of Russian and Belarusian players in a last-minute announcement that no one knew.

The tournament organizers themselves, however, have confirmed that this decision does not fall on their shoulders: it is due to the country's own decree. The Czech Republic has banned the access of Russian and Belarusian athletes to take part in any sporting competition within their country, all due to the invasion of Vladimir Putin's country into Ukrainian territory. It is the first professional tournament that will not allow the entry of players from these countries since the Tallinn WTA did so, as well as Wimbledon and the rest of British tournaments throughout last season.

In recent hours, according to the BBC, a Russian tennis player has been expelled from the country upon arrival at its borders, whose name has not been disclosed. This was reported by Miroslav Malý, director of the Central European tournament, who confirmed that the police had detained and expelled from the country a Russian player who had arrived in the Czech Republic without being aware of this situation.

Clashes between Ukrainian and Russian and Belarusian sportswomen are becoming more and more common in the world of sport. Tennis is one of the main arenas where the conflict between Ukraine and Russia after the Russian invasion is most evident due to its multiplication of clashes. One of the most tense moments was experienced at Roland Garros, when the Belarusian Aryna Sabalenka, world number 2, defeated by a resounding 6-3 and 6-2 to the Ukrainian Marta Kostyuk, who refused to greet her because of the Ukrainian conflict, receiving boos from the stands in Paris. Elina Svitolina, also Ukrainian, opted for the same measure.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230729ej7t009tq

跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
Firm with non-transparent owners to supply oil to SSHR - server
627 字
2023 年 8 月 2 日 11:15 GMT
CTK Business News
CTK
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
adds statement by SSHR head Svagr in para 7,13, info on TAL pipeline in para 14

Prague, Aug 2 (CTK) - The State Material Reserves Administration (SSHR) has concluded a contract for the purchase of oil worth more than Kc1bn with Normeston Trading Limited, a Cyprus-based company whose owners are not transparent, Seznam Zpravy news server[https://www.seznamzpravy.cz/clanek/domaci-kauzy-stat-posle-miliardu-za-ropu-firme-za-niz-jsou-putinovi-prominenti-234636] reported today.

SSHR has checked the winner of the tender for the replenishment of oil reserves and has not violated the law, said its chairman Pavel Svagr.

"We have verified the owners as required by the public procurement law," he said.

"We have also asked some state authorities to cooperate (with us) in this regard to rule out the possibility that any of the owners are on the sanctions lists, for example," Svagr said.

Normeston also met the qualification criteria because it supplies oil to Hungarian company MOL and Slovak company Slovnaft, Svagr said.

The state will pay for the oil after delivery, and wants to sanction the company if it fails to meet the agreement.

"If you don't have a legal reason to exclude a company, if its owners are not on the EU sanctions list, you just don't exclude it," Svagr told CTK today.

The firm is controlled by a network of nine companies and funds from Cyprus, Hungary, Hong Kong and the British Virgin Islands, according to Seznam Zpravy.

Working with the anti-corruption organisation Transparency International (TI), the website identified four listed owners and SSHR confirmed that it considers these four to be the ones in the ownership structure.

"If the ownership structure runs through not just one, but three countries, where there is no problem to hide the real owner, then it is difficult to assume that the declared persons are the ones who really run the company," said Marek Chromy, an analyst at TI's Czech branch.

According to him, it is almost certain that these are the so-called professional white horses running the company in order to hide the real owners. One of such owners of the company is Cypriot lawyer Christodoulos Georgiou Vassiliades, who, according to the British government, helped the Russian oligarchs create offshore structures allowing them to hide their assets and evade the anti-Russian sanctions, Seznam Zpravy reported.

It is unclear where the Cypriot firm will get the oil for the Czech storage tanks, said the server. According to the contract, it is crude oil Rebco, which is exported by Russia.

In this context, Svagr told CTK that he also does not like the fact that petrol stations sell fuels that were mostly made from Russian oil. However, there is nothing that could be done about it for the time being. "Once the second IKL/TAL oil pipeline has enough capacity, we will not need Russian oil," Svagr said.

In July, the state-owned company Mero started design work on expanding TAL's capacity, which carries oil from Trieste, Italy, to Ingolstadt, Bavaria, and from there to the Czech Republic via the IKL pipeline. TAL should cover the Czech Republic's oil needs from 2025 onwards. Oil is also supplied to the country from Russia via the Druzhba pipeline.

SSHR has declared six tenders for the purchase of oil to replenish its emergency stocks. The previous five rounds had ended without success. Two companies, Normeston and Orlen Unipetrol, took part in the tender process, the former succeeding because of a better bid, SSHR said.

The government approved crude oil purchases last June due to a drop in oil emergency stocks below the required minimum. The European Union directive requires the countries that do not produce oil to have at least 90 days' supply.

vr/er

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTK0000020230802ej820000g


Summary of CTK General News in English, August 7, 21:00
764 字
2023 年 8 月 7 日 19:00 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague - It is in the interest of Europe not to leave space in Africa for Russia and China, and Czechia may play a bigger role there, Czech President Petr Pavel after talks with Mozambican President Filipe Nyusi today.

Prague - All the delegations that spoke at the plenary meeting supported the preservation of Ukraine's territorial integrity, Czech Deputy Foreign Minister Jan Marian (Mayors and Independents, STAN) said about the consultations in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, in a statement available to CTK today.

Brno - President Petr Pavel will not name Robert Fremr as Constitutional Court (US) judge for now despite the Senate's consent with his nomination, he wants to study and consult experts on new information about Fremr's work in the criminal court system before the 1989 fall of communism, Pavel said today.

Prague - A team of researchers from the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes (USTR) will examine the work of the candidate for constitutional judge Robert Fremr in the communist judiciary in the 1980s, the USTR said[https://www.ustrcr.cz/zprava-ustr-prezkouma-pusobeni-soudce-fremra-za-komunistickeho-rezimu/?fbclid=IwAR0K1fNg_WnwK3R9vsnI8-K3bxfim5Kr6PYDM59IrtTjaPRRhYZ5L-vOxec] in a press release today.

Brno - President Petr Pavel visited the Constitutional Court (US) for the first time since his election and was welcomed by US President Pavel Rychetsky, whose second term of office ends today, and his nominated successor Josef Baxa at the court's Brno seat this morning.

Brno - Former Czech President Milos Zeman did not convincingly explain his pardon of former Lany presidential forest administration manager Milos Balak, and by granting it, he did not meet the criteria for the pardon institution he set himself, the Constitutional Court (US) judges have said in their resolution[https://nalus.usoud.cz:443/Search/GetText.aspx?sz=Pl-16-22_1].

Prague - Czech police are prosecuting a Russian citizen for violating international sanctions as he was involved in transferring money to a Russian oligarch on the EU sanction list since 2015 over Russia's annexation of Crimea, National Centre against Organised Crime spokesman Jaroslav Ibehej told CTK today.

Prague - The Czech Red Cross (CCK) has launched a public fundraising to help Slovenia hit by disastrous floods in recent days, Red Cross representatives announced in a press release today.

Prague - The Czech Embassy in Ljubljana has no information about any injured Czech citizens after last week's floods in Slovenia, but some have got stuck in accommodation facilities there and are waiting for roads to be reopened, Foreign Ministry spokesman Daniel Drake told CTK today.

Prague - The 13th Prague Pride[https://festival.praguepride.com/program2023/tabulkovy-program/], a festival for lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and queer (LGBT+) people, today opened at the Pride Village on Prague's Strelecky ostrov island, this year focusing on traditions and their importance for the functioning of society.

Prague/Seoul - Czechs at the World Scout Jamboree in South Korea are well prepared for evacuation ahead of the approaching tropical storm Khanun, their transfer will start on Tuesday, and none of them are planning to leave Korea early, Czech Scout organisation spokeswoman Barbora Trojak told CTK today.

Prague - The Presidential Office today warned the public against fraudsters who repeatedly misuse the photograph of President Petr Pavel and the logo of the CEZ energy group to try to extort money from people, stressing it has nothing to do with this deceptive advertising and calling for increased caution.

Prague - Six percent of young people aged 16 to 30 in the Czech Republic do not practice sport at all, and 18 percent do some sport less than once a month, shows an analysis of the Czech Council for Children and Youth (CRDM) released to CTK by its spokeswoman Sona Polakova today.

Bratislava - The voter preferences of Slovak ex-PM Robert Fico's Smer-Social Democracy, which has led the popularity rankings for several months now, see a further rise roughly two months before the early general election, according to the results of the latest polls commissioned by the Slovak media.

Bratislava - The Slovak prosecutor's office has dropped the prosecution of former interior minister Robert Kalinak in the case of his suspected bribing of former tax administration head Frantisek Imrecze, according to information[https://www.genpro.gov.sk/spravy-2ed7.html?id=3098] published by the Prosecutor General's Office today.

Bratislava - Some hiking trails in Slovakia remain impassable, especially in the High Tatras, the country's highest mountain range, after the heavy rain last weekend, and gorges have been closed again in the Slovak Paradise in the east, the Mountain Rescue Service and the Fire Corps reported today.

Prague - Japanese Nao Hibino, 28, won the WTA women's international tennis tournament in Prague, beating 18-year-old Czech Linda Noskova 6-4, 6-1 in the final of singles today.

CTK

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230807ej8700006


Russian prosecuted for violating sanctions against oligarch
267 字
2023 年 8 月 7 日 10:31 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Aug 7 (CTK) - Czech police are prosecuting a Russian citizen for violating international sanctions as he was involved in transferring money to a Russian oligarch on the EU sanction list since 2015 over Russia's annexation of Crimea, National Centre against Organised Crime spokesman Jaroslav Ibehej told CTK today.

According to Ibehej, the oligarch has long been associated with the top government officials of the Russian Federation.

The prosecution was launched by the National Centre against Organised Crime (NCOZ) on August 2. According to the agency, the Russian committed the crime, which consisted of transferring the oligarch's money, in 2015. "The funds were subsequently used on the territory of the Czech Republic," the spokesman said.

Police have carried out one search in the case, which is being supervised by the Prague Public Prosecutor's Office.

The man is being prosecuted at liberty.

Under the Czech Criminal Code, the violation of international sanctions carries a basic penalty of up to three years in prison or a fine. The offence is committed by anyone who violates to a large extent the sanctions that the Czech Republic has committed to meet within the UN or EU or that it has itself introduced under the sanction law.

The penalty is further increased depending on the amount of damage caused. If the perpetrator's act significantly contributes to the breach of international peace and security, the fight against terrorism or the promotion of democracy and the rule of law, he or she may be imprisoned for up to eight years.

pvr/dr/hol

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230807ej870000r


Ceska Narodni Banka - cnBlog – Annual assessment of the forecasts included in GEO
Ceska Narodni Banka published this content on 08 Aug 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 08 Aug 2023 07:19:32 UTC.
3244 字
2023 年 8 月 8 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://www.cnb.cz/en/about_cnb/cnblog/cnBlog-Annual-assessment-of-the-forecasts-included-in-GEO-00001/]

cnBlog - Annual assessment of the forecasts included in GEO

Every month, Global Economic Outlook (GEO) provides an overview of the latest economic forecasts issued by international institutions, selected central banks and Consensus Economics. The outlooks for last year were strongly affected by the onset of the war in Ukraine and the resulting energy crisis in Europe. The monitored institutions were thus on average optimistic about the outlooks for GDP growth in 2022, expecting higher growth, which, however, failed to materialise. By contrast, higher-than-expected inflation came as a surprise. A long-running period of low interest rates combined with analysts' conservatism were reflected in a substantial underestimation of outlooks for short-term interest rates at the one-year horizon for the euro area and the USA. The exchange rates of the monitored currencies against the dollar saw an increase in volatility last year due not only to uncertainties, but also differing inflation. The oil price was underestimated in the forecasts over the entire assessment period, as nobody expected another energy shock.

Published in Global Economic Outlook - July 2023 (pdf, 2.1 MB)[https://www.cnb.cz/export/sites/cnb/en/monetary-policy/.galleries/geo/geo_2023/gev_2023_07_en.pdf]

Introduction

Every year, we assess the accuracy of the forecasts of the economic variables regularly monitored in GEO. The results of this assessment provide valuable information about which of the monitored institutions produced estimates that were the closest to the subsequently recorded outcomes and were thus the most successful in their forecasts. In addition to Consensus Forecasts (CF), we assess the outlooks derived from market contracts when assessing the forecasts for interest rates, the dollar exchange rate and oil prices. The assessment always applies to the past year. In the case of the forecasts for GDP growth and CPI inflation for a given calendar year (fixed-event forecasts), we are now assessing the forecasts for 2022. In the case of the forecasts published for a fixed horizon that shifts further into the future each time a new forecast is published (rolling-event forecasts), the assessment covers the predictions since 2021. From the outlooks regularly published in GEO, this category of rolling forecasts contains, for example, the three-month and one-year outlooks for foreign interest rates, oil prices and the outlooks for exchange rates of the monitored currencies against the dollar. The general characteristics of the outlooks are quite obvious - the shorter the horizon, the more precise the forecasts become (see Chart 1).

Chart 1 - Gradual improvement of forecasts for 2022

(RMSE average)

Source: authors' calculation

Note: All the monitored institutions and all six regions (the USA, the euro area, China, the United Kingdom, Japan and Russia).

Owing to the short length of the time series under assessment, the analysis mainly uses the simple mean forecast error (MFE). The forecast error et is calculated as the difference between the ex post known actual value at and the corresponding forecast ƒt: et=at - ƒt. A positive forecast error therefore means that the forecasted value undershot the subsequent outcome, while a negative error means that it overshot it.[1][https://www.cnb.cz/en/about_cnb/cnblog/cnBlog-Annual-assessment-of-the-forecasts-included-in-GEO-00001/#_ftn1]

Moreover, we use the RMSE indicator to assess the accuracy of the GDP and inflation growth forecasts across institutions. We also use the mean absolute percentage error (MAPE) to assess forecast accuracy across the currencies' exchange rates against the dollar. This variable, expressed in percentages, is suitable for cross-checking variables of various dimensions. Moreover, the individual errors are given in absolute terms, so (similarly to the RMSE) positive and negative forecast errors do not cancel each other out, as is the case with the MFE. The formal notation is as follows:

Assessment of the accuracy of the GDP growth and CPI inflation forecasts for 2022

GEO regularly monitors actual and predicted GDP growth and CPI inflation in the euro area, the USA, the UK, Japan, China and Russia. The forecasts for GDP growth and inflation for these countries are taken primarily from the CF survey, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). These three institutions cover all the countries monitored. In the case of advanced economies, we also monitor the forecasts of their central banks, i.e. the European Central Bank (ECB), the Federal Reserve, the Bank of Japan (BoJ) and the Bank of England (BoE). Oxford Economics forecasts are used for China and Russia instead. These institutions differ in the frequency and date of publication of their forecasts. The forecast updates are either monthly (CF and the OE) or quarterly (the IMF, OECD, ECB, Fed and BoJ). Assessed are quarterly forecasts, specifically the February, May, August and November forecasts.

The average expectations of economic growth in the monitored economies were higher than the actual outcomes. The opposite was true for inflation, except for China. Features of stagflation have thus appeared in the individual countries in connection with the war (see Chart 2). The charts in Appendix 1 show the deviations of the GDP growth forecasts from the actual outcomes in the monitored countries. The largest variability[2][https://www.cnb.cz/en/about_cnb/cnblog/cnBlog-Annual-assessment-of-the-forecasts-included-in-GEO-00001/#_ftn2]> of outlooks for both GDP growth and inflation was naturally recorded for Russia, which was impacted not only by the war but also international sanctions. The euro area GDP growth outlooks were the most accurate (as measured by the RMSE). In addition, the euro area was characterised by low variability of forecasted growth. The GDP growth of 4.1% expected by CF at the start of 2021 ultimately came in at 0.6 pp lower. Much larger differences were seen for the other countries, with the biggest difference recorded by Russia (4.8 pp). The outlooks for most countries were most underestimated during 2021, i.e. even before the start of the war in Ukraine. The outlooks for economic growth were revised downwards after the outbreak of the war (by 14.7 pp in the case of Russia). The accuracy of the economic growth forecasts of all the institutions under comparison was very similar across all countries (see Chart 2).

Chart 2 - Comparison of the accuracy of institutions forecasting GDP and inflation for all countries

(RMSE)

Source: authors' calculation

Note: CF - Consensus Forecasts, IMF - International Monetary Fund, OECD - Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, CB/OE = central bank or Oxford Economics.

Owing to the energy crisis caused by the war and the fading effect of the post-pandemic recovery, actual inflation (with the exception of China) was well above its initial expected levels in early 2021 (see Appendix 2). There is therefore a clear inverse relationship between the forecast errors for economic growth and inflation according to CF for all countries under review (see Chart 3). Central banks' inflation outlooks were characterised by similar inaccuracies as the outlooks of other institutions. The greatest inflation forecast variability was again specific to Russia and, to a lesser extent, the United Kingdom. The average expected inflation in the euro area for 2022 reached 1.1% in early 2021, but the actual outcome was a sizeable 7.3 pp higher. CF analysts had the most accurate inflation outlooks on average for all countries (see Chart 2). However, no more general conclusions can be drawn from the results for only one year, as the accuracy of forecasts usually changes over time and across institutions.[3][https://www.cnb.cz/en/about_cnb/cnblog/cnBlog-Annual-assessment-of-the-forecasts-included-in-GEO-00001/#_ftn3] However, the charts capturing deviations in GDP and inflation growth show a general trend where the shorter the forecast horizon, the more accurate the forecasts gradually become (Chart 1).

Chart 3 - Relationship between the deviations in GDP and CPI

(%)

Source: authors' calculation

Note: CF forecasts for the countries under review.

Assessment of the accuracy of the forecasts for foreign interest rates

In GEO, interest rate outlooks are monitored for the euro area and the USA. In addition to the CF outlook, the monitored outlooks for three-month interest rates are also accompanied by an outlook derived from futures. By contrast, outlooks for long-term (ten-year) government bond yields are taken from CF only. As inflation and inflation expectations started to increase last year, central banks responded by increasing their rates. Now, in mid-2023, we are not done yet.

Market expectations regarding short-term interest rates were quite reliable from the second half of last year but still too conservative for one-year rates (see Charts 4 and 5). The ECB's communication regarding the temporary nature of inflation gradually subsided in early 2022, and markets and analysts were unable to estimate when rates would start to increase. Rates increased for the first time in the middle of the year and the market started to estimate the future situation fairly well after that. But the analysts were more cautious about the tightness of the ECB's monetary policy (see Chart 4a). Chart 4b, capturing the outlooks at the one-year horizon, shows a much larger degree of uncertainty in expectations and much more cautious analysts (CF outlooks) compared to market outlooks. Expectations regarding rate increases were very cautious and accelerated only in the second half of 2022. At the same time, one-year outlooks are now subject to a high degree of uncertainty regarding a subsequent decrease in rates, which market outlooks expect in about a year.

Chart 4a - 3M outlook for 3M interest rates in the euro area and a comparison with the actual outcome

(%)

Source: CF, Bloomberg

Note: The blue area indicates the range between the minimum and maximum prices in the given month. The vertical line indicates the end of the observed data.

Chart 4b - 1Y outlook for 1Y interest rates in the euro area and a comparison with the actual outcome

(%)

Source: CF, Bloomberg

Note: The blue area indicates the range between the minimum and maximum prices in the given month. The vertical line indicates the end of the observed data.

The outlooks for the United States are very similar; unlike the market outlooks, the analysts did not believe in such radical measures. The US Fed responded to inflation pressures faster, setting a very hawkish tone already at the end of 2021, which was reflected in growth in outlooks for both short-term and long-term rates (see Chart 5). It also holds true that market outlooks responded much more flexibly and faster than CF outlooks, which are thus significantly delayed and rather more conservative. The assessment also shows that there was a large difference between the market outlook and the analysts' outlook at the one-year horizon, which still persists, and CF analysts do not believe in higher rates and expect them to decrease from the current high levels, whereas the market expects them to stay at just below 5% even in mid-2024 (see Chart 5b).

Chart 5a - 3M outlook for 3M interest rates for the United States and a comparison with the actual outcome

(%)

Source: CF, Bloomberg

Note: The blue area indicates the range between the minimum and maximum prices in the given month. The vertical line indicates the end of the observed data.

Chart 5b - 1Y outlook for 1Y interest rates for the United States and a comparison with the actual outcome

(%)

Source: CF, Bloomberg

Note: The blue area indicates the range between the minimum and maximum prices in the given month. The vertical line indicates the end of the observed data.

Assessment of the accuracy of the forecasts for the dollar exchange rate

In 2022, the monitored exchange rates were greatly affected by Russia's aggression in Ukraine, which mainly affected the exchange rate of the rouble (see Chart 6). GEO provides information about the outlooks for the exchange rates of selected currencies against the US dollar based on CF forecasts. In addition, forward rates are provided for the euro, the Japanese yen and, since 2017, sterling. They are based on covered interest parity and represent the current ability to hedge the future exchange rate rather than the outlook. The accuracy of CF outlooks and market contracts does not differ, as illustrated in Chart 7, which shows their monthly evolution over more than the last two years.

Chart 6 - Forecast errors of the exchange rate of selected currencies against the dollar (3M outlooks)

(MAPE; right-hand scale: volatility)

Source: CF, Bloomberg

Chart 7 - 1Y outlook for 1Y interest rates for the United States and a comparison with the actual outcome

(USD/EUR)

Source: CF, Bloomberg

Note: The blue area indicates the range between the minimum and maximum prices in the given month. The vertical line indicates the end of the observed data.

Overall, the three-month outlooks for the euro-dollar exchange rate were relatively closely linked to the observed outcome in the period under review. Chart 6 illustrates first a weakening of the dollar against the euro since the start of 2020, followed by its appreciation from spring 2021 to the end of 2022 and then the appreciation of the euro. Both the market outlooks and CF outlooks have always been equally skewed and have been unable to capture a change in the trend at the three-month horizon.

The exchange rate of the Japanese yen was the most accurate of all the currency pairs at both the three-month and one-year horizons. The forecasts for the Japanese yen performed the best for most of the previous years. As usual, the forecasts for the Russian rouble were the worst performers at the three-month horizon (see Chart 6). The accuracy of the forecasts was also determined by the observed volatility of the monitored currencies, which, however, increased significantly last year compared to 2021 due mainly to uncertainty relating to Russia's aggression in Ukraine.

Assessment of the accuracy of the Brent crude oil price forecasts

The Brent crude oil price is one of the most important commodity price outlooks presented in GEO. The accuracy of the forecasts for the Brent crude oil price according to both futures contracts and CF was the same on average. GEO regularly describes both sources of outlooks, and Charts 8 and 9 show that the values and trends of the outlooks differ only marginally. The oil price increased significantly at the start of last year due to Russia's aggression in Ukraine, as Russia exported most of its production to Europe and European countries gradually started to rid themselves of their dependence on Russian oil. Of course, this situation could not be captured at both the three-month and one-year horizon. The prediction error was naturally higher at the one-year horizon, which reflected 2021 inflation. Market outlooks were able to better capture the subsequent price decrease than CF outlooks, which predicted a slower price decrease. The outlook is currently almost constant at around USD 75/bbl at the short-term horizon. Market outlooks expect the price to be around USD 70/bbl at the one-year horizon, while CF analysts expect it at slightly above USD 80/bbl. Owing to the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, a more pronounced price decrease cannot be expected.

Chart 8 - Three-month outlook for Brent oil price

(USD/barrel)

Source: CF, Bloomberg

Note: The blue area indicates the range between the minimum and maximum prices in the given month. The vertical line indicates the end of the observed data.

Chart 9 - One-year outlook for Brent oil price

(USD/barrel)

Source: CF, Bloomberg

Note: The blue area indicates the range between the minimum and maximum prices in the given month. The vertical line indicates the end of the observed data.

Conclusion

Last year saw a major unexpected external shock in the form of the war in Ukraine. The war significantly affected the original estimates of GDP growth and inflation in the countries under review, as well as commodity prices. The energy crisis in Europe caused an even more pronounced increase in inflation pressures and led, to a lesser extent, to a downward revision of GDP growth. Financial variables in particular were significantly affected by the long-running easy monetary policy of central banks and a lack of confidence in the rapid monetary policy tightening especially among the analysts.

This article uses simple methods to assess the accuracy of the forecasts monitored in GEO over the past year. The accuracy of the forecasts of the institutions covered by GEO changes from year to year. This is one of the reasons why several institutions' forecasts are monitored in GEO. The accuracy of CF forecasts has long been comparable to the available alternative forecasts, which was also the case in 2022. In addition, CF has the advantage of being published monthly and covering a relatively wide range of economic variables. The accuracy of CF stems from its defining characteristic, namely that it is the simple average of the forecasts from the contributing private institutions.[4[https://www.cnb.cz/en/about_cnb/cnblog/cnBlog-Annual-assessment-of-the-forecasts-included-in-GEO-00001/#_ftn4] The disadvantage is a slow response of predicted variables, especially in turbulent times, which then "lag behind" market outlooks.

Contrary to expectations, 2022 was another turbulent year, and the resilience of economies came as a surprise. Pessimistic expectations and high volatility were shaped by the initial shock caused by Russia's aggression in Ukraine at the start of 2022. Subsequently though, economies adjusted relatively quickly to the sanction measures introduced and tensions on the energy market gradually moderated due to favourable weather. High demand for goods and a robust labour market coupled with energy prices contributed to the rapid growth in inflation, which was the main economic topic in 2022.

Authors: Filip Novotný and Petr Polák. The views expressed in this article are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official position of the Czech National Bank.

Annexes

Annex 1 - Forecast errors for GDP growth for 2022

(percentage points)

Source: authors' calculation

Note: CF - Consensus Forecasts, IMF - International Monetary Fund, OECD - Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, ECB - European Central Bank, Fed - Federal Reserve System of the USA, Boe - Bank of England, BoJ - Bank of Japan, EIU - Economist Intelligence Unit. MFE is the mean forecast error for the given year.

Annex 2 - Forecast errors for consumer price inflation for 2022

(percentage points)

Source: authors' calculation

Note: CF - Consensus Forecasts, IMF - International Monetary Fund, OECD - Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, ECB - European Central Bank, Fed - Federal Reserve System of the USA, Boe - Bank of England, BoJ - Bank of Japan, EIU - Economist Intelligence Unit. MFE is the mean forecast error for the given year.

Keywords

Forecast error, economic outlook, Consensus Forecasts

JEL Classification

E66, E27, C18

[1][https://www.cnb.cz/en/about_cnb/cnblog/cnBlog-Annual-assessment-of-the-forecasts-included-in-GEO-00001/#_ftnref1] The source of actual levels of GDP and consumer price inflation growth for 2022 is the publication Consensus Forecasts. The source of the actual levels of the other variables is Refinitiv. Futures contracts for interest rates, exchange rates and the Brent crude oil price are obtained from the Bloomberg database.

[2][https://www.cnb.cz/en/about_cnb/cnblog/cnBlog-Annual-assessment-of-the-forecasts-included-in-GEO-00001/#_ftnref2] Variability is measured by the standard deviation in the analysis.

[3][https://www.cnb.cz/en/about_cnb/cnblog/cnBlog-Annual-assessment-of-the-forecasts-included-in-GEO-00001/#_ftnref3] A longer forecast period was assessed,for example, in Novotný and Raková (2010): Assessment of Consensus Forecasts Accuracy: The Czech National Bank Perspective. CNB WP.

[4][https://www.cnb.cz/en/about_cnb/cnblog/cnBlog-Annual-assessment-of-the-forecasts-included-in-GEO-00001/#_ftnref4] The characteristics of CF are described in more detail in an earlier article "How consensus has evolved in Consensus Forecasts" by Adam and Hošek in GEO 04/2015.

* This content was originally posted here[https://www.cnb.cz/en/about_cnb/cnblog/cnBlog-Annual-assessment-of-the-forecasts-included-in-GEO-00001/]

Disclaimer

Ceska Narodni Banka published this content on 08 August 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 08 August 2023 19:35:53 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020230808ej880007t


Civil society: A Hot Political Summer
Transitions Online, 2023 年 8 月 10 日, 1747 字, (英文)
Amid scorching temperatures and official predictions of a summer slowdown, anti-violence demonstrations in Belgrade and other Serbian towns roll on.

Czech state oil transporter Mero suspected of breaching sanctions
340 字
2023 年 8 月 15 日 05:48 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2023. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
Czech state-controlled oil transporting and storage company Mero could be breaching sanctions by contracting oil purchases from a Cypriot company with links to Russian oil giant Lukoil.

Czechia is exempted from the EU embargo on Russian oil due to the country’s high dependency on imports from the Russian oil pipeline Druzhba [Friendship].

However, online news outlet Seznam Zpravy (SZ) reported[https://www.seznamzpravy.cz/clanek/domaci-kauzy-slibili-cesku-ruskou-ropu-neni-jasne-kde-ji-vezmou-235297] that Mero has contracted oil purchases worth CZK1.1bn (€46mn) from Cypriot company Normeston, and the public procurement law prohibits contracting Russian subcontractors, which Normeston is suspected of using. Mero stated it had not committed any wrongdoing.

The Czech branch of Transparency International mapped out for SZ that companies controlling Normeston include Valna Holding, which owns several companies in Russia.

“Normeston’s ownership is linked with Russian holding NTK, the successor of petrochemical company SMART OIL,” sanction analyst Jiri Skuhrovec of Datlab was quoted as saying by SZ and added that if NTK supplies the oil, then “it is a case of breaching sanction rules”.

Moreover, one of Normeston’s representatives is Valery Subbotin, former vice president of Lukoil, who now carries a Cypriot passport. Another one is Cypriot lawyer Georgiou Vassiliades, whom British authorities added to its sanctions list for offering services to Kremlin-linked oligarch Alisher Usmanov.

SZ pointed out that for the contract, which bears Mero’s stamp from June 1, 2023, Mero was obliged to ask for an exception which the Financial and Analytical Office (FAU) can grant, but that did not happen.

FAU has been granting exceptions in the nuclear industry and pharmaceutics in cases where the state’s critical infrastructure has been concerned. Majority-state-owned power utility CEZ has obtained most of these exceptions.

The Ministry of Regional Development, responsible for overseeing public contracts, told SZ that any party participating in the contract is considered a subcontractor. “If more than 10% of supplies comes from sanctioned persons, such a contract should not have been concluded,” the ministry’s spokesperson Veronika Hesikova stated.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020230815ej8f000m9


Czechia adds three more Russians to its national sanctions list
520 字
2023 年 8 月 17 日 19:32 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czechia added Boris Obnosov, Russian weapons oligarch, and his two relatives to the country’s national sanctions list. The move follows a public outcry over the reports of the luxurious lifestyle Obnosov and his family enjoy in Prague.

“The Russian oligarch responsible for the production of missiles that kill innocent Ukrainians must face the consequences. Just like those who enjoy a life of luxury in Czechia with money from the merchants of death,” Czech Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Lipavsky stated in the country’s MFA’s press release.

Obnosov is the CEO of the Russian state-owned KTRV holding company, a manufacturer and supplier of weapons systems, including missiles, to the Russian army.

In May, the head of jailed Russian dissident Alexei Navalny’s Anticorruption Foundation, Maria Pevchich, documented in the Foundation’s investigation that Obnosov’s son-in-law Rostislav Zorikov owns an apartment building in the Zizkov neighbourhood as well as two more apartments and several luxurious cars that he drives around Prague, including a Rolls-Royce with Czech licence plate RRR 44444.

Obnosov’s daughter has a minority share in a company with a record of business transactions with KTRV. Zorikov also owns the company Riomax and has a 30% share in another one called Altera. In Russia, Zorikov declares only a modest income. Zorikov’s parents and brother also live in Prague.

Boris Obnosov has been on the sanction lists of several countries, including the US, UK and Canada.

Pevchich has been campaigning with Czech authorities after the investigation was released. Shortly afterwards, she referred to Czechia as a “European base of corrupt Russians” who “use Czech banks and infrastructure for their investments, mainly into real estate” in an interview for the Czech news outlet Seznam Zpravy from May 17.

In July, Pevchich released a video of confronting Zorikov in Prague and complained about the leniency of Czech authorities. “This is the definition of impunity”, she commented on inconclusive talks to Czech authorities and presenting them with evidence on her X/Twitter account on July 8[https://twitter.com/pevchikh/status/1677469990151151616?s=12&t=csK9zC5s1sNg_uIeg--P9w].

Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine prompted a surge of investigations into Russian ownership of luxurious real estate and other assets in Prague.

Some of the most high-profile ones include Slovansky dum [Slavonic house], a historical complex hosting shops, cinema, restaurants and offices, which had been controlled by a former vice president of Transneft Mikhail Arustamov through a sham rent concluded in 1997 for 77 years. Arustamov shifted ownership of his Prague assets earlier this year.

Just last week, Czech authorities seized the property of an associate of Arkadiy Rotenberg, an oligarch and a former judo partner of Russian dictator Vladimir Putin, whose company is behind constructing the Kerch bridge connecting mainland Russia and Russian-seized Crimea.

In June, authorities confiscated assets linked to Yekaterinburg oligarch Andrei Kozitsyn, founder of the zinc and copper giant Ural Mining Metallurgical Company (UMMC).

Other Russians on the Czech sanctions list are Patriarch Kirill, another oligarch Vladimir Yevtushenko, and his son Felix. Yevtushenko is also documented to control assets in Czechia.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230817ej8h00335


Czech Republic This Week - August 18, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 8 月 18 日, 4379 字, (英文)
Czechia adds three more Russians to national sanctions listCzechia added Boris Obnosov, Russian weapons oligarch, and his two relatives to the country’s national sanctions list. The move follows a public outcry over reports of the luxurious...

Czechia adds three more Russians to national sanctions list
bne Magazine, 2023 年 9 月 1 日, 515 字, (英文)
Czechia added Boris Obnosov, Russian weapons oligarch, and his two relatives to the country’s national sanctions list. The move follows a public outcry over reports of the luxurious lifestyle Obnosov and his family enjoy in Prague.

News
Czech oil imports from Russia rose to a decade high in 1H23
Albin Sybera
560 字
2023 年 9 月 11 日 20:28 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2023. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
The share of Russian oil imported by the Druzhba [Friendship] pipeline to Czechia this year rose to 65%. Last year, the share was 56%, while it was even lower in the years before, the Czech Press Agency (CTK) reported[https://www.ceskenoviny.cz/zpravy/cesko-vyuziva-stale-vice-ruske-ropy/2412016], quoting Czech state-controlled oil transporting and storage company Mero. The share of Russian crude oil imports into Czechia is the highest since 2012.

Czechia has been exempted from the EU-wide embargo on Russian oil due to its high dependency on Russian imports. Besides the Druzhba pipeline, Czechia imports oil from the TAL pipeline running from the Italian port of Trieste to Austria and Germany, where Czechia is connected to it with its IKL pipeline.

Ministry of Trade and Industry told CTK that Unipetrol, a Czech branch of the Polish PKN Orlen, carries out oil imports, and the IKL pipeline’s full capacities prevent further imports from IKL.

“TAL pipeline has free capacities only in the first months of the year and then from October onwards,” Marek Vosahlik of the ministry’s press department was quoted as saying by CTK.

In May, Mero signed an agreement with TAL shareholders to intensify the pipeline in a CZK1.6bn (€67.5mn) TAL-PLUS intensification project, which will increase the pipeline’s transporting capacity to Czechia by 4 million tonnes of oil annually.

With TAL-PLUS in operation, the country will secure 8 million tonnes of oil annually and will be able to stop imports of Russian oil. “With this crucial step, we will get rid of the dependency on Russian oil,” Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala stated in May following the signing of an agreement between Mero and TAL shareholders.

Some 7.4 million tonnes of oil were imported to Czechia in 2022, which is a 7% increase year-on-year, and 56% of it came from Russia.

About 30 protesters demanded an end to high imports of Russian oil to the country on Sunday before the Ministry’s building in Prague city centre. CTK quoted the “NE ruske rope” [NO to Russian oil] platform, which stated that Czechia paid CZK25bn for Russian oil imports and that CZ7bn were unnecessary payments to the Russian state budget.

The news of the increased flow of Russian oil into Czechia comes less than a month after online news outlet Seznam Zpravy (SZ) reported that Mero could be breaching sanctions by contracting oil purchases from a Cypriot company with links to Russian oil giant Lukoil.

SZ’s reporters Lukas Valasek and Adela Jelinkova wrote on August 13 that Mero has contracted oil purchases worth CZK1.1bn (€46mn) from Cypriot company Normeston even though the public procurement law prohibits contracting Russian subcontractors, which Normerston is suspected of using.

“Normeston’s ownership is linked with Russian holding NTK, the successor of petrochemical company SMART OIL,” sanctions analyst Jiri Skuhrovec of Datlab was quoted as saying by SZ in August. Skuhrovec added that if NTK supplies the oil, then “it is a case of breaching sanction rules.” Mero stated it had not committed any wrongdoing.

Slovakia and Hungary are also exempted from the Russian oil imports embargo. Slovak refinery Slovnaft, which is part of Hungarian MOL, said it wants the EU to prolong its exemption from the embargo, with Hungarian authorities backing the move.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020230911ej9b002gx


Czech Republic This Week - September 15, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 9 月 15 日, 6017 字, (英文)
CNB lowers countercyclical capital buffer rate to 2%The Czech National Bank (CNB) Board lowered the countercyclical capital buffer rate for exposures located in Czechia to 2% at its meeting on Thursday, September 14.

State still creating means to face broad disinformation-minister
469 字
2023 年 9 月 25 日 11:37 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Sept 25 (CTK) - An analysis of Czechia's preparedness to counter a large-scale disinformation wave shows that the country is still building the necessary structure, Interior Minister Vit Rakusan told reporters on the sidelines of a conference on disinformation and hybrid action and the state's response to it today.

Means to counter the spread of disinformation, which often comes from Russia, are still being created, Rakusan (Mayors and Independents, STAN) said.

The free world succumbed to the illusion of peace and tranquility and considered disinformation as the expression of free opinion. Europe should have been more cautious and prepared at least, he added.

"Somehow, we did not deal with it deeply. But if one looks back, even at information from our intelligence services, they have long pointed out that the situation is not being tackled," Rakusan said.

Europe should have reacted when it saw the Russian doctrine, which was created around 2009, saying that Russia wanted to take positions at least in the territory of the former Soviet Union, he said.

Instead of fighting disinformation, it is better to build a resilient society, to teach children but also adults to verify information and form their own opinions, he stressed.

At the government level, he spoke about the preparation of European legislation to better sanction platforms and force them to react if something with the potential to spread hatred is shared on them.

"The state has to learn to communicate topics very openly and with very clear arguments. That is the best way to counter disinformation. And absolutely the most important thing for the future is the implementation of media and information literacy in the framework curricula in all types of education. This can really start from the first grade," he said.

Education is not meant to spread an opinion, but to teach how to form an opinion based on relevant data and move in the digital world, he noted.

Rakusan said he had observed the impact in society in the case of the disseminators of disinformation and slander on the Internet, revealed by the police.

He also pointed to the Interior Ministry's strategic communication group, which is to spread a campaign using various tools for people to get relevant information and data, for example on the Ukrainian crisis and other pressing issues. In the case of the recent disputes between the Ukrainian and Roma communities, he mentioned the organising of joint talks as very useful.

"We are mapping the disinformation scene in detail, we are cooperating with the intelligence services. We are looking at what narratives are emerging and, if necessary, we can find out whether it is only the Czech scene or a foreign power that is behind their spread," Rakusan said.

hol/dr/kva

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020230925ej9p0000n


Czech oil imports from Russia rose to a decade high in 1H23
bne Magazine, 2023 年 10 月 1 日, 562 字, (英文)
The share of Russian oil imported by the Druzhba [Friendship] pipeline to Czechia this year rose to 65%.Last year, the share was 56%, while it was even lower in the years before, the Czech Press Agency (CTK) reported, quoting Czech ...

President at the Crimea Platform Summit: Our goal is the complete de-occupation of our land, including Crimea; we must implement it
1593 字
2023 年 10 月 25 日 08:46 GMT
Ukrainian Government News
UKGOV
英文
Copyright © 2023 SeeNews. All rights reserved.
Oct 24, 2023

Madam Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic!

Mr. President of the Senate of the Czech Republic!

Mr. Prime Minister of the Czech Republic!

Mr. Speaker of the Verkhovna Rada!

Dear friends!

First of all, I would like to thank the Czech Republic, its leaders, and the entire Czech society for supporting Ukraine and for hosting this Summit.

I welcome all of you – the participants of the Crimea Platform Summit, its parliamentary dimension, which makes our Crimea Platform exceptionally strong by adding the energy of the democratic world. This is what fundamentally sets us apart from Russia. Russia's calculations have always been based not on people or unity but on bribery or violence. We, on the other hand, do things differently. We unite the world, we unite people. We believe in the ability of every individual to rise above, not above their neighbors but above circumstances. No matter how terrifying and hopeless circumstances may seem, it is in the human character to find and detect ways to protect life. The more united we are, the faster we will end Russian aggression with a reliable and just peace.

We are moving towards achieving our goal more actively than ever, for nearly a decade of Russian hybrid and then full-scale aggression. It is in the Black Sea region, specifically in the situation surrounding Crimea, where the effectiveness of our tactics is working best.

Ladies and gentlemen,

I will be candid: for many in the world, Crimea seemed like an argument that full de-occupation of our territory was supposedly unattainable. Russian control of the Black Sea and the presence of the occupier's fleet created an illusion that Russia's dominance in the Black Sea was insurmountable. In addition to this, the deliberate settlement of Crimea with hundreds of thousands of Russian citizens and the extensive repression by the occupier against all forms of freedom and resistance could create the impression that Crimea was subdued.

Now, the illusions are fading away.

Let me remind you of our achievements.

First, the Russian military fleet is no longer able to operate in the western part of the Black Sea and is gradually retreating from Crimea. This is a historic achievement. Recently, the Russian leadership was forced to announce the creation of a new base for the Black Sea Fleet – or what's left of it – on the occupied territory of Georgia, in the southeastern part of the sea, as far as possible from Ukrainian missiles and naval drones. But we will reach them everywhere.

Second, there are no longer any safe bases or entirely reliable logistical routes for Russian terrorists in Crimea and the occupied parts of the Black Sea and Azov coast. As of now, we have not yet achieved full fire control over Crimea and its adjacent waters. But we will. It's just a matter of time.

Third, we observe that pro-Ukrainian sentiments in Crimea are becoming more open, even though Russia still controls this land. Just as in all other occupied areas of Ukraine, the people in Crimea realize that Russia will leave, and they are waiting for Ukraine. Russia's weakness is becoming louder than the fear of the occupied people, and we clearly see that in Crimea, we have many allies.

Fourth, Ukraine has been able to restore the Black Sea to its role as a secure artery critical to global food stability. Without our agricultural exports, the price crisis in the food market and social chaos become a threat to dozens of different nations from the western coast of Africa to Bangladesh, to Indonesia. This is a cornerstone: when Ukrainian food exports disappear, the entire global food market is disrupted. Initially, together with the UN and Türkiye, we launched the Black Sea Grain Initiative. Later, we added the humanitarian initiative "Grain from Ukraine." When Russia decided to destroy this architecture of food security, we launched new temporary export routes from our seaports in addition to our exports through the Danube port region and the Solidarity Lanes by land. Since the start of the new export corridor in the Black Sea, nearly 50 vessels have loaded, and more than 50 are expected to arrive soon.

Finally, the fifth point concerns value. It's something worth reminding ourselves of today, on the United Nations Day, when 78 years ago, the UN Charter came into effect. It's the most important international document that essentially affirms the basic right of every nation – the right to life without aggression, annexations, or terror. Once, at the beginning of Russia's war against Ukraine, many were willing to turn a blind eye to Russia's annexation of Crimea, thinking it would appease the aggressor. However, it had the opposite effect; it only fueled its ambitions because it added to its belief in impunity. We are dismantling Russia's impunity step by step. This is also thanks to our work in the UN, despite Russia's abuse of its veto power. It's thanks to our Peace Formula, which is based on the principles and goals of the UN Charter and is gradually becoming a global Formula. International legal institutions, such as the International Criminal Court, contribute to this, as it issued an arrest warrant for Putin in the case of the abduction and deportation of children. Sanctions against Russia play a role, too. And the principled support from various countries, various leaders for our state and the courage of our people are crucial.

Our current task is to maintain and increase pressure on the occupier. My simple call to you is: don't stop halfway.

Clearing the Black Sea of terrorist fleets is challenging. However, it's significantly easier to cleanse the information environment from Russian propaganda, which still attempts to distort our achievements got through our cooperation and undermine the democratic order. We must stop Russian propaganda. This will help us and preserve the souls of your people and your societies.

Just as we are destroying the occupier's logistics in our country, we must deprive logistics of bypassing sanctions against Russia through any intermediaries – be it states, companies, or individuals – of being safe. Sanctions must work, and I call upon you to exercise parliamentary control over the relevant sanction regimes.

The next point is motivation, and this is also a weapon. It needs to be charged. I'm grateful to all the countries truly willing to support Ukraine to the extent necessary for victory. Our people must see such readiness so that their willingness to fight against occupiers remains at its maximum. Ultimately, the long-term security of all of Europe depends on this: Russia's defeat is your security, the security of every nation accustomed to its freedom and relying on the fact that the world is not a place for aggressors.

Fourth, we all must work together to prevent new crises in the world, including food, energy, or migration crises, and to ensure that existing conflicts do not spread to other regions. From this perspective, violence erupted in the Middle East is a big risk. Everyone sees the forces that could be engulfed by such violence, and everyone sees the importance of avoiding it. It can be avoided! I urge you to support the efforts of all leaders to save the lives of civilians, no matter where they live, and to stabilize the entire region. Without stability there, it will be much more challenging to achieve a return of peace in Europe. To close the path to ruins in the Middle East, we still need to open the path to the release of hostages.

And one more thing, particularly sensitive regarding Crimea.

At this Crimea Platform Summit, representatives of the Crimean Tatar people – the indigenous people – are participating, as they always have. I urge you to hear the pain of these people, a people who have been forcibly displaced from their homeland several times. A people who endured deportation by Moscow and have been living in captivity under the occupiers for nearly a decade.

Russia's attempts to control Crimea are not just about land or a military foothold that Moscow needed in the Black Sea to destabilize neighboring regions. It's about the people who need to be saved from all forms of repression. It's about political prisoners who need to be freed from Russian prisons – women, men, young and old... Diverse. It's about families who deserve protection. It's about culture that has the right to its own home, free from occupiers, just like any other human culture. Please remember these people. None of them deserve to have their fates "frozen." That's why our goal is complete de-occupation of our land, including Crimea. We must implement it.

I thank all of you for your attention, for this summit! Once again, thank you for your participation, for your engagement.

Together, we are moving closer to a just peace!

Glory to Ukraine!

* * * * *

The information contained herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. SeeNews does not endorse in any way, the views, opinions or recommendations expressed above. The use of the information is subject to the terms and conditions as published by the original source, which you have to read and accept in full prior to the execution of any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein.

SeeNews EOOD

文件 UKGOV00020231025ejap0005l


News
Czech billionaire Komarek reported to have failed to sever business ties with Russia
Albin Sybera
684 字
2023 年 11 月 7 日 15:23 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czech lottery and energy billionaire Karel Komarek has failed to sever his business ties to Russia despite promising to do so as part of his winning bid to take over the British National Lottery licence, reported UK news website Tortoise Media.[https://www.tortoisemedia.com/audio/the-lottery-winner/]

Komarek's Allwyn lottery operator won the National Lottery operating license in March 2022, shortly after the Russian full-scale invasion of Ukraine, despite extensive ties with Russia's Gazprom. Russia's gas giant and several of its key figures are on the UK’s sanction list.

As part of his bid, Komarek's KKCG holding company said it had sold its stake in a Russian oil terminal majority owned by Gazprom and would shortly end its gas storage joint venture with Gazprom in the Czech Republic, Tortoise reported. Komárek and Allwyn also publicly condemned Putin’s war as senseless, brutal and barbaric.

However, company records and a statement from Komárek’s lawyers at Schillings state that he divested from the oil terminal in the Samara regiono on 19 September 2022, ie. half a year after winning the National Lottery licence and seven months after the invasion of Ukraine. The divestment was by means of selling the oil terminal to a recently-former employee of Komárek.

Moreover, more than 18 months after winning the lottery license, KKCG has still not left or removed Gazprom from its joint venture Moravske Naftove Doly (Moravian Gas Storage, MND), consisting of an energy terminal in Damborice in the Czech Republic.

Komárek’s representatives told the Gambling Commission, which ran the National Lottery licence competition for the government, that he’d divest from the joint venture before or shortly after the competition by selling his half to the Czech government, Tortoise reports.

Lawyers for Komárek now say the plan is to dilute Gazprom’s shareholding from 50 to 3 per cent by issuing new shares for him to buy. But this hasn’t happened yet – and hasn’t even received regulatory approval.

Therefore there is a possibility that Komarek started to make a profit from selling lottery tickets while still linked to Gazprom.

“That would be astonishing because the [House of Commons] select committee would have been misled, whether inadvertently or not,” Clive Efford MP, who sits on the parliamentary committee, was quoted as saying by Tortoise.

“We would have to investigate, but I think that that really does raise questions that need to be answered,” Efford added.

Tortoise also recalled that Komarek has recently made headlines in connection with intelligence company Hakluyt accidentally sending Komarek a story about his father allegedly hiring a Ukrainian hitman to murder his business partner, a Slovak politician, and that the Komáreks had forced the man to sign over assets worth millions of pounds.

The Komareks say unequivocally that the allegations were “entirely false” and that they were never contacted by any police or any investigative authorities about them.

Komarek is the third richest Czech, according to the Forbes list of billionaires, with $8.1bn.

Komarek grouped his lottery assets in Greece, Italy, Austria and the United Kingdom under the Allwyn brand last year. Komarek rose in the lottery business shortly after the 2012 takeover of Czech lottery behemoth Sazka, which had gone bankrupt.

Leading Czech investment firms, such as PPF, competed over Sazka’s assets during its bankruptcy. Czech media reported[https://www.seznamzpravy.cz/clanek/ekonomika-nejbohatsi-lide-ppf-pomuze-byvale-sazce-na-americkou-burzu-investuje-6-miliard-212710] last August that PPF also invested CZK6.5bn into Allwyn in exchange for 5% shares and assistance to list Allwyn in the USA.

Damborice facility is one of the most modern underground gas storage facilities in Europe, and its construction was commenced in 2013 following the establishment of the Moravian Gas Storage JV. Its overall capacity is 448mn cubic meters.

In August 2022, the government seized half of its capacity, or 242mn cubic meters according to Czech TV[https://ct24.ceskatelevize.cz/domaci/3522749-stat-odebral-13-firmam-nevyuzivanou-kapacitu-v-plynovych-zasobnicich], after amending the country’s Energy Act, enabling authorities to seize unused gas capacities in gas storage facilities across the country.

Komarek’s umbrella group, KKCG, still lists Damborice as a KKCG asset on its website[https://kkcg.com/en/moravia-gas-storage].

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020231107ejb70038p


News
Czech billionaire Komarek reported to have failed to sever business ties with Russia
Albin Sybera
530 字
2023 年 11 月 7 日 15:23 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czech lottery and energy billionaire Karel Komarek has failed to sever his business ties to Russia, despite promising to do so as part of his winning bid to take over the British National Lottery licence, reported UK news website Tortoise Media.[https://www.tortoisemedia.com/audio/the-lottery-winner/]

Komarek's Allwyn lottery operator won the National Lottery operating license in March 2022, shortly after the Russian full-scale invasion of Ukraine, despite extensive ties with Russia's Gazprom. Russia's gas giant and several of its key figures are on the UK’s sanction list.

As part of its bid, Komarek's KKCG holding company said it would shortly end its gas storage joint venture with Gazprom in the Czech Republic, Tortoise reported. Komarek and Allwyn also publicly condemned Putin’s war as senseless, brutal and barbaric.

Senior executives from the Gambling Commission, which ran the National Lottery licence competition for the government, told the UK's parliamentary committee that oversaw the competition on 30 June 2022 that they expected Komarek to divest from the Gazprom joint venture within days. They also told the MPs Komárek had already divested from the Samara oil terminal.

However, company records and a statement from Komarek’s lawyers at Schillings state that he divested from the oil terminal in the Samara region on 19 September 2022, ie. half a year after winning the National Lottery licence and seven months after the invasion of Ukraine. The divestment was by means of selling the oil terminal to a recently-former employee of Komarek.

Moreover, more than 18 months after winning the lottery license, KKCG has still not left or completely removed Gazprom from its joint venture Moravian Gas Storage, consisting of an energy terminal in Damborice in the Czech Republic. Komárek’s representatives had said that he’d divest from the joint venture before or shortly after the competition by selling his half to the Czech government, Tortoise reports.

In October, KKCG raised the share capital of Moravian Gas Storage, diluting Gazprom’s shareholding from 50 to 3 per cent, and said Gazprom should be removed from the company in the next 12 months.

KKCG has said that "detailed negotations are continuing" with the Czech government on selling the joint venture.

Damborice facility is one of the most modern underground gas storage facilities in Europe, and its construction was commenced in 2013 following the establishment of the Moravian Gas Storage JV. Its overall capacity is 448mn cubic meters.

In August 2022, the government seized half of its capacity, or 242mn cubic meters according to Czech TV[https://ct24.ceskatelevize.cz/domaci/3522749-stat-odebral-13-firmam-nevyuzivanou-kapacitu-v-plynovych-zasobnicich], after amending the country’s Energy Act, enabling authorities to seize unused gas capacities in gas storage facilities across the country in an effort to brace the country for the winter months of the energy crisis.

Komarek is the third richest Czech, according to the Forbes list of billionaires, with $8.1bn.

Komarek grouped his lottery assets in Greece, Italy, Austria and the United Kingdom under the Allwyn brand last year. Komarek rose in the lottery business shortly after the 2012 takeover of Czech lottery behemoth Sazka, which had gone bankrupt.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020240110ejb70030d


News
Czech billionaire Komarek reported to have failed to sever business ties with Russia
Albin Sybera
533 字
2023 年 11 月 7 日 15:23 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czech lottery and energy billionaire Karel Komarek has failed to sever his business ties to Russia, despite promising to do so as part of his winning bid to take over the British National Lottery licence, reported UK news website Tortoise Media.[https://www.tortoisemedia.com/audio/the-lottery-winner/]

Komarek's Allwyn lottery operator won the National Lottery operating license in March 2022, shortly after the Russian full-scale invasion of Ukraine, despite extensive ties with Russia's Gazprom. Russia's gas giant and several of its key figures are on the UK’s sanction list.

As part of its bid, Komarek's KKCG holding company said it would shortly end its gas storage joint venture with Gazprom in the Czech Republic, Tortoise reported. Komarek and Allwyn also publicly condemned Putin’s war as senseless, brutal and barbaric.

Senior executives from the Gambling Commission, which ran the National Lottery licence competition for the government, told the UK's parliamentary committee that oversaw the competition on 30 June 2022 that they expected Komarek to divest from the Gazprom joint venture within days. They also told the MPs Komárek had already divested from the Samara oil terminal.

However, company records and a statement from Komarek’s lawyers at Schillings state that he divested from the oil terminal in the Samara region on 19 September 2022, ie. half a year after winning the National Lottery licence and seven months after the invasion of Ukraine. The divestment was by means of selling the oil terminal to a recently-former employee of Komarek.

Moreover, more than 18 months after winning the lottery license, KKCG has still not left or completely removed Gazprom from its joint venture Moravian Gas Storage, consisting of an energy terminal in Damborice in the Czech Republic. Komárek’s representatives had said that he’d divest from the joint venture before or shortly after the competition by selling his half to the Czech government, Tortoise reports.

KKCG has said that "detailed negotations are continuing" with the Czech government on selling the joint venture.

In the meantime, in October, KKCG raised the share capital of Moravian Gas Storage, diluting Gazprom’s shareholding from 50 to 3 per cent, and said Gazprom should be removed from the company in the next 12 months.

Damborice facility is one of the most modern underground gas storage facilities in Europe, and its construction was commenced in 2013 following the establishment of the Moravian Gas Storage JV. Its overall capacity is 448mn cubic meters.

In August 2022, the government seized half of its capacity, or 242mn cubic meters according to Czech TV[https://ct24.ceskatelevize.cz/domaci/3522749-stat-odebral-13-firmam-nevyuzivanou-kapacitu-v-plynovych-zasobnicich], after amending the country’s Energy Act, enabling authorities to seize unused gas capacities in gas storage facilities across the country in an effort to brace the country for the winter months of the energy crisis.

Komarek is the third richest Czech, according to the Forbes list of billionaires, with $8.1bn.

Komarek grouped his lottery assets in Greece, Italy, Austria and the United Kingdom under the Allwyn brand last year. Komarek rose in the lottery business shortly after the 2012 takeover of Czech lottery behemoth Sazka, which had gone bankrupt.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020240110ejb700335


Czech Republic This Week - November 10, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 11 月 10 日, 8267 字, (英文)
Unemployment in Czechia dropped to 3.5% in OctoberCzech unemployment dropped by 0.1 percentage point month on month to 3.5%. In year-on-year terms, it stayed unchanged, and the country has the lowest unemployment, according to Eurostat.

No easy solution to Israeli-Palestinian conflict - Czech minister
414 字
2023 年 11 月 13 日 18:23 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Brussels, Nov 13 (CTK correspondent) - There seem to be no easy solutions to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said after a meeting of foreign ministers of EU countries in Brussels today.

LIpavsky said the debate on the situation in the Middle East was rather varied, however, all the member states praised the fact that the European Union issued a common statement on the humanitarian situation in the area. He said further seeking of a two-state solution was discussed at the meeting as well as the humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip.

EU diplomatic chief Josep Borrell declared on Sunday that the EU should become more involved in Israel, the Gaza Strip and the whole region. Failure to find a solution to the current conflict will lead to a recurrence of violence, Borrell said after today’s meeting. He also announced that he will visit the region in the coming days. He is expected to go to Israel, Palestine, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Jordan.

Borrell said the humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip is steadily deteriorating, which is why the EU is calling for immediate humanitarian pauses to allow aid to reach the people of Gaza. The EU has again called on the Palestinian Hamas movement, which rules the Gaza Strip, to release all hostages and expressed concern about the use of civilians as human shields. Borrell said.

Israel is conducting large-scale military operations in the Gaza Strip with the aim of eliminating the members and infrastructure of the Hamas movement in the area, which is registered as a terrorist organisation by the EU. Israel is seeking to eliminate the risk of a repeat of the October 7 attack when Hamas fighters invaded southern Israel, killing nearly 1 200 civilians and taking some 240 hostage in the Gaza Strip. The Hamas-controlled Palestinian Health Ministry says more than 11,000 Palestinians have already died in the conflict.

As for Ukraine, there was not enough time for a proper debate today, Lipavsky indicated, saying a broad range of topics were mentioned such as the need to continue military and humanitarian aid, prepare for winter and work on the twelfth package of sanctions against Russia.

As Borrell mentioned at the final press conference, work on this package is already being finalized. Within its framework, the EU would also like to sanction the profits made by Russia from diamond exports.

kva/mr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020231113ejbd00009


Prague freezes Russia's property on Czech territory
208 字
2023 年 11 月 15 日 18:47 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2023 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
The Czech government on Wednesday froze property owned by Russia on Czech soil as it put a company managing Russian property abroad on its sanction list.

"The government has approved the freezing of Russia's state property in Czechia," Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said on X, formerly known as Twitter.

"This is the end of commercial activities used by Russia to finance the murdering of Ukrainians," he added.

The company's bank account will be frozen and so will listings of its real estate in the land register in order to prevent sales.

The measure does not concern Russia's diplomatic missions in the country, including its Prague embassy.

An EU and NATO member of 10.5 million people, the Czech Republic is a staunch supporter of Ukraine, which was invaded by Russia in February 2022.

Prague has provided Kyiv with substantial humanitarian and military aid and welcomed more than half a million Ukrainian refugees.

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba, who hailed Prague for taking "this principled step".

"All countries that haven't yet done so should follow suit," Kuleba said on X. "Russian money should be used for Ukraine's recovery instead of murder and destruction."

frj/gv/yad

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020231115ejbf00pb5


Czech government freezes Russian state's real-estate assets
243 字
2023 年 11 月 15 日 20:10 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2023 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
PRAGUE (Reuters) - The Czech government said on Wednesday it froze Russian state-owned properties in the Czech Republic, expanding a sanctions list set up in retaliation for Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.

The government press office said the EU country widened its national sanctions list to include a Russian company, which is controlled by the Russian presidential administration, and is in charge of managing Russian assets abroad. It did not name the company in the statement.

"Its income from operations serves directly for financing of the Putin regime," the government said in a statement.

"The company's commercial activities are as of today illegal, as well as circumventing and violating this sanction, and its entire assets in the Czech Republic have been frozen," it said.

In the Czech Republic, the Russian company manages a number of real estate properties, the Czech government said.

Diplomatic missions are excluded from the sanctions, news agency CTK quoted Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky as saying.

The Czech sanctions list goes beyond the EU's sanctions packages and includes six other entities or persons.

The Czech Republic has been among the strongest backers of Ukraine since the February 2022 full invasion by Russia.

Russia has said it acted in Ukraine to remove what it perceives as a potential threat to its own security.

(Reporting by Jan Lopatka in Prague; Editing by Matthew Lewis)

Released: 2023-11-15T20:10:11.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020231115ejbf03t6x


News Feed
Czechia freezes Russian state-run real estate in the country
Martin Fornusek
261 字
2023 年 11 月 15 日
The Kyiv Independent
KYIVIME
英文
Copyright © 2023 The Kyiv Independent
Czechia froze real estate under the management of Russia's state agency overseeing state-owned real estate abroad, the Czech Foreign Ministry announced[https://www.mzv.cz/file/5272330/Vnitrostatni_sankcni_seznam.pdf] on Nov. 15.

The Goszagransobstvennost agency, subordinate to the Presidential Office, will also be banned from conducting any commercial activities on Czech territory.

It will not be allowed to sell, transfer, or lease the property under the agency's management, Czech officials said.

Revenues from Goszagransobstvennost's activities flow directly into Russia's state budget, the ministry pointed out.

"Commercial activities that Russia uses to finance the murder of Ukrainians end here," Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky said[https://twitter.com/JanLipavsky/status/1724839400985473123].

-kg-card-begin: html--> Join our community Support independent journalism in Ukraine. Join us in this fight. Support us [https://kyivindependent.com/membership/?utm_source=article-top5-monthly&utm_medium=top5-banner]-kg-card-end: html-->

The agency is also involved in a number of economic activities with Russia's international partners and provides real estate in over 70 countries.

"On the European level, we will advocate for other states to take similar steps," Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala said[https://twitter.com/P_Fiala/status/1724840905419468972?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw%7Ctwcamp%5Etweetembed%7Ctwterm%5E1724840905419468972%7Ctwgr%5E96592479c065c3b738965c687a269d88fbd2a9cf%7Ctwcon%5Es1_&ref_url=https%3A%2F%2Fzahranicni.hn.cz%2Fc1-67266560-vlada-zmrazila-rusky-statni-majetek-na-sankcni-seznam-zaradila-podnik-spravujici-nemovitosti-v-cizine].

The latest sanction measure does not include Russia's diplomatic buildings in the country.

This is already the seventh item on the list of Czech sanctions imposed on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. On Aug. 16, Prague sanctioned Rostislav Zorikov, a son-in-law of Russia's chief missile engineer.

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky at the informal meeting of NATO Ministers of foreign affairs on May 15, 2022 in Berlin, Germany. (Janine Schmitz/Photothek via Getty Images)[https://assets.kyivindependent.com/content/images/2023/11/lipavsky.jpg]

Kyiv Independent Media Ltd

文件 KYIVIME020231115ejbf000gp


Russian authorities to look at what property Czech Republic has in Russia - Kremlin
217 字
2023 年 11 月 16 日 10:40 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
The Kremlin does not rule out retaliatory steps following Prague's sanctions against the Russian state-owned property, Presidential Spokesman Dmitry Peskov has told the media.

"It is necessary to analyze what the Czechs have here and so on," Peskov said when asked whether Moscow would respond to Prague's actions.

"Of course, in case of formalization of unfriendly steps a possible response will follow," Peskov said.

The federal state unitary agency for managing Russia’s state property in other countries (part of the Russian presidential property management directorate) governs many Russian-owned real estate facilities in the Czech Republic. All these properties have now been included in the sanction list and frozen.

The Czech Republic became the first country to freeze Russian foreign real estate, mainly located in Prague and Karlovy Vary (the west of the Czech Republic). The Russian agency can no longer perform any transactions involving them, in particular, to receive the rent from tenants, who are now expected to deposit it to a special bank account that Russia is unable to access. This measure applies to dozens of apartments. The Czech authorities’ decision does not apply to the facilities of the Russian embassy being used in diplomatic activities.

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020231116ejbg000vd


BBCM: Highlights from Czech Newspapers, News Websites 17 Nov 23
845 字
2023 年 11 月 17 日 13:20 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2023 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

The foreign minister explaining a recent freeze of Russian assets, the Slovak president's visit, and assessment of Czech efforts against disinformation are among the main stories in Czech newspapers and websites on 16 November.

Minister says Russian state property freeze is a defensive move

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky discussed in an interview with liberal daily Denik N the recent Czech decision to freeze Russian state-owned real estate in the Czech Republic. He said the move was intended to prevent "Russia from going on our territory against the interests as described in the sanction regime", specifying that "the money that is for example being made on renting the properties could be abused against Ukraine". Lipavsky further specified for Denik N that "the embassy building and the Russian school are not included in this and they have not been frozen. Dozens of other properties are rented out by Russia, and the Czech Republic does not want these properties and the rent to be used for financing the war. It is a defensive move". Lipavsky said he would ask the EU to put the Russian agency Goszagransobstvennost, managing the properties, on the EU sanction list, though he admitted in the interview that he would first "see what the approach of the EU administration and the reaction of the member states will be". (Denik N, 16 November)

In a different interview, given to iRozhlas, the news website of publicly owned radio Cesky Rozhlas, Lipavsky responded to the Kremlin's threat that Moscow would freeze Czech property in Russia in retaliation. He dismissed it as "media statements", saying that "at this point, we made a move that is completely in alignment with the Czech law". The minister told iRozhlas that "the Czech Republic is not waging an offensive war against anyone, so I do not know what justification the Russians might have to take any measures". On top of this, Lipavsky argued, "There is only insignificant property [in Russia], definitely not anything that should make us nervous." Lipavsky stressed in the interview that "the issue is not simple, and we worked on it for a long time", explaining why the Russian property freeze came almost two years after Russia had started its full-scale invasion of Ukraine. "In the end, it was also a political decision, and I am very glad that the government coalition stood in favour of it," the top diplomat told iRozhlas. (iRozhlas, 16 November)

Slovak president visits Prague, defends Slovak foreign policy

Slovak President Zuzana Caputova arrived in Prague on 16 November to commemorate the 17 November Velvet Revolution anniversary, centre-right news website Lidovky.cz reports. Caputova arrived at the Prague Castle, the official residence of the Czech president, where she and her Czech counterpart Petr Pavel held a meeting, according to the report. Later, Caputova laid flowers at the 17 November Memorial and met representatives of the Slovak diaspora in the Czech Republic. According to the report, Caputova emphasised during the visit that the Czech and Slovak relationship is "exceptionally close, and I believe that it will remain such in the future". (Lidovky.cz, 16 November)

Caputova commented on the newly-elected Slovak government's Ukraine policy in an interview with news outlet Seznam Zpravy. She said she was "very happy that for now what we can see in actual political moves in essence represents to a large extent the continuity of the Slovak approach". However, the president noted that this was "with the exception of one element, and that is donating lethal military aid. But as far as the remaining military aid is concerned, it should continue, similarly business aid or humanitarian aid should continue to operate without problems". In Caputova's view, "The [campaign] rhetoric was far stronger than the actual political moves which have been unambiguously pro-European, pro-alliance. In this sense, the EU unity should not be disrupted." (Seznam Zpravy, 16 November)

State agency warns of insufficient capacities to combat disinformation

"The systemic, personnel and technical capacities of the Czech Republic to face serious disinformation waves are overall insufficient", the Centre against Hybrid Threats (CHH) under the Czech interior ministry has said in an analytical paper quoted by news outlet Aktualne.cz. The CHH noted that disinformation campaigns in the Czech Republic often defend Russian and Chinese interests and are accompanied by coordinated information leaks, public defamation of the authorities, systemic incitement of hatred against portions of the population and the polarization of society. The CHH admitted that the Czech Republic has no official policy to combat disinformation, the news outlet points out, quoting the CHH as saying that "when it comes to the possibilities of identifying a serious disinformation wave, the current systemic information environment monitoring and analytical capacities of the individual ministries are, in the context of the absence of a conceptual approach to the problem, limited to predominantly classical press monitoring and therefore do not include disinformation sources and topics". (Aktualne.cz, 16 November)

Source: BBC Monitoring 17 Nov 23

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020231117ejbh0025t


CE Noticias Financieras English
Russia summons Czech chargé d'affaires over freezing of asset manager's assets
236 字
2023 年 11 月 18 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Moscow, Nov 18 (EFE) - The Russian Foreign Ministry summoned on Saturday the acting charge d'affaires of the Czech Embassy, Jiri Cistecky, to whom it handed a note of protest against the freezing by Prague of the assets of the company that manages Russian state property.

In addition, "it was stressed that in order to protect its legitimate interests, the Russian side will use all means, including retaliatory measures in relation to Czech real estate assets in Russia."

The Kremlin this week called the Czech Republic's decision to freeze the assets of the Gossagransobstvennost company illegal, anti-Russian and baffling.

"Judging by such decisions, which we are convinced are absolutely illegal from the point of view of international law, all objects that may be our property, with the exception of those with diplomatic status, are, of course, now under threat," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said.

The government of the Czech Republic has included the company that manages Russian state property on Czech soil on its sanctioned list, believing that through such business activity Moscow finances "the murder of Ukrainians."

Most of the assets in question are located in Prague or in the spa town of Karlovy Vary, which traditionally has a large business community and Russian citizens.

This sanction excludes the buildings of diplomatic missions. EFE

mos/fpa

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020231118ejbi00cgi


Russia summons Czech deputy ambassador over Czech sanctions
233 字
2023 年 11 月 18 日 13:48 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2023 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Moscow, Nov 18 (CTK) - The Russian Foreign Ministry summoned Czech deputy ambassador in Moscow Jiri Cistecky on Friday to express its opposition to the addition of a Russian property management company to the Czech sanctions list, Russian news agency TASS reported today, referring to the ministry’s statement[https://www.mid.ru/ru/foreign_policy/news/1915510/].

The Russian Foreign Ministry said that it has been made clear that such legal arbitrariness is unacceptable.

The addition of the Russian company Goszagransobstvennost to the list was approved by the Czech government on Wednesday. The government also decided to freeze its assets in the Czech Republic. Czech Foreign Minister Jan LIpavsky said on Thursday that the decision concerns some 70 properties mainly in Prague, Central Bohemia and Karlovy Vary, west Bohemia.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said earlier that the Czech step is illegal, which Lipavsky dismissed, saying the freezing of Russian property was in line with the sanction law.

The Foreign Ministry today also repeated the warning that there will be a response to the move by Czechia. It said that the Russian side will use all means, including taking retaliatory steps to Czech assets in Russia.

However, Lipavsky said previously that Czechia has no real estate in Russia that would be fully owned by it. There is the Czech diplomatic office and the Czech House, both of which operate based on international agreements.

kva/mr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020231118ejbi0000c


Czechia freezes Russian state-owned properties, increasing likelihood of Russian assets’ expropriation in other European countries
Bibianna Norek / Alex Kokcharov
463 字
2023 年 11 月 20 日
IHS Global Insight Daily Analysis
WDAN
英文
Copyright 2023, IHS Global Insight Limited. All Rights Reserved.
Czech Foreign Minister Jan LipavskÃ½ stated on Nov. 15 that his government was placing on its sanctions list Goszagransobstvennost, a company run by Russia’s presidential administration and responsible for the management of Russian state assets abroad. According to local media reports, over 70 Russian state-owned properties had been frozen in Czechia as of Nov. 20 as a result of Goszagransobstvennost being placed on the Czech government’s expanded sanctions list. Czech authorities have frozen the company’s bank accounts and suspended the Russian state’s ownership of the properties to prevent their sale. Affected assets are predominantly real estate properties located in Prague and Karlovy Vary. LipavskÃ½ highlighted that Russian diplomatic mission’s assets in Czechia are exempt from sanctions.

Significance: The Czech government’s decision to extend sanctions against Russia to include a company managing Russian state-owned assets abroad increases the likelihood of their expropriation in other European countries. Czech Foreign Minister Jan LipavskÃ½ stated that his government would support the inclusion of Goszagransobstvennost in the EU’s sanctions list. Such a proposal would probably be opposed by some member states such as Hungary or Slovakia, reducing its likelihood of adoption at the EU level. However, the Czech initiative to sanction Goszagransobstvennost raises the probability that other EU member states will use this measure as a blueprint and introduce similar sanctions domestically. These would include countries such as Bulgaria, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, and Romania, although Poland is currently focusing on government formation, which will delay any potential government talks over such a measure. If the EU countries that host most Russian properties abroad (France, Italy, Belgium, Luxembourg, Germany, Austria, and Cyprus) were to sanction Goszagransobstvennost, this would significantly increase the financial impact on the Russian state, although this scenario remains currently unlikely. Assets owned by Russian businesses or individuals subject to existing EU sanctions remain at risk of expropriations, as illustrated by the seizure by the Finnish authorities of properties owned by an EU-sanctioned Russian businessman on Nov. 7. In October 2023, Estonia’s government submitted a bill to parliament that will, once approved, keep Russian assets frozen under the EU sanctions provisions, until Russia agrees to payment of post-war reparations to Ukraine. Russia will likely retaliate by confiscating foreign assets, including those held by private sector firms, from countries that freeze its properties (see Russia: July 25, 2023: After expropriating subsidiaries of two Western firms, a second Russian decree will facilitate wider seizures and corruption[https://connect.ihsmarkit.com/document/show/phoenix/4807458?connectPath=CICountryRiskCountry.H&searchSessionId=2fd4413f-6d2f-4db3-96f4-6a44b311f90c]).

Risks: Expropriation; Regulatory burden

Sectors or assets affected: Russia-linked assets abroad

© 2023, S&P Global. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.

IHS Global Ltd

文件 WDAN000020231120ejbk0002t


Investigation says Czech components still being used in Russian Mi-8 helicopters
315 字
2023 年 11 月 22 日 06:26 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Key components from the Czech company PBS Velka Bites are still being used in the manufacture and repair of Russian Mi-8 transport helicopters used by the Russian army, according to an investigation[http://kyivindependent.com/investigation-czech-parts] by Ukrainian NGO StateWatch and published by the Kyiv Independent.

PBS Velka Bites has been a long-standing supplier of key power unit components to Russian Mi-8 transport helicopters. The EU imposed sanctions against the Kremlin, ending the 20-year-long span of PBS deliveries last year following the Russian full-scale of Ukraine.

PBS delivered products worth $122mn, including Safir power units, a PBS unique product, between 2014-2022, Kyiv Independent noted, quoting the Export Genius database.

Following 2022, the Indian company Space Era delivered PBS products to Russia, including Safir power units, as did another Indian company, Deep Engineering, which signed a contract with PBS in 2022 to maintain the Indian Air Force helicopters.

PBS has delivered products worth $14mn to Deep Engineering since the launch of the Russian invasion in 2022.

Safir power units are used across the Russian security establishment, including the Federal Security Service (FSB) and Russia’s National Guard, and PBS had an office in Moscow until 2022.

Kyiv Independent also traced the movement of PBS products via the Kazakh Aircraft Repair Plant, which has ties with the Russian military.

PBS denied it violated sanctions, while sanction experts quoted by the Kyiv Independent say PBS may have violated sanctions on the re-export of products.

“Even if a contract involving sensitive items was executed before the Russian aggression, it remains unlawful to supply such items during the presence of sanctions, particularly when there is a clear awareness that these items will be put to inappropriate use,” a researcher from the University of Liege, Veronica Vella, was quoted as saying by the Kyiv Independent.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020231122ejbm000xd


BBCM: Highlights from Czech Newspapers, News Websites 22 Nov 23
962 字
2023 年 11 月 22 日 12:06 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2023 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

Helicopter parts for Russia, a proposal for EU restrictions on Russian diplomats' travel, an alleged shift in Czech China policy, dependency on German gas links, and relations between the media and the Slovak government are among the main stories covered by Czech newspapers and websites on 21-22 November.

Manufacturer says helicopter parts not delivered to Russia

Czech engineering manufacturer Prvni Brnenska Strojirna Velka Bites has rejected claims published in Ukraine's Kyiv Independent that the company sold components for the Mi-8 helicopter engines to Russia via third countries, news outlet Seznam Zpravy reports. The company disputed the veracity of the Export Genius database from which the Ukrainian paper took the data, arguing that "the data are freely and without further control entered by the import companies themselves, not the exporters... In the case of Putin's Russia, this is in many cases directly state bodies of the Russian Federation". The Czech company said that "from the start, this has been a dirty game of the Russian services, which simply entered fake data into the database", the Seznam Zpravy report notes. The Velka Bites manufacturer highlighted the timing of the accusations, saying that "we do not consider the timing of such a campaign ahead of the expected confirmation of the delivery of motors for missiles designated for the Ukrainian armed forces to be coincidental", Seznam Zpravy adds. (Seznam Zpravy, 21 November)

Minister confirms proposal for restricting Russian diplomats' EU travel

Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky has confirmed speculations originally published by the Financial Times that the Czech Republic has put forward a proposal at the EU level to restrict the movement of Russian diplomats within the EU, liberal daily Denik N reports. Lipavsky told Denik N that he "can confirm that such a proposal exists. The negotiations are not over, so I cannot comment on the details. I think that colleagues from European countries understand that espionage activities present a risk, and it is a publicly known fact that a whole range of espionage activities is taking place under diplomatic cover". According to the Denik N report, the proposal calls for requiring Russian diplomats to have passports with biometric data and limiting Russian diplomats' short-term stays to one specific EU country, without being able to travel to another member state. The daily quotes a Czech diplomatic source comparing this to placing "Russian 'travelling' diplomats on the sanction list. Alternatively, we want a milder version, so that if we find a Russian diplomat in Prague without a visa for the Czech Republic, to be able to automatically deport them". (Denik N, 21 November)

Daily says prime minister interested in travelling to Beijing

Centre-right news website Lidovky.cz speculates that Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala is considering an official trip to China next year. While Fiala's spokesman rejected the speculation, saying that "no trip at the top level is currently scheduled", Lidovky.cz cited a government source as saying that "the Czechs are interested in a meeting at the highest level". In the context of the recent trips to Beijing by National Security Adviser Tomas Pojar and intelligence chief Vladimir Posolda, the website suggests that "in recent months there has been a shift" in the Czech Republic's China policy. (Lidovky.cz, 22 November)

Daily warns of dependency on gas link to Germany

Business daily Hospodarske Noviny urges the construction of a north-south transit gas pipeline and securing access to the planned liquified natural gas terminal near Poland's Gdansk. Hospodarske Noviny opines that "it is a security matter, because the existence of only the east-west connection of the gas transit system contains the risk of abuse". According to the daily, "we cannot only depend on the route from Germany. This is a security and economic risk that we experienced during our full dependency on Russia". The danger is, the newspaper explains, that "Germany has always prioritised and will prioritise its economic interests over the needs of the Czech Republic. Germany's goal is to strengthen its economy's competitiveness at all costs". On the other hand, Hospodarske Noviny argues, "the alternative route to the north gives us the possibility of choice, independence in political decision-making and the necessary economic advantage for the next decades". Overall, "the construction of the alternative north-south link, from the security perspective, has a greater security significance than the acquisition of the F-35 jets", the opinion piece concludes. (Hospodarske Noviny, 22 November)

Weekly slams Slovak premier over 'discrediting' media

Liberal weekly Respekt, commenting on Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico's announcement that he would stop communication with "the enemy media" such as Dennik N, Sme, Aktuality and Markiza TV, opines that Fico aims to "discredit the information that the aforementioned media's newsrooms have repeatedly provided about him and [Fico's ruling party] Direction". Using the example of a recent court ruling, reported by Slovak Dennik N, Respekt says that a police investigator "used oligarchic money to ensure that Direction-linked people will not be prosecuted for corruption". This leads Respekt to the conclusion that "Fico was terrified that people would realise how things worked during his [previous] term". Now, the weekly observes, "Fico and [coalition party Voice leader] Peter Pellegrini are desperately trying to stop the police and judges from investigating and punishing political corruption from the time when Direction was in power". Respekt concludes that "it is possible that, just like in the past, the media will be the most powerful opponent, because they bring independent information, and the government has no direct influence on them... therefore, Fico is trying to at least intimidate and discredit them". (Respekt, 21 November)

Source: BBC Monitoring 22 Nov 23

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020231122ejbm001md


Czech Republic This Week - November 24, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 11 月 24 日, 6329 字, (英文)
Czech economy unlikely to return to pre-pandemic trend until 2028, says IMFThe International Monetary Fund (IMF) says Czech GDP is unlikely to return to the trajectory where it would have been without the COVID-19 pandemic until 2028.

BBCM: Highlights from Czech Newspapers, News Websites 28 Nov 23
942 字
2023 年 11 月 28 日 12:43 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2023 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

The Czech approach to the Russian nuclear threat, Russian gas imports and praise for Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico are among the topics in Czech newspapers and websites on 27-28 November. 

Nuclear conflict with Russia possible

Centre-right news website iDnes.cz reacts to Chief of the General Staff Karel Rehka's comment that the military is preparing for the eventuality of a conflict with a nuclear power. iDnes.cz observes that his words "petrified a large portion of society and politicians", and goes on to argue that "it might have been enough for now to have such a debate behind closed doors, among those who are participating in the military's preparations". The newspaper asks, "What is the state doing to protect its citizens, should a potential conflict that the military is preparing for, god forbid, break out?" The iDnes.cz opinion piece concludes by saying that "those to whom we are trying to send the message that we are preparing to fight them, see the discrepancy between words and reality". According to the news website, "there is deep mutual distrust between the West and Russia. This will be a hurdle to finding a new security order in Europe, which will mean a fundamental increase in military spending". Therefore, the newspaper wonders if "we want to spend the coming decades balancing on the verge of the destruction of humankind, or there will be statesmen who, despite all that has happened, will find ways to avoid it". (iDnes.cz, 27 November)

More than half of gas imported recently comes from Russia

Russian gas imported to the Czech Republic since the start of October has accounted for tens of per cent of all gas imports, iDnes.cz reports. Days after Trade and Industry Minister Jozef Sikela claimed that only 1.2% of imported gas originated in Russia, economist Lukas Kovanda has told iDnes.cz that "approximately in the last two months… it has been tens of per cents". What is more, the report quotes Kovanda as saying that "on Friday (24 November), the import of Russian gas represented 54.4% of the overall imported volume. On Saturday, it was 55.1%". The data comes from Austrian gas firm Gas Connect Austria, the report notes. Kovanda explained for iDnes.cz that "when the import of Russian gas averages out, not based approximately on last two months but on the entire year, then the share of Russian gas understandably comes out in single per cents". According to the report, whenever there is not enough demand for gas in countries that regularly import Russian gas, for example Hungary, Austria and Slovakia, the excess is sold on the free market, and thus can make its way into the Czech Republic. (iDnes.cz, 27 November)

News outlet Seznam Zpravy argues that "since this is not any structural measure but only a temporary business initiative… this import has no impact on our energy security". The Seznam Zpravy piece reasons that "none of these businesses is entering a contractual relationship with [Russian gas company] Gazprom or commits to a long-term offtake in any way that could expose the Czech market to the risk of gas shortage". Moreover, the news outlet highlights that "it is not an illegal activity, the import of Russian gas was not put on any of the EU sanction lists", seeing it rather as "morally controversial". At the same time, the opinion argues that businesses "must be aware of where the gas they buy comes from". (Seznam Zpravy, 28 November)

Fico is praised for teaching 'childish' Czech leaders a lesson

iDnes.cz, reacting to the cold reception of Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico in Prague by Czech leaders, argues that President Petr Pavel and lower house speaker Marketa Pekarova Adamova "childishly met 'the monster' without media presence, so that there is, accidentally, no photo of them shaking hands". The author assumes that "they had probably secretly hoped that Fico would be outnumbered, bypassed and run out into opposition in Slovakia", pointing out that "none of our top officials had the decency two months ago to congratulate him on the election victory". iDnes.cz dismisses the suggestions that Slovak President Zuzana Caputova had to persuade her Czech counterpart to receive Fico, interpreting it as "a rumour controlled by the Castle [the Czech president's office], to give the president an alibi". The paper praises Fico, opining that "nonetheless, the arrogant monster Fico had risen above these small hits… After all, four premierships show, in contrast with political amateurism and embarrassing activism". The newspaper concludes by saying that "Fico taught his Czech colleagues a lesson that politics is not made with a heart but with a brain. And then he walked away with his head held high". (iDnes.cz, 27 November)

Firm suspected of exporting sanctioned goods receives state loan

Liberal daily Denik N reports that Labara company, which is investigated over allegedly exporting dual-use machines to Russia, received a state-guaranteed loan worth "tens of millions" of korunas (10m korunas equals approximately 450,000 dollars) as compensation for the Russian sanctions impacting its business. The daily claims that Labara had received the loan before it sold the two sanctioned machines via a third party in Turkey. Labara told Denik N that it "categorically denies violating customs rules in any way". Nevertheless, the newspaper points out that although the current rules do not restrict exports to Turkey in any way, Turkey is often used as a transit country. (Denik N, 27 November) 

Source: BBC Monitoring 28 Nov 23

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020231128ejbs0018h


Czech billionaire Komarek reported to have failed to sever business ties with Russia
bne Magazine, 2023 年 12 月 1 日, 725 字, (英文)
Czech lottery and energy billionaire Karel Komarek has failed to sever his business ties to Russia, despite promising to do so as part of his winning bid to take over the British National Lottery licence, reported UK news website Tortoise ...

Slovakia This Week - December 15, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 12 月 15 日, 14253 字, (英文)
Raiffeisenbank projects Czech economy to grow by 1.7% in 2024Analysts of the Czech branch of Raiffeisenbank expect the Czech economy to grow by 1.7% next year while this year they expect an overall drop of 0.5%.

Czech Republic This Week - December 15, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 12 月 15 日, 10915 字, (英文)
Raiffeisenbank projects Czech economy to grow by 1.7% in 2024Analysts of the Czech branch of Raiffeisenbank expect the Czech economy to grow by 1.7% next year while this year they expect an overall drop of 0.5%.

Czech Republic This Week - January 5, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 1 月 5 日, 7875 字, (英文)
Czech budget ended in deficit of €11.7bn in 2023Czech state budget ended with a deficit of CZK288.5bn (€11.7bn), the country’s Ministry of Finance reported on Thursday, January 4.

Czech court to hear first case of anti-Russian sanction breach
409 字
2024 年 1 月 10 日 11:57 GMT
CTK Daily News
CTKDAN
英文
(c) 2024 CTK (Ceska Tiskova Kancelar). All rights reserved.
Prague, Jan 10 (CTK) - The District Court in Teplice, north Bohemia, will hear the first case of violation of anti-Russian sanctions brought to court in the Czech Republic, in which a man is charged with attempting to export three luxurious cars to Russia in 2022, supervising prosecutor Jan Scholle has told Czech TV[https://ct24.ceskatelevize.cz/clanek/domaci/prvni-pripad-poruseni-sankci-je-u-soudu-rus-chtel-udajne-vyvezt-luxusni-auta-344808].

The defendant is a Russian citizen, CT reported referring to available sources.

The man faces up to three years in prison or a fine if convicted.

"In this case, the prosecutor brought charges to the District Court in Teplice on January 3, 2024 against a physical person for attempted offence of violation of international sanctions," said Scholle, from the High Public Prosecutor’s Office in Prague.

"This offence was to be committed by attempting to export three luxurious motor vehicles to the Russian Federation in 2022," he added.

Denik N[https://denikn.cz/1177305/cesko-ma-prvni-pripad-porusovani-sankci-policie-obvinila-muze-ze-chtel-do-ruska-dodat-luxusni-auta/?ref=list]. reported last June that the police had accused the man. It wrote that the accused had planned to get the cars to Russia via Belarus.

Prague High Prosecutor Lenka Bradacova told Lidovky.cz[https://www.lidovky.cz/domov/lenka-bradacova-vrchni-statni-zastupkyne-rozhovor-rusko-trestny-cin.A231031_105422_ln_domov_rkj] server in October that the Russian national had attempted to export three luxurious vehicles worth more than 50,000 euros each.

Criminal investigators from the National Centre against Organised Crime (NCOZ) accused the man last June, but in September, prosecutors proposed to suspend the prosecution. One of the conditions was that the accused confessed to the crime, which a source confirmed to Denik N. However, the public prosecutor decided to send the case to court eventually, Czech TV reported.

Czech police are also investigating other suspicions of circumventing anti-Russian sanctions.

Lats August, they accused another Russian who was allegedly involved in money transfers for a sanctioned Russian oligarch.

Under the Czech Criminal Code, violations of international sanctions carry a basic penalty of up to three years in prison or a fine. The offence is committed by those who violate sanctions on a large scale that the Czech Republic has committed to follow in the UN and the EU or that the country itself introduced under the sanction law.

The sentence level is further increased depending on the damage caused. If the act substantially contributes to the breach of international peace and security, the fight against terrorism and the promotion of democracy and the rule of law, the perpetrator faces up to eight years behind bars if convicted.

hol/dr/pvr

CTK - Czech News Agency

文件 CTKDAN0020240110ek1a0000q


BBCM: Highlights from Czech Newspapers, News Websites 6 Feb 24
818 字
2024 年 2 月 6 日 11:19 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2024 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

Trump's possible second presidency, Hungary's foreign policy, nuclear tender decisions, and US gas imports are among the topics in Czech newspapers and websites on 5-6 February.

Paper calls for EU unity ahead of second Trump presidency

The business daily Hospodarske Noviny warns of the consequences of a potential second Donald Trump's US presidency, arguing that "European politicians should admit… that they are not ready for Donald Trump's second presidential term in the White House which can have much more dramatic impact on defence and security than the first". Facing the truth, the paper says, would be a good preparation for "what is inevitable in the future anyway", such as "taking on a greater responsibility for own defence". And this would require "greater expenses and tougher demands for EU politicians". The paper warns that "just as the EU has built some confidence in a joint foreign policy by the relatively strong support of Ukraine, 12 sanction packages, and a surprising unity after 24 February 2022, it will lose from foreign policy weakening and division by Trump". Hospodarske Noviny says that "even if Trump does not win… the EU needs to work on strengthening its political unity, its common market, and its defence with a stronger Nato pillar". (Hospodarske Noviny, 6 February)

A warning over Hungary

In a different article, Hospodarske Noviny reacts to the approval of EU financial aid for Ukraine by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, opining that the outcome "has been satisfactory for all sides". According to the daily, the EU has found out that "it can achieve its goals if it is persistent and makes it clear to Orban that it will make no more concessions on the structural funds status". The paper says that "for Orban, games over the most fundamental issues … have become a regular thing and in the end are linked with broader efforts to assert power on the international scene. Allies and friends can now become mere pawns to blackmail along this path". The paper warns that although "the European leaders may have to their own surprise convinced Orban to get back into the ranks, the dilemma has not been resolved". Hospodarske Noviny concludes by saying that "his growing authoritarianism is a precondition for his risky moves. As long as he is not afraid of losing power at home, he can engage in foreign policy risks in Europe and elsewhere". (Hospodarske Noviny, 6 February)

Cabinet is criticised for postponing nuclear reactor decision

Centre-right news website Lidovky.cz comments on the Czech cabinet's decision to ask for bids for four new nuclear reactors. The paper says that "it might appear that the cabinet finally knows what it wants", but "this is a misguided impression". The paper notes that Czech Finance Minister Zbynek Stanjura said recently that "when the cabinet receives the bids, it will decide whether to build one, two, or four nuclear reactors". The paper says that as the government has funds, it is not clear why it has been hesitating about the number of reactors; also "the politicians themselves admit that there is no viable alternative to building several reactors, because we will need their energy in the future. Renewable sources are unstable, dependency on gas imports is dangerous, and burning coal does not pay off". The paper suggests that the indecision is due to the fear of criticism "uncomfortable ahead of elections which take place almost every year in the Czech Republic. So, it is better to leave everything open to avoid responsibility and wait – a kind of ostrich strategy". (Lidovky.cz, 5 February)  

Newspaper cautions against relying on US natural gas

Business news outlet E15 says that the EU and the Czech Republic "should pay attention" to the Joe Biden administration's decision to stop issuing LNG export licences, noting that the United States is the EU's second largest LNG supplier. E15 opines that "if such a source drops out for some reason, the problem becomes larger in proportion to the supplier's share". It admits that "comparing the risks of supplies from Russia and those from the USA is like the proverbial comparison of apples and oranges, but as far as energy security is concerned, vigilance is always appropriate". E15 warns that "the EU and we along with it cannot therefore be satisfied with the fact that its needs are met for now. If the recent years were to teach us anything, it is that in energy, more than in anything else, there is a need for strategic planning and preventing risks". Therefore, E15 concludes, "we should consider LNG to be more of a tool that buys us time needed to make our energy more resilient and primarily more sustainable". (E15, 6 February)  

Source: BBC Monitoring 6 Feb 24

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020240206ek26000rt


Czech Republic This Week - February 9, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 2 月 9 日, 5731 字, (英文)
Czech unemployment inched up to 4% in JanuaryUnemployment in Czechia climbed to 4% in January, which is an increase of 0.3 percentage points month on month and 0.1 points year on year.

Czech Republic This Week - February 16, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 2 月 16 日, 9241 字, (英文)
EC lowers Czech economy’s growth estimate in 2024 to 1.1%The European Commission lowered the growth estimate for the Czech economy from 1.4% to 1.1% in 2024. It is slightly above the 0.9% estimate of average growth in the EU for this year.

Russia This Week - February 16, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 2 月 16 日, 35761 字, (英文)
Russian inflation at 7.4% in January ahead of CBR policy meetingRussian consumer price inflation posted 0.9% month on month and 7.4% year on year in January 2024, according to the latest data from RosStat. (chart)

BBCM: Highlights from Czech Newspapers, News Websites 23 Feb 24
646 字
2024 年 2 月 23 日 13:49 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2024 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

The anniversary of the Russian full-scale invasion of Ukraine was the main topic in Czech newspapers and websites on 23 February.

West seen not helping Ukraine

Business daily Hospodarske Noviny, looking back at the two years of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, says that "the Russian war in Ukraine is not a war for the survival of all democratic states", so the United States "measures on apothecary scales what aid to provide to Kyiv, what weapons to send". Also the West, Hospodarske Noviny argues, "is unable to come up with a coherent strategic plan for the next course of action towards Russia. Yet more anti-Russian sanction packages are only a bandage – which, as the good state of the Russian war economy shows - is leaking in many places". Moreover, "after two years, the Ukrainians need to explain to their Western allies… over and over again that the defence of entire Europe is at stake and that a large amount of weapons, ammunition, and other equipment is needed on the thousand -kilometre-long front". This is why, the newspaper says, Ukraine "will most likely face pressure from Western countries to prepare to accept some form of a compromise on peace with Russia". (Hospodarske Noviny, 23 February)

Business newspaper E15 says that the "situation on the Ukrainian front is not going well, and only a few signs suggest that something may improve in the foreseeable future". The paper blames the West, arguing that "the main culprit for the current situation is the conviction of the majority of Europeans that there is no need to take wide-ranging, difficult, and unpopular measures in support of Ukraine and to strengthen [their] own defence capability". E15 suggests that should Ukraine lose, "Moscow could interpret [it] as the West's weakness and try to take advantage of the time before the union countries replenish their arsenals. Especially if after this year's US elections nobody comes to help from the other side of the Atlantic". This is why, the newspaper says, "at a time when Russia is after months of stalemate gaining the upper hand on the front, the West should finally decide what it will aim for". The paper says the West should decide "whether it has the will to support Ukraine to achieve victory and what exactly it should look like; alternatively, whether it has the strength to force the Kremlin to accept a deal which will provide Kyiv with clear security guarantees. Or it lets Ukraine gradually bleed out…" (E15, 23 February)   

Russia seen killing itself

"Russia is not only being plundered and ravaged, but it has fallen back into the developing world," says news outlet Seznam Zpravy. "It is at war because it does not want to admit its backwardness." Nonetheless, the opinion piece notes that "we are now at a point when Russia is reviving its aggressive capabilities, and Ukrainians' defence capability is declining". In this context, the news outlet comes to several conclusions about the Russian war. First, Seznam Zpravy says, the West needs "to keep the Ukrainians combat-capable, otherwise it will come to a testing of our own combat capabilities". Second, the paper predicts that "negotiating peace with the Kremlin is not too promising, at least for as long as Putin is there". On Russia, the newspaper suggests that "unless it starts to agilely civilise and create elements of the rule of law… it will continue to fall. The alternative is either another dictator or the dissolution of Russia". Seznam Zpravy warns that "we need to realise in this context that the USA will evidently not be dealing with any of this. Russia is and remains a European matter". (Seznam Zpravy, 23 February)   

Source: BBC Monitoring 23 Feb 24

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020240223ek2n001rx


搜索摘要
所有单字	sanction
至少其中一个单字	Russia
不包括这些单字	
这确切的词句	
日期	21/02/2022 至 29/02/2024
资讯来源	所有资讯来源
作者	所有作者
公司	所有公司
新闻主题	所有新闻主题
行业	所有行业
地区	捷克
语言	英文
搜索结果已找到	284
时间戳记	2024 年 3 月 10 日 13:22 GMT
© 2024 Factiva, Inc. 版权所有。	
 

Translate
