跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
CE Noticias Financieras English
Beijing 2022, the winter edition that defied expectations
1281 字
2022 年 2 月 21 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
After Beijing 2022 brought down the curtain, El Economista selected eight of the most important moments left by the Winter Olympics, with historic medals, cases of doping and sporting pressure, the triumph of health safety protocols and the first diplomatic meetings with the country after the pandemic. After two editions of the Winter Games in Asia, the event will return to Europe, to Milan-Cortina d'Ampezzo in 2026.

1. Quadruple jump, a resource gaining momentum in women's skating Russia's Kamila Valieva became the first woman to perform a quadruple jump at the Olympic Games on February 7 during the team event. Although this feat is now overshadowed by the fact that she tested positive for a banned substance in December, it is important to note that more female skaters are trying to incorporate quadruple jumps into their programs, largely in response to the change in the scoring system implemented in 2006, which rewards elements such as jumps with more revolutions with higher scores.

Time notes that the use of this resource also reflects the rise of athleticism in women's figure skating, something that from the perspective of Surya Bonaly, the first woman to almost achieve a quadruple jump in an international competition (in 1992), was stigmatized for many years: "The mentality was that men could do quadruple jumps and look like warriors or big heroes, and girls had to stay pretty like princesses," said Bonaly.

2. Norway magnifies its dominance with record 16 golds Norway was the delegation that won the most total medals, 37, and the most gold medals, 16, at the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics. These numbers represent two medals less than its best haul of 39 total medals in 2018, but its record for gold metals. The country, which also leads the all-time medal tally at the winter event, topped the podium in nine of the 15 sports at Beijing 2022.

Being one of the bottom five countries in average year-round temperature (around 2 degrees Celsius) is not the only explanation for the Scandinavian country's overwhelming dominance. The Guardian noted that success is also attributed to grassroots participation in winter sports from an early age. Cross-country skiing and biathlon are popular televised sports in that country, which also has more than 10,000 sports clubs. In 2018, the proportion of children who played winter sports regularly stood at 93%.

3. USA and another disappointing participation in ice hockey. For the third consecutive time at the Olympic Winter Games, the United States, one of the powers in men's ice hockey, was left off the podium. This edition in Beijing did not seem like the best year to end the drought, as the country of the stars and stripes arrived in China without NHL players for the second time in a row. Despite an agreement between the NHL and its players' association to send them to Beijing, the league decided to opt them out due to a change in its 2021-22 regular season schedule because of postponements from Covid-19.

With these key absences, it was easier for Finland to capture the men's ice hockey title for the first time in its history. With Finland's 2-1 victory on Sunday over the Russian Olympic Committee (defending champions), the 109 events of the Beijing 2022 Olympic Games concluded.

Despite being a country with a long tradition in ice hockey, Finland had so far as best result in the Olympic tournament a second place in 1988 and in 2006, while in the 1994, 1998, 2010 and 2014 editions it won bronze. The delegation qualified in the top four almost permanently since 1988.

Finland was not the only Olympic team to make history in Beijing. Slovakia, which eliminated the United States in the quarterfinals, defeated Sweden 4-0 to capture bronze, its first Olympic medal in men's field hockey.

4. Demand affects Russian women skaters Kamila Valieva left Beijing 2022 amid criticism from her coach Eteri Tutberidze, who accused her of giving up the fight for medals after falling a couple of times in the short program. The 15-year-old teenager, who finished fourth in the individual competition, also faces a possible sanction for a doping case, jeopardizing the gold medal won in the team competition.

IOC President Thomas Bach, criticizing the adults surrounding Kamila Valieva, noted that he was "very, very disturbed" to see the visibly upset skater being scolded by her coach. NBC Olympics anchor Mike Tirico was also highly critical, saying that the adults in the room "failed to protect" the teenager during the entire ordeal.

In turn, Valieva's compatriot and silver medalist Alexandra Trusova, also expressed despair after her five history-making quadruple jumps were not enough to beat her teammate, Anna Shcherbakova, in the gold medal match. "I hate this sport," she shouted at the side of the track. "I will never step on the ice again."

5. Xi Jinping received Bach after two years of pandemic. Thomas Bach, president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), became on January 25, shortly after his arrival in Beijing, the first foreign official to hold face-to-face talks with the Chinese leader after nearly two years of pandemic. Xi Jinping attended the Opening Ceremony where he sat next to Bach and declared the Games open.

Back in Beijing, Bach met with Chinese President Xi Jinping "several times" during the Winter Olympics, according to Beijing 2022 President Cai Qi, for discussions with diplomats and visits to competition venues.

6. China in third place in the medal standings In Beijing 2022, China beat its record number of medals in an edition of the Olympic Winter Games with fifteen podiums, nine of them in the top podium, to overtake its great American rival in the overall medal table at the end of the Olympic Games. The Asian giant is traditionally a strong Summer Olympics nation, but practice at a high level in ice and snow sports is relatively recent. Ahead of the host nation was only Norway with 37 total medals (16 gold), and Germany with 27 medals in total (12 gold).

7. Elana Meyers, the most decorated black woman at the Winter Olympics Elana Meyers Taylor of the United States won a historic bronze medal in the two-woman bobsled event, becoming the most decorated black athlete in the history of the Winter Olympics with five medals.

"It's so crazy to hear that statistic and know that I'm part of a legacy that's bigger than me," Meyers said.

Meyers Taylor, who is a three-time silver medalist (Sochi 2014 and Pyeongchang 2018 in the two-woman bobsled event and Beijing 2022 in the monobobob) and two-time bronze medalist (2010 Vancouver and 2022 Beijing in the two-woman bobsled), hinted that she would retire after the Beijing Olympics.

8. Beijing passed the health safety test As of Saturday, January 19, 436 athletes, coaches and parties involved in the Olympic Games had tested positive for Covid-19 out of a total of 1.7 million tests conducted since January 23, according to the Beijing Organizing Committee of the Olympic Games.

For the organization, this constitutes a success, as cases on the bubble were in single digits for five days in a row, while new cases, most of which were found at Beijing's airport, were dispersed as the Games progressed. Organizers reported zero cases inside the closed loop two days in a row during the final week of the Olympics and only one case was reported on Friday.

deportes@eleconomista.mx

kg

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220221ei2l001qe


NEWS
Officials: No sanction if no invasion
Courtney Subramanian; Matthew Brown
1326 字
2022 年 2 月 21 日
USA Today
USAT
A.3
ISSN:07347456
英文
© 2022 USA Today. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.
A high-stakes meeting between Secretary of State Antony Blinken and his Russian counterpart this week could determine whether Moscow launches an attack on neighboring Ukraine, the top U.S. diplomat said Sunday.

Blinken told NBC's "Meet the Press" that he agreed to meet Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Thursday, provided Moscow has not invaded its neighbor.

"It's my responsibility to do everything I can to try diplomatically to prevent a war," he said.

NATO officials are scrambling to find a diplomatic solution as a buildup of Russian troops and military exercises on Ukraine's northern border raise fears of an imminent invasion. About 150,000 Russian troops have massed on three sides of Ukraine, and Moscow extended military drills that were due to end Sunday in neighboring Belarus.

Russian commanders were ordered to go forward with an invasion of Ukraine, according to ABC News and CBS News, which cited anonymous U.S. intelligence sources Sunday.

Vice President Kamala Harris wrapped up a visit to the Munich Security Conference, where she met on the sidelines with NATO leaders and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy .

Pentagon spokesman John Kirby told "Fox News Sunday" any invasion before Blinken's meeting would mean that Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an attack with "diplomatic options left on the table."

"They won't have an excuse that merits any sort of credibility about why they went forward when there was a diplomatic path forward," he said. "They will choose this war."

Blinken said U.S. intelligence indicates Russia is trying to provoke an invasion.

"All of this seems to be following the script that I laid out at the United Nations Security Council ," he said.

No sanctions before attack

U.S. officials pushed back on Zelenskyy's criticism of Western leaders for withholding sanctions on Russia if all signs point to a potential invasion of Ukraine.

Kirby told Fox News sanctions are meant to be a deterrent.

"If you punish somebody for something they haven't done yet, then they might as well just go ahead and do it. So we're holding that in advance, and we're hoping that could affect the calculus of Mr. Putin," he said.

On NBC's "Meet the Press," Blinken stressed there's still an option for Putin to pull back from any plans to invade.

"Until the tanks are rolling and the planes are in the air, we're going to try everything we possibly can to get President Putin to reverse the decision we believe he's made," he said. "We're trying to prevent a war. As soon as you trigger the sanctions, of course, any deterrent effect they may have is gone."

Zelesnkyy aired his frustrations to Western leaders at the Munich Security Conference on Saturday, urging allies to impose sanctions.

"You're telling me that it's 100% that the war will start in a couple of days. Then what (are you) waiting for?" he asked.

Blinken and Kirby underscored that allies are prepared to impose punishing sanctions as part of a unified NATO response, an unintended consequence of Putin's gamble on Ukraine.

Russia delays exit from Belarus

Russia extended military drills near Ukraine's northern borders Sunday, increasing fears that two days of sustained shelling along the contact line between soldiers and Russia-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine could spark an invasion.

The exercises, originally set to end Sunday, brought a sizable contingent of Russian forces to neighboring Belarus, which borders Ukraine to the north. The presence of the Russian troops raised concern that they could sweep down on the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv.

Belorussian Defense Minister Viktor Khrenin announced that Belarus and Russia would "continue testing the response forces."

Harris acknowledges potential war

"We're talking about the potential for war in Europe. I mean, let's really take a moment to understand the significance of what we're talking about," Harris said Sunday in Germany before her return to Washington. Europe, she said, might be at its most perilous moment since the end of World War II.

At the Munich Security Conference, Harris tried to make the case to US allies that rapidly escalating tensions on the Ukraine-Russia border meant European security was under "direct threat" and there should be unified support for economic penalties if the Kremlin invades its neighbor.

Charles Michel , president of the European Council, said, "The big question remains: Does the Kremlin want dialogue?"

"We cannot forever offer an olive branch while Russia conducts missile tests and continues to amass troops," Michel said at the conference. "One thing is certain: If there is further military aggression, we will react with massive sanctions."

Putin 'wants to be very decisive'

Finland's president warned that Putin is using a "two steps forward, one back" strategy in deploying troops near Ukraine, "increasing tensions" and risking war.

"So far, I would say that he has behaved in a way that is very difficult to predict but that might be also intentional," President Sauli Niinist said Sunday on CNN's "State of the Union."

Finland, which borders Russia, is not a member of NATO and has had its own complicated relationship with Moscow for more than a century. Niinist has led the Nordic country and European Union member for a decade, during which he has been one of the world leaders in most frequent communication with Putin.

"He wants to be very decisive," Niinist said.

He cautioned that the world is "almost in a colder situation" than during the Cold War because "then we had at least some agreements between the U.S. and Soviet Union limiting arms and so forth. Now we do not have, actually, anything." He said the lack of communication between Russia and the West leaves the world more "vulnerable."

Zelenskyy calls for meeting

Ukraine's president called on Putin to choose a place where the two leaders could meet to try to resolve the crisis. There was no immediate response from the Kremlin.

Saturday at the Munich conference, Zelenskyy defiantly vowed to protect his country from a Russian invasion and chastised Europe for not doing more to safeguard its military and economic security.

Zelenskyy said Ukraine was prepared "to protect our beautiful land on our borders whether we have 150,000 or 1 million soldiers of any army."

Zelenskyy said he appreciated the military supplies the West provided, but Europe must do more to recognize and reward Ukraine's role in European stability.

Tension in Ukraine

Separatist leaders in eastern Ukraine ordered a full military mobilization Saturday and sent more civilians to Russia, which has issued about 700,000 passports to residents of the rebel-held territories. Claims that Russian citizens are endangered might be used as justification for military action.

Germany and Austria told their citizens to leave Ukraine. German air carrier Lufthansa canceled flights to Kyiv and Odesa, a Black Sea port that could be a target in an invasion.

NATO 's liaison office in Kyiv said it was relocating staff to Brussels and to the western Ukraine city of Lviv.

President Joe Biden said late Friday that based on the latest American intelligence, he was "convinced" that Putin has decided to invade Ukraine and assault the capital.

Lines of communication between Moscow and the West remain open: The American and Russian defense chiefs spoke Friday. French President Emmanuel Macron spoke with Putin on Sunday for nearly two hours before a call with the Ukrainian president.

In eastern Ukraine, government forces have been fighting pro-Russia rebels since 2014 in a conflict that has killed about 14,000 people.

Ukraine and the separatist leaders traded accusations of escalation. Russia said Saturday that at least two shells fired from a government-held part of eastern Ukraine landed across the border, but Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba dismissed that claim as "a fake statement."

Contributing: The Associated Press

USA Today Information Network

文件 USAT000020220221ei2l00006


The UN Security Council has scheduled an emergency meeting at the request of...
17353 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日 22:24 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The UN Security Council has scheduled an emergency meeting at the request of Ukraine, which says there is an immediate threat of a Russian invasion.

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has said it is possible Russian forces commence an invasion of Ukraine before the night is over.

He told NBC News: "Russia has positioned its forces at the final point of readiness across Ukraine's borders to the north, to the east, to the south. Everything seems to be in place for Russia to engage in a major aggression against Ukraine.

"I can't put a date or an exact time on it, but everything is in place for Russia to move forward."

Mr Blinken added there was "still an opportunity to avert a major aggression", but "if Russia continues to escalate, so will we".

President Vladimir Putin says Russia will conduct a military operation in eastern Ukraine.

In a televised address early on Thursday morning, Mr Putin said the action comes in response to threats coming from Ukraine.

He added that Russia does not have a goal to occupy Ukraine, but said the responsibility for bloodshed lies with the Ukrainian "regime".

US President Joe Biden has called Russia's decision to commence a military operation in eastern Ukraine an "unprovoked and unjustified attack".

He said in a statement: "The prayers of the entire world are with the people of Ukraine tonight as they suffer an unprovoked and unjustified attack by Russian military forces.

"President Putin has chosen a premeditated war that will bring a catastrophic loss of life and human suffering. Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this attack will bring, and the United States and its Allies and partners will respond in a united and decisive way. The world will hold Russia accountable."

Mr Biden continued: "I will be monitoring the situation from the White House this evening and will continue to get regular updates from my national security team.

"I will meet with my G7 counterparts in the morning and then speak to the American people to announce the further consequences the United States and our allies and partners will impose on Russia for this needless act of aggression against Ukraine and global peace and security.

"We will also coordinate with our Nato allies to ensure a strong, united response that deters any aggression against the alliance. Tonight, Jill and I are praying for the brave and proud people of Ukraine."

Explosions have been heard in the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv, shortly after Vladimir Putin announced that a military operation had begun.

The sound of distant blasts were picked up in a live broadcast from US outlet CNN, causing reporter Matthew Chance to don a flak jacket.

NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said Russia's actions were a "grave breach of international law" and that allies would meet to address the "renewed aggression".

"I strongly condemn £Russia's reckless attack on £Ukraine, which puts at risk countless civilian lives," he wrote on Twitter.

"This is a grave breach of international law & a serious threat to Euro-Atlantic security.

"£NATO Allies will meet to address Russia's renewed aggression."

Melinda Simmons, the UK's ambassador to Ukraine, said she was "horrified" at Russia's action.

She wrote on Twitter: "A wholly unprovoked attack on a peaceful country is unfolding. Horrified. Just because you've prepared and thought about this possibility for weeks and months doesn't mean it isn't shocking when it actually happens."

The Ukrainian Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dmytro Kuleba, said that Ukraine would defend itself against the Russian aggression "and will win".

"Putin has just launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Peaceful Ukrainian cities are under strikes.

"This is a war of aggression. Ukraine will defend itself and will win.

"The world can and must stop Putin. The time to act is now.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said she condemns the "appalling, unprovoked attack" on Ukraine.

"I strongly condemn the appalling, unprovoked attack President Putin has launched on the people of Ukraine," she tweeted.

"We stand with Ukraine and we will work with our international partners to respond to this terrible act of (aggression)."

Russian military action in Ukraine would be "a massive strategic mistake" and would "incur severe costs", a UK Government spokesperson has said.

"We are working closely with allies to verify urgently reports of a further Russian invasion of Ukraine," the spokesperson said.

"Any such action would be a massive strategic mistake and will incur severe costs."

US ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield said that "responsible members" of the global security council would stand with Ukraine following the attack by Russian forces.

"Let's be clear: 'All parties' are not culpable here. There is no middle ground. Calling for both sides to de-escalate only gives Russia a pass," she said.

"Russia is the aggressor here. Russia's attack on Ukraine is tantamount to an attack on the UN and every Member State.

"Responsible members of the UNSC will stand together, and we will stand with Ukraine.

"And we will do so despite a reckless, irresponsible, permanent member of the Security Council abusing its powers to attack its neighbor and subvert the UN and our international system.

"History tells us we must confront this threat head on, in this Council, in the UN, and in our capitals.

"The people of Ukraine are counting on us. Let's not let them down."

The UK's ambassador to the UN, Dame Barbara Woodward, has said it is a "grave day for Ukraine and for the principles of the United Nations".

Speaking at an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council, she said: "As we sat in this chamber urging Russia to step back, President Putin announced special military operations on Ukrainian territory.

"This is unprovoked and unjustified. This is a grave day for Ukraine and for the principles of the United Nations.

"We and our partners have been clear that there will be consequences for Russia's actions. We fully support the United States' call for a UN Security Council resolution. This Council must do all it can to stop war and uphold the (UN) Charter".

White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said US President Joe Biden had been briefed on a "secure call" by senior officials about the attack in Ukraine.

"POTUS was briefed on a secure call this evening by Secretary Blinken, Secretary Austin, Chairman Milley and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan about the ongoing attack on Ukraine by Russian military forces," she tweeted.

President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen said her thoughts were with the people of Ukraine "in these dark hours" and that Russia would be held accountable for its actions.

"We strongly condemn Russia's unjustified attack on Ukraine," she wrote.

"In these dark hours, our thoughts are with Ukraine and the innocent women, men and children as they face this unprovoked attack and fear for their lives.

"We will hold the Kremlin accountable."

US President Joe Biden said his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy had "reached out" to him following the attack by Russian forces and asked for world leaders to "speak out clearly" against Vladimir Putin's actions.

"I briefed him on the steps we are taking to rally international condemnation, including tonight at the UN Security Council," Mr Putin wrote on Twitter.

"He asked me to call on the leaders of the world to speak out clearly against President Putin's flagrant aggression, and to stand with the people of Ukraine."

He added: "Tomorrow, I will be meeting with the Leaders of the G7, and the United States and our allies and partners will be imposing severe sanctions on Russia.

"We will continue to provide support and assistance to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people."

The president of the European Council, Charles Michel, has called on Vladimir Putin to "stop this war immediately".

Mr Michel said he had spoken with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy as the Belgian condemned Russian's "unjustified large scale military aggression" as well as expressing his solidarity with Ukraine.

"Today both the European Council and G7 leaders will meet to agree on further steps against Russia's illegal acts and in support of Ukraine," he tweeted.

"I call on President Putin to stop this war immediately."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly tweeted: "Putin's attack on Ukraine is unprovoked and unjustified.

"We condemn this action in the strongest terms.

"The UK will work with our international partners to respond to this act of (aggression)."

International Trade Secretary Anne-Marie Trevelyan called the events in Ukraine "shocking" and "distressing".

She tweeted: "Shocking & distressing to follow events happening in £Ukraine from here in Tokyo.

"Unprovoked attacks by Putin will be met with a united response.

"In my meetings with (Japanese) ministers today we are discussing (UK) & G7 partners standing together against outrageous aggression."

Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said the Kremlin "must face the severest consequences" for "unprovoked aggression" in Ukraine.

She tweeted: "Overnight developments in Ukraine - however anticipated - are appalling and horrific.

"The Kremlin must face the severest consequences for this unprovoked aggression.

"And the world must stand in solidarity with the people of Ukraine £StandWithUkraine".

The UK Foreign Office has said people should not attempt to cross from Russia into Ukraine.

The official advice was updated on Thursday to say: "There are multiple reports of widespread military activity in Ukraine. You should not attempt to cross into Ukraine from Russia."

Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said his country is considering sanctions against 300 members of the Russian parliament over the attack on Ukraine.

Mr Morrison also condemned Russia for the "brutal" and "unprovoked" attack, and said it should withdraw its troops.

Former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt said the events in Ukraine are a "threat" to "all democracies".

He tweeted: "Truly a dark hour as we think about our friends in Ukraine.

"The threat is not just to a young democracy but (to) all democracies as we believe in a simple principle for which many lives have been shed: no country has the right to walk into its neighbour.

"This cannot be allowed to pay".

Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said he has instructed the UK Civil Aviation Authority to ensure airlines avoid Ukraine airspace "to keep passengers and crew safe".

He tweeted: "Following the horrific events overnight in Ukraine, I've instructed @UK_CAA to ensure airlines avoid Ukraine airspace to keep passengers and crew safe.

"We continue to stand with the people of Ukraine and work with our international partners to respond to this act of aggression."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said: "Vladimir Putin's attack on Ukraine is unprovoked and unjustifiable. His actions will have horrendous and tragic consequences that will echo throughout the world and throughout history.

"All those who believe in the triumph of democracy over dictatorship, good over evil, freedom over the jackboot of tyranny must now support the Ukrainian people. They have been cast onto the front line of a war, simply for existing.

"There can be no space for equivocation when faced with the evil that Putin has unleashed. His actions pose a grave threat to the international order on which we all depend.

"There will be dark days ahead. But Putin will learn the same lesson as Europe's tyrants of the last century: that the resolve of the world is harder than he imagines and the desire for liberty burns stronger than ever. The light will prevail.

"I know people in this country will be feeling worried and uncertain. I know that Ukrainians and Russians here in the UK will be worrying for friends and family back home. Our hearts are with them today.

"We must now match our rhetoric with action. We must urgently reinforce our Nato allies. The hardest possible sanctions must be taken against all those linked to Putin. The influence of Russian money must be extricated from the UK. And those who have for too long turned a blind eye to Russia's actions must reckon with their own consciences."

Britain's ambassador to Ukraine urged UK nationals to leave Ukraine immediately.

Melinda Simmons wrote on Twitter: "We advise GB nationals to leave Ukraine immediately if you judge that it is safe to do so from your location. Please call +380 44 490 3660 if you need assistance."

Shadow defence secretary John Healey tweeted: "This Russian attack on Ukraine is an attack on democracy. It violates the sovereignty and territorial integrity every independent state has under international law.

"We stand united in condemning Putin. Our response must be hard and fast against Russia and to help the Ukrainians".

Wizz Air was due to operate flights to Luton from Kyiv and Lviv on Thursday, but they were both cancelled.

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly told Sky News: "Unfortunately, as we feared it might and as we predicted it would, Vladimir Putin has used dis-information, he's used lies, he's used false flag activities to justify the unjustifiable, which is an invasion of Ukraine.

"In response to this, the UK will - in close alignment with our international partners - bring forward an unprecedented level of sanctions to punish this aggression and to hopefully persuade the people around Vladimir Putin that this is completely the wrong thing to do, and that he should reverse this attack."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly accused Vladimir Putin of trying to play out a "fantasy" of "recreating some kind of czarist expansionist Russia".

He told Sky News: "Sadly, President Putin has been really clear in what he's trying to achieve. He is trying to recreate a Russian Empire in his mind, claim back places which he defines as Russia. But the international community recognises that these are individual sovereign states.

"Ukraine is not part of Russia and the fantasy that Vladimir Putin is trying to play out in recreating some kind of czarist expansionist Russia absolutely has to be stopped.

"We will continue working. We've been providing financial and military support to Ukraine for a number of years.

"Just yesterday, the Foreign Secretary announced an economic support package. There will, of course, be more support and we will be bringing forward, as I say, in close concert with our international friends and allies, an unprecedented sanctions response, co-ordinated sanctions response, to punish this appalling decision."

Ireland's Foreign Affairs Minister Simon Coveney has branded the Russian invasion of Ukraine as a "murderous act of aggression".

Mr Coveney said a "strong response" was needed from the international community.

"Russia has launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. God help them," he tweeted.

"Rocket attacks & explosions across the country. Make no mistake: this is a shocking murderous act of aggression against a sovereign peaceful state. EU and world needs to respond strongly."

Mr Cleverly described the attack as a "catastrophically bad judgment call" by Russia.

He told Sky News: "The excuses that he (Mr Putin) has been giving, the justification that he's giving, cannot be believed."

He added: "The military leaders around Vladimir Putin must know that this is a catastrophically bad judgment call.

"I have no doubt the Ukrainian people will be ferocious in defence of their homelands.

"The military leaders must know that this will come at a huge cost - not just to Ukrainians."

Simon Coveney said Ireland's diplomatic team in Kyiv had moved to a safe place.

The Foreign Affairs Minister tweeted: "Our thoughts & prayers are with the innocent people of Ukraine, as families wake up to shocking Russian attacks.

"Russian leaders are lying to their own people to justify this illegal aggression. We utterly condemn Russia for this act of unjustifiable war in the heart of Europe."

He added: "Our diplomatic team in Kyiv has moved to a safe place and we stay in close contact with them. We are working with EU colleagues to ensure their safety."

In a further tweet, Mr Coveney said: "At the emergency UN Security Council meeting Ireland condemned the decision of Russia to launch a military operation and called on UNSC members to 'assume their responsibility and to speak out in the strongest possible terms about this act of aggression'."

EU foreign affairs policy chief Josep Borrell said the events in Ukraine mark "among the darkest (hours) for Europe since the end of World War Two".

He told a press conference in Brussels: "These are among the darkest (hours) for Europe since the end of World War Two. A major nuclear power has (attacked) a neighbour country and is threatening reprisals of any other state that may come to its rescue.

"This is not only the greatest violation of international law, it's a violation of the basic principles of human co-existence.

"It's costing many lives with unknown consequences ahead of us."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said Mr Putin has used a "thin veneer of justification for his aggression".

He told BBC Breakfast: "This isn't a defensive measure.

"This is an aggressive measure and it will be responded to by the international community."

He added: "We do fear that this is the start of a quite extensive military operation."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly described Russian President Vladimir Putin's rhetoric in his televised address - in which he warned interference from the international community would lead to "consequences" - as "bully" tactics.

He told BBC Breakfast: "It's clear that he is trying to bully the international community, as he has attempted to bully Ukraine for years, and we will have none of it.

"The international community stands shoulder to shoulder with the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian people in their defence of their homeland.

"If Vladimir Putin thinks that he can scare the international community away from supporting Ukrainians in defence of their homeland, he is absolutely wrong on that and should be under absolutely no illusion that we will continue to support the Ukrainian government and Ukrainian people."

Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee Tom Tugendhat condemned Russia's "vile act of war" against Ukraine as he criticised the UK Government for imposing "weak" sanctions on Monday.

The Conservative MP told the BBC's Today programme that Vladimir Putin's actions could "not be tolerated" by any party and must be met with "extremely hard" penalties.

"I'm afraid weak sanctions like the ones that were imposed on Monday just encourage others to believe we are weak because we're clearly not willing to do anything serious," he said.

"So what that did, I'm afraid on Monday, was it didn't deter, but encouraged, because it gave the suggestion or made clear that we weren't wiling to do anything serious.

"If we are going to do sanctions, as I say, we need to do them extremely hard and extremely early."

He added: "This is a vile act of war and an aggression which really cannot be tolerated by any party."

Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, said "the European Union and its people stand by Ukraine and its people".

Speaking in Brussels, she said: "We condemn this barbaric attack and the cynical arguments to justify it. It is President Putin who is bringing war back to Europe. In these dark hours, the European Union and its people stand by Ukraine and its people.

"We are facing an unprecedented act of aggression by the Russian leadership against a sovereign, independent country.

"(Russia's) target is not only Donbas, the target is not only Ukraine. The target is the stability in Europe and the whole of the international peace order.

"We will hold President Putin accountable for that."

Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, said: "Later today, we will present a package of massive and targeted sanctions to European leaders for approval.

"With this package, we will target strategic sectors of the Russian economy by blocking their access to technologies and markets that are key for Russia.

"We will weaken Russia's economic base and its capacity to modernise. In addition, we will freeze Russian assets in the European Union and stop the access of Russian banks to European financial markets."

Speaking in Brussels, she added: "Like with the first package of sanctions, we are closely aligned with our partners and allies, the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, but also, for example, Japan and Australia.

"These sanctions are designed to take a heavy toll on the Kremlin's interests and their ability to finance war."

Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee Tom Tugendhat has said the cost-of-living crisis will become "driven by war", with gas and food prices in danger of rising much higher than expected.

The Conservative MP told the BBC's Today programme: "The Russian people are still flying using planes with Rolls Royce and General Electric engines.

"The money still needs to be transferred and the cost of transferring that money still has an effect on the Russian Exchequer.

"The decisions made around Europe are absolutely going to shape the way Vladimir Putin sees this because the reality is that if we leave this to stand, if we let this pass, you can forget about petrol at £1.70 a litre, which is where it's heading now. It will be significantly higher."

He added: "10% of the world's wheat is grown in Ukraine and the idea that this year's going to be a good crop, I'm afraid, is for the birds.

"This is absolutely one of those moments where we're going to see the cost-of-living crisis driven by war."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said new sanctions against Russia would be announced "in waves", with further details released later on Thursday.

He told BBC Breakfast: "This will be the largest and most severe economic sanctions passage Russia has ever seen."

Irish premier Micheal Martin has condemned the latest Russian attack on Ukraine and said that Vladimir Putin's regime would pay a "high price".

In a post on Twitter on Thursday, he said: "I utterly condemn Russia's indefensible attack on the sovereign people of Ukraine.

"Our first thoughts are with them.

"We will work with the EU & UN to hold Putin and his regime accountable.

"Russia will pay a high price for this outrageous act of aggression. We stand with Ukraine."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly has urged the Russian military to defy Mr Putin's orders.

In emotive comments, he told BBC Breakfast: "Russian soldiers are being asked to kill their Ukrainian brothers and sisters - that will leave a mark on them for eternity.

"They should understand that they can stop this - they should stop this.

"Vladimir Putin has committed them to a course of action that they must know is wrong and they shouldn't follow those orders."

Tom Tugendhat, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, described the scenes of people leaving their homes in Ukraine as "a human tragedy".

He told BBC Breakfast: "The lines of people you're seeing fleeing their home, each person making a decision to abandon something, somewhere ... in order to seek safety elsewhere...

"To see these columns of people forced out by naked aggression by Russia and by Vladimir Putin is horrific and extremely painful, and we should be thinking very clearly about the families torn apart, the lives separated."

He repeated calls for tougher economic sanctions on Russia.

In response to the Ukraine crisis, airline Wizz Air, which operates flights between Luton and the eastern European country, said: "Due to the current events in Ukraine and the airspace closure, Wizz Air regrets to inform our customers that the airline must temporarily suspend all flight operations in the country.

"Passengers booked on arriving or departing Ukrainian flights can find more information on wizzair.com, or alternatively via the airline's call centre: 00380 893 202 532.

"The safety and security of our passengers and crew remains our number one priority and we hope normality will return to Ukraine soon."

Ireland's Foreign Affairs Minister has said it appears the time for diplomacy is now over, after the latest Russian action in Ukraine.

"This is an illegal act of aggression by Russia," Simon Coveney said on Thursday morning.

"They are lying to themselves and lying to the world about their justification for it."

Mr Coveney said it is not only an attack on Ukraine, but on the whole of Europe.

"It is also in many ways an attack on the kind of Europe we have built together, collectively, since World War Two."

(corrected repetition, amending typo in first par)

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said he believes the UK's initial round of sanctions failed to deter Russia partly because Vladimir Putin is making decisions "increasingly in isolation" and "illogically".

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "What became evident in the days leading up to this invasion is that Vladimir Putin is increasingly isolated. That bizarre video of him berating his senior officials shows that he's making these decisions increasingly in isolation and illogically.

"And unfortunately I think that that is part of the reason why the initial round of international sanctions that (were) put in place by ourselves, by France, Germany, the US, Canada and others, didn't have the deterrent effect."

Ireland's Foreign Affairs Minister promised "very direct and very hard-hitting" sanctions against Russia.

"We are not going to go to war with Russia, militarily," Simon Coveney told RTE radio.

"But certainly I think the response in terms of sanctions will be very direct and very hard-hitting, and that means that the EU is also going to suffer as a result of those sanctions because undoubtedly there'll be counter-sanctions from Russia."

He said two Irish families are currently in Ukraine for surrogacy services and that Irish officials are working with them.

"We have been planning for this for a while. There are contingency plans in place. And we will obviously act in a way that maintains the safety of our people," he said.

Ryanair has suspended its Ukraine flights for at least the next fortnight.

The airline said: "Due to the closure of Ukrainian airspace overnight and the apparent invasion by Russian forces, all Ryanair flights to/from Ukraine have been suspended for at least the next 14 days.

"All affected passengers will receive email notices later this morning and all flights to/from Ukraine have been removed from sale for at least the next four weeks until further information becomes available from EU safety agencies.

"Ryanair remains committed to our services to/from Ukraine and we look forward to restoring flight services there as soon as it is safe to do so.

"We sincerely regret and apologise for these unprecedented disruptions and any inconvenience that they will inevitably cause to our Ukrainian customers."

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly said news that further sanctions are imminent has sparked a "huge reduction in Russia's economic abilities to fund this invasion".

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "The sanctions package that will be put in response to this is already actually having an effect. Just the announcement that it's coming - we've seen the Russian stock market, the equivalent of the FTSE, drop by over 30%.

"That is a huge reduction in Russia's economic abilities to fund this invasion.

"And those sanctions will be laid today and over forthcoming days to really prevent Russia from funding this invasion."

Ukraine International Airlines (UIA) Ukraine International Airlines (UIA), which links Gatwick Airport with Kyiv, has suspended all flights to and from Ukraine.

The airline said: "The UIA team takes all possible measures to ensure the safety of our passengers."

Former Ukrainian national security chief Oleksandr Danylyuk warned that Russian President Vladimir Putin has under-estimated the country's ability to defend itself, saying "we will bury him".

Mr Danylyuk said Ukrainians are mobilising against the attacks, telling BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "At the moment there are about 36,000 people in the reserve but in reality it's much more.

"We're talking about up to a million people who are able to take and defend a country, and this is something Putin will not be able to swallow."

Asked whether he believes it is Mr Putin's intention to destroy Ukraine, the former head of Ukraine's National Security and Defence Council said: "Yeah, that is his ambition and he will die with this ambition. We will bury him.

"I know Ukrainians and he doesn't. He was mistaken about Ukrainians for many years. We will teach him a lesson."

Ukraine's State Air Traffic Services Enterprise closed the country's airspace at 12.45am GMT on Thursday "due to the high risk of aviation safety for civil aviation".

It added: "The provision of air traffic services to civilian users of the airspace of Ukraine is suspended."

Lloyds Banking Group has revealed it is on "heightened alert" for cyber attacks amid fears that Russia will seek to retaliate against sanctions.

The lending giant said it has been part of sector talks with the Government on Russia sanctions and the potential for cyber attacks by Russian hackers.

Speaking after reporting the group's annual results, Lloyds chief executive Charlie Nunn said all of the bank's security and controls are at a "heightened and elevated level".

"We've been working closely with the Government over the last two weeks," he added.

He stressed that the group has been investing "significantly" in cybersecurity over the past five years.

Images from aviation website Flightradar24 show there are no civilian aircraft in Ukrainian airspace.

Prime Minister Boris Johnson will make a statement on Ukraine to the House of Commons on Thursday.

It is expected to take place from approximately noon following an urgent question on the Horizon scandal and business questions with Commons Leader Mark Spencer.

General Sir Richard Shirreff has warned that Britain could soon be at war with Russia.

Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, the retired Army officer said any incursion into Nato territory would bring Britain into direct involvement in the conflict.

"There is no surprise and there is profound sadness and a sense of appalling horror at what is about to unfold for the people of Ukraine," he said.

"And I think we have to assume that this is not Russia biting off a chunk of Ukraine - for example, establishing a land corridor in Crimea - but a full-blown military offensive to occupy Ukraine."

Sir Richard said it is "entirely plausible" that Russian President Vladimir Putin could be aiming to revive the Soviet Union, adding that if Russia puts "one bootstep" into Nato territory, the entire alliance will be at war.

Asked whether Britain might be expected to take part directly in the current military confrontation, he said: "Absolutely there is a possibility that we as a nation could be at war with Russia, because if Russia puts one bootstep across Nato territory, we are all at war with Russia. Every single one, every single member of the Nato alliance.

"Article 5 (of the Nato alliance) says an attack on one is an attack on all, so we need to change our mindset fundamentally, and that is why I say our defence starts in the UK on the frontiers of Nato."

Petrol and diesel prices have reached new record highs.

Figures from data firm Experian Catalist show the average cost of a litre of petrol at UK forecourts on Wednesday was 149.43p, while diesel cost 152.83p.

Prices are expected to rise further due to the Ukraine crisis.

Boris Johnson's Commons statement will now be at 5pm.

Boris Johnson will make an address to the nation this morning on the Russian invasion of Ukraine and will address MPs this afternoon.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said: "We will give weapons to anyone who wants to defend the country. Be ready to support Ukraine in the squares of our cities.

"We will lift sanctions on all citizens of Ukraine who are ready to defend our country as part of territorial defence with weapons in hands.

"We have severed diplomatic relations with Russia. For all those who have not yet lost their conscience in Russia, it is time to go out and protest against the war with Ukraine."

On the ban on flights between the UK and Ukraine, a Civil Aviation Authority spokesman said: "At the request of the Department for Transport, we can confirm that we have issued a notice to UK airlines (Notam), instructing them to avoid Ukrainian airspace until further notice."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called for people with military experience to "join the defence of Ukraine" and asked for blood donations to help wounded soldiers.

According to a live translation, he said: "Everyone who has military experience who can join the defence of Ukraine has to come to the military offices of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.

"Please keep yourself updated on the information. We have wounded soldiers in hospitals that require blood donations, please join and donate your blood.

"We carry out serious work on the defence and every enterprise, every business person needs to help. Please look after your workers, your employees.

"All people should have all the necessary facilities and goods. The bank system of Ukraine has got the resources to protect this state, to protect the interests of Ukrainian nationals.

"I'm grateful to all the politicians who support Ukraine and defend our sovereignty."

Yaroslaw Tymchyshyn, chairman of the Bolton branch of the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain (AUGB), said he was "distraught" about the situation.

He said he had tried to contact a cousin in Ukraine on Thursday morning but was unable to get through.

He said: "She's not online and I fear for the worst. I just don't know what's going to happen.

"On my wife's side, I have not even had time to think about looking to see if they are online.

"That said, I spoke to them on Sunday morning and one of my brother-in-laws actually said 'don't worry, the machine gun is on the wall ready'.

"That is the attitude of most Ukrainians, we're not going to give up this lightly.

"We're not going to give up 30 years of independence for a remodel of Hitler."

Former Cabinet minister David Davis called for Nato allies to provide air support to the Ukrainian army to assist the fight against Russian invaders.

The senior Tory MP tweeted: "While we should continue to impose the most ferocious sanctions they are no longer a deterrent. They are a punishment. They will not stop him.

"If Nato does not act now, Ukraine will be defeated in a matter of days.

"Therefore if we do not provide military support, more than 40 million Ukrainians will go from living in a democracy to living under a brutal dictatorship.

"It is far too late to get boots on the ground but it is not too late to provide air support to the Ukrainian army which may neutralise Putin's overwhelming armoured superiority.

"If this is confined to the airspace over Ukraine, and is based on a request from President Zelensky, this should be perfectly legal under almost any interpretation of international law. It will also reduce the risk of escalation."

A Ukrainian MP has called on the UK to lead efforts to send UN peacekeepers to the country following Russia's invasion.

Dmytro Natalukha, chair of the Ukrainian parliament's economic affairs committee, said the UK could use the UN General Assembly to bypass likely Russian attempts to block action in the Security Council.

He said: "There is a precedent in international law when the UN introduced a peacekeeping contingent by the decision of the Assembly alone, without the consent of the Security Council."

The 1950 "Uniting for Peace" resolution allows the General Assembly to authorise military action when a "lack of unanimity" prevents the Security Council from exercising its "primary responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security".

Mr Natalukha said: "The UN could do the same today and hence bypass Russia's probable veto in the Security Council. We need a country that could take leadership in this."

He added that the UK should be that country.

The Archbisops of Canterbury and York have condemned the Russian attack on Ukraine as "an act of great evil".

In a joint statment, the Most Rev Justin Welby and the Most Rev Stephen Cottrell have urging Christians to make Sunday a day of prayer for Ukraine, Russia and for peace.

"The horrific and unprovoked attack on Ukraine is an act of great evil," they said.

"Placing our trust in Jesus Christ, the author of peace, we pray for an urgent ceasefire and a withdrawal of Russian forces.

"We call for a public decision to choose the way of peace and an international conference to secure long-term agreements for stability and lasting peace.

"We invite Christians to make this Sunday a day for prayer for Ukraine, Russia and for peace.

"We also give our support to the call from Pope Francis for a global day of prayer and fasting for peace on Ash Wednesday, March 2."

Bolton branch chairman of the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain (AUGB) Yaroslaw Tymchyshyn said he thought the situation could become the "largest humanitarian disaster this side of the Second World War".

He said a GoFundMe page had been set up by the AUGB and branches across the country would accept donations to help with medical care.

He said he and colleagues at the branch were "totally and utterly shocked".

He added: "Many, many years ago we demonstrated outside the Russian Embassy when Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union to get the Russians out.

"We're now having to do this again. I never ever suspected in my lifetime, especially after 1991, that this would happen again.

"I was in Ukraine on August 24, 1991 when Ukraine was declared independent.

"When that news filtered through it was tears of joy, this morning it is tears of desperation."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has summoned the Russian ambassador to explain Russia's "illegal, unprovoked invasion of Ukraine" and said the UK would be "imposing severe sanctions".

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss is understood to be preparing for a "flurry of phone calls" to rally allies in support of Ukraine today, starting with EU foreign affairs policy chief Josep Borrell.

Home Secretary Priti Patel said officials were on alert for cyber attacks and disinformation campaigns from Moscow as Russia invades Ukraine.

She tweeted: "Russia's unjustified and unjustifiable attack on a democratic sovereign nation makes this a dark day in Europe. The people of Ukraine have our unwavering support.

"As we monitor developments, we will be especially mindful of the potential for cyber attacks and disinformation emanating from Russia.

"Be in no doubt there is work ongoing across government 24/7 to maximise our resilience to any such attacks, which would be met with a suitably robust response."

Irish premier Micheal Martin has condemned the Russian assault on Ukraine.

In a specially convened press conference at Government Buildings, he called the actions of Russia "an outrageous and moral breach of the most fundamental and basic principles of international law".

The Taoiseach promised a strong response from the European Union.

"Our thoughts must be with the innocent people of Ukraine at this, their most difficult hour.

"We stand with them."

(Corrected repetition: Amends spelling to 'secretary' in first par)

Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine as a "blatant violation" of international law.

Speaking at Nato headquarters in Brussels, Mr Stoltenberg said he was calling a virtual summit of alliance leaders on Friday to discuss the "serious threat" to security in the region.

"This is a grave moment of the security of Europe. Russia's unprovoked and unjustified attack on Ukraine is putting countless lives at risk," he said.

"This is a deliberate, cold-blooded and long planned invasion.

"It is a blatant violation of international law, an act of aggression against a sovereign, independent and peaceful country and a serious threat to Euro-Atlantic security."

At a press conference in Dublin, Micheal Martin said the EU would introduce "severe" sanctions against Russian leaders.

"As a small country in particular, today's use of brute force in pursuit of a warped perception of national interest is a serious affront."

He said Europe was dealing with the "most grave security situation it has faced in decades, with repercussions for global security and the world economy".

"It cannot and it will not go unanswered. President Putin and those who support him will be held accountable.

"This evening, I will join with our partners in the European Union in Brussels to adopt the most severe package of sanctions we have ever considered.

"They will be aimed to hit Putin and his henchmen where it hurts the most.

"EU sanctions will target strategic sectors of the Russian economy, blocking access to markets and to technologies."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the UK and the world cannot allow Ukraine's freedom to be "snuffed out".

He said: "A vast invasion is under way by land, by sea and by air. And this is not, in the infamous phrase, some faraway country of which we know little.

"We have Ukrainian friends in this country, neighbours, co-workers. Ukraine is a country that for decades has enjoyed freedom and democracy, and the right to choose its own destiny.

"We and the world cannot allow that freedom just to be snuffed out. We cannot and will not just look away."

Boris Jonson said the "hideous and barbaric venture" of Russian President Vladimir Putin "must end in failure".

He said: "It's because we've been so alarmed in recent months at Russian intimidation that the UK became one of the first countries in Europe to send defensive weaponry to help the Ukrainians.

"Other allies have now done the same and we will do what more we can in the days ahead.

"Today, in concert with our allies we will agree a massive package of economic sanctions designed in time to hobble the Russian economy. And to that end, we must also collectively cease the dependence on Russian oil and gas that for too long has given Putin his grip on Western politics.

"Our mission is clear. Diplomatically, politically, economically, and eventually, militarily, this hideous and barbaric venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure."

Boris Johnson said the Putin regime would be condemned to "pariah status" after unleashing a "tidal wave of violence" against Ukraine.

In his address to the nation, the Prime Minister said the UK stood with Ukraine in its "moment of agony".

"I say to the Ukrainians in this moment of agony, we are with you. We are praying for you and your families, and we are on your side," he said.

"If the months ahead are grim and the flame of freedom burns low, I know that it will blaze bright again in Ukraine.

"For all his bombs and tanks and missiles, I don't believe the Russian dictator will ever subdue the national feeling of the Ukrainians and their passionate belief that their country should be free."

Russian President Vladimir Putin has chosen "a path of bloodshed and destruction" in invading Ukraine, foreign minister Lord Ahmad of Wimbledon has told Parliament.

Speaking in the House of Lords, the Tory frontbencher said: "The United Kingdom strongly condemns the appalling, unprovoked attack President Putin has launched on the people of Ukraine.

"President Putin has chosen a path of bloodshed and destruction by launching this unprovoked attack on Ukraine.

"The United Kingdom remains firmly committed to the Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally-recognised borders."

Mr Johnson concluded by saying: "I say to the British people, and all who have heard the threats from Putin against those who stand with Ukraine, we will, of course, do everything to keep our country safe."

He added: "We will work with them, for however long it takes, to ensure that the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine is restored.

"Because this act of wanton and reckless aggression is an attack not just on Ukraine, it's an attack on democracy and freedom in eastern Europe, and around the world.

"This crisis is about the right of a free, sovereign, independent European people to choose their own future.

"That is a right that the UK will always defend."

Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Russia had "shut the door to a political solution".

Asked if he would still be open for talks with Moscow, he said: "We have reached out to Russia for weeks and months.

"What we have seen is that the Russian message has been that they actually have never taken these talks seriously."

He added: "Russia has shut the door to a political solution, we regret that but that's sadly the reality which has severe and very serious consequences for the people of Ukraine, but also actually impacts the security for all us."

Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg has said any attack by Russia on an alliance member would be regarded as an attack on all.

Speaking at Nato headquarters in Brussels, Mr Stoltenberg said: "Nato's core task is to protect and defend all allies. There must be no room for miscalculation or misunderstanding.

"An attack on one will be regarded as an attack on all. This is our collective security guarantee."

He said Nato ambassadors had agreed to activate the alliance's defence plans, enabling it to deploy forces to where they are needed.

"This is a prudent and defensive step to protect and shield allied nations during this crisis," he said.

He said there were more than 100 jets at high alert protecting alliance airspace with more than 120 ships at sea, from the High North to the Mediterranean.

"All this shows that our collective defence commitment - Article 5 - is iron clad. We will continue to do everything that is necessary to shield the alliance from aggression," he said.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the Russian government has shown it was "never serious about engaging in diplomacy".

She said: "Russia's assault on Ukraine is an unprovoked, premeditated attack against a sovereign democratic state.

"The UK and our international partners stand united in condemning the Russian government's reprehensible actions, which are an egregious violation of international law and the UN Charter.

"Over recent weeks, the Russian government have repeatedly denied their hostile intent towards Ukraine. At the same time, they have massed troops, launched cyber-attacks and staged false pretexts and provocations.

"Today, the Russian government has shown that it was never serious about engaging in diplomacy - focused only on deceit and furthering their territorial ambitions."

Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine has been branded a "war crime" by veteran diplomat Lord Hannay of Chiswick.

Speaking in Parliament, the independent crossbencher, who served as UK ambassador to both the EU and UN, said: "Will the minister not agree that this demonstrates what some of us have said all along, that the question of Ukraine's Nato status has always been a smokescreen, a pretence, by Russia, which is in fact determined to destabilise Ukraine and prevent it becoming a stable democratic country?

"If that is the case, I hope that we will hear from him and other ministers how we are going to respond to what is, after all, a war of choice, a war of aggression and thus a war crime?"

Referring to the Russian leader, foreign minister Lord Ahmad said: "He went to the brink and he has now stepped over the line."

In a change to scheduled business on Friday, peers will now debate the attack on Ukraine.

Vladimir Putin must "feel the wrath of the democratic world" after Russia mounted a "full-scale invasion" of Ukraine, Nicola Sturgeon has said.

The Scottish First Minister said that Russian military action there meant that Ukraine's "very existence as an independent democracy was now under attack".

Speaking at First Minister's Questions at Holyrood, Ms Sturgeon said she "wanted to condemn in the strongest possible terms the unprovoked, imperialist aggression of Vladimir Putin".

She said: "There can be no doubt he must face the severest of consequences.

"Sanctions on him and his network of oligarch and agents, their expulsion from countries across the world, sanctions on his banks and their ability to borrow and function, sanctions on his energy and mineral companies, and here in the UK immediate clean-up of the swirl of dirty Russian money in the city of London.

"But just as Putin must face and feel the wrath of the democratic world, the people of Ukraine must feel and not just hear our support and our solidarity."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said the UK, along with its allies and partners, will "hold the Russian government to account".

"We are urgently convening discussions with our allies and partners to co-ordinate our response. Together we will hold the Russian government to account," she said.

"We have always been clear there would be massive consequences and a severe cost for any Russian military incursion into Ukraine. As a result of their actions, we will today launch an unprecedented package of further sanctions that we have developed with our international partners.

"We will continue to support the Ukrainian government in the face of this assault on their sovereignty and territorial integrity.

"The UK and the international community stand against this naked aggression and for freedom, democracy, and the sovereignty of nations around the world. We hold the people of Ukraine in our hearts and minds at this terrible moment in their nation's history."

First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said that "the world must now help and equip Ukraine to defend itself and resist Russian aggression".

The Scottish First Minister added: "We must ensure humanitarian aid and assistance, and we must all stand ready to offer refuge and sanctuary wherever necessary for those who may be displaced."

She continued: "This is a critical juncture in history, perhaps the most dangerous and potentially most defining moment since the Second World War.

"We live in this moment but it is true to say historic precedence will be set in the hours and days to come. These will determine the new norms of what is acceptable or not in our international order."

Video available: Boris Johnson vows to 'hobble' Russia with sanctions over Ukraine invasion

Nicola Sturgeon has hit out at Russian President Vladimir Putin, branding him an "autocrat".

She added: "His control of the apparatus of state and the economy and the military and the media can make his power seem impregnable.

"But, as with most strong men leaders, underneath the veneer of power lies insecurity and fear. Fear of democracy, of freedom, fear of the kind of popular uprisings witnessed over recent years in Ukraine ever happening in Russia."

She said the "anti-Putin forces within Russia" must have "encouragement and moral support", as she made clear this was a critical moment.

"Future generations will judge the actions the world takes in this moment," Ms Sturgeon said.

"There are, of course, many complexities but at its most fundamental this is a clash between oppression and autocracy on the one hand, and freedom and democracy on the other.

"We must all ensure that freedom and democracy prevail."

Chancellor Rishi Sunak has said the UK will bring "significant" further sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.

"The whole world is rightly appalled at Russia's aggression," he said as he delivered the Mais Lecture at the Bayes Business School in London.

"When the freedom of one democratic nation is threatened, wherever they may be in the world, democracy everywhere is challenged.

"We must apply severe economic costs to these actions and you can expect significant further sanctions to be brought forward."

Mr Sunak said he had spoken to Bank of England Governor Andrew Bailey on Thursday morning and is tracking energy markets.

"We are with Ukraine and its people at this difficult time," he added.

The Ministry of Defence tweeted: "Russia has today further violated Ukrainian sovereignty. There are no justifications for this."

In an "intelligence update", it said there had been "more than 80 strikes" against targets in Ukraine.

It added that Russian ground forces are advancing across the border "on at least three axes", from the north, east, and south from Crimea.

The Liberal Democrats called for Parliament to sit through the weekend, "day and night" if necessary, to pass the strongest possible sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.

Leader Sir Ed Davey said: "We must stand with the people of Ukraine and provide them with humanitarian and military aid while unleashing the severest of sanctions against Putin and his cronies.

"The era of Russian interference in this country must come to an end. Much of the legislation needed is ready to go - it must be brought before MPs immediately.

"Parliament must sit this weekend, day and night if we have to, to pass the necessary measures and impose the most punitive of sanctions upon Putin's regime."

Downing Street said the UK is providing "defensive military capability" to Ukraine.

The Prime Minister said earlier in an address to the nation: "Our mission is clear. Diplomatically, politically, economically, and eventually militarily, this hideous and barbaric venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure."

Asked was what meant by "militarily" in this context, the PM's official spokesman said: "He's making the point that ... our expectation is that the Ukrainian people will fight, will engage with Russian forces ... we are providing military, defensive military capability."

Downing Street said the UK is increasing its "air policing contribution" to Nato.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "We are increasing our air policing contribution to Nato from RAF Akrotiri and the UK to help protect our Nato allies.

"So, two typhoons and a voyager for refuelling from the UK will support continuous Nato air policing over Poland's border with Ukraine ... two typhoons and a voyager for refuelling from Akrotiri (will) also support continuous Nato air policing over Romania's border with Ukraine.

"So, this is a defensive capability designed to protect the airspace of our Nato allies ... they will not operate in Ukrainian or Russian airspace.

"Just to emphasise, this isn't additional air support, this is the air support already committed to Nato doing additional activities."

Downing Street would not be drawn on the claims about Roman Abramovich made in the Commons.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "I couldn't comment on individuals in that way or on leaked documents of that type."

He added that Mr Johnson "will set out a significant package of sanctions later today".

Boris Johnson has discussed the "chilling developments" in Ukraine with the Norwegian prime minister.

A Downing Street spokesperson said: "Prime Minister Boris Johnson spoke to the Prime Minister of Norway Jonas Store today.

"The leaders discussed the chilling developments overnight and the Prime Minister said he believed the full and violent invasion of Ukraine we have witnessed signalled a dark time for Europe and a disaster for the world.

"Both updated on their planned sanctions to punish Russia for its appalling actions, and agreed on the need for continued co-ordination on economic measures to ensure they have maximum impact.

"The Norwegian prime minister said he looked forward to hosting UK armed forces in Norway in the coming weeks as part of the long-planned military exercise Cold Response.

"The leaders agreed to stay in close contact in the coming days."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer called for the firmest possible sanctions to be taken against the Putin regime to see its "ability to function crippled".

In a televised address, he said: "We must make a clean break with the failed approach to handling Putin, which after Georgia, Crimea and Donbas fed his belief that the benefits of aggression outweigh the cost.

"We must finally show him he is wrong.

"That means doing all we can to help Ukraine defend herself, urgently reinforcing and reassuring our Nato allies in eastern Europe and the hardest possible sanctions must be taken against the Putin regime.

"It must be isolated, its finances frozen, its ability to function crippled."

He added: "And there are changes we must make here in the UK. For too long our country has been a safe-haven for the money that Putin and his fellow bandits gained by stealing from the Russian people. It must end now."

Sir Keir Starmer has said the UK must be braced for "economic pain" as it feels repercussions from sanctions against Russia.

In a televised address, the Labour leader said: "We must prepare ourselves for difficulties here. We will see economic pain as we free Europe from dependence on Russian gas and clean our institutions from money stolen from the Russian people.

"But the British public have always been willing to make sacrifice to defend democracy on our continent and we will again."

Sir Keir Starmer said Vladimir Putin's "bandit rule" must fail.

The Labour leader added: "This must be a turning point in our history. We must look back and say that this terrible day was actually when Putin doomed himself to defeat.

"He seeks division, so we must stay united. He hopes for inaction, so we must take a stand. He believes that we are too corrupted to do the right thing, so we must prove him wrong. I believe we can, but only if we stand together."

Boris Johnson has stressed that "Western inaction or under-reaction would have unthinkable consequences" in a call with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.

He welcomed Germany's decision to cancel certification of the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia, which was seen as a major economic blow to Moscow.

But he said allies "must now make a concerted effort to bring the strongest possible sanctions to bear on the Putin regime", according to a Downing Street spokesperson.

"The Prime Minister said that President Putin must fail and achieving that will require the Western world to isolate him both politically and economically," the spokesperson said.

"The Prime Minister welcomed Germany's decision to suspend the Nord Stream 2 pipeline but said that allies must now make a concerted effort to bring the strongest possible sanctions to bear on the Putin regime.

"The Prime Minister underscored that Western inaction or under-reaction would have unthinkable consequences. The leaders agreed to stay in close contact and to discuss our response further in this afternoon's meeting of G7 leaders."

Ukraine's ambassador to the UK, Vadym Prystaiko, called for a no-fly zone to be put in place over his country.

Speaking to journalists in London, Mr Prystaiko said the country wanted "something which only Nato can provide" and that was a no-fly zone over the country.

Mr Prystaiko said anti-tank weapons supplied by the UK had been used against Russian tanks on Thursday, as he called on Nato to send troops into Ukraine.

He said "we should have started much earlier, maybe decades ago" to prepare for Russian aggression.

"That's why we've been trying to get into Nato (for) all these years," he said. "Because we always believed this would come."

Ukraine's ambassador to the UK, Vadym Prystaiko, outlined a number of economic sanctions that his country wished to see put in place.

He called on allies to stop buying Russian oil and gas, and to ban foreign investment in Russia, including stopping western Government pension funds being invested in Russian assets.

He called on the West to sanction the Russian Central Bank, as well as state-owned and private banks, and to sanction all rouble transactions in western banks.

He said Russia should be blocked from the Swift payment system, and disconnected from Visa and Mastercard systems.

He said personal sanctions should also be expanded to all those on the sanctions lists of western countries, and their families, including asset freezing, visa cancellations, revoking their passports, and sending them back to Russia.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss told Russian ambassador to the UK Andrei Kelin that Moscow should expect a "long, protracted conflict" with vast costs.

A Foreign Office spokeswoman said: "The Foreign Secretary said the Russian government had repeatedly lied about having no plans to invade Ukraine, and its unprovoked aggression had made it an international pariah.

"She condemned Russia's outrageous attack on Ukraine as a clear breach of international law.

"She reiterated there would be severe sanctions in retribution for the invasion, which will inflict pain on the Russian economy and those closely associated with the Kremlin.

"She added that Russia should expect a long, protracted conflict that would inflict a huge human, economic and political cost on the Russian government. She said allies and partners are united in support for Ukraine, providing economic and defensive support."

A Ministry of Defence intelligence update at 4pm said Russian troops based in Belarus were moving towards Kyiv.

The update said: "Russia has conducted an air assault on an airfield on the outskirts of Kyiv" and that "strikes have been delivered through a combination of Russian ground, air and sea-launched missiles and by artillery bombardment".

The update said the strikes had targeted military infrastructure - especially command and control and air defence installations - and that the Ukrainian forces had "put up a staunch resistance and continue to hold key cities".

But it added that "heavy casualties have been suffered on both sides, although exact numbers are currently unclear".

Boris Johnson is to lead another meeting of the Government's Cobra emergencies committee to discuss the Ukraine crisis, followed by a meeting of the Cabinet, Downing Street has said.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said Cobra will take place at 7.30pm on Thursday - after his Commons statement - with Cabinet following at 8.30pm.

The spokesman said Whitehall departments - including No 10 - will fly the Ukrainian flag and will be lit up in yellow and blue on Thursday evening in a gesture of solidarity.

The scale and speed of the military threat mobilised by Russia has created a level of fear among the civilian population in Ukraine never before witnessed by aid workers, a senior humanitarian charity official has said.

James Denselow, head of conflict and humanitarian policy at Save The Children, also told the PA news agency that the "360-degrees" threat to the country means "there is no safe place" in Ukraine and the huge level of uncertainty will severely hamper initial efforts to protect children.

When asked about the experience of Save The Children staff currently in Ukraine, he said: "The one thing I would stress is the type of fear I have heard of from our controllers team and anyone involved in programming (relief efforts) is like nothing I have seen before.

"It is linked to the scale of what is happening. I have not in my lifetime had to deal with looking at the levels of armour and attack helicopters and so on engaged in this in the space of a few hours.

"We have never seen anything like that in decades."

President Putin is a "bloodstained aggressor" who was "always determined" to attack Ukraine, the Prime Minister has said.

Updating the Commons on his talks with G7 leaders and Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg on Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Boris Johnson said: "Putin will stand condemned in the eyes of the world and of history. He will never be able to cleanse the blood of Ukraine from his hands.

"Although the UK and our allies tried every avenue for diplomacy until the final hour, I am driven to conclude that Putin was always determined to attack his neighbour, no matter what we did."

The Prime Minister added: "Now we see him for what he is - a bloodstained aggressor, who believes in imperial conquest."

Boris Johnson told the Commons: "Overall we'll be imposing asset freezes on more than 100 new entities and individuals, on top of the hundreds we've already announced.

"This includes all the major manufacturers that support Putin's war machine.

"Furthermore, we're also banning Aeroflot from the UK."

Boris Johnson said "this hideous and barbarous venture of Vladimir Putin must end in failure".

The Prime Minister said: "I am proud that Britain did everything within our power to help Ukraine prepare for this onslaught and we will do our utmost to offer more help as our brave friends defend their homeland."

He said the UK ambassador continues to work from the embassy in Lviv.

He said the G7 agreed to work in unity to "maximise the economic price that Putin will pay for his aggression", saying that must include "ending Europe's collective dependence on Russian oil and gas that has served to empower Putin for too long".

He also said "countries that together comprise about half the world economy are now engaged in maximising economic pressure on one that makes up a mere 2%".

G7 leaders have condemned Russia's "unprovoked and completely unjustified attack" on Ukraine as a "serious violation" of international law.

In a statement following a conference call by the heads of the leading industrial nations including Boris Johnson, they called on President Putin to withdraw his forces.

"This crisis is a serious threat to the rules-based international order, with ramifications well beyond Europe," the said in a joint statement.

"There is no justification for changing internationally recognised borders by force. This has fundamentally changed the Euro/Atlantic security situation.

"President Putin has re-introduced war to the European continent. He has put himself on the wrong side of history.

"We call on the Russian Federation to stop the bloodshed, to immediately de-escalate and to withdraw its forces from Ukraine."

Boris Johnson said, in full concert with the US and EU, the UK will introduce "new trade restrictions and stringent export controls".

He said: "We will bring forward new legislation to ban the export of all dual-use items to Russia, including a range of high-end and critical technological equipment and components in sectors including electronics, telecommunications and aerospace."

Mr Johnson said legislation to implement this will be laid in Parliament "early next week".

The Prime Minister added: "These trade sanctions will constrain Russia's military, industrial and technological capabilities for years to come."

He said measures on unexplained wealth orders from the Economic Crime Bill will be brought forward and introduced before the Easter recess.

Boris Johnson said sanctions would be applied to Belarus.

The Prime Minister said: "The UK is announcing the largest and most severe package of economic sanctions that Russia has ever seen."

He said: "We're taking new powers to target Russian finance in addition to the banks we've already sanctioned this week. Today in concert with the United States we are proposing a full asset freeze on VTB."

He said the powers will allow the UK to "totally to exclude Russian banks from the UK financial system" and stop them from accessing sterling and clearing payments through the UK. He said about half of Russia's trade is in dollars and sterling, and said the US is taking similar measures to the UK.

He said: "These powers will also enable us to ban Russian state and private companies from raising funds in the UK, banning dealing with their securities and making loans to them.

"We will limit the amount of money that Russian nationals will be able to deposit in their UK bank accounts and sanctions will also be applied to Belarus for its role in the assault on Ukraine."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the Government will do "everything possible" to safeguard "our own people" from the repercussions of the invasion on the cost of living.

He said: "Last Saturday, I warned that this invasion would have global economic consequences and this morning the oil price has risen strong. The Government will do everything possible to safeguard our own people from the repercussions for the cost of living.

"And of course, we stand ready to protect our country from any threats including in cyberspace."

Boris Johnson said the Economic Crime Bill will include reforms to Companies House and a register of overseas property ownership, while a "new dedicated kleptocracy cell" will be set up in the National Crime Agency.

He said: "That means oligarchs in London will have nowhere to hide.

"I know that this House will have great interest in the potential of cutting Russia out from Swift. I can confirm, as I've always said, nothing is off the table."

He said for these measures to be successful, it is "vital" to have the "unity of our partners" such as the G7 adding "Russian investors are already delivering their verdict on the wisdom of Putin's actions."

"So far today Russian stocks are down by as much 45%, wiping 250 billion dollars from their value."

BBC journalist Clive Myrie has said "anything can happen" in a warzone, after his broadcast from the capital of Kyiv was interrupted by an air-raid siren.

The 57-year-old told the PA news agency that his first responsibility is "to the viewers" to report comprehensively on the Russian invasion.

He told the PA news agency: "You've got to be aware that you are in the middle of a warzone, a live warzone and anything could happen.

"None of us are stupid enough to stay out there reporting while bullets are raining down that would be madness and frankly no story is worth that, but the advice was we could still keep broadcasting as long as we took the minimal protection of putting on safety gear.

"So that's what we did and it meant we could continue telling the story, getting that across to our viewers so that they understand what is going on.

"There are still people here who we have spoken too who want to stay, they believe that a peaceful solution can be found and they hope there can be some kind or resolution that doesn't mean they have to leave their homes and their families, but a lot of other people are voting with their feet and their worst nightmares have basically come true."

Boris Johnson told MPs: "We will continue on a remorseless mission to squeeze Russia from the global economy piece by piece, day by day and week by week.

"We will of course use Britain's position in every international forum to condemn the onslaught against Ukraine and we will counter the Kremlin's blizzard of lies and disinformation by telling the truth about Putin's war of choice and his war of aggression.

"And we will work with our allies on the urgent need to protect other European countries that are not members of Nato and who could become targets of Putin's playbook of subversion and aggression.

"And we will resist any creeping temptation to accept what Putin is doing today as a fait accompli. There can be no creeping normalisation, not now, not in the months to come, not in the years ahead, we must strengthen Nato's defences still further."

Boris Johnson said the "steadfast and unflinching goal" of the United Kingdom will be to see Vladimir Putin's "squalid" venture fail.

Speaking in the Commons he said: "Above all, the House will realise the hard and heavy truth that we now live in a continent where an expansionist power, deploying one of the world's most formidable machines, is trying to redraw the map of Europe in blood and conquer an independent state by force of arms.

"And it's vital for the safety of every nation that Putin's squalid venture should ultimately fail and be seen to fail. However long it takes, that will be the steadfast and unflinching goal of the United Kingdom, I hope of every member of this House and everyone of our great allies. Certain that together we have the power and the will to defend the cause of peace and justice as we have always done."

Addressing the people of Russia, Mr Johnson added: "I cannot believe that this horror is being done in your name or that you really want the pariah status that these actions will bring to the Putin's regime."

Mr Johnson went on: "And to our Ukrainian friends, in this moment of agony, I say that we are with you and we are on your side. Your right to choose your own destiny is a right that the United Kingdom and our allies will always defend. In that spirit, I join you in saying 'Slava Ukraini' and I commend the statement to the House."

The Government needs to "crack open" the shell companies that Putin's "bandit" friends use to hide stolen money in the UK, Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said.

After giving his backing to the new measures and sanctions outlined by the Prime Minister, Sir Keir called for further aid, including humanitarian support for Ukraine.

The Labour leader added: "There are changes we must make here in the UK. For too long our country has been a safe haven for the money that Putin and his fellow bandits stole from the Russian people. It must now change.

"Cracking open the shell companies in which stolen money is hidden will require legislation - bring it forward immediately Prime Minister and Labour will support it, along with the other measures that the Prime Minister has just outlined."

Home Secretary Priti Patel said: "Monday."

Sir Keir replied: "Thank you, and we will support it."

Boris Johnson said the UK will support Ukrainians "economically, diplomatically, politically, and yes militarily as well, and I know that in due time we will succeed", as he closed his speech to the Commons.

Events will show that President Putin has "profoundly miscalculated" by invading Ukraine, Boris Johnson said.

The Prime Minister said: "We will bring our allies together to protect Nato, to show that President Putin will get a tougher Western alliance as a result of his actions, not a weaker Western alliance, and I think that events will show that the Russian president has profoundly miscalculated.

"He believes that he is doing this for his own political advantage, I believe the exact opposite will prove to be the case because of the resistance that will be mounted against what he is doing, not just in Ukraine but around the world."

Concluding his reply to the Prime Minister's update on Ukraine, Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer had earlier said: "This must be a turning point in history. We must look back and say that this terrible day was actually when Putin doomed himself and doomed his plan to reassert Russian force as a means of controlling Eastern Europe to defeat.

"We know how Putin operates, so we know how to defeat him. He seeks division so we must stand united. He hopes for inaction, so we must take a stand. He believes that we are too corrupted to do the right thing, so we must prove him wrong."

Discussing the sanctions on oligarchs, a diplomatic source said: "These are people who have international lifestyles.

"They come to Harrods to shop, they stay in our best hotels when they like, they send their children to our best public schools, and that is what's being stopped.

"So that these people are essentially persona non grata in every major western European capital in the world. That really bites."

Conservative former prime minister Theresa May said Russia needs to feel "the cold wind of isolation".

Lady May welcomed the statement and said the House and country are "united in our defence of democracy and our support for the Ukrainian people".

She said: "Vladimir Putin has initiated war in mainland Europe, the response must be unequivocal and absolutely clear."

She asked the Prime Minister to confirm the Government is putting in place "every possible possible economic sanction so that Russia feels absolutely the cold wind of isolation and the Russian people understand that Vladimir Putin has brought their state to a pariah state".

Boris Johnson replied: "She is absolutely right about what the Government is setting out to do and I do indeed believe that that will be the result for Putin and his cronies."

Boris Johnson has told the Ukrainian president it "might be necessary for him to find a safe place for him and his cabinet to go", adding the UK would give support to a government in exile.

Conservative MP Julian Lewis, who chairs the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament, said: "For the best part of 50 years, Britain gave sanctuary to the governments in exile of the occupied Baltic states.

"If, as appears likely, Ukraine gets overwhelmed, will we offer to give sanctuary to a government in exile pending Ukraine's future freedom?"

Mr Johnson replied: "Of course we will give all support that we can - logistical or otherwise - as Britain always has done to governments in exile.

"One of the points I made to President Zelensky this morning was it might be necessary for him to find a safe place for him and his cabinet to go."

SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford said Vladimir Putin is a "dictator, he is an imperialist, he is a tyrant".

Mr Blackford said "our thoughts and our support" are with the Ukrainian people, and described "acts of Russian violence, aggression and tyranny" and a "full-scale invasion" and "an act of war".

He said: "This is first and foremost an unprovoked attack on the peace and the innocence of Ukraine and of its people. But it's equally an attack on international law, an attack on our European democracy, an attack on the peace that our continent has so carefully built over the last 75 years.

"President Putin and President Putin alone bears responsibility for these horrific acts. And it is he and his Kremlin cabal who must pay a massive price for their actions.

"It is important to say to the Russian people that we know that Putin is not acting in their name. He is a dictator, he is an imperialist, he is a tyrant. He is as much a threat to his own people as he is to all of us."

Former Scottish first minister Alex Salmond is to suspend his TV show on Russia Today "until further notice" in response to the invasion of Ukraine.

Mr Salmond, a former SNP leader who now heads the Alba Party, said: "There is no productive point in having the future of a television show dominate Prime Minister's Questions as it did yesterday, when politicians should be rising to the occasion of the great issues of peace in Europe."

In a statement he confirmed the production company Slainte Media "have decided to suspend the Alex Salmond Show broadcast on RT until further notice".

Mr Salmond said: "We now have the worst of all fears - a hot war in Europe.

"The efforts of every single person should be to re-establish the peace.

"That certainly is our focus, and therefore Slainte Media have decided to suspend the Alex Salmond Show until that can be secured."

Labour MPs who signed a letter from the Stop The War Coalition have been told to withdraw their signatures, the PA news agency understands.

Some 11 Labour MPs signed the open letter, which criticised the defensive alliance of Nato.

PA understands that the 11 MPs have been contacted by the shadow chief whip and if they refuse to withdraw their names, they will lose the whip.

The letter was signed by Diane Abbott, John McDonnell, Richard Burgon, Ian Lavery, Beth Winter, Zarah Sultana, Bell Ribeiro-Addy, Apsana Begum, Mick Whitley, Tahir Ali, and Ian Mearns.

Former Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn also signed the letter, as did MP Claudia Webbe, both of whom now sit as independents.

Conservative MP Tom Tugendhat, who chairs the Foreign Affairs Committee, urged Boris Johnson to take action against those "enabling Putin's economy" - including those who sit on the boards of the businesses that finance the Russian president's regime.

He said: "May I ask him to look here, close to home at those who enable, who propagate the propaganda that is being used by Putin to undermine his own people and free people everywhere, and to update the Treason Act so that we can identify them and call them what they are: traitors."

Mr Johnson said the UK has to look at "those who abet the Putin regime".

SNP Westminster leader Ian Blackford said: "Let's not fall for the Kremlin propaganda that they are prepared to soak up any sanctions. If we act now, if the sanctions are targeted enough, swift enough, severe enough, if we impose nothing less than economic isolation, Putin and his cronies will suffer the consequences of their actions."

He said "this is a moment for unity" asked if the objective is the "complete economic isolation" of Russia.

He said that "must include sanctions on Putin and his network of oligarchs and agents, their expulsion from countries around the world, sanctions on his banks, and their ability to borrow and function, and sanctions on his energy and mineral companies".

He reiterated "it must finally mean clearing up the sewer of dirty Russian money that has been running through the City of London for years".

He said "I know all the complications involved" but asked that Russia is suspended from the Swift payment system "one of the steps that would hit the Putin regime the hardest".

Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey said: "The West cannot be complacent any longer. So will the Government reverse its proposed troop cuts to the British Army and offer far greater military support to our Nato allies in eastern Europe?"

He added: "The world must isolate Russia like the rogue state it is, including the state-backed oil giant Rosneft - 20% owned by BP. So will the Prime Minister commit to banning UK investment in Russian oil and gas companies with immediate effect?"

Boris Johnson said countries must move away from being dependent on Russian oil and gas, adding other European countries are in a "much more exposed position" than the UK.

He went on to defend the UK's military contribution to allies in eastern Europe, but did not address the call to halt troop cuts.

A Labour MP has called for a "negotiated settlement" with Russia and not an "escalation of military means".

Norwich South MP Clive Lewis told the Commons: "The warm words will not defend the Ukrainian people, I have been speaking to people who had been liaising with Ukrainian trade unionists, people who have been fighting privatisation and wage cuts but they say one thing that they will not run from their homes, they will defend their families, those people need to be able to defend themselves so I support the Prime Minister's assertion that we will be providing more defensive capabilities for that end.

"But let me say one thing, will you agree Prime Minister that we must have an end to this by a negotiated settlement and not by an escalation of military means?"

The opposition benches could be heard shouting "shame", as the Prime Minister replied: "I think the whole House and everybody in the world would want President Putin to have chosen the path of negotiation. He had that moment. And that's why if you remember we had that discussion in this House on Tuesday about that perilous moment which we all discussed. He had that opportunity.

"I'm afraid he's missed it. He's chosen the path of overwhelming violence and destruction. And I'm afraid that puts us on a very, very different course. And we have to accept that reality."

Conservative former foreign secretary Jeremy Hunt said that while sanctions are "extremely welcome", it "cannot be just economic measures".

Mr Hunt told MPs: "Does the Prime Minister agree that the international order as envisaged in the Atlantic Charter of 1941 has been the most successful in the history of freedom and democracy and as one of the architects of that order, we have a special responsibility to defend it?

"And whilst today's sanctions are extremely welcome, it cannot just be economic measures. We need a fundamental review of our military capability, including revisiting the Integrated Review whose assumptions may now be out of date."

Boris Johnson replied: "The Integrated Review begins with the assertion that the most important area for national security is the Euro-Atlantic areas and that remains fundamental and that's why we've continued with the investment that we have in Nato.

"We are the second biggest funder of Nato, but he's right in what he says about what's at stake. This is about the whole idea of that wonderful thing that was so inspiring and some of us we were young, of a Europe whole and free, that fantastic revolution that happened in 1989 and 1990 when communism fell.

"It was a it was a great moment for humanity, and we mustn't allow it to slip through our fingers."

Ukrainians in the UK will have their visas temporarily extended or changed in the wake of Russia's invasion of their home country, Home Secretary Priti Patel has confirmed.

Those on work, study or visit visas will be able to extend their leave in the UK or, in some circumstances, change the type of visa they have without needing to leave the country.

Ms Patel said: "We stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine amid this unprovoked and antidemocratic act of Russian aggression.

"I have immediately ordered changes to our visa policy to provide certainty to our Ukrainian friends and colleagues living, working and studying in the UK."

The Prime Minister apologised and corrected himself after he named Alex Salmond as the "former leader of the Scottish Nationalist Party".

Alba MP Neale Hanvey (Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath) told the Prime Minister he was still "hoping for a diplomatic solution" in Ukraine.

He added: "However, my party and I condemn the escalating Russian aggression. This is a fluid and developing situation and we are now in uncharted territory.

"I can update the House that whilst there have been calls in this place for Alex Salmond to cease broadcasting on Russia Today, negotiations have obviously been happening in the background and I can confirm that he is suspending broadcasting."

Boris Johnson replied: "I must say I disagree profoundly with what he has had to say about negotiating now. I don't think that that option is open to us. We must do our best to support and protect the people of Ukraine and work with our international friends and allies to constrict what Vladimir Putin can do."

He added: "On his point about Russia Today, I simply observe that the former leader of the Scottish Nationalist Party is a -"

Conservative MP Andrew Bowie (West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine) then corrected the Prime Minister from the Government benches that Mr Salmond is the leader of the Alba party, saying: "His leader."

The Prime Minister said: "I am so sorry, his leader. I understand the pleas he entered in defence and mitigation, they don't seem to cut much ice with me."

The Prime Minister warned that those who order Russian soldiers to kill innocent Ukrainians could one day be brought to court for crimes against humanity or genocide.

Conservative MP Bob Stewart (Beckenham), who is a former United Nations commander who led peacekeeping forces in Bosnia, told the Commons he had given evidence for war crimes trials including where people were charged with genocide and crimes against humanity

He asked the Prime Minister to agree with him that "any Russian who kills a Ukrainian must remember that one day they may well be brought to court for crimes against humanity or genocide".

The Prime Minister said: "Yes, and not just any Russian combatant but anyone who sends a Russian into battle to kill innocent Ukrainians."

Costs and economic difficulties for the UK as a result of standing up to Russia will be a "price worth paying", the Prime Minister has said.

Conservative former minister Stephen Crabb asked: "Does the Prime Minister agree with me that if sanctions are really to bite on Putin and his gangster government, then inevitably it will mean cost and inconvenience to UK economic interests, but that cost and inconvenience will be of nothing compared to what the people of Ukraine are going through, and we stand with them this evening?"

Boris Johnson replied: "I am afraid he right. It will mean cost, it will mean inconvenience, it will mean difficulty for us in the UK, but that will be a price worth paying for defeating the objectives of Vladimir Putin and showing that aggression does not pay."

The Prime Minister responded to the question of a no-fly zone over Ukraine by saying "we would face the risk of having to shoot down Russian planes and that is something that I think the House would want to contemplate with caution."

Conservative MP and former party leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith said: "With Ukrainian men and women dying to fight against the Russians for their freedom today, those who are calling for negotiation at this point can only please that rambling wreck of a neo-Nazi sitting in the Kremlin and they should be shunned."

He also said the Ukrainian ambassador "asked desperately whether Nato would look at a no-fly zone".

"I know it's a difficult choice" he said, but asked the Prime Minister to say "in this particular case, he rules nothing out".

Boris Johnson said: "I understand the attractions of the no-fly zone".

But he said the situation is "very different" to 1991 in Iraq, and said: "We would face the risk of having to shoot down Russian planes and that is something that I think the House would want to contemplate with caution."

Transport Secretary Grant Shapps said he has signed restrictions prohibiting all scheduled Russian airlines from entering UK airspace or touching down on British soil.

In a statement posted on Twitter, Mr Shapps said: "Putin's heinous actions will not be ignored, and we will never tolerate those who put people's lives in danger."

The move is part of the package of sanctions announced by Boris Johnson in the Commons following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

The Prime Minister suggested emergency legislation for economic crime measures would be brought forward on Monday.

Conservative former minister MP Sir Robert Buckland said "we need to build upon the outcome of our integrated defence review, we do need to think differently about Eastern Europe".

Addressing "economic crime measures", he said it seems that there is a consensus in the House to bring forward "emergency legislation to bring those important measures to really hit those people hard and hit them now".

Boris Johnson said: "I think that that is clearly the will of the House and it is the will of the Government and that's why we will be taking those important measures, bringing them forward on Monday."

Boris Johnson, pressed to work with allies to set out how war crimes will be prosecuted, told the Commons: "We're working on setting up a particular international war crimes tribunal for those involved in war crimes in the Ukraine theatre."

Asked about Russian submarine activity and the risk to subsea cables, Mr Johnson said: "There is a continual struggle going on beneath the surface of the sea between submarines that are out to sever cables and those of us trying to make sure those links are maintained."

On whether the Uefa Champions League Final should take place in St Petersburg in May, Mr Johnson said: "I cannot for the life of me see how that can currently go ahead."

SDLP leader Colum Eastwood described Russian President Vladimir Putin as a "gangster and a despot" who aims to "undermine and subvert democracy" across the world, adding: "One of the tools that he uses is through political donations to political parties, including in this country.

"Will the Prime Minister commit today to ridding Russian money out of democracy in this country?"

Mr Johnson replied: "Yes, of course."

The Prime Minister confirmed that the Government plans to sanction state-owned Russian banks such as Sberbank and Gazprombank.

Labour MP Rushanara Ali (Bethnal Green and Bow) asked if Mr Johnson could confirm whether he "plans to sanction the major state-owned Russian banks such as Sberbank and Gazprombank", and other non-state institutions.

The Prime Minister said: "Yes."

The humanitarian impact of the Russian-Ukraine conflict "threatens to be enormous", Boris Johnson has said.

Labour chairwoman of the International Development Committee Sarah Champion pressed the Prime Minister on the prospect of a Russian invasion triggering a "significant refugee crisis in Europe".

The MP for Rotherham said: "Let us be under no illusion. We are on the brink of a potentially enormous humanitarian crisis that could see massive loss of life and widespread suffering to the Ukrainian people and all to suffer the warped desire complex of the Russian president.

"The attack on Ukraine is also likely to cause mass displacement of people, potentially triggering a significant refugee crisis in Europe. So can the Prime Minister tell us what he is doing to support the Ukrainian people who stay and those who choose to flee?"

Mr Johnson replied: "She makes a very important point and I'm grateful because the humanitarian impact threatens to be enormous and that's why I've said what I've said about supporting those refugees as they come out of Ukraine.

"But we've got to make sure that we do everything we can to stabilise the Ukrainian economy, to support the government as far as we possibly can. Our friends and allies are working with us to do much more."

Boris Johnson said relatives of targets of sanctions will also be sanctioned.

Labour MP Kevan Jones (North Durham) asked for an assurance that "sanctions that are going to target individuals will also target relatives and connected parties".

He mentioned the Economic Crime Bill, the review of the Official Secrets Act, and the Foreign Registration Act, and asked "why can't we bring them forward and do them now? They would get huge support and we've been waiting for some of these for nearly two years".

The Prime Minister said: "We will certainly be making sure that we are able to sanction and do sanction relatives and other interested parties, and there will be a rolling programme of intensifying sanctions."

Labour MP Lloyd Russell-Moyle called the Russian Government the "fascist imperialist Putin regime", while the Prime Minister said he wants to keep embassy staff in Moscow.

Mr Russell-Moyle, the MP for Brighton, Kemptown, said there are "protests in a number of Russian cities" and celebrities there have been speaking out.

"I do hope that we will be offering all the support that we can to those people who are likely to be shunned by the fascist imperialist Putin regime," he said.

Boris Johnson said: "Yes."

He said one of the reasons he wants to keep embassy staff in Moscow "even though the temptation is there simply to sunder diplomatic relations with Putin, I want to keep them there to support groups such as the ones he mentions".

The Prime Minister suggested Russia attacking a Nato country is an "appalling possibility" and said the UK would come to the defence of Nato allies if attacked.

Labour MP Barry Sheerman (Huddersfield) welcomed the sanctions, but said "the record of driving out dictators and demagogues with sanctions isn't always that successful".

He also said he has a "concern" that President Vladimir Putin "might not stop at Ukraine, he might go into a Nato country" and said "many of us think that might be the next step".

Mr Johnson said Mr Sheerman was "absolutely right to raise that appalling possibility" and said "it is vital that we reaffirm again that under Article 5 of the Nato treaty we stand foursquare behind every one of our Nato allies and will come to their defence".

Vladimir Putin must be brought to a court of law and end his days in prison, Labour MP Chris Bryant (Rhondda) has said.

Mr Bryant told the Commons: "The Prime Minister is absolutely right, we equivocated shamelessly after Crimea. We were spineless. We must not be spineless now because what will inevitably happen is either the Baltic states, or one of the members of Nato, or perhaps Sweden or Finland will feel the wrath of Putin next and that will mean British action.

"Don't we need to try and set in train now a process whereby Putin himself ends up in the dock, in a court? Norman Birkett said, who was the alternate British judge at Nuremberg, said at Nuremburg 'initiating a war of aggression is not only an international crime it is the supreme international crime, differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole'.

"He must be brought to a court of law and end his days in prison, mustn't he?"

Boris Johnson replied: "I think one of the most fascinating things about what Putin is doing is how close an analogy there is between his actions and those of Slobodan Milosevic. Exactly the same nonsense being peddled about the mystical union between Kosovo and Belgrade, between Kyiv and Moscow, exactly the same aggression and remember that Slobodan Milosevic died on trial."

Eleven Labour MPs who signed an open letter from the Stop The War Coalition which criticised Nato have now withdrawn their names.

The PA news agency understands they were threatened with the removal of the whip if their names were not taken off the letter.

A Labour spokesperson said: "The small number of Labour MPs that signed the Stop The War statement have all now withdrawn their names.

"This shows Labour is under new management.

"With Keir Starmer's leadership there will never be any confusion about whose side Labour is on - Britain, Nato, freedom and democracy - and every Labour MP now understands that."

Conservative MP Richard Drax (South Dorset) asked Prime Minister Boris Johnson to reassure Nato members that if a Russian boot lands on Nato soil "military force will be met by military force".

Mr Drax said: "None of us know where or what Mr Putin's longer-term aims are. If Ukraine falls, and I fear it might, his covetous eye might land on the Baltic states and other vulnerable countries.

"Can my right honourable friend reassure Nato members that if one Russian boot lands on Nato soil, military force will be met by military force?"

Mr Johnson replied: "What is so encouraging is that the whole House understands the vital importance of that Article 5 guarantee that we make to every one of the 30 members of Nato."

Conservative former cabinet minister Robert Jenrick urged Boris Johnson to sanction all the remaining Russian banks as well as the executives associated with them.

He said: "The City of London is a global asset whose enduring success doesn't rest on dirty money, it rests on a commitment to excellence and in the adherence with the rule of law. So it's right that we now use that as way to show global leadership

"Can I encourage my right honourable friend to sanction all the remaining Russian banks, to sanction the executives associated with them? I noticed that many are resigning today. To publish a further list of individuals resident in this country or otherwise to be sanctioned.

"And to redouble his excellent efforts to suspend Russia from Swift as the single most effective immediate step that the West could do to put pressure on Vladimir Putin."

The Prime Minister said "the programme he set out, the sanctions, is exactly the right one and the one the Government is following".

The Russian people "don't deserve" President Vladimir Putin as their leader, peers have heard.

As the Lords were updated on Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Labour's Lord Robertson of Port Ellen said: "I am sure I wasn't the only one who woke up this morning to listen to the news who wasn't reminded of that day, that similar day in 1968, when we woke up to hear the news that Soviet tanks had crushed out the Velvet Revolution in Czechoslovakia.

The former Nato secretary-general added: "In May of 2002 when I chaired the Nato-Russia summit with President Putin as an equal member around that table I thought that finally I had exorcised the ghosts of 1968. I stood only hours later on a platform at the press conference standing beside President Putin when he said these words - 'Ukraine is an independent sovereign nation state and it will choose its own path to peace and security'.

"Now remarkably the same man says that Ukraine does not exist, it is a state that does not deserve to be a state, that it's democracy will be crushed again.

"The leader of the Russian people - to whom we owe so much for our own liberty today - has been led by somebody who is taking his country down the road to pariah status. The Russian people don't deserve that."

Government minister Baroness Evans of Bowes Park agreed with Lord Roberston, and said President Putin was "never serious" about diplomacy.

The head of MI6 has said Russia's attack on Ukraine was a "long planned, unprovoked, cruel aggression".

Richard Moore, known in Whitehall as C, tweeted that "US and UK intelligence communities uncovered Putin's plans for Ukraine".

He said: "We exposed his attempts to engineer 'false flag', fake attacks to justify his invasion. We revealed his plans to assassinate Ukrainian leaders and senior officials.

"This attack was long planned, unprovoked, cruel aggression.

"No amount of Russian disinformation will now disguise that fact from the international community."

Boris Johnson told ministers it is "a dark day in the history of our continent" following the invasion of Ukraine.

The Prime Minister held a Cabinet meeting on Thursday evening, which followed a Cobra meeting.

Mr Johnson said Russia's President Vladimir Putin has launched "a cynical and brutal invasion for his own vainglorious ends", a No 10 spokesman said.

"He said the UK could be proud of the actions it has taken so far, playing a leading role in Nato, developing a tough economic sanctions package together with our allies, and providing lethal defensive weaponry to the Ukrainian government," he said.

"He told Cabinet that the Ukrainian military was fighting back in defiance of Putin's attempts to subjugate Ukraine. And he pointed to protests within Russia which demonstrated that Putin's actions would also face resistance from within his own country."

The Cabinet was also briefed by the chairman of the Joint Intelligence Committee Sir Simon Gass and the Chief of Defence Staff Admiral Sir Tony Radakin.

The spokesman added: "The Prime Minister concluded by saying Putin must fail, and that the UK would work with its allies to achieve the restitution of the sovereignty of Ukraine."

In a statement published on their Archewell website, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex said they "stand with the people of Ukraine".

The couple said: "Prince Harry and Meghan, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex and all of us at Archewell stand with the people of Ukraine against this breach of international and humanitarian law and encourage the global community and its leaders to do the same."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220224ei2o000b5


News, Analysis and Notes; News & Analysis
Finland has options if Russian power imports disrupted: supply agency
Henry Edwardes-Evans
396 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日
Platts European Power Daily
EURODLY
ISSN: 1556-3243, 24, Issue 39
英文
© 2022 S&P Global
* Domestic supply, alternative import options

* Olkiluoto-3 nearing grid connection

* Fortum vows to comply with sanctions

Finland’s imports of electricity from Russia could be replaced by domestic production or imports from other markets in the event of disruption, Janne Kankanen, CEO of national emergency supply agency Huoltovarmuuskeskus, said Feb. 24.

About 10% of the Finnish power mix is imported from Russia via cross border capacity of 1.5 GW. It also has connections to Sweden, Norway and Estonia.

“The general message is that we are not powerless in this matter. We have prepared for this situation and are determined to seek solutions,” Kankanen told the Helsingin Sanomat newspaper.

In line with network stability rules across Europe, the Finnish power system was able to withstand the sudden loss of its largest asset, the official said.

He also noted the imminent startup of the 1.6-GW Olkiluoto-3 nuclear plant.

Grid connection of the reactor is scheduled for March with commercial operation in July, plant operator Teollisuuden Voima Oyj said Feb. 12.

Russian power flows to Finland were running at 597 MW late afternoon Feb. 24, Fingrid data showed.

Estonia was exporting 80 MW while Latvia was importing 126 MW.

Finnish spot power for delivery Feb. 25 settled at Eur74.77/MWh on Nord Pool Feb. 24, below the Nordic system price of Eur95.08/MWh.

Fortum 'will comply'

Meanwhile Finnish utility Fortum, which together with subsidiary Uniper operates 12 power stations in Russia, said it was monitoring the development of sanctions and potential counter-sanctions.

“Energy production in Russia has not been sanctioned, and therefore our operations there have not been directly impacted,” it said.

Uniper is also a financing partner in the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.

On Feb. 22 trhe German government halted the certification process of the pipeline while the US put Nord Stream 2 AG, the Swiss subsidiary of Gazprom, and its CEO under sanction on Feb. 23.

“Uniper is analyzing what financial or legal implications these decisions may have for Uniper,” Fortum said.

“We do not want to speculate on possible future sanctions or how the situation will evolve. Still, it is obviously clear that we are complying with all applicable laws and regulations, including sanctions,” it said.

Henry Edwardes-Evans

S&P Global

文件 EURODLY020220310ei2o0001y


News & Analysis
Finland has options if Russian power imports disrupted: supply agency
Henry Edwardes-Evans
392 字
2022 年 2 月 24 日
Platts European Gas Daily
EUROGAS
27, Issue 39
英文
© 2022 S&P Global
* Domestic supply, alternative import options

* Olkiluoto-3 nearing grid connection

* Fortum vows to comply with sanctions

Finland’s imports of electricity from Russia could be replaced by domestic production or imports from other markets in the event of disruption, Janne Kankanen, CEO of national emergency supply agency Huoltovarmuuskeskus, said Feb. 24.

About 10% of the Finnish power mix is imported from Russia via cross border capacity of 1.5 GW. It also has connections to Sweden, Norway and Estonia.

“The general message is that we are not powerless in this matter. We have prepared for this situation and are determined to seek solutions,” Kankanen told the Helsingin Sanomat newspaper.

In line with network stability rules across Europe, the Finnish power system was able to withstand the sudden loss of its largest asset, the official said.

He also noted the imminent startup of the 1.6-GW Olkiluoto-3 nuclear plant.

Grid connection of the reactor is scheduled for March with commercial operation in July, plant operator Teollisuuden Voima Oyj said Feb. 12.

Russian power flows to Finland were running at 597 MW late afternoon Feb. 24, Fingrid data showed.

Estonia was exporting 80 MW while Latvia was importing 126 MW.

Finnish spot power for delivery Feb. 25 settled at Eur74.77/MWh on Nord Pool Feb. 24, below the Nordic system price of Eur95.08/MWh.

Fortum 'will comply'

Meanwhile Finnish utility Fortum, which together with subsidiary Uniper operates 12 power stations in Russia, said it was monitoring the development of sanctions and potential counter-sanctions.

“Energy production in Russia has not been sanctioned, and therefore our operations there have not been directly impacted,” it said.

Uniper is also a financing partner in the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline.

On Feb. 22 trhe German government halted the certification process of the pipeline while the US put Nord Stream 2 AG, the Swiss subsidiary of Gazprom, and its CEO under sanction on Feb. 23.

“Uniper is analyzing what financial or legal implications these decisions may have for Uniper,” Fortum said.

“We do not want to speculate on possible future sanctions or how the situation will evolve. Still, it is obviously clear that we are complying with all applicable laws and regulations, including sanctions,” it said.

Henry Edwardes-Evans

S&P Global

文件 EUROGAS020220324ei2o00007


The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says it is "highly likely" Russian forces have...
7945 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 21:33 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says it is "highly likely" Russian forces have captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.

A statement from the MoD said: "Russian forces have highly likely captured the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Workers have reportedly been detained by Russian troops."

In an intelligence update just after 1am, the MoD also said it is "unlikely" Russia achieved its planned objectives for the first day of its military action in Ukraine.

"The Ukrainian Armed Forces have reportedly halted Russia's advance towards Chernihiv," the MoD statement said.

"Fighting probably continues on the outskirts of the city.

"It is unlikely that Russia has achieved its planned Day 1 military objectives. Ukrainian forces have presented fierce resistance across all axes of Russia's advance."

Ursula von der Leyen, President of the European Commission, said Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine marks the "beginning of a new era" as she outlined a package of further sanctions on Russia.

Ms von der Leyen said on Twitter: "First, this package includes financial sanctions, targeting 70% of the Russian banking market and key state owned companies, including in defence.

"Second, we target the energy sector, a key economic area which especially benefits the Russian state. Our export ban will hit the oil sector by making it impossible for Russia to upgrade its refineries.

"Third: we ban the sale of aircrafts and equipment to Russian airlines.

"Fourth, we are limiting Russia's access to crucial technology, such as semiconductors or cutting-edge software.

"Finally: visas. Diplomats and related groups and business people will no longer have privileged access to the European Union.

"These events mark the beginning of a new era. Putin is trying to subjugate a friendly European country. He is trying to redraw the map of Europe by force. He must and he will fail."

The Ukrainian foreign minister has said "horrific rocket strikes" have hit Kyiv in an attack he compared to the city's 1941 shelling by Nazi Germany.

"Last time our capital experienced anything like this was in 1941 when it was attacked by Nazi Germany," he tweeted.

"Ukraine defeated that evil and will defeat this one. Stop Putin. Isolate Russia. Severe all ties. Kick Russia out of (everywhere)."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said on Twitter the UK has been "true to our word" that Russia's invasion would result in the "toughest sanctions we have ever imposed".

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said Russia's assault on Ukraine is "barbaric, unjustified and shows a callous disregard for human life".

She tweeted: "Solidarity with (Ukrainian foreign minister) @DmytroKuleba and the Ukrainian people.

"Putin's assault on Ukraine is barbaric, unjustified and shows a callous disregard for human life. We will continue to hold Putin to account and remain steadfast in our support. £StandwithUkraine".

Mr Kuleba said in a tweet just before 4am on Friday that "horrific rocket strikes" hit Kyiv in an attack he compared to the city's 1941 shelling by Nazi Germany.

The EU ambassador to the UK has said the sanctions imposed on Russia "is a show of strength" from other nations.

Joao Vale de Almeida told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme the package of sanctions are "robust, massive and unprecedented".

He said: "I think equally important is the message that we are sending out. The first one is solidarity with Ukrainian people and Ukrainian leaders, who are suffering right now.

"The second one is condemnation, clear condemnation of the action of Russia and its leader.

"Thirdly, that unity of the West, unity of those that share the same values, not only inside the European Union, but with the United Kingdom, with the US, with Canada, with Japan, Australia and beyond.

"This is a show of strength on our side."

The EU ambassador to the UK has said the sanctions on Russia will have a "huge impact".

Joao Vale de Almeida told BBC Radio 4's Today Programme they will "touch the heart" of the country's economy.

He added: "The measures we are taking today will have a huge impact on Russia, it impacts 70% of the banking system.

"It touched the heart of the state-owned companies that financed the war effort."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said it is believed Russia intends to invade the whole of Ukraine.

Asked if it is his view the Russians are intent on taking Kyiv and removing Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky from power, he told Sky News: "It's definitely our view that the Russians intend to invade the whole of Ukraine."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said he would expect Russian President Vladimir Putin to be "held to account" if he committed a war crime.

He told Sky News: "If President Putin commits a war crime, then, just as I do if I were to commit a war crime, I should expect to be held to account."

Asked if Mr Putin's actions already constituted a war crime, he said: "I'm not, I'm afraid, an international lawyer.

"I couldn't tell you the difference between breaking international law insofar as directing your forces to invade another country, versus a war crime - eg. things like genocide, and indeed, you know, torture, etc.

"I wouldn't want to speculate the differences. What I would say is he's clearly broken international law, he's occupying or trying to occupy a sovereign country who made one mistake in his eyes. Their mistake in his eyes was not to choose the Kremlin as a way for their future. And that's all they have done."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said "it doesn't matter how much effort we made" to prevent an invasion of Ukraine because Vladimir Putin "has been set on this for many, many months and certainly over a year".

He told Sky News: "I wrote an article in January that President Putin was beyond this type of persuasion. President Putin, I said and got criticised at the time, there was a whiff of Munich about President Putin.

"It wasn't the bit about appeasement I was referring to, I was referring that in ... Munich in 1938 Adolf Hitler all along had a plan to invade parts of Europe and all the diplomacy was about a straw man sort of attempt by him to buy time.

"Putin has been set on this for many, many months and certainly over a year, and I think that's why, you know, it doesn't matter how much effort we made - and we all made unbelievable amounts of effort, we saw President Macron go, my Prime Minister regularly spoke to Putin - didn't matter.

"As we're seeing today, it's not about the Donbas, it's not about a minority, it is about a greed to subsume Ukraine into the Russian Federation, or indeed for President Putin to land-grab."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russia had "failed to deliver" on its "day one" objectives.

He told Sky News: "Our assessment as of this morning is that Russia has not taken any of its major objectives, in fact it is behind its hoped-for timetable.

"They've lost over 450 personnel. One of the significant airports they were trying to capture with their elite Spetsnaz has failed to be taken. In fact, the Ukrainians have taken it back.

"So, I think contrary to great Russian claims and indeed President Putin's sort of vision that somehow the Ukrainians would be liberated and would be flocking to his cause - he's got that completely wrong. The Russian army has failed to deliver on day one its main objective."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said he believes Russian President Vladimir Putin's legacy will be "isolation", adding that "diplomacy is absolutely off the table" at this stage.

He told BBC Breakfast: "I think President Putin is slowly but surely building a wall around himself. He will be isolated.

"I think, you know, his legacy is not what he hopes it will be. I think his legacy will be isolation."

He added: "I think at the moment diplomacy is absolutely off the table. We tried. I went to Moscow, Liz Truss went to Moscow, (the) Prime Minister spoke regularly to President Putin and met him on a number of occasions, as did practically every president of, or prime minister of, senior countries in the West.

"So, you know, I'm not sure what more diplomacy would achieve at this very moment in time."

He added: "I think it's important to have a diplomatic link, it's important for us to give messages to the Kremlin direct."

Boris Johnson committed to providing further support to Ukraine after receiving an update from president Volodymyr Zelensky on the "terrible developments" in Kyiv.

A Downing Street statement said: "The Prime Minister spoke to President Zelensky this morning to express his solidarity with Ukraine.

"President Zelensky updated the Prime Minister on the most recent Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes on Ukrainian cities and the terrible developments in Kyiv in the early hours of this morning.

"The Prime Minister assured President Zelensky that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing. He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russia's campaign of violence, and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.

"The Prime Minister committed to provide further UK support to Ukraine in the coming days as the people of Ukraine and the world continue to demonstrate that Putin cannot act with impunity."

President Volodymyr Zelensky said Ukraine demands "effective counteraction" from allies against Russia including further sanctions after talking with Boris Johnson.

The Ukrainian leader tweeted: "Held talks with PM @BorisJohnson. Reported on the course of (Ukraine's) defence and insidious attacks on Kyiv by the aggressor. Today (Ukraine) needs the support of partners more than ever.

"We demand effective counteraction to the Russian Federation. Sanctions must be further strengthened."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace has said British troops will not be sent to fight "directly" with the Russians.

He told BBC Breakfast: "I said very clearly about a month ago that we are not going to be sending British troops to fight directly with Russian troops.

"We are going to hold the line in Nato. We've always supported Ukraine's application to Nato over the last 15 years, not every country has wanted them to join.

"We've done the next best thing, which is train over 20,000 Ukrainians, provided them with lethal capabilities, which they are using right now.

"But I'm not putting British troops directly to fight Russian troops. That would trigger a European war, because we are a Nato country, and Russia would therefore be attacking Nato."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said he believes "further financial restrictions" against Russia are needed.

Speaking on Good Morning Britain, Sir Keir said he supported the Government's package of sanctions announced on Thursday but called for extra measures.

He said the UK should "break open" shell companies in Britain providing support to Vladimir Putin and target Russia via Swift, an international financial system.

Reacting to news that Russian troops were nearing Kyiv, Sir Keir said the situation was "extremely serious" and Britain should be "absolutely clear" in its stance.

"We have to stand together with our allies, particularly Nato, and it's very important we must stand together as one United Kingdom, and therefore yesterday was significant in Parliament because all political parties spoke with one voice in our support for Ukraine and our support for Nato.

"In relation to the sanctions, I thought what the Government put forward earlier this week was not strong enough. They came forward yesterday with a stronger package and I was able to say that we, the opposition, will support those further sanctions.

"I do want to go further. I think that we do need further financial restrictions, particularly the Swift mechanism. I also think we've got to break open the shell companies we have here in the UK that are providing financial support for Putin."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said political parties across Parliament will "not be divided" in the response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking on ITV's Good Morning Britain, he said Vladimir Putin had "calculated the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs" and said MPs must stand together against him.

"Putin wants to see division among our allies, among our Nato members, and among political parties back here in the United Kingdom, and we are not going to be divided," he said.

But he added that there needs to be a "change" in the way Mr Putin is handled.

"The combined package in response to this, financial measures, sanctions, etc, must not only isolate Russia but must be capable of crippling its ability to function."

"He added: "We are talking about Russia invading a European country here. It's as serious as it gets. We must have an absolutely full response."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Russian President Vladimir Putin "won't stop" after invading Ukraine.

He said the decision not to "put British service personnel in direct fighting" was not about "risk", but to avoid triggering a "war across Europe".

"It's not about risk, as much as I care for my personnel. It's not about risk," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

"It's about if we were to directly attack Russian aircraft, we would have a war across Europe."

He added: "I have said continually for a long time, as has Britain, and the Prime Minister has supported this position, that Putin is not rational.

"He is trying to invade Ukraine. He won't stop after he's ... with Ukraine. He will use everything in the Baltic states. He doesn't believe the Baltic states are really countries.

"And we will have to stand up to it. Now, I cannot trigger a European war and I won't trigger a European war. But what I will do is help Ukraine fight every street with every piece of equipment we can get to them, and we will support them, and that is the reality."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said Jeremy Corbyn was wrong about Nato and the party itself has "never wavered" in its support for the alliance.

Asked on Sky News about the former Labour leader's stance on stopping the expansion of Nato, Sir Keir said: "Jeremy Corbyn was wrong about that but the Labour Party's policy never shifted under his leadership and I've been very clear."

Sir Keir added that the "collective failure of the West" in the past response to Vladimir Putin may have emboldened the Russian president but described the party's support for Nato as "unshakeable".

He said: "I do think that the failure, the collective failure, of you know, the West... in relation to action he's taken in the past, so many examples - Georgia, Crimea, Donbas - have given him the sense that as I say the benefits of aggression outweigh the costs.

"We have to be clear that that isn't the case here in relation to Ukraine and that that response package from the rest of the world will be so strong that it will not only isolate Russia but also cripple its ability to function."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Britain has been asked to provide more support to defend Ukrainian airspace.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "So first of all, anti-air is being supplied to the Ukrainians, and has been.

"A number of the Baltic states, the United States provided Stinger missiles, which has brought down clearly a number of Russian aircraft.

"The ability to defend their airspace from (the) ground has been enabled. And (of) course, there is more to do and... we've been asked and a number of other nations for that.

"But... to do a no-fly zone... I would have to put British fighter jets directly against Russian fighter jets. Nato would have to effectively declare war on Russia because that's what you would do."

Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer has said if Boris Johnson brought forward tougher sanctions on Russia, they would be voted through Parliament "very, very quickly" with the Labour Party's support.

He also strengthened his appeal for Russia to be banned from international financial system Swift, describing the move as a "now decision" which should be made as soon as possible.

"That is a now decision and the Labour Party would support it in full. We think it should happen now," he told BBC Breakfast.

Sir Keir called for shell companies in the UK supporting Vladimir Putin's regime to be targeted, saying there was "frustration" in Parliament that the Government hasn't "got on with this".

"What I've said to the Prime Minister is whatever criticism I've got for you, not having done it now, do it now. If you bring forward legislation, I said to the Prime Minister on Monday, we the Labour Party will vote for it.

"We could bring this through Parliament very, very quickly because those shell companies are hiding assets that are supporting Putin and we have to get our house in order and there's such a will in Parliament at the moment."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said Britain will "work all day" to try to get the Swift international payment system "turned off for Russia".

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Britain wants the Swift system to be turned off for Russia. But unfortunately the Swift system is not in our control - it's not a unilateral decision."

Mr Wallace said the system is used "to move money around", explaining: "When you pay Russia for its gas, it probably goes through the Swift system, for example. It is based in Belgium. It has a number of partners that control it, or nation states."

He added: "We want it switched off. Other countries do not. We only have so many options. We are going to work all day to try and get it (switched off for Russia)."

An urgent question on the military situation in Ukraine will take place in the House of Commons from 11am.

It has been tabled by Conservative MP Peter Bone (Wellingborough).

The House of Lords will be debating Ukraine and Russia from 10am.

The Government has been pressed to give an update on China's position on Ukraine and on missiles "arriving in Serbia ready to destabilise" peace in Bosnia.

As the Commons began a Friday sitting, Conservative MP Sir Bernard Jenkin (Harwich and North Essex) said: "I appreciate there is an urgent question on Ukraine later on, but I wonder if the Government has given any indication about whether they are going to make a statement about our relations with China, given that China has done nothing to condemn the Ukrainian incursion, and whether the Government will also make a statement about what is happening in the Balkans where I understand that missiles are arriving in Serbia ready to destabilise the Dayton Agreement and create a new crisis there."

Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle said he was sure the Government would take Sir Bernard's comments "very seriously".

Sir Lindsay said: "I have been given no notification that anything is forthcoming. What I would say is that we do have the urgent question and I am sure that he may be able to press the minister if he were able to catch my eye."

Conservative MP Peter Bone (Wellingborough) has tabled an urgent question on the latest information about the invasion of Ukraine, due to be answered at 11am Friday.

Defence minister James Heappey is expected to respond to the urgent question granted in the Commons on Ukraine at 11am.

Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries welcomed Uefa's decision to strip St Petersburg of the Champions League final over the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

She said: "I welcome Uefa's decisive action to strip St Petersburg of staging this year's Champions League Final.

"Russia must not be allowed to exploit sporting and cultural events on the world stage to legitimise its unprovoked, premeditated and needless attack against a sovereign democratic state."

Defence minister Baroness Goldie said there is currently no indication Russia intends to "directly target" UK or Nato forces, but they "remain on guard", with cyber attacks expected.

Opening a debate in the House of Lords, Lady Goldie said 1,000 troops are on stand-by to deal with the exodus of people from Ukraine.

She told peers: "It goes without saying that our thoughts and prayers remain with the Ukrainian people, many of whom have family and friends in the UK, and will now find themselves under attack for no reason whatsoever.

"But at the same time we remain on guard. While there is no indication at present that Russia intends to directly target British or Nato forces, we should expect their forces and proxies to launch cyber attacks and misinformation campaigns, seeking opportunities to embarrass the UK or Nato and to undermine our resolve.

"We stand ready to protect our country against any threats, whether conventional or in cyberspace.

"However, I'm afraid there's no disguising the fact that a dark new chapter has opened in our history."

The UK will send further armed forces to Estonia "earlier than planned" to reinforce the Nato ally in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Responding to an Urgent Question, Defence minister James Heappey told the Commons: "In addition to the Royal Tank Regiment battle group that has been in place in Estonia for the last six months, the Royal Welsh battlegroup will be arriving in Estonia earlier than planned to double up our force levels and those doubled-up force levels remain indefinitely.

"They will be augmented by the headquarters of 12 Mechanised Brigade, meaning that the United Kingdom will have an armoured brigade in Estonia reassuring one of our closest Nato allies."

Nato troops must not enter Ukraine because of the "risk of miscalculation" leading to "existential" threat, a minister has said.

Defence minister James Heappey told MPs that the Government would "explore all that we can do to support the Ukrainians themselves over the next few days".

He added: "But we must all in this House be clear that British and Nato troops should not, must not, play an active role in Ukraine.

"We must all be clear what the risk of miscalculation could be and how existential that could very quickly become if people miscalculate and things escalate unnecessarily."

A software engineer and Masters student in Kyiv has said that Ukrainians are "scared, but hopeful and extremely angry" as Russia targets the Ukrainian capital.

Olesia, 22, has been sheltering with friends and family in her home and said she has heard sirens go off four times on February 25.

She told the PA news agency: "We hosted some people, because our house is more reliable, and are hosting family and friends here. We've heard sirens that indicate air alarm, I believe, four times today...

"We have some acquaintances in the part of the city where heavy shelling was coming just now, glad to know they're okay.

"People are scared, but hopeful and extremely angry. We trust our military, we believe we will withstand the attacks, some of my relatives have gone to the territorial defence, I'm considering that too."

She added that she wants the "international public to realise this is a threat to world's safety, not just Ukraine" and for governments across the globe "to ban Russia from Swift and to shelter Ukrainian sky, to provide military and financial help to Ukraine".

Conservative MP Peter Bone asked the minister to update the House on whether the UK and Western allies will institute a no-fly zone on Ukraine.

The MP for Wellingborough said: "We are seeing history repeat itself, as a powerful country, headed by a mad man, is extending its territorial boundaries. First by annexing regions of sovereign countries and then invading those countries. This, of course, is what happened in the 1930s and led to World War."

He added: "The Ukraine ambassador to the United Kingdom has asked for us and our allies to institute a no-fly zone of Ukraine. As the ambassador said, people are dying as we speak.

"This action will be a significant and a real help for the people of Ukraine. Yesterday, when I asked the Prime Minister about this request, he indicated it was not ruled out. Could the minister update the House on this request for help?"

Defence minister James Heappey said a no-fly zone is "somewhat difficult to implement in a hostile airspace against a peer adversary".

He noted eyes must be open to the reality that "in such an event, Nato jets would not possibly, but would most certainly probably, come into a combat situation with Russian jets."

Mr Heappey went on: "The risk of miscalculation and escalation and the triggering of Article 5 could not be understated in those circumstances. In the air domain, the risk of miscalculation is greater because things are happening at Mach 2. And there is no time for political calibration."

Shadow defence secretary John Healey pressed the Government on whether the UK will provide Ukraine with short-range handheld anti-tank missiles.

He said: "On Wednesday, the Prime Minister told the House the UK will be shortly providing a further package of military support to Ukraine. We understand the minister's comments about detail, but has this further military assistance being provided?

"The minister knows he has Labour's full support for this."

Mr Healey said the "UK's short-range handheld anti-tank missiles are working well", adding: "He knows that the Ukrainians need more of these urgently to defend Kiev and their other cities. So, can he confirm that he is willing to go that bit further?"

Mr Healey concluded his remarks by saying: "We've taken peace and security in Europe for granted since the end of the Cold War. We can no longer do that.

"I fear that we will be dealing with the consequences of this Russian invasion now for years to come."

Responding to shadow defence secretary John Healey, Defence minister James Heappey said anti-tank missiles had "already proven to be invaluable" in the conflict in Ukraine.

Mr Heappey said the weapons were "high on our list of things that we are looking to supply", adding: "They are unsubstantiated reports, but nonetheless we are aware of the number of circumstances in which they have been used to defeat Russian armour, and we are therefore very aware of their utility both in open battle during the initial phase of the conflict but also in the urban domain in any resistance or insurgency that might follow."

The Defence minister also shared insight that Russia's invasion had not been as successful as planned.

He said: "Suffice to say, we are pretty certain that in the Kremlin last night there will have been some pretty urgent reflections on the speed of the advance compared to what they anticipated.

"I think that Russian people should be calling President Putin and the kleptocracy that surrounds him out on that, because young Russian men and women are being sacrificed in the name of President Putin's hubris."

A total of 1,000 UK troops are on stand-by to support Ukraine's neighbours with refugee responses, a Defence minister has said.

Labour MP for Pontypridd Alex Davies-Jones asked: "Will the 1,000 UK troops that he has placed on stand-by to help with the humanitarian crisis now be urgently deployed?"

Defence minister James Heappey replied: "Just to be very clear - because I think unless I am almost doing her a dis-service - I might have understood her question to be will the 1,000 troops go into Ukraine as they did into Kabul into the summer to facilitate the egress of Ukrainians.

"I am afraid she will be disappointed. That is just not something that could realistically be done. This is a highly kinetic combat situation and the probability of Nato troops being caught up in combat with Russian armed forces is far too high and would lead to huge escalation.

"The 1,000 troops that are on stand-by are there to support Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Poland with the expected humanitarian challenges that they will face as people make their way out of Ukraine."

Conservative MP Dr Luke Evans (Bosworth) asked: "What sanctions and steps will we take to make sure that Belarus feel the pain for what they are doing?"

Mr Heappey replied: "The Belarusian ambassador has been summoned to the Foreign Office today to have the views of Her Majesty's Government shared with them. Belarus has also been included in the sanctions regime."

Downing Street said "nothing is off the table" in support of Ukraine.

A spokesman for Boris Johnson said: "We remain firmly behind Ukraine and will continue to support them."

The spokesman said he could not go into detail over the support being provided but the UK had "talked about protective equipment, helmets, body armour, as well as some of the defensive lethal aid that we've provided in terms of anti-tank weaponry".

The UK Government is working "incredibly closely" with Ukraine's neighbours to support those fleeing the country, No 10 said.

"You'll be aware that we deployed an extra 350 troops to Poland a fortnight ago to help exactly with that task," a spokesman for Boris Johnson said and he pointed towards the Home Secretary's announcement on visa extensions.

Boris Johnson is expected to raise the prospect of banning Russia from the Swift payment system with allies again on Friday, Downing Street said.

A spokesman for the Prime Minister was asked whether the UK would be pushing for the sanction and he said: "You'll have heard the Prime Minister's comments in the House on this yesterday, we will continue to work with allies to try and cut Russia off from Swift.

"You'll be aware that the PM raised this in his call with G7 leaders yesterday, I expect he will raise it at the Nato leaders meeting again today."

The spokesman would not be drawn on which countries were holding out on the proposal but he said: "We've set out why we want to ensure that we can do this, as the Prime Minister said yesterday to ensure that we send a clear message to Vladimir Putin that his efforts will not succeed and to ensure that we can deal a severe blow to the Russian economy."

"As I say, the Prime Minister will raise it again later today," he added.

Conservative MP Nickie Aiken (Cities of London and Westminster) wondered if President Vladimir Putin may listen to the Russian mothers of the soldiers who are now undertaking his aggression.

She said: "As I said goodbye to my own children this morning and wish them a good day in school, my thoughts turned to the mums in Ukraine who now fear for the future of their own children.

"And, as we saw in the newspaper today, and I was taken by the photos in the Daily Mail of children, primary school children taking shelter in in bomb shelters, if President Putin has failed to listen to the major international diplomatic efforts, if he has failed to listen to Nato, to the EU, and the Ukrainian people, does my right honourable friend think he may listen to the Russian mothers of the soldiers who are now undertaking his aggression?"

Defence minister James Heappey said: "I hope so, but I fear that he's not the sort of man that does and that's why we need to do everything we can to empower those people with all the information we can get them about the complete disregard that President Putin has for the lives of their boys and girls."

Mr Heappey said he was "struck" by reports of the Russian use of mobile crematorium to follow their front lines as whilst colleagues back from Iraq and Afghanistan were buried in flag-draped coffins, "Putin just sends around a mobile crematorium and burns them".

This is a "social media rage war", defence minister James Heappey has said.

Mr Heappey's comments came as Labour former minister Dame Diana Johnson pressed the minister on whether the Government will be recording the use of sexual violence in warfare.

She said: "I wanted to just press the minister a little bit more on war crimes. I'm very pleased to hear that they are being recorded and monitored.

"I wondered, in particular, if the minister could just say something about the use of sexual violence in warfare, and how his Government will be recording that, and then what exactly will happen next, just so I understand what the process will be?"

Mr Heappey replied: "It's no consolation to the people of Ukraine but within the British armed forces we've given a huge amount of thought to how we must operate in future conflict very mindful of women, peace and security, and the challenges that far too many women and children face in conflict broadly pursued between men.

"I'm not sure, I'm afraid, that there is that much regard for that being given by the Russians. But I would come back to it if I have any information to the contrary."

The minister insisted war crimes will be monitored "as best we can", adding: "As she's seeing from all of the open source intelligence that's available on social media, this is a very different type of war to even Gulf War One and Two. This is a social media rage war. And these outrages are often there."

Boris Johnson will host the leaders of the V4 countries in London next month to discuss the Ukraine crisis.

No 10 said the Prime Minister will hold a meeting with the leaders of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia on March 8 to "discuss the situation in Ukraine and the UK's support for security in the region".

More sanctions are needed to hit Russia, including targeting Vladimir Putin's inner circle, Boris Johnson has agreed with the leaders of the Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF).

The JEF is a UK-led group comprising Iceland, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Latvia and the UK which works together to deliver forces at high readiness, across a range of roles.

A No 10 spokesman said the Prime Minister spoke to the leaders on Friday.

The spokesman said: "He reiterated that this was a defining moment in European history, with global implications. The Prime Minister said he believed the Ukrainian people would continue to fight and had done so gallantly in the recent hours and days.

"The leaders agreed that more sanctions were needed, including focusing on President Putin's inner circle, building on the measures that had already been agreed."

Mr Johnson said more support must be given to Ukraine "as a matter of the greatest urgency".

Maxim Yermalovich, the ambassador to the UK from Russia-ally Belarus, has arrived at the Foreign Office after being summoned over the Ukrainian invasion.

Russia has said the Defence Secretary could have used "similar adjectives" to describe Boris Johnson when he told troops that Vladimir Putin had gone "full tonto".

Ben Wallace made the unguarded comments while chatting to serving military personnel earlier this week.

Maria Zakharova, Russia's foreign affairs ministry spokesperson, was asked about the comments by Sky News at a press briefing on Friday.

According to the translation on Sky News she said it was "surprising that such evaluations are given by (the) defence minister of the UK regarding authorities of a different state".

She said that "I think he could have thought up of similar adjectives... thinking of (the) British Prime Minister, if we talk about personal judgment."

The bulk of Russian forces advancing on Kyiv remain "more than 50km from the centre of the city", the Ministry of Defence (MoD) has said.

In an intelligence update posted about 3.30pm, the MoD said the Russian armoured forces had "opened a new route of advance towards Kyiv having failed to capture Chernihiv".

The report said there were "reports of sporadic clashes in the northern suburbs of Kyiv, which we continue to monitor" but that "the bulk of Russian forces advancing on Kyiv remain more than 50km from the centre of the city".

Foreign Office minister James Cleverly urged Belarus to "stop supporting Russia's illegal and unprovoked" offensive in Ukraine after summoning Minsk's ambassador.

A Foreign Office statement added: "Belarus needs to desist from its support to Russia and respect Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty in line with its international obligations."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner said President Putin's actions in attacking Ukraine were "disgraceful".

Speaking in Newcastle, she said: "It is absolutely heartbreaking to see the footage out of Ukraine, and the responsibility and the death and the bloodshed lies with Putin.

"He shouldn't have done this. He knows that he's broken international law.

"This is devastating to see what's happened here and the hand of history will not be kind to Putin and his regime for what they've done.

"It is really devastating to see what's happening.

"All of my thoughts are with the people of Ukraine and people who are watching that, and people in Russia who have strong links to family in Ukraine who are seeing this.

"It's disgraceful what Putin has done and he will be judged by his actions by the international community."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner welcomed the Prime Minister's vow to help Ukrainian refugees.

Speaking in Newcastle, she said: "We should be working with our international allies and partners to support every Ukrainian who needs that support at the moment.

"They are in need, and we should be responding to that need."

She said she was proud to be British and to see the support shown for Ukrainians.

Ms Rayner said: "To see those pictures and to hear that statement for those soldiers that wouldn't give up when they were told to give up, 13 of them, and they all were killed, to see that and to see the defiance against that regime who was trying to use bloodshed to bring people to their knees.

"I'm incredibly proud of the Ukrainians and I'm proud I'm proud of what our country is doing to support their freedom and their right to exist.

Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg has said "the world will hold Russia and Belarus accountable for their actions".

Addressing a press briefing following a virtual meeting of Nato leaders, Mr Stoltenberg said: "We call on Russia to stop this senseless war immediately."

He warned that "the Kremlin's objectives are not limited to Ukraine" and that "we are facing a new normal in European security where Russia openly contests the European security order and uses force to pursue its objectives".

He said: "President Putin's decision to pursue his aggression against Ukraine is a terrible strategic mistake."

Mr Stoltenberg added that although significant sanctions had already been announced "we must stand ready to do more, even if it means we have to pay a price, because we are in this for the long haul".

The secretary-general said Nato had deployed thousands more troops to the eastern part of the alliance, and will "do what it takes to protect and defend every ally and every inch of Nato territory".

Britain's chief of defence intelligence has said that Russian forces are seeking to encircle the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, with a view to imposing a pro-Moscow regime.

Lieutenant General Sir Jim Hockenhull said the Ukrainian military was continuing to offer "strong resistance" in the face of the Russian advance.

"Russian forces continue to advance on two axes towards Kyiv.

"Their objective is to encircle the capital to secure control of the population and change the regime," he told reporters.

"Overnight Russian launched a concerted series of strikes on targets Kyiv. Ukrainian armed forces continue to offer strong resistance focusing on the defence of key cities throughout Ukraine."

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng met with BP's chief executive Bernard Looney on Friday to discuss the company's 20% stake in Russia's state-backed oil giant Rosneft.

Mr Looney also sits on the Rosneft board, along with former BP boss Bob Dudley.

Rosneft's chief executive Igor Sechin - a close ally of Vladimir Putin - is on the US sanctions list.

A Whitehall source told the PA news agency: "BP left the meeting with no doubt about the strength of the Business Secretary's concern about their commercial interests in Russia."

Boris Johnson has told Nato leaders that "immediate action" must be taken to ban Russia from the Swift payment platform to "inflict maximum pain" on Vladimir Putin.

The Prime Minister attended a virtual meeting of the leaders on Friday afternoon and warned Nato leaders that Mr Putin was "engaging in a revanchist mission to overturn post-Cold War order", according to a No 10 spokesperson.

The spokesperson said the PM had "urged leaders to take immediate action against Swift to inflict maximum pain on President Putin and his regime"

Mr Johnson told the leaders "the UK would introduce sanctions against President Putin and foreign minister Sergei Lavrov imminently, on top of the sanctions package the UK announced yesterday", bringing the Government in line with measures announced by the EU.

The spokesperson said: "He warned the group that the Russian president's ambitions might not stop there and that this was a Euro-Atlantic crisis with global consequences."

No 10 said Boris Johnson told Nato leaders that the UK armed forces "stood ready for any further request" for further military support.

A Downing Street spokesperson said the Prime Minister told a meeting of Nato leaders on Friday "that the world must make certain President Putin would fail in this act of aggression".

The spokesperson said the PM told the meeting "Ukraine was showing strong resistance, he added that there could no normalisation of relations with Russia after this act".

"The Prime Minister outlined details of the UK's new offer to Nato across its eastern flank. The UK stood ready for any further request from Nato's Supreme Allied Commander Europe to go further with military support to Nato from UK Armed Forces, he said," according to the spokesperson.

"Nato should have primacy in the future of European security and it was vital that it was strengthened now, the Prime Minister added."

Western allies fear Russia could use thermobaric weapons against Ukrainian forces if they continue to hold up their advance.

Western officials believe Russian forces missed most of their day one objectives of the invasion and could resort to indiscriminate firing to make up ground.

One official said this could include thermobaric weapons which Russia is known to have in its armoury and has used in past conflicts - although they have not been seen so far on the battlefield in Ukraine.

"My fear would be that if they don't meet their timescale and objectives they would be indiscriminate in their use of violence," the official said.

Ireland's deputy premier Leo Varadkar has branded Vladimir Putin the "Hitler of the 21st century".

The Tanaiste acknowledged that sanctions such as the potential banning of Russia from the Swift payment network would have economic implications for Ireland.

But he said those consequences needed to be accepted given the situation in Ukraine.

"I don't think we're in that space where we can be concerned about the economic impact on Ireland when a democratic country in the European Union is being invaded and the attempt is being made to overthrow a democratic government there," he told RTE Radio One.

Mr Varadkar added: "The last time I can think of that happening in Europe is in the 1930s and I think we should see this conflict in that context.

"We knew that Putin was a bad man, we've known that for a long time now, but we didn't think that he would be the Hitler of the 21st century and I think he's putting himself into that space."

Russian ambassador to Ireland Yuri Filatov has claimed his country's invasion of Ukraine is a "humanitarian intervention".

Mr Filatov said there was no proof that Russian forces had targeted civilians in the assault.

He claimed Ukraine had used engagement in diplomacy in recent times as a cover for preparing an offensive on the Donbas region of the country.

"It's not our choice, the military option is not our choice," he told RTE.

He added: "There was no other choice to end the suffering of Donbas through real humanitarian intervention - that's what this special operation is exactly about.

"The only aim of the operation is to neutralise the ability of the Ukrainian military to inflict any more suffering on Donbas. Ukrainians should not be afraid of that."

His comments come amid increasing calls from opposition parties in Ireland to expel Mr Filatov from the country.

Asked why he should be allowed to stay, the ambassador said: "You might ask your Government, it's up to them. I can leave any time."

The Transport Secretary said he has extended a UK flight ban on Russian aircraft to include private jets.

The Government previously announced it was banning Russia's flag carrier Aeroflot from landing in the UK.

Grant Shapps tweeted: "Putin's actions are unlawful and anyone benefitting from Russia's aggression in Ukraine is not welcome here. I've strengthened our ban in the UK so that no Russian private jet can fly in UK airspace, or touchdown - effective immediately."

Boris Johnson has addressed a message directly to the people of Russia, saying in Russian: "I do not believe this war is in your name."

In a video posted on social media, the Prime Minister also spoke Ukrainian after urging an end to the conflict "because the world needs a free and sovereign Ukraine".

He said: "The scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy.

"Brave young soldiers and innocent civilians are being cut down, tanks are rumbling through towns and cities, missiles raining indiscriminately from the skies.

"It's a generation or more since we witnessed such bloodshed in Europe. We hoped we would never have to see such sights again."

Mr Johnson continued: "The people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the face of this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.

"We salute the fierce bravery and patriotism of your government, your military and your people."

The Prime Minister went on to say: "Like Ukraine, Russia's poets and artists and authors have shaped our culture and Russia's soldiers fought so bravely with us in the struggle against fascism.

"But Putin's actions are leading to complete isolation for Russia, shunned by the rest of the international community, hit by immense economic sanctions and facing a needless and bloody war that is already costing countless lives, from innocent Ukrainians to your Russian soldiers who will never see their families again."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220225ei2p000gp


Sweden, Finland closed the skies for sanctioned Duma Chairman who then chose north Norway route
Thomas Nilsen
480 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日
The Barents Observer
BARENTE
英文
Copyright 2022. The Barents Observer
Volodin and other parliamentarians were on their way home from a visit to Cuba and Nicaragua when the pilots allegedly were told that the state-owned aircraft would not be allowed to enter Swedish and Finnish airspace.

The deviation of the plane from its original planned route is widely reported in Russian media on Saturday, as several reporters from the parliament press pool were traveling together with the delegation. Among them was Edward Chesnokov with Komsomolskaya Pravda[https://www.kp.ru/daily/27369.5/4551328/], a reporter who detailed the flight pattern as the route was changed.

Flights between the largest city in Russia and tourist destinations in Central America are frequent and routes normally cross over Scandinavia a few hundreds of kilometers south of the Arctic Circle before the trans-Atlantic leg.

Komsomolskaya Pravda’s reporter describes how the delegation on February 24 suddenly understood that they had to cut short the official visit to Central America. This was when Putin’s forces attacked Ukraine[https://thebarentsobserver.com/en/security/2022/02/northern-fleet-attacks-ukraine-still-low-tensions-arctic]. Therefore, the program in Nicaragua lasted only for five hours before take-off towards Cuba where the large Il-96 plane refueled and made ready for the long-distance home.

Somewhere north of the United States, information came that Swedish airspace was closed for the Rossiya’s Special Flight Squadron, according to the media reports. FlightRadar24, an online service tracking planes, shows how the delegation instead had to fly much further north. The plane entered Norwegian airspace outside Tromsø, from where the flight continued over Finnmark to Varangerbotn, then south to Svanvik in the Pasvik valley, from where the aircraft exited Norway and entered Russian airspace south over the Kola Peninsula.

By flying all north to Varangerbotn before turning south, the aircraft avoided Finnish airspace.

See entire route Havana-Moscow. Screenshot FlightRadar24

The detour added 2,5 hours to the flight. Volodin confirms in his own Telegram channel[https://t.me/vv_volodin] that the aircraft was denied to fly over Sweden and Finland and instead flew over Norwegian airspace. The plane landed in Moscow Friday evening. He also tells about the somewhat special flight to newspaper Gazeta[https://www.gazeta.ru/politics/news/2022/02/26/17350489.shtml?updated].

While Vyacheslav Volodin has been on both the US and EU’s sanction lists since 2014 for his role in the annexation of Crimea. This week, the European Union agreed to put sanctions on all 351 members of the State Duma. Noway has made clear it will follow the same sanctions on Russia as the EU.

It is unclear why Norway allowed the Russian special aircraft to fly over the northernmost part of the country. Questions to authorities by the Barents Observer are for now unanswered.

Russia on Saturday closed its airspace to commercial flights from Bulgaria, Poland and the Czech Republic. Similarly, several European countries have banned Russian carriers like Aeroflot.

https://thebarentsobserver.com/en/support-us[https://thebarentsobserver.com/en/support-us]

thomas@thebarentsobserver.com

The Independent Barents Observer AS

文件 BARENTE020220228ei2q00005


Russia facing sports isolation over invasion of Ukraine
By GRAHAM DUNBAR
AP Sports Writer
1098 字
2022 年 3 月 1 日 06:24 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
GENEVA (AP) — International sports bodies moved to further isolate Russia on Monday for its invasion of Ukraine and pushed Moscow closer to becoming a pariah on the playing field.

The International Olympic Committee urged sports bodies to exclude Russian athletes and officials from international events, including soccer's World Cup.

The IOC said it was needed to “protect the integrity of global sports competitions and for the safety of all the participants.”

The decision opened the way for FIFA, the governing body of soccer, to exclude Russia from the World Cup ahead of qualifying playoff on March 24. Poland already has refused to play the scheduled game against Russia.

It was unclear how the IOC’s request will affect Russian hockey players in the NHL and tennis players, including top-ranked Daniil Medvedev, in Grand Slam, ATP and WTA tournaments outside the authority of the International Tennis Federation.

World Rugby's executive committee banned Russia and Belarus from all international rugby and cross-border club rugby activities, saying it condemned “Russia’s aggressive invasion of Ukraine and the facilitation of this action by Belarus.”

FIFA was in talks with European soccer body UEFA on the details of suspending Russia's national and club teams, people with knowledge of the discussions told The Associated Press. They spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss private discussions before FIFA and UEFA decision-makers can ratify the ban later Monday.

With a direct impact on Russia playing World Cup qualifiers next month, FIFA already said Sunday it was talking to the IOC about excluding the country from competitions “should the situation not be improving rapidly.”

The IOC also went directly after President Vladimir Putin, who turned the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics into a personal project. Putin's golden Olympic Order, which was awarded in 2001, has been withdrawn, the IOC said in a statement.[https://olympics.com/ioc/news/ioc-eb-recommends-no-participation-of-russian-and-belarusian-athletes-and-officials]

The Olympic body's call also applied to athletes and official from Belarus, which has abetted Russia's invasion by allowing its territory to be used to station troops and launch military attacks.

The IOC said it acted “with a heavy heart,” but noted that the impact of war on Ukrainian sports and athletes who cannot now take part in competitions outweighed the potential damage done to athletes from Russia and Belarus.

It was not a total blanket ban by the IOC, which also did not specifically suspend the national Olympic committees of Russia and Belarus.

Where exclusion was “not possible on short notice for organizational or legal reasons,” then teams from Russia and Belarus should compete as neutral athletes with no national flag, anthem or symbols, including at the upcoming Winter Paralympics in Beijing.

Russian Olympic committee leader Stanislav Pozdnyakov said in a statement “there is only one comment to make -- we categorically disagree,” adding it would help national federations to challenge “discriminatory rulings.”

Sports bodies across Europe already had moved against Russia on Monday by refusing to host or play against teams from the country.

Finland wants the Russian hockey team banned from the men’s world championships it will host in May, the Swiss soccer federation said its women’s team will not play Russia in July at the European Championship, and German soccer club Schalke said it had decided to end its longstanding partnership with Russian state-owned energy giant Gazprom.

Over the weekend, FIFA declined to ban Russia from the World Cup. Instead, it said the country's national team will have to compete under the name of its federation, the “Football Union of Russia” as punishment. Besides Poland, potential opponents Sweden and the Czech Republic have said they would refuse to take the field against Russia.

“The Swedish Football Association is disappointed with FIFA’s decision but is determined to continue to work together with other federations to cancel Russia’s matches in the upcoming World Cup qualifiers,” the body said Monday, citing the “illegal and deeply unjust invasion of Ukraine.”

The World Cup is scheduled to begin on Nov. 21 in Qatar.

In European club soccer, Russian team Spartak Moscow is still scheduled to play next week in the Europa League against German club Leipzig. UEFA allowed Spartak to take its place in the round of 16 draw on Friday, one day after Putin ordered the invasion to start.

UEFA called a meeting of its executive committee for later Monday and is expected to exclude Russian teams from its competitions based on the IOC announcement. The FIFA Bureau was set to only require the six regional confederation presidents to confirm the decision in writing.

The moves are not unprecedented. Following United Nations sanctions in 1992, FIFA and UEFA expelled Yugoslavia from its competitions when war broke out in the Balkans.

Besides Schalke’s effort to drop Gazprom as a partner, UEFA also is expected to see if it can nullify sponsorship deals with the company. Gazprom sponsors both the Champions League and the European Championship.

FIFA had tried to compromise Sunday by suggesting Russia play at neutral venues without its flag and anthem and under the Football Union of Russia name.

That aligns with sanctions imposed by the Court of Arbitration for Sport in December 2020 to punish Russia for state-backed doping and cover-ups of cheating, and applied at last year’s Tokyo Olympics and this year’s Winter Games in Beijing.

If Russia plays Poland as scheduled on March 24 and wins, the team would then face either Sweden or the Czech Republic on March 29.

Polish soccer federation president Cezary Kulesza said Sunday it was “totally unacceptable” that FIFA had not immediately expelled Russia from World Cup qualifying and said Poland is “not interested in participating in this game of appearances.”

Another future opponent, Albania, also said Sunday it would not play against Russia in any sports. Russia and Albania are scheduled to meet twice in June in the UEFA Nations League soccer tournament.

In hockey, the sport’s governing body has come under pressure from Finland and Switzerland to ban Russia and Belarus, both due to play at the world championships in May in Helsinki and Tampere.

Finnish Hockey Association chairman Harri Nummela said in a statement Monday it had talks with the Zurich-based IIHF to exclude the two countries from the sport internationally. ___

AP Global Soccer Writer Rob Harris in London contributed.

___

More AP soccer: https://apnews.com/hub/soccer[https://apnews.com/hub/soccer] and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports[https://twitter.com/AP_Sports]

Eds: UPDATES: Updates story sent earlier to add World Rugby sanction. With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220228ei2s009st


Metso Outotec Oyj - Update on Russia Ukraine conflict on Metso Outotec’s business
Metso Outotec Oyj published this content on 02 Mar 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 02 Mar 2022 07:34:22 UTC.
421 字
2022 年 3 月 2 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/FA9DD60D23A841E0C82D447102CEA381BF6EF143]

Update on Russia Ukraine conflict on Metso Outotec's business

Press Release March 2, 2022

Update on Russia Ukraine conflict on Metso Outotec's business

Metso Outotec Corporation's press release on March 2, 2022, at 09:30 a.m. EET

As a result of Russia's military actions against Ukraine, the European Union, the United States and other countries have announced severe sanctions against Russia. While the mining industry is currently not directly targeted by the sanctions, sanctions against the banking sector and individuals as well as other restrictions may have an impact on Metso Outotec and our customers' Russia related businesses. Due to the current unclear and changing sanction situation, Metso Outotec has temporarily ceased its deliveries to Russia.

Metso Outotec's customers in Russia operate in several mining and metals processing sites across Russia. Capital projects are typically long with deliveries taking place over the course of several years. Sales from Russia represented approximately 10% of Metso Outotec's annual sales in 2021. Metso Outotec does not have own production in Russia, or any material procurement in the country.

Further information

Juha Rouhiainen, Vice President, Investor Relations, Metso Outotec Corporation, tel. +358 20 484 3253, email: juha.rouhiainen(at)mogroup.com

Helena Marjaranta, Vice President, Communications and Brand, Metso Outotec, tel. +358 20 484 3212, email: helena.marjaranta(at)mogroup.com

Metso Outotec is a frontrunner in sustainable technologies, end-to-end solutions and services for the aggregates, minerals processing and metals refining industries globally. By improving our customers' energy and water efficiency, increasing their productivity, and reducing environmental risks with our product and process expertise, we are the partner for positive change. Metso Outotec is committed to limiting global warming to 1.5°C with Science Based Targets.

Headquartered in Helsinki, Finland, Metso Outotec employs over 15,000 people in more than 50 countries and its sales for 2021 were about EUR 4.2 billion. The company is listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki. mogroup.com[https://www.mogroup.com/] , twitter.com/metsooutotec[https://twitter.com/metsooutotec]

* Original Link[https://www.mogroup.com/corporate/media/news/2022/3/update-on-russia-ukraine-conflict-on-metso-outotecs-business/]

Disclaimer

Metso Outotec Oyj published this content on 02 March 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 02 March 2022 07:35:20 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020220302ei32007n5


News
'Trump barely knew where Ukraine was, he once asked if Finland was part of Russia ': John Bolton snaps at Newsmax anchor for saying the 45th president was tougher on Putin than Biden
Nikki Schwab, Senior U.S. Political Reporter For Dailymail.com
941 字
2022 年 3 月 2 日 05:27 GMT
Mail Online
DAMONL
英文
Copyright 2022
* Former President Donald Trump 'barely knew where Ukraine was,' said his former National Security Advisor John Bolton

* Bolton snapped back at a Newsmax anchor for saying the Trump administration was 'very tough' on Russia

* 'In almost every case the sanctions were imposed with Trump complaining about it, saying we were being too hard,' Bolton said

* He added, '[Trump] once asked John Kelly, the second chief of staff, if Finland were a part of Russia'

Former President Donald Trump 'barely knew where Ukraine was,' said his former National Security Advisor John Bolton, as he snapped back at a Newsmax anchor for saying the Trump administration was 'very tough' on Russia.

'In almost every case the sanctions were imposed with Trump complaining about it, saying we were being too hard,' Bolton said in a Monday night interview with Newsmax's Rob Schmitt. 'He once asked John Kelly, the second chief of staff, if Finland were a part of Russia.'

Bolton continued by telling the anchor 'it's not accurate to say that Trump's behavior somehow deterred the Russians.'

Bolton instead suggested that Russian President Vladimir Putin didn't feel his military was ready to mount a widespread invasion of Ukraine.

Schmitt was parroting points Trump made himself Saturday night at the Conservative Political Action Conference.

'I stand as the only president of 21st century on whose watch Russia did not invade,' Trump boasted from the Orlando stage. 'Under Bush, Russia invaded Georgia. Under Obama, Russia took Crimea. Under Biden, Russia invaded Ukraine.'

'The world is always safer when America has a strong president. The world is always in danger with a weak American president,' Trump also argued.

Schmitt argued that the is 'something to be said, though, about the simple fact that there was not aggression during the four years.'

'I mean, you were part of that administration as well and there was not aggression from Russia, and they waited him out, it seems, and made a move,' the anchor offered to Bolton, who since leaving the Trump White House has become a critic of the now ex-president.

Schmitt pointed to Trump's criticism of NATO members in Europe who utilized Russian energy sources.

'I mean, he took a very tough stance against Russia,' Schmitt said. 'I'm surprised you don't think that he would have handled this better than Joe Biden.'

Bolton slapped down Schmitt's assessment that Trump took a tough stance.

'No he didn't,' Bolton said. 'He did not.'

Bolton also told Schmitt that it was inaccurate to say the Trump administration sanctioned Nord Stream 2, the Russian-German pipeline project that was officially canceled last week by the German government in the run-up to Putin's invasion of Ukraine.

'We didn't sanction Nord Stream 2,' Bolton said. 'We should have.'

Schmitt asked Bolton if he believed Trump was 'soft on Russia' trying to push back on the idea that the ex-president was 'Putin's puppy.'

'I don't think he understood what he was doing,' Bolton replied. 'That's my fundamental point. This is not really a policy argument.'

'This is about Trump's lack of any significant historical knowledge, his lack of strategic thinking, and frankly his lack of thinking about pretty much anything other than what benefitted Donald Trump,' the former Trump White House official continued.

'Why was he concerned about Ukraine in the summer of 2019? Because he wanted that DNC server. Why was he concerned about corruption in Ukraine? Because he was looking for an excuse to cover the reason he was refusing to send $250 million of security assistance to the Ukraine,' Bolton added.

Bolton was referring to moves Trump made in 2019 that led to his first impeachment.

House Democrats charged Trump with holding up Congressionally-approved military aid to Ukraine as part of a pressure campaign against Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky to announce investigations into Joe and Hunter Biden.

He was acquitted in the Senate, with only one Republican, Sen. Mitt Romney, siding with Democrats, agreeing with one of the articles of impeachment that Trump abused his power.

Schmitt argued that the money to arm Ukraine was sent to the country.

'It was mandated by Congress,' Bolton pointed out. 'He made up the reasons that he did it. He wanted to apply pressure for his own political purposes,' Bolton said of Trump's effort to stop the money from going to Ukraine.

Schmitt said it was unfair to say that there weren't 'intelligent' moves made against Putin during Trump's tenure.

Bolton said he didn't say that.

'My point was that Trump was not fit to be president, he was not competent to be president,' Bolton argued instead.

Schmitt then pointed out that Bolton worked for Trump.

'I did, I did,' the former White House official acknowledged, adding, 'to help protect American national security.'

Trump praised Putin throughout his time in the White House and sided with the Russian leader over American intelligence agencies during the July 2018 Helsinki Summit on Russian election meddling during the 2016 campaign.

In the run-up to the invasion, Trump called Putin 'genius' and 'smart' for the moves he made against Ukraine.

At CPAC Trump leaned into those comments telling the friendly crowd, 'The problem is not that Putin is smart, of course he's smart, but the real problem is that our leaders are dumb.'

DMG Media Limited

文件 DAMONL0020220301ei310096q


Metso Outotec Temporarily Halts Deliveries to Russia
By Dominic Chopping
187 字
2022 年 3 月 2 日 09:56 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Finnish mining equipment manufacturer Metso Outotec Oyj said Wednesday it has temporarily ceased deliveries to Russia.

While the mining industry is currently not directly targeted by sanctions against Russia, sanctions against the banking sector and individuals as well as other restrictions may have an impact on the company and its customers' Russia-related businesses, it said.

"Due to the current unclear and changing sanction situation, Metso Outotec has temporarily ceased its deliveries to Russia," the company said.

Metso Outotec's customers in Russia operate in several mining and metals processing sites across the country and capital projects are typically long with deliveries taking place over the course of several years, it added.

Sales to Russia represented around 10% of Metso Outotec's annual sales in 2021. Metso Outotec does not have any production in Russia, or any material procurement in the country. The company reported sales of 4.24 billion euros ($4.72 billion) in 2021.

Write to Dominic Chopping at dominic.chopping@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

March 02, 2022 04:56 ET (09:56 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220302ei320013d


CE Noticias Financieras English
AFP general forecasts at 12H00 GMT
1203 字
2022 年 3 月 4 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
MAIN NEWS

UKRAINE RUSSIA CONFLICT: Russia occupies Ukraine's largest nuclear power plant after attack paralyzes world

-- UKRAINE RUSSIA CONFLICT

KIEV:

Russia occupies Ukraine's largest nuclear power plant after attack that paralyzed world

Russian troops on Friday occupied the largest nuclear power plant in Ukraine and Europe after an attack that caused a fire with no impact on radioactivity levels, but paralyzed the world amid fears of a new atomic catastrophe.

By Dmitry ZAKS and Dmytro GORSHKOV

(Ukraine conflict Russia diplomacy diplomacy economy nuclear armed-forces, Central Note, 950 words - Already transmitted)

INFOGRAPHICS, PHOTOS, VIDEO

KIEV:

Europe's largest nuclear power plant impacted by war.

The war between Ukraine and Russia reached the Zaporiyia nuclear power plant, Europe's largest, on Friday and triggered fears of an immense catastrophe.

(Ukraine nuclear Russia conflict, Sidebar, 500 words - Already aired)

INFOGRAPHY

PARIS:

Ex-comedian Zelenski and ex-spy Putin, at war over Ukraine.

One is a former comedian who became president in 2019 without any political experience. The other was an agent of the Soviet secret services (KGB) and has been in power for two decades.

By Stuart WILLIAMS

(Ukraine conflict Russia, Semblanza, 750 words - Already aired)

PHOTOS

MOSCOW:

New turn of the screw against information in Russia in the midst of conflict with Ukraine.

Russia paved the way on Friday to approve a text with harsh prison sentences and fines for those who publish "false information" about the army, a further twist of internal repression in the midst of the invasion of Ukraine.

(Russia conflict Ukraine politics press media rights, Focus, 750 words - Already aired)

BEIJING:

China, limited lifeline for Russia after sanctions over Ukraine invasion.

Russia is counting on China to mitigate the effect of international sanctions over its invasion of Ukraine, but Beijing is not willing to do everything in the name of friendship, analysts warn.

By Sébastien RICCI and Beiyi SEOW with Ali BEKHTAOUI in Paris

(China Russia Ukraine trade conflict sanction, Focus, 650 words - Already aired)

VIDEO

WARSAW:

Spanish journalist suspected of spying for Russia arrested in Poland.

A Spanish freelance journalist was detained on Polish territory near the Ukrainian border on suspicion of spying for the Russian military intelligence services GRU, the Polish security agency ABW announced on Friday.

(Poland Spain espionage media Russia Ukraine, Note, 400 words - Already transmitted)

HELSINKI:

Train to Helsinki, a gateway for Russians to Europe.

"I have no intention of returning to Russia soon," says Elena, a Russian living in Finland. Trains connecting St. Petersburg to Helsinki, the only line still open between Russia and the European Union, are packed with Russians eager to get out of the country while they still can.

By Sam KINGSLEY

(Finland Russia Ukraine refugee conflict transport, Report, 600 words - 12H30 GMT)

PHOTOS, VIDEO.

GENEVA:

More than 1.2 million Ukrainian refugees from Russia's invasion

More than 1.2 million people fled Ukraine since the start of the Russian invasion on February 24, according to the latest UN figures released Friday.

(Ukraine refugee conflict Russia forces-armed, Sidebar, 400 words - Already aired)

INFOGRAPHY

PARIS:

War in Ukraine begins to affect Europe's auto industry.

With factories shut down in Russia and production idling in Europe, carmakers are beginning to feel the first effects of the war in Ukraine. And these may get worse yet.

By Taimaz SZIRNIKS

(Russia automobile Germany conflict Ukraine Ukraine Japan France sanction, Focus, 650 words - Already transmitted)

FILE PHOTO.

LONDON:

Since the war in Ukraine, Russian oil finds no buyer.

A week after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Russian oil is struggling to find buyers, who fear stigma, possible future sanctions and logistical complications, despite growing concerns about a possible market shortage.

By Joseph SOTINEL

(GB Russia Ukraine oil dispute, Focus, 650 words - Already aired)

PARIS:

The balance achieved in space after the Cold War, broken by the Russian invasion.

The Russian invasion of Ukraine, unleashed a week ago, has rapidly erupted on the chessboard of the civilian space sector, brutally halting the cooperation between Moscow and the Western powers that emerged after the end of the Cold War.

By Juliette COLLEN

(Russia USA aerospace Ukraine conflict, Focus, 600 words - 12H30 GMT)

PARIS:

Fears of a cultural "iron curtain" in Russia over Ukraine invasion.

Even during the Cold War, Russian artists performed frequently in the West, but with the invasion of Ukraine, Europe seems unwilling to see companies like the Bolshoi or the Morozov modern art collection in Paris again.

By Rana MOUSSAOUI

(Russia culture art music opera Ukraine conflict, Focus, 600 words - 13H00 GMT)

FILE PHOTOS

OTHER NEWS BY REGION

-- ASIA

PERSHAWAR, Pakistan:

At least 30 killed in mosque bombing in Pakistan.

At least 30 people were killed and 80 injured in an attack on a Shiite mosque in Peshawar, northwestern Pakistan, during Friday prayers.

By Lehaz ALI

(Pakistan religion attack, Central Note, 550 words - 13H00 GMT)

PHOTOS, VIDEO.

-- MIDDLE EAST

BAGHDAD:

The ravages of time and neglect threaten the heritage of Jews in Iraq.

In a popular neighborhood of the Iraqi capital, nothing distinguishes the faded brick building except the discreet inscription in Hebrew at the entrance. The sumptuous past of this Baghdad synagogue fell into oblivion and did not escape the ravages of time.

By Salam FARAJ

(Iraq religion religion heritage communities Judaism, Report, 750 words - Already aired)

PHOTOS, VIDEO

-- ECONOMY

PARIS:

World stock markets fall again due to war in Ukraine.

World stock markets fell sharply again Friday amid fears over the war in Ukraine and the bombing of Europe's largest atomic power plant.

By Florian SOENEN

(Stock exchanges debt currencies stocks markets Russia Ukraine conflict, Summary, 400 words - Already transmitted)

TOKYO:

Sony and Honda partner to develop electric vehicles.

Electronics giant Sony and automaker Honda announced Friday their intention to form a "strategic alliance" to develop and produce electric vehicles and market them from 2025.

By Mathias CENA

(Japan electronics automobile computer electronics, Central Note, 500 words - Already aired)

FILE PHOTO

-- SOCIETY

BRASILIA, Brazil:

In Brazil's favelas, youngsters dream of being the "Neymar of e-games."

He could say Neymar or Vinícius Junior, but when teenager Yan Araújo is asked about his idols, he answers without hesitation: "Nobru and Cerol," two players of Freefire, a video game that is causing a furor in Brazilian favelas.

By Marcelo SILVA DE SOUSA

(Brazil egames favela soccer freefire society video games, Report, 750 words - Already broadcasted)

PHOTOS AND VIDEO

NEW YORK, United States:

The Los Angeles Lakers, protagonists of a series.

Almost two years after the success of The Last Dance about Michael Jordan's Chicago Bulls, it's the Lakers' turn to enter the streaming arena: the counterattack starts on Sunday with a fiction about the glorious years of Magic Johnson's band.

By Andréa BAMBINO

(USA streaming basketball TV series, Magazine, 600 words - Already broadcasted)

ANTIGUA, Guatemala:

"It's very 'cool'": selfie aficionados trigger creativity in Guatemala museum.

Photographing oneself being "abducted" by an alien spacecraft or "levitating" on a bed is possible for selfie lovers in Guatemala with the opening of the first museum in the country that recreates colorful portrait locations.

(Guatemala art culture entertainment curious photography, Videorrelato, 400 words - 12H30)

PHOTOS, VIDEO

en/mar

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220304ei34004vr


CE Noticias Financieras English
AFP's general forecasts at 21H00 GMT
1782 字
2022 年 3 月 4 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
MAIN NEWS

UKRAINE RUSSIA CONFLICT: Russian occupation of Ukrainian nuclear power plant heightens world's fears

-- UKRAINE RUSSIA CONFLICT

KIEV:

Russian occupation of nuclear power plant in Ukraine aggravates world's fears.

The attack on Ukraine's and Europe's largest nuclear power plant in the early hours of the morning paralyzed the world in the heat of a new atomic catastrophe and Washington accused Moscow of posing "a threat to Europe and the world."

By Dmitry ZAKS and Dmytro GORSHKOV

(Ukraine conflict Russia diplomacy diplomacy economy nuclear forces-armed, Central Note, Update, 1,000 words - 21H30 GMT)

INFOGRAPHICS, PHOTOS, VIDEO

PARIS:

Ukraine, highly nuclearized country, center of many concerns.

Ukraine has numerous nuclear reactors, including those at the Zaporiyia power plant, bombed by the Russians. These facilities are designed to withstand some aggression, but only to a limited extent.

By Julien MIVIELLE

(Ukraine Ukraine conflict Russia nuclear nuclear electricity energy, Sidebar, 650 words - Already aired)

INFOGRAPHY

KIEV:

Europe's largest nuclear power plant impacted by war.

The war between Ukraine and Russia reached the Zaporiyia nuclear power plant, Europe's largest, on Friday and triggered fears of an immense catastrophe.

(Ukraine nuclear Russia conflict, Sidebar, 500 words - Already aired)

INFOGRAPHY

PARIS:

Reactions around the world to Russian attack on Ukrainian nuclear power plant.

Russian tank shells fired at Ukraine's Zaporiyia nuclear power plant, the largest in Europe, provoked concern and indignation in the world on Friday.

(diplomacy conflict Ukraine Russia nuclear, Synthesis, 450 words - Already aired)

DNIPRO, Ukraine:

Russian invasion pushes families into central Ukraine.

In the eastern Ukrainian town of Volnovaja, artillery fire hit the apartment building of Viktor and Natalya, who fled to Dnipro with their three children to seek refuge.

(refugee conflict Ukraine Russia, Report, 450 words - Already aired)

PHOTOS

PARIS:

Ex-comedian Zelenski and ex-spy Putin, at war over Ukraine.

One is a former comedian who became president in 2019 without any political experience. The other was an agent of the Soviet secret services (KGB) and has been in power for two decades.

By Stuart WILLIAMS

(Ukraine conflict Russia, Semblanza, 750 words - Already aired)

PHOTOS

MOSCOW:

New turn of the screw against information in Russia in the midst of conflict with Ukraine.

Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday enacted a law that provides for harsh prison sentences and fines for those who publish "false information" about the army, in a new twist of internal repression in the midst of the invasion of Ukraine.

(Russia conflict Ukraine politics press media rights, Focus Update, 750 words - Already aired)

WASHINGTON:

How private satellite imagery is shaping the Ukrainian conflict.

From a Russian military convoy advancing toward Kiev to missile damage to the movement of refugees: in the Ukrainian conflict, satellite imagery from private companies is giving the general public access to information previously reserved for intelligence agencies.

By Issam AHMED

(USA aerospace conflict Ukraine Russia technology, Focus, 750 words - Already aired)

FILE PHOTO.

BEIJING:

China, limited lifeline for Russia after sanctions over Ukraine invasion.

Russia is counting on China to mitigate the effect of international sanctions over its invasion of Ukraine, but Beijing is not willing to do everything in the name of friendship, analysts warn.

By Sébastien RICCI and Beiyi SEOW with Ali BEKHTAOUI in Paris

(China Russia Ukraine trade conflict sanction, Focus, 650 words - Already aired)

VIDEO

WARSAW:

Spanish journalist suspected of spying for Russia arrested in Poland.

A Spanish freelance journalist was detained on Polish territory near the Ukrainian border on suspicion of spying for the Russian military intelligence services GRU, the Polish security agency ABW announced on Friday.

(Poland Spain espionage media Russia Ukraine, Note, 400 words - Already transmitted)

HELSINKI:

Train to Helsinki, a gateway for Russians to Europe.

"I have no intention of returning to Russia anytime soon," says Elena, who lives in Finland. Trains connecting St. Petersburg to Helsinki, the only line still open between Russia and the European Union, are packed with Russians eager to get out of the country while they still can.

By Sam KINGSLEY

(Finland Russia Ukraine refugee conflict transport, Report, 600 words - Already aired)

PHOTOS, VIDEO.

GENEVA:

More than 1.2 million Ukrainian refugees from Russia's invasion

More than 1.2 million people fled Ukraine since the start of the Russian invasion on February 24, according to the latest UN figures released Friday.

(Ukraine refugee conflict Russia forces-armed, Sidebar, 400 words - Already aired)

INFOGRAPHY

PARIS:

War in Ukraine begins to affect Europe's auto industry.

With factories shut down in Russia and production idling in Europe, carmakers are beginning to feel the first effects of the war in Ukraine. And these may get worse yet.

By Taimaz SZIRNIKS

(Russia automobile Germany conflict Ukraine Ukraine Japan France sanction, Focus, 650 words - Already transmitted)

FILE PHOTO.

LONDON:

Since the war in Ukraine, Russian oil finds no buyer.

A week after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Russian oil is struggling to find buyers, who fear stigma, possible future sanctions and logistical complications, despite growing concerns about a possible market shortage.

By Joseph SOTINEL

(GB Russia Ukraine oil dispute, Focus, 650 words - Already aired)

PARIS:

The balance achieved in space after the Cold War, broken by the Russian invasion.

The Russian invasion of Ukraine, unleashed a week ago, has rapidly erupted on the chessboard of the civilian space sector, brutally halting the cooperation between Moscow and the Western powers that emerged after the end of the Cold War.

By Juliette COLLEN

(Russia USA aerospace Ukraine conflict, Focus, 600 words - Already aired)

PARIS:

Fears of a cultural "iron curtain" in Russia over Ukraine invasion.

Even during the Cold War, Russian artists performed frequently in the West, but with the invasion of Ukraine, Europe seems unwilling to see companies like the Bolshoi or the Morozov modern art collection in Paris again.

By Rana MOUSSAOUI

(Russia culture art art music opera Ukraine conflict, Focus, 600 words - Already broadcast)

FILE PHOTOS

OTHER NEWS BY REGION

-- AMERICA

ORAN, Argentina:

Argentine justice sentences bishop to 4.5 years in prison for sexual abuse

An Argentine bishop, considered close to Pope Francis, was sentenced Friday to four years and six months in prison for sexual abuse against two seminarians by a court in the city of Oran (northwest), which ordered his immediate arrest, according to the ruling.

(Argentina religion abuse trial Vatican, Central Note Update, 520 words - 21H30 GMT)

VIDEO, PHOTOS ARCHIVE

TULUÁ, Colombia:

The political rise of Afro-Colombian women in a country of exclusion.

In Colombia's Pacific region, three black women who have suffered violence are at the gates of power. Each in her own way, she is seeking the votes that will prop up the political rise of Afro-Colombian women after centuries of exclusion.

By Lina VANEGAS

(Colombia elections Minority Women, Report, 900 words - Already aired)

PHOTOS, VIDEO

-- ASIA

PESHAWAR, Pakistan:

At least 56 killed in IS group attack on mosque in Pakistan.

At least 56 people were killed and 194 injured in a suicide bombing, claimed by the Islamic State jihadist group, during Friday prayers against a Shiite mosque in Peshawar, northwestern Pakistan.

By Lehaz ALI

(Pakistan Religion Attack, Central Note, Update, 550 words - Already aired)

PHOTOS, VIDEO

-- MIDDLE EAST

BAGHDAD:

The ravages of time and neglect threaten the heritage of Jews in Iraq.

In a popular neighborhood of the Iraqi capital, nothing distinguishes the faded brick building except the discreet inscription in Hebrew at the entrance. The sumptuous past of this Baghdad synagogue fell into oblivion and did not escape the ravages of time.

By Salam FARAJ

(Iraq religion religion heritage communities Judaism, Report, 750 words - Already aired)

PHOTOS, VIDEO

-- ECONOMY

PARIS:

World stock markets fall again due to war in Ukraine.

World stock markets fell sharply again Friday amid fears over the war in Ukraine and the bombing of Europe's largest atomic power plant.

By Florian SOENEN

(Stock exchanges debt currencies securities markets Russia Ukraine conflict, Abstract, 400 words - Already transmitted)

RIO DE JANEIRO:

Brazilian economy emerged from recession in Q4 and grew 4.6% in 2021

The Brazilian economy, the largest in Latin America, came out of recession by registering an advance of 0.5% in the last quarter of 2021, and grew 4.6% annually with respect to 2020, the official statistics institute (IBGE) reported this Friday.

By Eugenia LOGIURATTO

(growth economy macroeconomy Brazil, Central Note, 600 words - Already transmitted)

FILE PHOTOS

WASHINGTON:

US created more jobs than expected in February and unemployment nears pre-pandemic levels.

The US labor market continued on the upswing in February, with strong job creation, and unemployment approaching pre-pandemic levels, but the war in Ukraine sows uncertainty.

(US employment macroeconomics macroeconomics inflation rates, Central Note, 550 words - Already transmitted)

BERLIN:

Tesla gets final approval to open its mega-factory near Berlin.

U.S. automaker Teslaobtained final agreement from German authorities, which will enable it to launch production of electric vehicles at its first European megafactory near Berlin, the regional government announced Friday.

By Sophie MAKRIS

(Germany USA automobile authorities finance resources-human resources pollution engineering ecology, Central-Note, 650 words - Already aired)

ARCHIVE PHOTOS, VIDEO

TOKYO:

Sony and Honda partner to develop electric vehicles.

Electronics giant Sony and automaker Honda announced Friday their intention to form a "strategic alliance" to develop and produce electric vehicles and market them from 2025.

By Mathias CENA

(Japan electronics automobile computer electronics, Central Note, 500 words - Already aired)

FILE PHOTO

-- SOCIETY

BRASILIA, Brazil:

In Brazil's favelas, youngsters dream of being the "Neymar of e-games."

He could say Neymar or Vinícius Junior, but when teenager Yan Araújo is asked about his idols, he answers without hesitation: "Nobru and Cerol", two players of Freefire, a video game that is causing a furor in Brazilian favelas.

By Marcelo SILVA DE SOUSA

(Brazil egames favela soccer freefire society video games, Report, 750 words - Already broadcasted)

PHOTOS AND VIDEO

NEW YORK, United States:

Los Angeles Lakers, protagonists of a series.

Almost two years after the success of The Last Dance about Michael Jordan's Chicago Bulls, it's the Lakers' turn to enter the streaming arena: the counterattack starts on Sunday with a fiction about the glorious years of Magic Johnson's band.

By Andréa BAMBINO

(USA streaming basketball TV series, Magazine, 600 words - Already broadcasted)

ANTIGUA, Guatemala:

"It's very 'cool'": selfie aficionados trigger creativity in Guatemala museum.

Photographing oneself being "abducted" by an alien spacecraft or "levitating" on a bed is possible for selfie lovers in Guatemala with the opening of the first museum in the country that recreates colorful portrait locations.

(Guatemala art art culture entertainment curious photography, Videorrelato, 400 words - Already aired)

PHOTOS, VIDEO

en/mar/ll/ltl/js/rsr

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220304ei34009n5


Finanssivalvonta - Financial Supervision Authority urges supervised entities to ensure that guidelines and systems for compliance with sanctions are up-to-date
Finanssivalvonta published this content on 07 Mar 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 07 Mar 2022 09:28:10 UTC.
742 字
2022 年 3 月 7 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/6639B499ED71A3BD77E34F5FCC265544737A09C2]

Financial Supervision Authority urges supervised entities to ensure that guidelines and systems for compliance with sanctions are up-to-date

Supervision release 7 March 2022 - 15/2022

Financial Supervision Authority urges supervised entities to ensure that guidelines and systems for compliance with sanctions are up-to-date

The economic sanctions imposed by the EU are directly binding on all supervised entities of the Financial Supervisory Authority (FIN-FSA). Adherence to them is essential from the standpoint of supervised entities' compliance and operational risk management.

The FIN-FSA urges supervised entities to ensure that their systems and instructions for complying with sanctions are up to date. If a supervised entity has information systems for detecting sanction lists (so-called sanction screening), it must ensure that up-to-date sanction listings are in place and that all software functions for checking the sanction lists are in use. If a supervised entity checks the sanctions lists manually, the inspections should be carried out frequently, as sanctions are currently changing rapidly.

Knowing customers thoroughly, including beneficial owners and the customer's business activities as well as cooperating with customers to determine the basis for payments and the parties involved, is particularly important.

Personal and entity sanctions

The scope of EU sanctions has been extended to several hundred Russian and Belarusian natural persons as well as dozens of companies and entities. In addition, sanctions have been imposed directly on Russian banks. The sanctions also apply to assets directly owned or controlled by the listed parties. As a result, supervised entities should check whether their customers include such persons or entities.

The FIN-FSA emphasises that funds and economic resources belonging to, owned, held or controlled by natural or legal persons, entities or bodies subject to sanctions must be frozen. In addition, it is prohibited, directly or indirectly, to make any funds or economic resources available to or usable by these parties. Supervisors must therefore ensure that a person or entity subject to sanctions is not in any way a party to a payment, either directly or indirectly.

Prohibited products and services

EU sanctions have been targeted at the financial sector as well as transactions between Finland and Russia. Some Russian banks have been excluded from the SWIFT system.

Other sectors subject to sanctions are the energy sector and the transport sector. The list of other dual-use items requiring an export licence has also been expanded and new export bans have been imposed.

The FIN-FSA emphasises that supervised entities must have sufficient information about the basis of their customers' transactions and the parties to transactions as well as about the products and services that are the subject of payments. This will ensure that the FIN-FSA's supervised entities do not participate in financing and payments for exports of prohibited products or services.

In addition, credit institutions are prohibited from taking deposits of more than EUR 100,000 from a Russian natural or legal person. There are many exceptions to this regulation, however.

More detailed information on the sanctions in force in response to the situation in Ukraine can be found on the website of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs[https://um.fi/pakotteet-maittain/-/asset_publisher/4MioQZzZJNVo/content/ukrainan-tilanne-pakotteet/385142] (in Finnish).

Action in case of possible sanction detection

If a supervised entity detects in its customer registers or payment transactions a party whose identification information corresponds to the information of the parties subject to sanctions, it must immediately freeze the funds or suspend the transaction and notify the Enforcement Authority of the matter by email to ulosotto.uo@oikeus.fi[mailto:ulosotto.uo@oikeus.fi]. In addition, the Final Intelligence Unit has requested that it be notified in the event of suspicious transactions.

For further information, please contact

Pekka Vasara, Head of Division, telephone +358 9 183 5513

The corresponding Finnish-language supervision release was published on 4 March 2022.

Keywords

guidelines and systems[https://www.finanssivalvonta.fi/en/functions/Keyword-search/?tag=guidelines%20and%20systems] supervised entities[https://www.finanssivalvonta.fi/en/functions/Keyword-search/?tag=supervised%20entities] sanctions[https://www.finanssivalvonta.fi/en/functions/Keyword-search/?tag=sanctions]

Share this content

* Original Link[https://www.finanssivalvonta.fi/en/publications-and-press-releases/supervision-releases/2022/financial-supervision-authority-urges-supervised-entities-to-ensure-that-guidelines-and-systems-for-compliance-with-sanctions-are-up-to-date/]

Disclaimer

FIN-FSA - Financial Supervision Authority published this content on 07 March 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 07 March 2022 09:29:19 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020220307ei37006hd


Live updates: US, UK announce ban on Russian oil imports
10147 字
2022 年 3 月 8 日
The Malta Independent
MLIND
英文
© 2022 Standard Publications Ltd. All rights reserved.
WASHINGTON — President Biden announced Tuesday that the U.S. is “targeting the main artery of Russia’s economy” by banning imports of Russian oil, the latest sanction intended to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine.

“We will not be part of subsidizing Putin’s war,” he said in the Roosevelt Room at the White House.

Biden’s announcement came amid rising pressure from Democrats and Republicans, and it reflects a willingness to accept the political risk of rising gas prices to economically retaliate against Russia.

“Defending freedom is going to cost,” Biden said. “It’s going to cost us as well in the United States.”

Although Biden has tried to work in concert with European allies, he acknowledged that many are not announcing a similar ban because they’re more reliant on Moscow for oil and gas.

“So we can take this step when others can not,” he said. “But we’re working closely with Europe and our partners to develop a long term strategy to reduce their dependence on Russian energy as well.”

___

LONDON — Britain is joining the United States in announcing a ban on imports of Russian oil.

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng says oil and oil products from Russia will be phased out by the end of the year. He said the transition period “will give the market, businesses and supply chains more than enough time to replace Russian imports,” which account for 8% of U.K. demand.

Kwarteng said the U.K. would work with its other oil suppliers, including the U.S., the Netherlands and the Gulf states, to secure extra supplies.

President Joe Biden announced a ban on Russian oil imports, toughening the toll on Russia’s economy in retaliation for its invasion of Ukraine. It follows pleas from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to U.S. and Western officials to cut off the imports, which had been a glaring omission in the massive sanctions put in place on Russia over the invasion.

___

MOSCOW - The Kremlin says that Russian President Vladimir Putin had another phone call with Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett to discuss the situation in Ukraine.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that he also spoke to Bennett on Tuesday and thanked him for his mediation.

Bennett visited Moscow for a meeting with Putin on Saturday, trying to help broker an end to the war with Ukraine. After meeting with Putin, Bennett spoke to Zelenskyy and French President Emmanuel Macron and also visited Berlin on Saturday for talks with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. Bennett also spoke to Putin by phone on Sunday.

____

LONDON — Sports apparel and shoe company Adidas is the latest Western brand to halt its operations in Russia because of the Ukraine invasion.

The company said Tuesday that it has suspended the operations of its retail stores and e-commerce website in Russia until further notice, though it continues to pay its employees there.

Adidas, based in Herzogenaurach, Germany, said it will make future business decisions and take action as needed, “prioritizing our employee’s safety and support.”

“As a company, we strongly condemn any form of violence and stand in solidarity with those calling for peace,” the company said in a statement.

It’s also donating 1 million euros ($1.1 million) to refugee and children’s charities and clothing to the Global Aid Network for people in Ukraine and neighboring countries.

Last week, Adidas suspended its partnership with the Russian Football Union. Nike has also shut its stores in Russia.

Sales in Russia account for only about 3% of Adidas’s total global revenue, according to company data.

____

WASHINGTON — President Joe Biden’s top intelligence official said Tuesday the U.S. believes Russia underestimated the strength of Ukraine’s resistance before launching an invasion that has likely caused thousands of Russian casualties.

Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines told a congressional panel that U.S. officials believe Russian President Vladimir Putin feels “aggrieved” by Russia’s failure to subdue Ukraine and that he perceives that he cannot afford to lose the war. But what Putin might consider a victory could change given the escalating costs of the conflict to Russia, Haines said.

Despite Putin’s announcement that he would raise Russia’s alert level for nuclear weapons, Haines said the U.S. has not observed unusual changes in Russia’s nuclear force posture.

Haines said it is “unclear at this stage” whether Russia will try to conquer all of Ukraine, something that would require more resources than Putin has committed.

___

HELSINKI — Flights from the eastern Finnish town of Savonlinna near the Russian border to the capital, Helsinki, have been temporarily suspended due to disruptions in GPS signal in eastern parts of the Nordic country, preventing pilots from landing safely.

Finnish communications authority Traficom confirmed Tuesday that GPS disruptions have been recorded in eastern Finland, but declined to comment on how long or how wide the disruptions were.

Transaviabaltika, a Lithuanian airline that operates on the Finnish domestic route with a small turboprop plane, said its pilots have tried landing several times at the Savonlinna airport since Sunday, but have been forced to turn back to Helsinki each time as the GPS signal was disrupted.

Finland shares a 1,340-kilometer (833-mile) land border with Russia. The lakeside town of Savonlinna is a mere 70 kilometers (43 miles) from the border.

In late 2018, the Finnish government said the country’s GPS location signals were intentionally disrupted in the northern Lapland region and the country’s prime minister acknowledged that it was possible that Russia was the disrupting party.

At the same time, the Norwegian Defense Ministry said Russian forces in the Arctic disturbed GPS location signals during a large NATO drill in the country.

___

GENEVA — The international scientific laboratory that is home to the world’s largest atom smasher says it is suspending Russia’s observer status and halting any new collaboration with Russia or its institutions “until further notice.”

The European Organization for Nuclear Research, known as CERN, said its 23 member states — all European, plus Israel — condemned Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Ukraine is one of seven associate member states, and Russia, like the United States, Japan and the European Union, has had observer status.

The CERN council made the decisions about Russia at a special meeting on Tuesday and expressed its support “to the many members of CERN’s Russian scientific community who reject this invasion.”

CERN is home to the Large Hadron Collider, the world’s largest particle accelerator.

___

HELSINKI — Finland will donate 15 decommissioned ambulances and two fire trucks to Ukraine, and they are expected to be delivered in the country within a week, Finnish media outlets say.

Ten of the ambulances come from hospital districts across Finland and five from rescue services, Finnish public broadcaster YLE said Tuesday.

The ambulances have just recently been taken out of service, YLE said, quoting health and rescue officials. Decommissioned ambulances are usually sold, but now it was decided to donate them to Ukraine, YLE said.

Finland will also give humanitarian help to Moldova including a field kitchen, five large multi-purpose tents for emergency accomodation and two shower tents to be used by refugees from Ukraine.

A Danish ambulance services and patient transportation company Falck said last week that it donated 30 ambulances to Ukraine and neighboring countries.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — A Latvian lawmaker has traveled to Ukraine to fight alongside Ukrainians, the Baltic country’s Justice Minister Janis Bordans said Tuesday.

Juris Jurass, who is the chairman of the Saeima assembly’s Legal Affairs Committee and a member of the same party as Bordans, “has volunteered to defend the territory of Ukraine and to fight against the invaders,” the justice minister said.

“He made the decision based on his private and moral principles,” Bordans told the Baltic News Service. He was not immediately available for comments.

On Twitter, Ukraine 4 Freedom, a volunteer project by students of international relations at the National University of Kyiv-Mohyla Academy, wrote that he had joined a foreign legion unit for international volunteers.

___

MARIUPOL, Ukraine -- Civilians in the besieged port of Mariupol in southeast Ukraine are anxiously waiting for news of evacuation efforts as they struggle to survive in a city where bodies have been left uncollected on the streets.

Since Saturday, Russian and Ukrainian authorities have committed to setting up evacuation routes but efforts have repeatedly collapsed amid more fighting along the route. Another effort was made Tuesday.

With water supplies cut, people have been collecting water from streams or melting snow. Power cuts mean that many residents have lost internet access and now rely on their car radios for information, picking up news from stations broadcast from areas controlled by Russian or Russian-backed separatist forces.

___

GENEVA — The International Committee for the Red Cross says it’s not involved in any evacuation of civilians from two Ukrainian cities and is emphasizing the strict rules under international law about the use of the red cross emblem in an armed conflict.

Videos have shown buses leaving northern Sumy and heading toward Mariupol in the southeast bearing a red cross on the side. It’s not clear who put them there.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the International Red Cross was “forbidding the use of its emblem on our cars,” without elaborating.

ICRC spokesman Ewan Watson said “we don’t forbid per se” but cited rules about use of protective emblems like the red cross. “In armed conflict, it may be used by medical staff and facilities, including army medics and vehicles. It may also be used by Red Cross and Red Crescent workers, vehicles, facilities, and the humanitarian relief they bring," he said.

ICRC said it has no staffers in Sumy but has been working with Ukrainian and Russian authorities toward an agreement to help people leave Mariupol.

___

LONDON — Trading in nickel, much of it produced in Russia, was suspended Tuesday on the London Metal Exchange after prices doubled to an unprecedented $100,000 per metric ton.

Nickel is used mostly to produce stainless steel and some alloys, but increasingly it is used in batteries, particularly electric vehicle batteries.

Russia, facing severe economic sanctions after invading Ukraine, is the world’s third biggest nickel producer. The Russian mining company Nornickel is a major supplier of the high-grade nickel that is used in electric vehicles.

Nickel prices had quadrupled in a week over supply issues and the spike Tuesday forced the LME to shut down electronic and floor trading.

Trading in nickel will not resume Tuesday and the halt could last longer than that “given the geopolitical situation which underlies recent price moves,” the LME said Tuesday.

___

VATICAN CITY — The Vatican says it is willing to “do everything to put itself at the service" for peace in Ukraine.

Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni said that Cardinal Pietro Parolin, who is Pope Francis’ secretary of state, spoke by phone with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Tuesday. In the call, Parolin “relayed the deep worry of Pope Francis for the war underway in Ukraine and reaffirmed what the pope said last Sunday,” Bruni said.

Francis had announced he was sending two cardinals to Ukraine this week to express Christian concern for the suffering and stress the pope’s oft-cited words that “war is madness.” Parolin also told Lavrov that the Holy See is willing to do everything to help bring about peace.

GENEVA -- The U.N. human rights office says it has confirmed 474 civilian deaths in Ukraine since the Russian invasion began on Feb. 24.

The office said Tuesday that the number of confirmed civilian injuries now stands at 861.

The U.N. office uses strict methodology and only reports casualties it has been able to verify.

It acknowledges that the real figures are much higher, in part because intense fighting has delayed its receipt of information and many reports still have to be corroborated.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The U.K. delegation to the global chemical weapons watchdog says in a tweet that it and a group of supporters walked out of a meeting Tuesday in response to what the delegation called “unacceptable Russian falsehoods on Ukraine.”

It was not immediately clear what the Russian representative said at the behind-closed-doors meeting of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons’ executive council to prompt the walkout.

The British delegation tweeted a photo of more than 50 people standing with two Ukrainian flags on the steps outside the OPCW’s headquarters in The Hague.

France’s ambassador, Luis Vassy, says in a tweet that the walkout by European Union nations and their supporters came as Russia’s representative “was denying basic facts about Ukraine” and other issues tackled by the OPCW.

In a written statement posted on the OPCW’s website, U.K. ambassador Joanna Roper urged the organization to be vigilant. “The UK remains concerned that Russia may use the pretext of chemical weapons to try to justify its illegal actions in Ukraine and we know only too well that Russia is also prepared to use chemical weapons against others,” she said.

___

KYIV, UKRAINE — Tuesday is International Women’s Day, an important official holiday in Russia and Ukraine dating from the Soviet era. Women are normally feted with flowers and chocolates and speeches, but this year the holiday was overshadowed in Ukraine by war, and in Russia by economic chaos.

Sugary messages of love and support were shared on social networks as in previous years, but many were tinged with sorrow or pleas for peace.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy opened his morning video address Tuesday saying: “Ukrainians, we usually celebrate this holiday, the holiday of spring. We congratulate our women, our daughters, wives, mothers. Usually. But not today."

“Today I cannot say the traditional words. I just can’t congratulate you. I can’t, when there are so many deaths. When there is so much grief, when there is so much suffering. When the war continues,” he said.

___

BRUSSELS — NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says Russia’s armed forces may be deliberately targeting civilians as they try to flee the military assault on Ukraine.

Stoltenberg said Tuesday “there are very creditable reports of civilians coming under fire as they try to evacuate. Targeting civilians is a war crime, and it’s totally unacceptable.”

He told reporters in Latvia that the humanitarian impact of the almost two-week long war “is devastating.”

“We need real humanitarian corridors that are fully respected,” he said.

Asked what NATO can do to help, Stoltenberg said: “We have a responsibility to ensure the conflict does not spread beyond Ukraine.” NATO is boosting its defenses to ensure that members near Russia and Ukraine are not next on Moscow’s target list.

___

KYIV, UKRAINE — Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov has released new estimates of casualties and damage from the Russian war, saying Russian military actions have killed 38 children and wounded more than 70.

Overall at least 400 civilian deaths have been recorded and 800 wounded, though “these data are definitely incomplete,” he said in a video address.

It was not immediately possible to verify the figures.

He said Russian strikes have destroyed more than 200 Ukrainian schools, 34 hospitals and 1,500 residential buildings.

He estimated some 10,000 foreign students, notably from India, China and the Persian Gulf are trapped by the fighting, and described attacks on British and Swiss journalists.

He claimed that Ukrainian forces have killed more than 11,000 Russian troops.

“Russian invaders fire on humanitarian corridors through which civilians are trying to escape,” he said, without saying where.

Russian officials did not comment Tuesday and have only acknowledged several hundred deaths among Russian forces.

___

BERLIN -- The German federal prosecutor’s office is looking into possible war crimes committed by Russian forces in Ukraine.

The prosecutor’s office said Tuesday it has launched a so-called “structural investigation" — a preliminary investigation against persons unknown which entails looking for evidence leading to possible suspects who could be prosecuted.

It’s unclear whether or when a prosecution of any suspect would actually be launched and what the chances are of any defendant eventually being brought to court in Germany.

Germany applies the principle of universal jurisdiction for serious crimes. In a groundbreaking verdict in January, a German court convicted a former Syrian secret police officer of crimes against humanity for overseeing the abuse of detainees at a jail.

___

BEIJING — China says President Xi Jinping has criticized sanctions imposed on Russia over its war against Ukraine as “harmful to all sides,” in a video summit with French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.

China has largely backed Russia in blaming the U.S. and its allies for provoking the conflict and has abstained in votes at the United Nations over whether to condemn Moscow for its actions.

In its readout of Tuesday’s conversation, Chinese state broadcaster CCTV said Xi expressed “anxiety and deep pain” over the fighting, and urged the sides to pursue peace talks in which he said China was willing to play a role.

Xi gave no indication on what sort of resolution China was looking for and the only details he gave concerned the impact of sanctions.

“We want to strive together to reduce the negative effects of the crisis,” Xi was quoted as saying. “Regarding the impact of sanctions on global finance, energy resources, transport and supply chain stability, in terms of a world economy already burdened by the pandemic, it is harmful to all sides.”

___

LONDON — Britain’s defense minister says his staff will help process applications from Ukrainians fleeing war, after criticism of the sluggish U.K. effort to take in refugees.

Britain says it expects to take in as many as 200,000 displaced Ukrainians, and has set no upper limit on the number it will accept. But as of Monday night, the government said only 300 visas had been issued.

French officials have accused Britain of turning Ukrainians away at the English Channel port of Calais, telling them to apply for visas at British embassies in Paris or Brussels.

Defense Secretary Ben Wallace said Tuesday that “we can do more, we will do more” to speed up people’s journeys to the U.K.

___

MOSCOW — Russia says it has summoned the Irish ambassador to Moscow a day after a truck was driven through the gates of the Russian embassy in Ireland during a demonstration against the war in Ukraine.

The Russian Foreign Ministry said Tuesday it told Irish ambassador Brian McElduff that Russia demanded an apology from the Irish authorities and for Ireland to pay compensation.

Russia likened the incident to “a tactic widely used by terrorists” and said Irish law enforcement had not acted to stop it. The Irish Times newspaper reported Monday that the driver of the truck was arrested.

___

KYIV, UKRAINE — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has called for the expansion of humanitarian corridors for Ukrainian civilians fleeing war, and more support from the Red Cross.

In a video address Tuesday from an undisclosed location, he said a child died of dehydration in the blockaded southern seaport of Mariupol, in a sign of how desperate the city’s population has become.

He pleaded again with Western countries to provide air support.

He said evacuation buses have been sent to Mariupol, but said there was no firm agreement on the route, so “Russian troops can simply shoot on this transport on the way.”

Zelenskiy accused the International Red Cross of “forbidding the use of its emblem on our cars,” but did not give details. Videos of buses heading out of Sumy and toward Mariupol have had signs with a red cross on the side but it’s not clear who pasted them there.

___

LONDON — Estee Lauder is the latest foreign company to halt its operations in Russia after the invasion of Ukraine.

The New York-based cosmetics giant said in a statement late Monday that it has decided to suspend all its commercial activity in Russia, “including every store we own and operate.” It’s not clear how many retail outlets it has in Russia.

Estee Lauder also said it’s suspending shipments to its Russian retailers and will provide “compensation and support” to its Russian employees. The company owns more than two dozen brands including Clinique, Bobbi Brown and MAC Cosmetics.

___

LONDON — Energy giant Shell says it will stop buying Russian oil and natural gas as well as shut down its service stations and other operations in the country amid international pressure for companies to sever ties over the invasion of Ukraine.

Shell says in a statement Tuesday that it would withdraw from all Russian hydrocarbons, including crude oil, petroleum products, natural gas and liquefied natural gas, “in a phased manner.”

The decision comes just days after Ukraine’s foreign minister criticized Shell for continuing to buy Russian oil.

___

LONDON — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is set to address Britain’s Parliament -- the first time a foreign leader has been allowed to speak in the House of Commons.

Screens and simultaneous translation headsets have been set up in the House of Commons so lawmakers can hear from Zelenskyy at 5 p.m. (1700GMT) on Tuesday.

World leaders have previously addressed British lawmakers elsewhere in Parliament, but not in the House of Commons itself.

Zelenskyy has previously thanked Britain for its support, which includes humanitarian aid and defensive weapons.

GENEVA -- The U.N.'s top human rights official is warning that a new Russian law allowing harsh punishment for spreading what is deemed to be fake information about the armed forces adds to concern about repressive legislation in Russia.

High Commission for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet told the U.N. Human Rights Council that “space for discussion or criticism of public policies – including (Russia’s) military action against Ukraine – is increasingly and profoundly restricted.”

Bachelet said some 12,700 people have been “arbitrarily arrested” for holding peaceful anti-war protests and noted that media are required to use only official information and terms.

She said she’s concerned about repressive and vaguely defined legislation, and added that “further legislation criminalising circumstances of ‘discrediting’ the armed forces continues down this concerning path.”

The new measure, signed into law by President Vladimir Putin on Friday, allows for prison sentences of up to 15 years. It has prompted some foreign media to suspend operations within Russia.

___

LONDON — Britain’s defense secretary says the invasion of Ukraine will be Vladimir Putin’s downfall as the Russian leader struggles to defeat and occupy a country that has put up unexpectedly staunch resistance to his armies.

Ben Wallace said Russian forces are already “exhausted” after facing logistical problems and suffering thousands of losses in the first 13 days of fighting. He added it's “an impossible task” to occupy a country of 44 million people that is bigger than France and Germany combined.

“This will be Putin’s end ... and so it should be,” Wallace told the BBC.

Putin is already “a spent force” in the wider world because the international community has decided the invasion of Ukraine and the humanitarian catastrophe it has unleashed are unacceptable, Wallace said. The international sanctions imposed on Russia “are reducing his economy to zero,” and Putin is responsible for that, Wallace said.

___

GENEVA — The number of refugees fleeing Ukraine reached 2 million on Tuesday, according to the United Nations, the fastest exodus Europe has seen since World War II.

“Today the outflow of refugees from Ukraine reaches two million people. Two million,” Filippo Grandi, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, wrote on Twitter.

The update came as a new effort to evacuate civilians along safe corridors finally got underway Tuesday. The route out of the eastern city of Sumy was one of five promised by the Russians to offer civilians a way to escape the Russian onslaught.

Michelle Bachelet, the U.N. high commissioner for human rights, is pressing for all civilians trapped by fighting in Ukraine to be allowed to leave safely. She said Tuesday she is “deeply concerned about civilians trapped in active hostilities in numerous areas.”

Bachelet also told the U.N. Human Rights Council that her office has received reports of pro-Ukrainian activists being arbitrarily detained in areas of eastern Ukraine that have recently come “under the control of armed groups.” She said there have been reports of beatings of people considered pro-Russian in government-controlled areas.

TOKYO — Japan says it has suspended the assets of 32 more Russian and Belarusian individuals as part of international sanctions against Russia.

The additional sanctions announced Tuesday target 20 Russians including head of the Chechen Republic Ramzan Kadyrov, deputy chiefs of staff and a press secretary for President Vladamir Putin’s govenment, and deputy chairmen of the state parliament. The list also includes business executives with close ties to Putin and his administration such as Volga Group, Transneft, the Private Military Company Wagner and USM Holdings, according to a statement jointly issued by the foreign, finance and trade ministries.

The sanction targets also included 12 Belarusian officials and business executives, including Belarus’ National Olympic Committee President Viktor Lukashenko, as well as 12 organizations in Russia and Belarus.

Officials said Japan is also banning exports of oil refinery equipment to Russia and general purpose goods to Belarus that could be used to strengthen the country’s military capability.

___

WARSAW, Poland -- Poland's prime minister is calling for even tougher sanctions against Russia in order to dismantle President Vladimir Putin’s war machine.

Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki made his comments as he departed Warsaw for visits to NATO countries Britain and Norway.

He told reporters that strengthening NATO’s eastern flank and pushing for more sanctions would be the main topics of discussion. In particular, Morawiecki wants to urge other European countries to replace Russian crude oil and gas with deliveries from other countries.

“In order to hit Russia effectively, our blow must be consistent and long-term if military action continues,” Morawiecki said.

Poland has been building a gas pipeline, Baltic Pipe, meant to import gas from Norway.

He called Baltic Pipe “a symbol of Poland’s sovereignty, of Poland’s independence from Russia, from gas blackmail ... everything which has made it possible for Putin to build a war machine.”

___

TALLINN, ESTONIA — U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is wrapping up a short tour of the three Baltic states aimed at reassuring the former Soviet republics that NATO will guarantee their security as Russia’s war with Ukraine rolls on unabated.

Blinken was meeting with senior Estonian officials in Tallinn on Tuesday, a day after hearing appeals from both Lithuania and Latvia for more support and greater U.S. and NATO troop presence to deter a feared Russian intervention.

“We will defend every inch of NATO territory if it comes under attack,” Blinken said Monday in Riga. “No one should doubt our readiness. No one should doubt our resolve.”

Leaders in all three Baltic states have expressed grave concerns about Russian President Vladimir Putin’s intentions for former Soviet bloc countries that are now allied or otherwise linked to the West.

Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkevics said the Russian invasion of Ukraine had shown the Baltic countries in particular the need to bolster air and coastal defenses. He added Latvia would like its security cooperation with NATO to be “more efficient.”

Lithuanian President Gitanes Nauseda told Blinken in Vilnius that a policy of deterrence was no longer enough and that “forward defense” was now needed. He predicted that “Putin will not stop in Ukraine if he will not be stopped."

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Safe corridors intended to let civilians escape the Russian onslaught in Ukraine could open Tuesday, officials from both sides said, though previous efforts to establish evacuation routes crumbled amid renewed attacks and it was not clear how large the operation would be if it happened.

Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said Tuesday that both sides agreed to a cease-fire from 9 a.m.-9 p.m. Ukraine time (0700-1900 GMT) for the evacuation of civilians from the eastern city of Sumy.

The first convoy with evacuated civilians in buses or private cars is to leave at 10 a.m. (0800 GMT), on a single route toward the Ukrainian city of Poltava. She said Russia’s Defense Ministry agreed to this in a letter to the International Red Cross.

Those being evacuated from Sumy include foreign students from India and China, she said. The corridor will also be used to bring humanitarian aid into Sumy, she said.

She reiterated that Russian proposals to evacuate civilians to Russia and Belarus were unacceptable. She didn’t elaborate on the possibility of evacuating Ukrainians toward western Ukraine.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — The head of the Norwegian Refugee Council said that refugees fleeing in Ukraine was “the fastest-growing displacement crisis I have witnessed in my 35 years as a humanitarian worker.”

Jan Egeland, secretary general of the humanitarian group, said that “every second the war forces a person to flee across Ukraine’s borders, and countless are displaced within the country.”

The Oslo-based agency, which has been in Ukraine since 2014, said it was launching an aid plan to support 800,000 people inside Ukraine and neighboring countries.

NRC’s humanitarian response plan calls for $82 million and appealed to donors “to dig deep into their pockets to find new funding” and added do “not take resources from other crises.”

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — The head of the World Health Organization’s Europe office says it has confirmed 16 attacks that have affected the provision of health care in Ukraine in the fighting since Russia’s invasion in the country began nearly two weeks ago.

Dr. Hans Kluge also told reporters Tuesday that Ukrainian health authorities have “remarkably” maintained COVID-19 surveillance and response since the invasion began on Feb. 24, though they reported 731 deaths related to the pandemic over the last week.

Kluge warned that “sadly, this number will increase as oxygen shortages continue” — with older people disproportionately affected. Treatment with oxygen is an important part of the response for people whose respiratory systems have been harmed by coronavirus infection.

The WHO Europe chief also said broken supply lines are harming the ability to treat conditions like diabetes, hypertension, and diabetes. Catherine Smallwood, senior emergency officer for WHO Europe, said the attacks on health care in Ukraine have led to at least 9 deaths and 16 injuries.

___

LONDON — Britain’s defense secretary said Tuesday that there are reports Ukrainian special forces destroyed over 20 Russian helicopters on the ground overnight as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine continues to face logistical problems and fierce resistance.

Russia’s advance toward the capital, Kyiv, continues to face pressure from Ukrainian forces around the nearby towns of Hostomel, Bucha, Vorzel and Irpin, the U.K. Defense Ministry said in an intelligence update released late Monday. In addition, a lengthy Russian column remains stuck on the road north of Kyiv.

Defense Secretary Ben Wallace said Russian forces are becoming more and more desperate in the face of such military and supply holdups, leading to “indiscriminate shelling” of civilians.

“We’ve also recognized that probably the biggest single casualties, so far in the war, are Russian military soldiers who have been let down by appalling leaders, appalling leadership and appalling plans. And now you see them, literally, at large scales dying.”

___

WASHINGTON — The World Bank says it has approved more than $700 in emergency support for Ukraine.

Dubbed FREE Ukraine, it includes nearly $500 million in loans and guarantees and $134 million in grants, with Japan promising another $100 million in financing. The aid is meant to help the Ukrainian government pay wages of hospital workers, pensions and other social programs. Bundling the aid into a package is intended to streamline and speed the provision of the funding, the World Bank said in a statement.

“The World Bank Group stands with the people of Ukraine and the region,” World Bank President David Malpass said. “This is the first of many steps we are taking to help address the far-reaching human and economic impacts of this crisis.”

The World Bank also said it is preparing a $3 billion package of support for Ukraine and the region to help it cope with theflood of displaced people fleeingthe fighting.

___

TOKYO — U.S. Ambassador to Japan Rahm Emanuel praised Japan’s latest sanctions on Russia’s oil refining industry and on Belarus Tuesday.

Japan has frozen the assets of Russian and Belarusian officials and banned the new issue and distribution of Russian government bonds, acting in unity with the U.S. and other Group of Seven industrialized nations. Japan is also banning exports of oil-refining equipment to Russia.

“We applaud the Kishida government’s leadership today to target Russia’s oil refining sector with strict export controls,” Emanuel said in a statement.

The moves help restrict Russia’s access to revenue that supports Vladimir Putin and his war on Ukraine, he said.

“These new actions, implemented in close unity with the United States and other partners, demonstrate Japan’s resolute commitment to stand together with the Ukrainian people and against Putin’s vicious regime,” said Emanuel.

___

ISLAMABAD — Pakistan sent an aircraft to Poland on Tuesday to evacuate more than 300 Pakistanis who escaped fighting in Ukraine.

Pakistan International Airlines says most of them are students.

Pakistan has refused to condemn Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, even as it has denounced war as a solution to differences and called for negotiations and a cease-fire. Prime Minister Imran Khan met with President Vladimir Putin at the Kremlin just hours after the Russian leader sent tanks into Ukraine on Feb. 24.

Pakistan abstained from last week’s U.N. General Assembly vote condemning Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

TOKYO — Japanese automaker Nissan is planning to halt production at its plant in Russia because of “logistical challenges.”

Nissan Motor Co. did not provide a specific date but said Tuesday production will stop “soon.” Its plant in St. Petersburg produced 45,000 vehicles last year, including the X-Trail sport utility vehicle.

The Yokohama-based manufacturer said the safety of its employees is its top priority.

Nissan earlier stopped exports to Russia.

__

LVIV, Ukraine -- Russian aircraft bombed cities in eastern and central Ukraine overnight, Ukrainian officials said. Shelling pounded suburbs of the capital, Kyiv.

In Sumy and Okhtyrka, to the east of Kyiv near the Russian border, bombs fell on residential buildings and destroyed a power plant, regional leader Dmytro Zhivitsky said. He said there were dead and wounded but gave no figures.

Bombs also hit oil depots in Zhytomyr and the neighboring town of Cherniakhiv, located west of Kyiv.

In Bucha, a Kyiv suburb, the mayor reported heavy artillery fire.

“We can’t even gather up the bodies because the shelling from heavy weapons doesn’t stop day or night,” Mayor Anatol Fedoruk said. “Dogs are pulling apart the bodies on the city streets. It’s a nightmare.”

The Ukrainian government is demanding the opening of humanitarian corridors to allow people to safely leave Sumy, Zhytomyr, Kharkiv, Mariupol and suburbs of Kyiv, including Bucha.

__

LVIV, Ukraine -- The mayor of Lviv said the city in far western Ukraine is struggling to feed and house the tens of thousands of people who have fled here from war-torn regions of the country.

“We really need support,” Mayor Andriy Sadovyi said.

More than 200,000 Ukrainians displaced from their homes are now in Lviv, filling up sport halls, schools, hospitals and church buildings. The historical city once popular with tourists had a population of 700,000 before the war.

The mayor said the city needs big tents equipped with kitchens so food can be prepared.

Hundreds of thousands more people could arrive if humanitarian corridors are opened up from cities now under siege from Russian troops.

The embassies of the U.S. and EU countries also moved to Lviv from Kyiv before the invasion.

Lviv is the main transit point for those fleeing just across the border to Poland. Many of the 1.7 million Ukrainians now abroad passed through the city. The United Nations has called the situation the fastest growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II.

__

LVIV, Russia — A Russian general was killed in the fighting around Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city, which Russian forces have been trying to seize since the invasion began, the Ukrainian military intelligence agency said.

It identified him as Maj. Gen. Vitaly Gerasimov, 45, and said he had fought with Russian forces in Syria and Chechnya and had taken part in the seizure of Crimea in 2014.

It was not possible to confirm the death independently. Russia has not commented.

Another Russian general was killed earlier in the fighting. A local officers’ organization in Russia confirmed the death in Ukraine of Maj. Gen. Andrei Sukhovetsky, the commanding general of the Russian 7th Airborne Division.

Sukhovetsky also took part in Russia’s military campaign in Syria.

__

CANBERRA, Australia — The Australian government says it is placing sanctions on Moscow’s “propagandists and purveyors of disinformation” who legitimatize Russia’s invasion as the “de-Nazification” of Ukraine.

Foreign Minister Marise Payne said in a statement on Tuesday her government was sanctioning 10 “people of strategic interest to Russia” for their role in encouraging hostility toward Ukraine.

“This includes driving and disseminating false narratives about the ‘de-Nazification’ of Ukraine, making erroneous allegations of genocide against ethnic Russians in eastern Ukraine, and promoting the recognition of the so-called Donetsk People’s Republic and Luhansk People’s Republic as independent,” Payne said, referring to separatist regions of Ukraine.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine had been accompanied by a widespread disinformation campaign, both within Russia and internationally, she said.

“Tragically for Russia, President (Vladimir) Putin has shut down independent voices and locked everyday Russians into a world characterized by lies and disinformation,” Payne said.

____

UNITED NATIONS -- Ukraine’s U.N. ambassador says 12 days of an all-out invasion by Russia has brought Ukraine to “the brink of humanitarian catastrophe of potentially global nature.”

Sergiy Kyslytsya, speaking Monday at a U.N. Security Council meeting on the crisis, accused Russia of blocking numerous attempts by Ukrainian authorities to evacuate civilians through humanitarian corridors.

He said Russians shelled depots with evacuation buses near Mariupol and blew up the railway near Irpin in the Kyiv region to prevent evacuation by train. He said Russia bombed and launched missiles at those cities and others like Kharkiv on Monday.

Kyslytsya said Russia must stop violating cease-fire arrangements and allow safe passage through humanitarian corridors, end disinformation, and implement the U.N. General Assembly’s resolution calling for an immediate stop to fighting.

Ukraine as a major wheat producer has been “one of the guarantors of global food security” but this has been challenged by the war and “the implications at the global level will be catastrophic,” he said.

Kyslytsya said Russian shelling had destroyed schools and hospitals and killed and wounded doctors. He said and the country was running low on critical medical supplies. He urged U.N. humanitarian agencies to respond quickly.

____

LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba says when he meets with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in Turkey on Thursday he will propose direct talks between the Ukrainian and Russian presidents.

“We want talks between the president of Ukraine and Vladimir Putin since he is the one who makes the final decisions,” Kuleba said early Tuesday on Ukrainian television.

President Volodymyr Zelenskyy often proposed direct talks with Putin in the runup to the war and said he called the Kremlin on the eve of the Russian invasion but got no reply. Putin has agreed to speak only with Western leaders.

Kuleba spoke after a conversation late Monday with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken.

“Grateful to the U.S. for standing by Ukraine,” Kuleba said on Twitter. “We are coordinating intensively on crucial further steps to increase pressure on Russia.”

____

PROVIDENCE, R.I. — Rhode Island U.S. Rep. David Cicilline said Monday it was “haunting” to see Ukrainians fleeing from their country in fear when he visited the border of Ukraine and Poland.

Cicilline told The Associated Press Monday night, about an hour after returning to the U.S., that he saw “young children crying and mothers just literally running from their country because they were attacked,” and lines of people waiting for help in the freezing cold with no heavy coats.

“It’s just horrible, the suffering that is being caused because of this brutality by (Russian President) Vladimir Putin,” he said. “It’s hard to describe. It’s hard to get it out of your head. It’s some of the worst stuff I’ve seen.”

Cicilline was part of a bipartisan delegation to the border led by U.S. Rep. Gregory Meeks, chair of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and Rep. Michael McCaul, the ranking Republican on the committee. They got there Saturday morning.

____

UNITED NATIONS — Russia’s U.N. Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia says Russia will carry out a cease-fire on Tuesday morning at 10 a.m. Moscow time and open humanitarian corridors to evacuate citizens from Kiev, Chernigov, Sumy and Mariupol.

He took the floor at the end of a U.N. Security Council meeting on the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine on Monday to make the announcement.

“This proposal doesn’t have any demands about the citizens being sent necessarily to Russia, into Russian territory,” he said.

“There’s also evacuation offered towards Ukrainian cities to the west of Kyiv, and ultimately it will be the choice of the people themselves where they want to be evacuated to,” Nebenzia said.

____

LVIV, Ukraine — President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said instead of an agreement on humanitarian corridors, what Ukraine got on Monday was “Russian tanks, Russian Grad rockets, Russian mines.”

“They even mined the roads that were the agreed routes for taking food and medicine to the people, to the children, of Mariupol,” Zelenskyy said in what has become a daily video address close to midnight. On Monday night he spoke from behind the ornate desk in his official office, visual proof that he remains in Kyiv.

During talks on Monday, the Russians proposed evacuation routes leading to Russia and its ally Belarus, rather than to areas of western Ukraine that remain peaceful.

“It’s just cynicism,” Zelenskyy said. By opening a small corridor to Russia, he said, Moscow is looking only for a propaganda victory.

He said that on the 12th day of the war, the Ukrainian army is counter attacking and inflicting extremely painful losses on the enemy. “Battles are underway in the center, in the north and in the south of country – Mariupol and Kharkiv, Chernihiv and Sumy, Odesa and Kyiv, Mykolaiv and Zhytomyr.”

____

UNITED NATIONS — The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations is calling on Russia to honor Ukraine’s proposals “for time-bound humanitarian safe passage in specific, agreed upon locations” and unequivocally commit to immediate humanitarian access in the country.

At a U.N. Security Council meeting on the escalating humanitarian crisis in the country, Linda Thomas-Greenfield also called for the establishment of a system on the ground to facilitate the safe movement of aid convoys and flights so food, medicine and other supplies can get into Ukraine to reach those most in need.

The U.S. envoy urged countries that have pledged over $1.5 billion in humanitarian support for Ukraine to quickly turn the pledges into funds, saying “as long as Russia pursues its relentless and brutal campaign, the need for assistance will only increase.”

Thomas-Greenfield said Russian President Vladimir Putin “has a plan to brutalize Ukraine” and the last two weeks have shown that “the Ukrainian people are not going to give up.”

Thomas-Greenfield said the United States will continue to stand with the Ukrainian people, “but president Putin is clearly willing to sacrifice the lives of thousands of Russian soldiers to achieve his personal ambition.”

____

WASHINGTON — Top officials in the U.S. Congress reached agreement Monday on legislation that would ban Russian oil imports to the U.S. and end Russia’s permanent normal trade relations status in response to the intensifying war in Ukraine.

That’s according to a Senate aide granted anonymity to discuss the private deliberations in Congress.

Voting could come swiftly but no schedule has been set.

The White House has been reluctant to ban Russian oil imports as gas prices at the pump spike for Americans, but has not ruled out the option.

Ending the normal trade relations status could result in steep tariffs on other Russian imports.

— AP congressional correspondent Lisa Mascaro contributed to this report.

____

UNITED NATIONS — Calling what’s happening to the 7.5 million children of Ukraine “a moral outrage,” the head of the U.N. children’s agency urged the U.N. Security Council to remind all parties of their legal obligation to protect youngsters and spare them from attack.

UNICEF Executive Director Catherine Russell told a council meeting Monday that at least 27 children have been killed and 42 injured since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, according to the U.N. human rights office, and “countless more have been severely traumatized.”

With the escalation of the conflict, she said, homes, schools, orphanages and hospitals have come under attack as well as water and sanitation facilities, which provide key civilian needs. She also expressed deep concern at the safety and well-being of nearly 100,000 children, half of them with disabilities, who live in Ukrainian institutions and boarding schools.

She called on the parties to refrain from fighting near these facilities and to avoid the use of explosive weapons in populated areas.

Russell said children must be protected from the brutality of war, saying the image of a mother, her two children and a friend trying to flee to safety lying dead on a street after being hit by a mortar “must shock the conscience of the world.”

For children fleeing Ukraine, she said, UNICEF has started operating “Blue Dot” safe places at border crossings where youngsters are first registered and which provide “a one-stop safe space for children and their families.”

____

UNITED NATIONS — The United Nations is unable to meet the needs of millions of civilians caught in conflict in Ukraine today and is urging safe passage for people to go “in the direction they choose” and for humanitarian supplies to get to areas of hostilities, according to the U.N. humanitarian chief.

Undersecretary-General Martin Griffiths told a U.N. Security Council meeting Monday that his office has sent a team to Moscow to coordinate with the Russian military to try to scale-up the delivery of humanitarian aid to the level needed. He said this followed a phone call Friday between U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres and Russia’s Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu.

The first U.N.-Russia meeting has been held, he said, welcoming cooperation by both sides and expressing hope of “further progress in the hours ahead.”

Griffiths said the U.N. and its partners have already provided food to hundreds of thousands of people and the World Food Program “is setting up supply chain operations to deliver immediate food and cash assistance to 3-5 million people inside Ukraine,” and the Ukrainian Red Cross has distributed hygiene and food kits, warm clothing and medicine to thousands of people.

The U.N. humanitarian chief also expressed deep worry at the consequences of “this unnecessary conflict” on “vulnerable people living half a world away” affected by spiking food prices and uncertain supplies and record-level prices. “People in the Sahel, Yemen, the Horn of Africa, Afghanistan, Madagascar, and beyond already face profound food inseucirty,” Griffiths said, and high gas prices means “life becomes harder still in places like Lebanon.”

____

BERLIN — The U.N. nuclear watchdog says Ukraine has informed it that a new research facility producing radioisotopes for medical and industrial uses has been damaged by shelling in Kharkiv.

The International Atomic Energy Agency said the Ukrainian regulator told it that Sunday’s incident didn’t cause any increase in radiation levels at the site. It said the nuclear material at the facility is “always subcritical” and there is a very low stock of it, so the IAEA’s assessment is that the reported damage would have no “radiological consequence.”

However, it adds to a string of concerns the Vienna-based IAEA has over nuclear facilities and material in Ukraine.

It reported “another worrying development” Monday at the Zaporizhzhia power plant, Ukraine’s biggest, which was seized last week by Russian forces. The IAEA said the Ukrainian regulator has informed it that it’s not currently possible to deliver spare parts or medicine to the plant.

The IAEA reiterated that “having operating staff subject to the authority of the Russian military commander contravenes an indispensable pillar of nuclear safety.”

The Ukrainian regulator said eight of the country’s 15 reactors were operating, including two at Zaporizhzhia.

____

NEW YORK — Stoli Group is renaming its Stolichnaya vodka brand as part of a broader effort to distance itself from Russia. In a news release, Luxembourg-based Stoli Group said the vodka will now be sold and marketed as Stoli. Russian billionaire Yuri Shefler, a critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin, founded Stoli Group in 1997 but was exiled from Russia four years later and moved production to Latvia. “More than anything, I wish for Stoli to represent peace in Europe and solidarity with Ukraine,” Shefler said in a statement. Stoli Group said a state-owned company in Russia continues to make a vodka called Stolichnaya which is sold in a limited number of markets. But Stoli Group owns the trademark rights to the Stolichnaya name in 150 countries, including the U.S. Stolichnaya means “from the capital city” in Russian.

____

PARIS — French President Emmanuel Macron said on Monday that he does not expect a negotiated end to the war in Ukraine for weeks.

He said that he has told the Russian leader that a cease-fire must come before any real dialogue, but that President Vladimir Putin has refused, making their regular talks “difficult.”

“I don’t think that in the days and weeks to come there will be a true negotiated solution,” Macron said at a forum in Poissy, a southwest suburb of Paris, while campaigning for the first time to renew his mandate in April presidential elections.

He said that Putin is making a “historic fault” with his war pitted against Ukrainians, “brothers.” Macron stressed the need to respect the people of all countries ... “and ensure that no nation, no people be humiliated.”

Macron said that Russia, too, must be respected as a country and people because “There is no durable peace if Russia is not (part of) a ... grand architecture of peace on our continent. Because History and geography are stubborn.”

____

ROME — Italy is looking to house those fleeing war in Ukraine in residences confiscated from organized crime syndicates.

Interior Minister Luciana Lamorgese on Monday said that the national agency which keeps track of hundreds of seized and confiscated properties over the years are quickly checking to determine those suitable for refugees.

Some 14,000 refugees have arrived in Italy from Ukraine. Many of them have relatives or friends living in Italy, and it isn’t immediately clear how many have no one to host them.

Ministry officials will be pinpointing real estate that has been confiscated, but not yet assigned for use by municipalities or charities. After judicial authorities determine that property was bought with illicit revenues from organized crime like drug trafficking or extortion, it is seized and eventually made available for use by charities or other non-profit groups.

Lamorgese said using the properties to house refugees, even on a temporary basis, can give “concrete responses to those fleeing from war and above all to the most fragile persons, such as women and children.”

____

TIRANA, Albania — Albania on Monday strongly denounced the shelling of its consulate in the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv and called on Russia to stop aggression against Ukraine.

The Albanian Foreign Ministry tweeted photos of the building in Kharkiv where its consulate is seen destroyed after being shelled.

“Albania strongly condemns the #Russian aggression which led to the destruction of the Honorary Consulate of Albania in Kharkiv,” it tweeted, adding that, “Perpetrators must be held accountable! #StopRussianAggression #StandWithUkraine️.”

Albania has joined the European Union in the hard-hitting sanctions against Russian top officials and institutions.

Last week Albania and the United States initiated a resolution at the United Nations Security Council denouncing the Russian invasion.

____

LVIV, Ukraine — Both Russia and Ukraine say they've made a little progress during a third round of talks and Russia’s top negotiator says the corridors are expected to start functioning Tuesday.

Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said without elaboration Monday that “there were some small positive shifts regarding logistics of humanitarian corridors” to allow civilians to flee some besieged Ukrainian cities. He said that consultations will continue on ways to negotiate an end to hostilities.

Russia’s top negotiator Vladimir Medinsky, said he expects that humanitarian corridors in Ukraine will finally start functioning Tuesday. He said no progress has been made on a political settlement, but voiced hope that the next round could be more productive.

“Our expectations from the talks have failed, but we hope that we would be able to make a more significant step forward next time,” Medinsky said. “The talks will continue.”

Efforts to set up safe passage for civilians over the weekend fell apart amid continued shelling. But the Russian Defense Ministry announced a new push Monday, saying civilians would be allowed to leave the capital of Kyiv, Mariupol and the cities of Kharkiv and Sumy.

____

MADRID — U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Wendy Sherman says that getting military materiel for Ukrainians to fight a Russian invasion is set to become more difficult for the U.S. and its allies.

“I think that the international community has been tremendously responsive and have found ways to get the materiel in. That may become harder in the coming days, and we’ll have to find other ways to manage this,” Sherman said Monday during a visit to the Spanish capital for meetings with officials.

The Biden administration is considering how to fulfill Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s request for warplanes, the official said, considering that Ukrainians would only be able to operate soviet-era warplanes provided by Poland.

“People are trying to see whether this is possible and doable,” she said, adding that the warplanes should not be regarded by Moscow as direct involvement in the conflict: “We would expect that this delivery would be seen as all the deliveries have been seen as a right for Ukraine to defend itself.”

Sherman met in Madrid with Foreign Minister José Manuel Albares and other officials. She arrived from Turkey and was on her way to Morocco, Algeria and Egypt for a week of intense diplomatic contacts amid the war in Ukraine.

____

PARIS — French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian criticized Russia’s offer of humanitarian corridors for Ukrainian civilians as a “trap” that could possibly lead to more bombing in Ukraine.

Le Drian referred to Russia’s tactic of bombing and then offering humanitarian corridors in the past, citing Aleppo in Syria and Grozny, in Chechnya. He said in such cases Russia’s proposal of establishing humanitarian corridors actually led to more bombings after negotiations failed.

“We must not fall into traps,” Le Drian said Monday in France’s southern city of Montpellier after a meeting of European ministers.

“I’m even wondering if in Russian military schools there are classes to explain: ‘bombing, corridor, negotiations, breach (of negotiations), we start it all again’. It’s quite tragic but unfortunately it sends shivers down your spine,” he said.

____

TIRANA, Albania — Albania’s capital Tirana on Monday named a street “Free Ukraine” to express solidarity with Ukraine’s resistance to the Russian invasion.

Tirana’s city hall council, or parliament, voted unanimously to rename a downtown street in the capital where the Ukrainian, Russian, Serbian and Kosovar embassies are located.

“The two conflicts: Serbia against Kosovo and Russian Against Ukraine are two marking points for the generations and memories of a modern Europe,” said Mayor Erion Veliaj.

Albania has joined the European Union in the hard-hitting sanctions against Russian top officials and institutions. Last week, Albania joined the United States in initiating a resolution at the United Nations Security Council denouncing the Russian invasion.

“We have always aligned on the fair and glorious side of the world’s history, like we did once with the Hebrews, yesterday with the Afghans and today with the Ukrainians,” said Veliaj, adding that 1,500 families have offered shelter for the Ukrainian refugees if they come to the country.

Albania was the only country during World War II to have more Jews in the end compared to the start offering them shelter from Nazi persecution. Last year, Albania was the first country to offer shelter to the Afghans fleeing their country after the Taliban regime came to power.

____

NEW YORK -- All four of the so-called Big Four accounting firms are now cutting ties with Russia over its war in Ukraine.

Deloitte on Monday was the last of the four to say it will no longer operate in Russia, joining Ernst & Young, Pricewaterhousecoopers and KPMG in making similar announcements.

Deloitte said it is also cutting its ties to Russia-allied Belarus. The company said it is separating its global network of member firms from the firms based in Russia and Belarus.

Deloitte Global CEO Punit Renjen said in a statement “we know this is the right decision” but it will have an impact on Deloitte’s 3,000 employees in Russia and Belarus who “have no voice in the actions of their government.”

Pricewaterhousecoopers and KPMG announced they were pulling out of Russia on Sunday, and Ernst & Young earlier on Monday.

____

LONDON — British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has defended his government’s treatment of Ukrainians fleeing war, after France accused U.K. authorities of “inhumane” behavior towards the refugees.

Johnson said Britain was being “very, very generous,” but would not have “a system where people can come into the U.K. without any checks or any controls at all.”

Britain says it expects to take in as many as 200,000 displaced Ukrainians. Very few have managed to reach Britain so far. The Home Office said “around 50” visas had been granted by Sunday.

French Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin said Sunday that hundreds of Ukrainian refugees in the English Channel port of Calais had been turned away and told by British authorities that they must obtain visas at U.K. embassies in Paris or Brussels.

Calling that “a bit inhumane,” Darmanin urged Britain to “stop the technocratic nit-picking."

U.K. Home Secretary Priti Patel denied Britain was turning anyone away. The British government confirmed Monday that it did not have a visa center in Calais.

____

BUDAPEST - Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban signed a decree on Monday allowing for NATO troops to station on Hungarian territory in response to the Russian invasion of neighboring Ukraine.

The government decree reaffirmed Orban’s earlier insistence that Hungary would not allow troops or lethal weapons to be delivered across its borders into Ukraine, but allowed for the transit of NATO forces across its territory into other NATO member countries.

Non-lethal aid, such as personal protective equipment, first aid and medical supplies and humanitarian materials, are permitted to cross into Ukraine from Hungary, according to the decree.

____

ROME — Italian Premier Mario Draghi said Russia appears determined to carry on with its war in Ukraine until it can install a government “friendly” to Moscow.

Draghi was asked by reporters in Brussels on Monday if he thought there was still room for diplomacy. “Look, up till now, (diplomacy) hasn’t yielded any fruits. Up till now, the determination of Russia is very clear,’’ Draghi replied.

Russia will proceed until “the country has surrendered, (and it) probably installs a friendly government and defeats the resistance,’’ the Italian leader said. “That’s what the facts demonstrate.”

____

BRUSSELS — European Commission spokesman for foreign affairs Peter Stano said the EU would like to see China play a mediation role and convince Russia to stop its war in Ukraine.

“China has the potential to reach out to Moscow because of their relationship obviously and we would like China to use its influence to press for a cease-fire and to make Russia to stop the brutal unprecedented shelling and killing of civilians in Ukraine.”

Standard Publication Ltd

文件 MLIND00020220309ei3800006


Live updates: Ukraine: Plant staff forced to record address
By The Associated Press
4827 字
2022 年 3 月 9 日 04:51 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The latest developments on the Russia-Ukraine war[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine] :

LVIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s energy minister said Russian forces that now control a Ukrainian nuclear plant are forcing the exhausted staff to record an address that they plan to use for propaganda purposes.

Russian troops have been in control of the Zaporizhzhia plant, the largest in Europe, since seizing it an attack on Friday that set a building on fire and raised fears of a nuclear disaster. It was later determined that no radiation was released.

Energy Minister Herman Halushchenko said on Facebook that about 500 Russian soldiers and 50 pieces of heavy equipment are inside the station. He said the Ukrainian staff are “physical and emotionally exhausted.”

Russia describes the war as a “special military operation” and says it is conducting targeted attacks. Halushchenko's reference to propaganda appears to refer to Russian efforts to show it is not endangering Ukrainian civilians or infrastructure.

___

LOS ANGELES — Lawmakers in the second most populous city in the U.S. on Tuesday approved a resolution condemning the actions of Russian President Vladimir Putin in waging war against Ukraine.

The Los Angeles City Council voted 14-0 to pass the resolution, which also urges international divestment of holdings in Russia.

The Board of Supervisors in neighboring Orange County unanimously passed a similar resolution Tuesday. It encourages the county to sever ties with any Russian-backed bank or financial institution. The county currently doesn’t have any direct investments in Russia.

In Los Angeles, members of the City Council expressed support for Ukraine, denounced “horrific acts against humanity” and expressed concern that history is repeating itself.

“What’s happening in Ukraine right now is close to home for me,” Councilmember Paul Koretz said.

“My mother’s family fled Kyiv a hundred years ago to avoid the Russian pogroms, and I’ve been sick to my stomach seeing the photos of innocent men, women and especially children who have been murdered in this invasion,” he said.

Koretz also said it was important to support LA’s Russian communities and businesses.

“They are not responsible for the actions of an out-of-control madman,” he said.

___

LOS ANGELES — A former Miss Ukraine winner on Tuesday described her journey with her young son to escape Kyiv and her homeland as Russian troops invaded the country last month, and called on countries to do more to arm her countrymen and women.

Veronika Didusenko, who was crowned Miss Ukraine in 2018, said she and her 7-year-old son were awoken on the first day of the invasion to the sounds of air raid sirens and explosions, and they joined thousands of others on the road to evacuate.

“On my ... journey to the border of Ukraine, there was no place where sirens would not sound, where rockets and bombs would not explode,” she said.

Didusenko told her story at a news conference in the Los Angeles office of women’s rights attorney Gloria Allred, who said she became friends with the former beauty queen several months ago.

Didusenko and her son eventually made it to Moldova and traveled through other European countries before reaching Geneva, Switzerland. Didusenko said she made the “heartbreaking” decision to leave her son there to travel to the United States to hold the press conference with Allred.

Didusenko said she and Allred decided the situation on the ground in parts of her homeland was an important story to highlight on International Women’s Day.

“Right now, millions of Ukrainian children and their mothers are trembling at every sound in the subway stations and bomb shelters. Even more heartbreaking that women are giving birth in such conditions in these shelters,” Didusenko said.

She said Ukrainians are committed to defending their country, but need more help from other nations.

___

WASHINGTON — Additional air defense capabilities are the number one priority for Ukraine’s military right now, the country’s U.S. defense attache, Maj. Gen. Borys Kremenetskyi, said Tuesday after returning from a meeting at the Pentagon.

“It can be ground based air defense systems. It can be fighter jets, whatever possible,” he said in an interview with The Associated Press.

He said there are countries around the world that have Soviet-produced air defense systems that the Ukrainians already know how to operate. “The U.S. government can also motivate those countries to provide us this equipment,” he said.

They also need additional anti-tank, anti-armor weapons and coastal defense capabilities to defend against Russian ships at the south.

He said Ukraine is grateful for the support it has gotten from the U.S. and its allies, which has allowed Ukraine to slow the Russian advance. “As combat is ongoing, we need more right now,” Kremenetskyi said. “So we try to work with our partners to have it as soon as possible.”

___

UNITED NATIONS — Natalia Mudrenko, the highest-ranking woman at Ukraine’s U.N. Mission, is accusing Russia of effectively holding civilians “hostage,” and says “the critical situation” in Mariupol and other cities demands immediate action by world leaders and humanitarian and medical organizations.

She told a U.N. Security Council meeting Tuesday afternoon on women in conflict that civilians, mostly women and children, “are not allowed to leave and the humanitarian aid is not let in.”

“If they try to leave, Russians open fire and kill them,” Mudrenko said, her voice shaking with emotion. “They are running out of food and water, and they die.”

The Russian military has denied firing on convoys and charged that the Ukrainian side was blocking the evacuation effort.

Mudrenko said a 6-year-old girl died Monday in the besieged city of Mariupol on the Azov Sea, “alone in the last moments of her life as her mother was killed by Russian shelling.”

On Tuesday in the Mykolaiv region, she said “Russian occupiers fired at a van with a group of female teachers of the local orphanage (and) three of them were killed.” She said there are also “cases of child sexual violence committed by occupiers.”

Mudrenko said the war has highlighted the role of Ukrainian women in defending their country, saying there were 57,000 women in the army at the start of 2021, comprising 22.8% of the force.

___

LVIV, Ukraine -- Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy thanked the leaders of the U.S. and Britain for banning Russian oil imports.

“This is a powerful signal to the whole world,” he said in his daily address to the nation at the close of another day of war. “Either Russia will respect international law and not wage wars, or it will have no money.”

Zelenskyy said when he went to address the British Parliament, “the scariest figure was the 50 Ukrainian children killed in 13 days of war. But then in an hour it became 52 children. I will never forgive this. And I know that you will never forgive the occupiers.”

Zelenskyy called for negotiations with Russia on ending the war. “The war must be stopped. We need to sit down at the negotiating table, but for honest, substantive talks.”

____

WASHINGTON — The Pentagon said Tuesday that Poland’s offer to give its MiG-29 fighter jets to the U.S. so they can be passed to Ukraine raises serious concerns for the NATO alliance and the plan is not “a tenable one.”

Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said in a statement that the prospect of jets departing from a U.S./NATO base in Germany to fly into airspace contested with Russia in the Ukraine war is concerning. He said it’s not clear to the U.S. that there is a substantive rationale for it.

The U.S., he said, will continue to talk to Poland about the matter.

____

DETROIT — McDonald’s, Starbucks, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and General Electric all announced Tuesday they were suspending their business in Russia in response to the country’s invasion of Ukraine.

McDonald’s is temporarily closing all of its 850 restaurants in Russia, but will continue paying its 62,000 employees there.

The Chicago-based burger giant said it will temporarily close 850 stores but continue paying its 62,000 employees in Russia “who have poured their heart and soul into our McDonald’s brand.”

Starbucks is temporarily closing 130 franchised stores but its franchisee will continue paying 2,000 Russian workers.

Coca-Cola said it is suspending its business; its bottling partner has 10 plants in Russia. PepsiCo is suspending soda sales but will keep making milk and baby formula.

GE said it was suspending its business except for essential medical equipment and electrical service.

____

LVIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian authorities say that Russian warplanes have carried new strikes on residential areas in eastern and central parts of the country.

Ukrainian officials said that that two people, including a 7-year-old child, were killed in the town of Chuhuiv just east of Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine late Tuesday. And in the city of Malyn in the Zhytomyr region west of the capital Kyiv at least five people, including two children, were killed in a Russian air strike.

The Russian artillery has pounded the outskirts of Kyiv, forcing civilians to hide in shelters while water, food and power supplies have been cut, said Yaroslav Moskalenko, an official who coordinates humanitarian efforts in the Kyiv region.

He said that the shelling made it impossible to evacuate the bodies of five people who died when their vehicle was fired upon in Borodianka near Kyiv and the bodies of 12 patients of a psychiatric hospital there. He said that another 200 patients were stuck there without food and medicines.

____

KYIV, Ukraine -- Belarusians living in Ukraine have formed a military unit and are preparing to join the fight against Russia.

Jan Derbeiko, 26, said he has been living in Kyiv since November 2020 after being forced to leave Belarus for participating in protests against President Alexander Lukashenko.

“I had a job and I had plans for future, but the war happened here,” Derbeiko said. “At that moment, I decided to stay here. I’ve already lost my homeland and now my new home is being destroyed.”

Derbeiko urged all Belarusians “who have a conscience and honor left” to provide “maximum support to the Ukrainians.”

He said the squadron of Belarusians, which grows each day, he is preparing to take their positions when the Russian soldiers attack Kyiv.

____

Russia’s Central Bank has sharply tightened currency restrictions amid crippling Western sanctions over the Russian war in Ukraine.

The bank ordered the country’s commercial banks to cap the amount clients can withdraw from their hard currency deposits at $10,000. Any withdrawals above that amount would be converted to rubles at the current exchange rates.

It also told commercial banks to stop selling hard currency to clients, a measure that will likely foment a black market for foreign currency. The draconian restrictions are unprecedented since the Soviet times when the authorities maintained strict hard currency controls. The Central Bank noted that the currency controls were tightened because of the Western sanctions that froze a large share of the Central Bank’s hard currency reserves. The crippling blow to the country’s financial system also prevented Russia from getting foreign cash.

____

LVIV, Ukraine — Authorities evacuated thousands of people from the eastern city of Sumy on Tuesday, a senior Ukrainian official said.

Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said that 5,000 people, including 1,700 foreign students, were evacuated from Sumy.

Vereshchuk reaffirmed that Ukraine will not accept Moscow’s offer to establish safe corridors for civilians to head toward Russia, saying it will only agree to safe exits leading westward.

Vereshchuk said that the evacuation from the southern port of Mariupol failed Tuesday because the Russian troops fired on a Ukrainian convoy carrying humanitarian cargo to Mariupol that was to carry civilians from the city on its way back. She said the city was in a “catastrophic situation” cut from water, power and communications, adding that a child in Mariupol has died of dehydration.

The Russian military has denied firing on convoys and charged that the Ukrainian side was blocking the evacuation effort.

____

KYIV, Ukraine — The Ukrainian president’s wife thanked the country’s allies Tuesday for their support and urged them to do more to deter Russia.

Olena Zelenska said in an open letter to global media released Tuesday that the Russian invasion amounted to “the mass murder of Ukrainian civilians.”

She said that “the most terrifying and devastating of this invasion are the child casualties,” mentioning eight-year-old Alice who died on the streets of Okhtyrka while her grandfather tried to protect her. She also cited 14-year-old Arseniy was hit in the head by wreckage, and could not be saved because an ambulance could not get to him on time because of intense fires.

Zelenska added that “this war is being waged against the civilian population, and not just through shelling,” citing the lack of basic medicines in the besieged Ukrainian cities.

She seconded President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s call on Western allies to help counter the Russian air superiority, saying “close the sky, and we will manage the war on the ground ourselves.”

____

The Russian military offered again on Tuesday to provide humanitarian corridors for civilians to leave five Ukrainian cities after several previous attempts to establish safe exits have failed.

Ukrainian officials said that Russian shelling again made it impossible for civilians to use the corridors on Tuesday despite a deal reached a day earlier. The Russian military has countered the claim, alleging that Ukraine only has allowed civilians to use one corridor from the city of Sumy and blocked other routes from Kyiv, Chernihiv, Kharkiv and Mariupol.

Russian Col. Gen. Mikhail Mizintsev said Tuesday that the Russian military has announced it will stop firing at 10 a.m. Wednesday to let civilians leave safely via the corridors. He suggested setting up a hotline between Russia and Ukraine to coordinate the evacuation.

____

WARSAW, Poland — Poland said it would give all of its MiG-29 fighter jets to the U.S., apparently agreeing to an arrangement that would allow them to be used by Ukraine’s military. Ukraine has pleaded for more warplanes.

The decision came Tuesday as Washington was looking at a proposal under which Poland would supply Ukraine with Soviet-era fighters and in turn receive American F-16s to make up for their loss. Ukrainian pilots are trained to fly Soviet-era fighter jets.

The Polish Foreign Ministry said in a statement that Poland is ready to deliver the jets to the U.S. Ramstein Air Base in Germany.

“At the same time, Poland requests the United States to provide us with used aircraft with corresponding operational capabilities,” it said.

____

UNITED NATIONS — Ireland’s foreign minister saluted the resilience and courage of Ukraine’s women. The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations hailed their bravery in defending their homes and country. And the head of the International Monetary Fund told “sisters” in Ukraine: “We admire your courage, we share your pain, we stand with you.”

It was International Women’s Day on Tuesday and at a U.N. Security Council meeting focusing on empowering women economically in conflict areas many speakers decried Russia’s war on neighboring Ukraine, and its impact on women.

But Russia’s deputy ambassador Gennady Kuzmin lashed out at sanctions on his country and accused “a cold Western world” of looking on with indifference for eight years at what he called “the murders perpetrated by the Kyiv junta against women and children in Donetsk and Luhansk,” the Russian-backed separatist areas in eastern Ukraine.

Sima Bahous, the head of UN Women, told the council that in Ukraine “humanitarian needs are multiplying and spreading by the hour,” and the majority of those fleeing the conflict are women and children. She warned of the risk of “a backsliding of women’s rights and women’s access to employment and livelihoods” in the war-torn country.

Bahous told a separate U.N. Women’s Day event that “the horrifying situation” in Ukraine and its impacts on women also “remind us that all conflicts, from Ukraine to Myanmar to Afghanistan, from the Sahel to Yemen, exact their highest price from women and girls.”

____

JERUSALEM — Israel said Tuesday it will provide temporary refuge to some 25,000 Ukrainians outside of its Law of Return, under which all Jews are eligible for citizenship.

Interior Minister Ayelet Shaked said in a statement that 20,000 Ukrainians who were in Israel without legal status before the outbreak of fighting will be shielded from repatriation “until the danger subsides.” Another 5,000 Ukrainians will initially be granted three-month visas and will be allowed to work if the fighting continues beyond then. Ukrainians can apply for the program online through the Israeli Foreign Ministry’s Israeli Foreign Ministry’s website.

Israel expects to absorb around 100,000 Ukrainians through its Law of Return, under which Jews from anywhere in the world can come to Israel and get citizenship, Shaked said.

Established in the wake of the Holocaust, Israel views itself as a refuge for Jews fleeing war and persecution worldwide. But it has been reluctant to absorb non-Jewish immigrants, including Africans fleeing conflict and poverty.

It has also refused to allow the return of hundreds of thousands of Palestinians who fled or were driven from their homes in what is now Israel during the 1948 war surrounding its creation. Israel says allowing the return of Palestinian refugees and their descendants — who now number more than 5 million — would spell the end of Israel as a Jewish-majority state.

____

DETROIT — Skyrocketing nickel prices are likely to ripple through the auto industry and raise costs in the nascent global market for electric vehicles.

Nickel is a key component in automotive battery cathodes, and Russia is the third-largest producer of the metal. Trading of the commodity was suspended Tuesday on the London Metal Exchange after nickel prices doubled to an unprecedented $100,000 per metric ton.

The LME said trading did not resume Tuesday, and the suspension could last longer given the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Nickel prices have quadrupled in a week over supply issues, and the spike Tuesday forced the LME to shut down electronic and floor trading.

Large automakers General Motors and Toyota said nickel supplies haven’t been affected yet. But a Toyota spokesman in the U.S. said the company is watching the prices. Toyota has seen costs of nearly all precious metals rise, so it’s only a matter of time until it feels the increases, the spokesman said. Tesla, the world’s largest electric vehicle maker, did not respond to a request for comment Tuesday.

____

LONDON — Consumer goods conglomerate Unilever said Tuesday that it has suspended all imports and exports of its products into and out of Russia, and that it will not invest any further capital into the country.

The company condemned the war in Ukraine as “a brutal and senseless act by the Russian state” Tuesday. It said it will continue to supply everyday essential food and hygiene products that are made in Russia to people there, but will keep that under review.

Unilever, which owns hundreds of food and personal care brands including Hellmann’s and Dove, also said it has stopped business operations in Ukraine and will instead focus on helping its employees.

____

LONDON — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy evoked British wartime leader Winston Churchill as he told the U.K. Parliament that his country would fight Russia’s invasion to the end in Ukraine’s cities, fields and riverbanks.

Zelenskyy told British lawmakers “we will not give up and we will not lose,” in a speech that evoked Churchill’s stirring “never surrender” speech during the darkest days of World War II.

Speaking by video from Ukraine to a packed House of Commons chamber, Zelenskyy urged Britain to increase sanctions on Russia and to recognize Russia as “a terrorist country.”

Tuesday’s address was the first time a foreign leader was allowed to speak in the House of Commons. Screens and simultaneous translation headsets were set up in the House of Commons so lawmakers could hear him.

____

PARIS — U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken is meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris to discuss the response to Russia’s war with Ukraine.

Macron was briefing Blinken on his most recent round of conversations with Russian President Vladimir Putin who is pressing ahead with the Ukraine invasion despite global condemnation and severe sanctions being imposed on his country.

The two men were also to discuss the Iran nuclear talks in Vienna, which are nearing an end with conflicting signals about whether the 2015 deal limiting Iran’s atomic program can be salvaged.

Blinken arrived in Paris for a two-hour stop from a tour of the Baltic states, Moldova and Poland where he heard firsthand dire concerns about Russia’s actions from leaders.

____

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The Dutch defense ministry says it is working with Germany to station Patriot surface-to-air missiles in Slovakia at the request of NATO.

Defense Minister Kajsa Ollongren said Tuesday that the Dutch ruling coalition agrees “in principle” to the deployment on the alliance’s eastern flank as a defensive measure.

Ollongren says that some 150-200 Dutch troops will head east with the missile system as soon as the Cabinet gives formal approval. The defense ministry said the missiles can take down airplanes, helicopters and cruise missiles up to an altitude of 20 kilometers (12.4 miles).

The Dutch military’s Patriot systems have previously seen service in both Gulf wars and were stationed in southern Turkey from 2013-2015 to intercept missiles from Syria.

Germany announced late last month that it planned to send Patriots to Slovakia.

____

BRUSSELS — Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced Tuesday that Canada will prolong its military mission in Latvia in response to Russia’s war on Ukraine and plans to send more troops there soon.

Canada’s Operation Reassurance is conducting training and exercises alongside its NATO partners in Latvia to help deter Russia from launching an attack on any of the Baltic states or Poland.

“This mission was set to expire next year and in light of the situation in Europe, we decided to renew it ahead of schedule,” Trudeau said. He says 130 more Canadian personnel would join it in coming weeks.

Trudeau also defended Canada’s decision to supply lethal aid to Ukraine, including rocket launchers and hand grenades, despite some weapons shortfalls at home.

“All those weapons are much more useful right now and in the coming weeks, in the hands of Ukrainian soldiers fighting for their lives than they would be in Canadian hands,” he said.

Speaking alongside Trudeau at the Adazi military base in Latvia, Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said that Spain is also set to send around 150 more troops to the Baltic state to bolster its presence there.

____

WASHINGTON — President Biden announced Tuesday that the U.S. is “targeting the main artery of Russia’s economy” by banning imports of Russian oil, the latest sanction intended to punish Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine.

“We will not be part of subsidizing Putin’s war,” he said in the Roosevelt Room at the White House.

Biden’s announcement came amid rising pressure from Democrats and Republicans, and it reflects a willingness to accept the political risk of rising gas prices to economically retaliate against Russia.

“Defending freedom is going to cost,” Biden said. “It’s going to cost us as well in the United States.”

Although Biden has tried to work in concert with European allies, he acknowledged that many are not announcing a similar ban because they’re more reliant on Moscow for oil and gas.

“So we can take this step when others can not,” he said. “But we’re working closely with Europe and our partners to develop a long term strategy to reduce their dependence on Russian energy as well.”

___

LONDON — Britain is joining the United States in announcing a ban on imports of Russian oil.

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng says oil and oil products from Russia will be phased out by the end of the year. He said the transition period “will give the market, businesses and supply chains more than enough time to replace Russian imports,” which account for 8% of U.K. demand.

Kwarteng said the U.K. would work with its other oil suppliers, including the U.S., the Netherlands and the Gulf states, to secure extra supplies.

President Joe Biden announced a ban on Russian oil imports, toughening the toll on Russia’s economy in retaliation for its invasion of Ukraine. It follows pleas from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to U.S. and Western officials to cut off the imports, which had been a glaring omission in the massive sanctions put in place on Russia over the invasion.

___

The Kremlin says that Russian President Vladimir Putin had another phone call with Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett to discuss the situation in Ukraine.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that he also spoke to Bennett on Tuesday and thanked him for his mediation.

Bennett visited Moscow for a meeting with Putin on Saturday, trying to help broker an end to the war with Ukraine. After meeting with Putin, Bennett spoke to Zelenskyy and French President Emmanuel Macron and also visited Berlin on Saturday for talks with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. Bennett also spoke to Putin by phone on Sunday.

____

LONDON — Sports apparel and shoe company Adidas is the latest Western brand to halt its operations in Russia because of the Ukraine invasion.

The company said Tuesday that it has suspended the operations of its retail stores and e-commerce website in Russia until further notice, though it continues to pay its employees there.

Adidas, based in Herzogenaurach, Germany, said it will make future business decisions and take action as needed, “prioritizing our employee’s safety and support.”

“As a company, we strongly condemn any form of violence and stand in solidarity with those calling for peace,” the company said in a statement.

It’s also donating 1 million euros ($1.1 million) to refugee and children’s charities and clothing to the Global Aid Network for people in Ukraine and neighboring countries.

Last week, Adidas suspended its partnership with the Russian Football Union. Nike has also shut its stores in Russia.

Sales in Russia account for only about 3% of Adidas’s total global revenue, according to company data.

____

WASHINGTON — President Joe Biden’s top intelligence official said Tuesday the U.S. believes Russia underestimated the strength of Ukraine’s resistance before launching an invasion that has likely caused thousands of Russian casualties.

Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines told a congressional panel that U.S. officials believe Russian President Vladimir Putin feels “aggrieved” by Russia’s failure to subdue Ukraine and that he perceives that he cannot afford to lose the war. But what Putin might consider a victory could change given the escalating costs of the conflict to Russia, Haines said.

Despite Putin’s announcement that he would raise Russia’s alert level for nuclear weapons, Haines said the U.S. has not observed unusual changes in Russia’s nuclear force posture.

Haines said it is “unclear at this stage” whether Russia will try to conquer all of Ukraine, something that would require more resources than Putin has committed.

___

HELSINKI — Flights from the eastern Finnish town of Savonlinna near the Russian border to the capital, Helsinki, have been temporarily suspended due to disruptions in GPS signal in eastern parts of the Nordic country, preventing pilots from landing safely.

Finnish communications authority Traficom confirmed Tuesday that GPS disruptions have been recorded in eastern Finland, but declined to comment on how long or how wide the disruptions were.

Transaviabaltika, a Lithuanian airline that operates on the Finnish domestic route with a small turboprop plane, said its pilots have tried landing several times at the Savonlinna airport since Sunday, but have been forced to turn back to Helsinki each time as the GPS signal was disrupted.

Finland shares a 1,340-kilometer (833-mile) land border with Russia. The lakeside town of Savonlinna is a mere 70 kilometers (43 miles) from the border.

In late 2018, the Finnish government said the country’s GPS location signals were intentionally disrupted in the northern Lapland region and the country’s prime minister acknowledged that it was possible that Russia was the disrupting party.

At the same time, the Norwegian Defense Ministry said Russian forces in the Arctic disturbed GPS location signals during a large NATO drill in the country.

Eds: UPDATES: This version has been updated with Ukraine's energy minister saying nuclear plant workers being forced to record address.; With AP Photos. AP Video.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220308ei3800ac9


UK 'LAGGING BEHIND' IN SANCTIONING PUTIN-LINKED PEOPLE AND FIRMS, SAYS LABOUR
By Patrick Daly, PA Political Correspondent
371 字
2022 年 3 月 10 日 22:30 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
Ministers have been accused of sanctioning hundreds fewer elite Russian figures with links to Vladimir Putin than Europe and the US.

The UK Government announced sanctions on seven more oligarchs on Thursday, including Chelsea FC owner Roman Abramovich, in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

It takes the total number of oligarchs targeted with restrictions to 18 since Moscow's assault started, and comes on top of Russian banks and organisations that have been handed asset freezes.

Labour said analysis by human rights organisation Redress showed 41 "individuals or entities" with associations to the Kremlin had been sanctioned by London since February 24 - far fewer than the 600 hit by the European Union and 240 targeted by Washington.

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy accused ministers of lagging "far behind" allies on taking punitive action.

The opposition party said the gap could be closed by increasing the number of sanctions against individuals and entities with ties to President Putin while also imposing "limits on Russians depositing money into UK bank accounts".

Labour wants to see sanctions on wealth held under the name of family members of sanctioned individuals.

The party is also recommending extending financial sanctions - including the ban on using the Swift monetary transfer system - to Belarussian banks, in recognition of Minsk's close relationship with Moscow.

Finally, the party is urging Boris Johnson's administration to sanction the 351 members of the State Duma - the lower house of the Federal Assembly of Russia - who voted in favour of Russia's recognition of the self-proclaimed people's republics of Donetsk and Luhansk, in eastern Ukraine.

Mr Lammy, who travelled on Thursday to Finland and Sweden to meet their foreign ministers about the Ukraine crisis, said: "Vladimir Putin's illegal invasion of Ukraine is a monstrous act that must lead to the complete removal of the Russian regime from our economic system.

"There is no excuse for the UK continuing to lag far behind our EU and US allies on the number of Putin-linked individuals and entities facing sanctions.

"The Government must end the delay and urgently close the sanctions gap."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220310ei3a00bt1


EU summit chaos: Five furious nations tear up VDL's Putin plan: 'We won't pay the price!'
Jacob Paul
744 字
2022 年 3 月 11 日 09:32 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
EU leaders are locked in a furious bust-up over energy as five members, including Germany, Austria and Hungary, tore up Ursula von der Leyen's plan to cut energy ties with Russia.

Finland and Bulgaria also opposed measures put forward by the European Commission. At a summit in Versailles, the bloc acknowledged the “tectonic shift in European history” caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine and vowed to “strengthen our bonds and deepen our partnership” with Kyiv. But they could not see eye-to-eye on a new energy strategy that was published on Tuesday.

Related articles

It detailed how the bloc can slash its dependence on gas by up to two-thirds in 2022, and completely rid itself of Russian supplies by the end of the decade.

But the bloc currently relies on Russia for 40 percent of its gas, some nations fear they will not be able to cope without Russian imports.

More than 25 percent of the EU's oil imports and 46 percent of its coal imports are also supplied by Russia.

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz appeared to hold one of the strongest stances against the plan, given that Germany received 55 percent of its gas from Russia, roughly 140 billion cubic meters in 2021.

Germany also imports 35 percent of its crude oil and 50 percent of its coal from Russia.

Even before the new energy strategy was published, Mr Scholz admitted that Germany would not be able to cope without Russian gas.

The country is still staunchly opposing any sanctions on Russian energy.

Vice-chancellor Robert Habeck warned this would pose a threat to “social peace” in the country and create a “real danger of energy undersupply in certain sectors”.

Instead, Mr Scholz made the case for more specifically targeted sanctions to pressure Russia and to avoid the impact it would have on EU citizens.

But Germany is not the only country that is unwilling to part ways with Russia.

READ MORE: Putin's nuclear threat to UK: Nine locations that could be obliterated

Hungary was unconvinced by the EU plot, with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán saying would oppose energy sanctions at the EU level.

Mr Orbán said on Tuesday after the strategy was published: "While we condemn Russia’s armed offensive and we also condemn the war, we will not allow Hungarian families to be made to pay the price.”

Austria was also staunchly opposed to the plan to sanction Russian energy, perhaps unsurprisingly as 80 percent of its gas is supplied by Russia.

Bulgaria, which gets 70 percent of its from Russia, is also worried about the impacts of energy sanctions on Russia, while Finland too appears unprepared to slash ties.

DON'T MISS

Xi Jinping on path to conflict with Putin as China could STARVE [REVEAL]

Chernobyl crisis: Lukashenko turns on Putin to secure nuclear plant [REPORT]

Brexit Britain goes ’full steam ahead’ with £6bn Five Eyes plan [INSIGHT]

Related articles

But internal division within the bloc was laid bare as other countries like Lativa, Poland and Lithuania urged that harsh sanctions on Russian energy should be slapped down immediately.

Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karin said: "I am convinced that we should make a decision to stop energy imports from Russia to get Putin to the negotiating table and end this war."

Poland has also appeared to be one of the biggest advocates of the strategy, arguing that the urgent need to stop Putin is worth the potential economic damage it may cause to the bloc.

A Polish diplomat said: "Billions are flowing to Russia via Nord Stream 1.

“These are billions for which today Ukrainians are paying with their own blood.”

Nord Stream 1 is a major pipeline linking Russia to Germany.

France has also said it is ready to impose energy sanctions on Russia.

Trade minister Franck Riester said: “France is ready to take additional decisions to put pressure on Russia if necessary”.

“We are not closing any doors, we simply have to look at what is effective in putting pressure on Russia and also taking into account the consequences that this may have on the EU and its various members.”

Related articles Germany RULES OUT Gas sanctions and Russian energy deemed 'essential' How to live longer: Scientists REVERSE ageing in elderly mice EU masterplan to CUT Russia's gas tipped to 'backfire'

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220311ei3b0048v


Finnlines - Suspension of traffic to Russia - humanitarian aid provided
662 字
2022 年 3 月 11 日
M2 Presswire
MTPW
英文
© 2022, M2 Communications. All rights reserved.
Helsinki — Finnlines and its owner, the Grimaldi Group, have read some inaccurate articles in the press and therefore we would like to clarify the following.

Finnlines, like the Grimaldi Group, obeys all rules in force including Finnish flag rules, national laws, EU and international maritime laws. This also applies to sanctions, which are closely monitored and followed, and sanction lists are applied by Finnlines against all traffics, flags, firms and individuals indicated by the laws, and will continue to do so also in the future. Beside and beyond this obvious obedience, considering the growing concern about the international situation, Finnlines decided to unilaterally interrupt its traffic to Russia on 9 March, although not directly having any imposition to do so by laws in force. Instead, Finnlines will not ban and/or penalize any other people, company or mean different than those who national and international authorities are indicating, as this would be against non-discrimination principle included in its code of conduct.

Finnlines and the Grimaldi Group through Finnlines used to run four services to Russia: from Spain, Belgium, UK and Germany. All of them were suspended in view of the current well-known international situation. Four ships are involved, all Finnish flagged with a total cargo capacity of 16,000 line metres, and they have all been re-assigned to other intra-EU services until further notice.

The last call of Finnlines vessels in Russia was performed on 7 March, and the suspension was announced on 9 March. The company prepared this step carefully, informing biggest customers involved in advance and planning with due anticipation in order to minimize risks and costs for all customers and stakeholders of the lines.

Humanitarian aid to Ukrainian citizens

Finnlines and the Grimaldi Group are concerned about the current crisis and are factually acting for relief of Ukrainian refugees. As from 3 March Finnlines has granted free transportation on its passenger-freight vessels to Ukrainians leaving their homeland due to the on-going war, as well as Grimaldi in the Mediterranean is cooperating in free transportation of hundreds of young Ukrainian children and families to hosting region in West Mediterranean. Both Finnlines and the Grimaldi Group companies are also granting several zero and near-to-zero seafreight transports to forwarders bringing aid to Ukrainian refugees in Eastern Europe.

The Grimaldi Foundation, led by the Grimaldi Shipowners, actively organized and supported rescuing and hosting initiatives (on landside), medical materials recollection in Naples for camps in Eastern Poland, and has given availability of apartments for accommodating dozens of refugees in Naples and Palermo. Due to the sudden nature of the crisis, the list of relief actions undertaken at the Grimaldi Group level is to date in constant updating and more funds have been earmarked for future actions.

For further information on Finnlines Group

Vice President and Deputy CEO, CFO: Tom Pippingsköld +358 40 519 5041 -

tom.pippingskold@finnlines.com

For further information on Grimaldi Group

Grimaldi Group External Relations: Paul Kyprianou +39 081 496246 - +39 320 4076539 - kyprianou.paul@grimaldi.napoli.it

Press contact

Communications Department, communications@finnlines.com

Finnlines Plc

Finnlines is a leading shipping operator of ro-ro and passenger services in the Baltic Sea, the North Sea and the Bay of Biscay. The Company is a part of the Grimaldi Group, one of the world’s largest operators of ro-ro vessels and the largest operator of the Motorways of the Sea in Europe for both passengers and freight. This affiliation enables Finnlines to offer liner services to and from any destination in the Mediterranean, West Africa as well as the Atlantic coast of both North and South America.

((M2 Communications disclaims all liability for information provided within M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2 PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.m2.com[http://www.m2.com] on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

Normans Media Ltd

文件 MTPW000020220314ei3b002po


Germany’s Nord Stream 2 region refuses to grant Ukraine aid]]
EURACTIV Network
1359 字
2022 年 3 月 14 日 06:30 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

Before you start reading today’s edition of the Capitals, feel free to have a look at the article Citizens ask adapting legislation to digitalisation, future pandemics, and wars[https://www.euractiv.com/section/future-eu/news/cofoe-citizens-ask-adapting-legislation-to-digitalisation-future-pandemics-and-wars/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

In today’s news from the Capitals:

BERLIN

A motion to raise €20 million in humanitarian aid for Ukraine has been dismissed by the state government of Mecklenburg-Western Pommerania, which is also home to Russia’s Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/germanys-nord-stream-2-region-refuses-to-grant-ukraine-aid/]

///

VIENNA

Austrian Chancellor says EU army not going to happen. An EU army will not happen in the foreseeable future, said Austria’s Chancellor Karl Nehammer following Friday’s summit of EU leaders in Versailles. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/austrian-chancellor-says-eu-army-not-going-to-happen/]

///

PARIS

French faced with soaring fuel prices to soon receive rebate. All French citizens who use petrol will be reimbursed 15 cents per litre as of 1 April, Prime Minister Jean Castex announced on Saturday to the newspaper Le Parisien in response to the surge in fuel prices exacerbated by the current war in Ukraine. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/french-faced-with-soaring-fuel-prices-to-soon-receive-rebate/]

///

THE HAGUE

Dutch municipal elections to cater to English-speaking voters. Political parties are offering information and election debates in English for residents who do not speak Dutch but are eligible to vote in the municipal elections starting on Monday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/dutch-municipal-elections-to-cater-to-english-speaking-voters/]

 UK AND IRELAND

LONDON

Open up your home to Ukrainian refugees government urges. People in the UK will be offered £350 a month to open their homes to Ukrainian refugees as part of the government’s Homes for Ukraine scheme. The programme will allow Britons to sponsor a refugee or family to live in their home for six months. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/open-up-your-home-to-ukrainian-refugees-government-urges/]

///

DUBLIN 

Irish military neutrality to be redefined, says foreign minister. Ireland’s traditional military neutrality will need to be redefined, but a referendum on it is not currently on the government’s radar, Foreign Minister Simon Coveney has said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/irish-military-neutrality-to-be-redefined-says-foreign-minister/]

NORDICS AND BALTICS

HELSINKI

Finnish minister: EU consumers to pay ‘Putin’s prices’. The war in Ukraine may lead to increased food prices and possible supply shortages in Finland and across Europe, Economic Minister Mika Lintilä has said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/finnish-minister-eu-consumers-to-pay-putins-prices/]

///

STOCKHOLM | HELSINKI

Russia threatens Sweden and Finland over NATO membership, again. A spokesman for the Russian foreign ministry has issued another warning to both Sweden and Finland warning them not to join NATO. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/russia-threatens-sweden-and-finland-over-nato-membership-again/]

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ROME 

Bus carrying Ukrainian refugees overturned in Italy. A bus carrying 20 Ukrainians overturned in North-Eastern Italy on Sunday morning while making its way to Pescara in the Abruzzi Region, leaving one person dead and several injured, firefighters said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/bus-carrying-ukrainian-refugees-overturned-in-italy/]

///

MADRID

Madrid demonstration calls for ‘no-fly zone’ over Ukraine. A total of 5,000 people demonstrated in Madrid asking the EU and the US to enforce a “no-fly zone” in Ukraine to help the Eastern country repel the Russian invasion on Sunday, EURACTIV’s partner EFE reported. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/madrid-demonstration-calls-for-no-fly-zone-over-ukraine/]

Spain’s PM announces tax relief measures to mitigate Ukraine war impact. Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez announced a package of tax relief measures focused on alleviating the impact of the war in Ukraine on the economy on Sunday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/spains-pm-announces-tax-relief-measures-to-mitigate-ukraine-war-impact/]

///

LISBON

Lisbon centre for Ukrainians has welcomed almost 400 refugees. The Temporary Reception Centre for Ukrainian refugees in Lisbon received 394 people in its first week of operation, including 116 children aged up to 16 years, Lisbon Mayor Carlos Moedas said on Sunday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/lisbon-centre-for-ukrainians-has-welcomed-almost-400-refugees/]

Portugal to open platform for temporary protection of Ukrainian refugees. The Portuguese immigration and borders service SEF is launching an online platform in three different languages on Monday for requests for temporary protection from Ukrainian residents, it announced on Sunday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/portugal-to-open-platform-for-temporary-protection-of-ukrainian-refugees/]

VISEGRAD 

BRATISLAVA |  PRAGUE |  SOFIA

Soviet war memorials take a hit across central and eastern Europe. Several cases of vandalism towards Soviet war memorials have been reported in central and eastern Europe as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. While Russian embassies were outraged, national authorities were more understanding of perpetrators. In some cases, municipalities are considering removing the monuments. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/soviet-war-memorials-take-a-hit-across-central-and-eastern-europe/]

///

WARSAW

Opposition MPs reject bill giving officials impunity when helping refugees. Opposition party MPs have spoken out against the new law regulating residency status for Ukrainian refugees that fled to Poland following the Russian invasion, particularly the provisions giving impunity to officials when people’s lives are at stake. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/opposition-mps-reject-bill-giving-officials-impunity-when-helping-refugees/]

///

PRAGUE

Czech capacities to host Ukrainian refugees have run out. The Czech Republic can no longer offer accommodation to Ukrainian refugees as the state’s capacities are now exhausted. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/czech-capacities-to-host-ukrainian-refugees-have-run-out/]

///

BUDAPEST

Hungarian constitutional judges side with government in email scandal case. Hungary’s constitutional court, often accused of a pro-government bias, dismissed charges against the executive on Sunday of using emails sent to citizens on the eve of the Ukrainian-Russian war for campaign purposes in the upcoming parliamentary elections. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/hungarian-constitutional-judges-side-with-government-in-email-scandal-case/]

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

SOFIA

Bulgaria to fastrack plans to build a new nuclear reactor. The Bulgarian government will try to build at least one nuclear reactor at the functioning Kozloduy nuclear power plant on the banks of the Danube. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/bulgaria-to-fastrack-plans-to-build-a-new-nuclear-reactor/]

///

BUCHAREST

Romanians go on edible oil buying spree. Consumers panic bought sunflower oil, a product they think will soon be in short supply, just a few days after they had queued up en masse at petrol stations. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/romanians-go-on-edible-oil-buying-spree/]

///

ZAGREB

Remnants of aerial bomb found in drone that crashed in Zagreb. Remnants of an aerial bomb have been found in the Soviet-era drone that crashed in Southwest Zagreb late on Thursday, as Defence Minister Mario Banožić said on Sunday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/remnants-of-aerial-bomb-found-in-drone-that-crashed-in-zagreb/]

///

LJUBLJANA 

Slovenian parliament approves long-delayed tax cuts. The Slovenian parliament passed income tax changes that result in higher take-home pay across the board, lower tax on capital gains, and a lower top tax rate, changes welcomed by businesses but criticised by unions due to their impact on public finances. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/slovenian-parliament-approves-long-delayed-tax-cuts/]

///

BELGRADE 

Second pro-Russia rally held in Belgrade. Vehicles waving Serbian and Russian flags drove down central Belgrade streets on Sunday in the second pro-Russian demonstration since the war in Ukraine began. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/second-pro-russia-rally-held-in-belgrade/]

///

SARAJEVO 

EUFOR commander: Peace not under threat but caution necessary. The EUFOR commander in Bosnia and Herzegovina, General Anton Wessely, said there was no immediate threat to security in the country but that caution was necessary due to the crisis caused by the war in Ukraine. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/eufor-commander-peace-not-under-threat-but-caution-necessary/]

///

TIRANA

Albanian prime minister shames thousands protesting rising prices. Albanians should be ashamed as they are the only NATO member protesting the “consequences of war in Ukraine”, said Prime Minister Edi Rama as nationwide demonstrations continued for the fifth day. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/albanian-prime-minister-shames-thousands-protesting-rising-prices/]

AGENDA:

* EU: EU ambassadors set to green light fourth sanction package on Russia by midday /  EU finance and labour ministers meet in Brussels / Internal Market Commissioner Breton speak before European Parliament’s TRANS Committee / High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina Christian Schmidt speaks before AFET Committee.

* Germany: Chancellor Scholz holds talks with Turkish President Erdogan in Ankara / Government gives a press briefing on 2023 budget.

* France: Council of Europe’s Parliamentary Assembly holds  extraordinary session in Strasbourg to discuss Russia’s war against Ukraine, Ukraine’s President Zelenskyy set to tune in / Covid vaccination pass use halted, end of mask mandate except on public transport.

* Switzerland: Hearing for candidates for Director-General of the International Labour Organization.

* Sweden: SIPRI report on arms exports to be published.

* Norway: NATO’s Exercise Cold Response 2022, military exercise in the Arctic.

* Poland: Humanitarian Aid Commissioner Jutta Urpilainen visits Rzeszów, near Ukraine border.

* Romania: Italy’s foreign affairs minister Luigi di Maio visits Romania, where he will meet President Klaus Iohannis and Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuca.

* North Macedonia: EU’s chief diplomat Josep Borrell to visit Skopje.

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Alexandra Brzozowski, Daniel Eck, Benjamin Fox, Zoran Radosavljevic, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220314ei3e00001


The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says Russia's advance in Ukraine has been stymied...
5801 字
2022 年 3 月 16 日 21:35 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Ministry of Defence (MoD) says Russia's advance in Ukraine has been stymied by a lack of manoeuvrability, which has been "adeptly exploited" by the Ukrainian forces.

In its latest defence intelligence update, the MoD wrote on Twitter: "Russian forces are struggling to overcome the challenges posed by Ukraine's terrain.

"Russian forces have remained largely tied to Ukraine's road network and have demonstrated a reluctance to conduct off-road manoeuvre. The destruction of bridges by Ukrainian forces has also played a key role in stalling Russia's advance.

"Russia's continued failure to gain control of the air has drastically limited their ability to effectively use air manoeuvre, further limiting their options.

"The tactics of the Ukrainian armed forces have adeptly exploited Russia's lack of manoeuvre, frustrating the Russian advance and inflicting heavy losses on the invading forces."

Boris Johnson said there is "no way Ukraine is going to join Nato anytime soon" but stressed that the decision had to be for the country's president to take.

Speaking to broadcasters at the Emirates Palace hotel in Abu Dhabi, the Prime Minister said: "I talked to Volodymyr (Zelensky) again yesterday and of course I understand what he is saying about Nato and the reality of the position.

"And everybody has always said - and we've made it clear to (Russian President Vladimir) Putin - that there is no way Ukraine is going to join Nato anytime soon.

"But the decision about the future of Ukraine has got to be for the Ukrainian people, and Volodymyr Zelensky is their elected leader and we will back him.

"And the most important thing is that Putin's aggression, his absolutely barbaric attacks on Ukraine should stop and they should not be seen to have succeeded, and they won't succeed."

The Foreign Secretary said sanctions from the UK and other western nations were having a "debilitating affect on the Russian economy" but urged allies to go further.

Liz Truss, speaking to Sky News, said: "What we know is that Vladimir Putin's plans are not going according to plan.

"He is not making the progress expected, and we know the sanctions we've put on are working.

"They are having a debilitating affect on the Russian economy.... Those sanctions are really beginning to bite."

Ms Truss said further British sanctions should be expected, saying "we've got more individuals on our list" as well as companies to target, but called for allies to do more.

She noted that the European Union had sanctioned three Russian banks compared with the UK and US targeting 10 major banks, and said "we'd like to see them sanction even more banks", while also arguing that more sanctions could come "collectively" from the 141 countries that voted against Russia at the UN General Assembly.

Liz Truss said there was no guarantee sanctioned oligarchs like Roman Abramovich would be free to return to the UK after the Russian war with Ukraine ends.

The Foreign Secretary also said she did not think the conflict was "near the end", in comments made on Sky News.

Put to her that Mr Abramovich could return once Russian troops had withdrawn, Ms Truss said: "No, I haven't said that.

"Because I'm saying even if the war was to end - and I fear we are not near the end, at this stage - huge devastation has been caused, lives have been lost as a result of this war.

"And there will need to be a reckoning with all the people who supported Putin, including Abramovich."

She said the UK was working with allies "in the G7 and beyond" to ensure oligarchs have "nowhere where it is legitimate for them to live their lifestyles, have their yachts or have their planes".

The former head of MI6 said that only China can influence Putin to stop his invasion into Ukraine.

Sir Alex Younger, former head of the Secret Intelligence Service from 2014 to 2020, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Of all the people in the world that can assert influence on Vladimir Putin, who is in his bunker and who is obsessed by achieving greatness through the restoration of the Russian Empire..., of all the people that can talk sense to him, it's Xi (Jinping, the Chinese leader).

"Vladimir Putin needs Xi and of course Xi while he feels he has to align himself at the high level with what Russia is doing because of their new alliance, must be deeply disturbed by what is going on."

He added that the situation in Ukraine is "seriously compounding the economic problems that China face" and carries a "huge reputational risk" for China if they continue to associate themselves with the "murderous activities in Ukraine".

He added: "Putin does not have a reverse gear. He gambled.

"He has hit extraordinary difficulties early on but he's going to keep going and he has to, because he went into this war with a false premise, and he needs to be seen to be bringing something back from it."

Defence Secretary Ben Wallace said weapons from Western nations are still reaching Ukrainian forces.

He told reporters at Nato's headquarters in Brussels: "We are continuing to deliver weapons into Ukraine from many different directions and it is getting to the front line."

Asked about Poland's suggestion of a Nato peace mission to Ukraine, Mr Wallace said: "I think I'll look at the details first before I make any decisions about what happens.

"But it is absolutely the case that we have to continue to show - in action - our support to Ukraine and its freedoms and not just talk."

He added: "Coming here today, we should also remind ourselves how lucky we are. There is Ukraine, a country currently effectively under siege by an aggressive Russian armed forces - and that's why they wanted to join this alliance.

"I think we have to see what more we can do to give them that support."

Ukrainians are negotiating for peace with Russia with a "gun against their heads", according to the Foreign Secretary.

Liz Truss, speaking to BBC Radio 4's Today programme, said: "The first precursor to any successful peace talks has to be a ceasefire and Putin withdrawing his troops from Ukraine.

"It is very, very difficult for the Ukrainians to negotiate with a gun against their heads.

"And I am very, very concerned that Putin is playing a smoke-and-mirrors game of trying to claim that he is seeking peace while, at the same time, continuing with this appalling war he instigated and is not making the progress he thought he would."

Ms Truss said she thinks Nato membership for Ukraine is "not the real issue" and that it is a "smoke screen", arguing: "This is about recreating a greater Russia and essential subordinating Ukraine under Russian authority, as well as extending more broadly to other east European states.

"This is why it is so important we stop Putin in Ukraine, because it isn't just about Ukraine, it isn't just about Nato - it is about the desire to recreate the Soviet Union. He is clearly an extremely dangerous man."

The UK had "cumbersome" sanction legislation before changes were made this week, Liz Truss said.

Fielding questions on why Britain had taken longer than some of its allies to target individual wealthy Russians with Kremlin links, the Foreign Secretary told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "The specific issue here is that we have - or had - some very cumbersome legislation.

"We essentially had unlimited damages if oligarchs sued us, so that made it very difficult for the Government to build the evidence cases against these oligarchs.

"Since the invasion took place, we've put through emergency legislation to cut out these huge damages, which means we've been able to now sanction more individuals and more entities than either the US or the EU."

Ms Truss said the changes made by the Economic Crime (Transparency and Enforcement) Act, which received royal assent on Tuesday, "eliminated" the "huge risk" of the UK Government having to pay "very high damages" to Russian elites contesting British sanctions.

Kevin Foster, Home Office minister for safe and legal migration, told the Commons Home Affairs Committee 5,500 visas have now been granted under the Ukraine Family Scheme and 20,000 applications have been submitted.

The Home Office website said these figures are as of 4pm on Tuesday.

Conservative MP Adam Holloway accused the Government of making it "extraordinarily difficult" for Ukrainian women and children to reach the UK, calling the situation "utterly farcical".

He told the Home Affairs Committee: "I don't know how many people crossed the Channel yesterday, but I wonder what criminal record checks or checks for war crimes were carried out on them? I mean, are we having a kind of a bit of a double standard?

"We're completely failing to stop what are essentially economic migrants, mostly fit young men, and yet we're making it incredibly difficult for women and children to come here with enormous reputational damage to a government is doing really well overall."

In response, Kevin Foster, Home Office minister for safe and legal migration, said people arriving from France are detained and have their biometrics taken, with some exceptions for unaccompanied children and families, and "are subject to the very checks you've just talked about".

Sir Keir Starmer has reiterated his comments that "going cap in hand from dictator to dictator is not an energy strategy" as Boris Johnson continues his visit to the Gulf.

Speaking to reporters in Huddersfield, the Labour leader said: "The Prime Minister says we can't rely on Russia, so now he goes to Saudi Arabia.

"We need to make sure we've got security for our energy and that means lessening our imports and not going cap in hand frankly, from dictator to dictator."

Asked whether he would visit the same region if he was Prime Minister, Sir Keir said: "I've got nothing against measures to try and bring prices down in the short term but Liz Truss was saying only the other day, we've got to stop relying on malign actors and that's why they want to wean us off Russia, but you can't do that and go cap in hand to Saudi Arabia.

"What we need is an energy strategy that has security, less imports, rely on renewables here, ramp up onshore and offshore wind, get nuclear going much more quickly and have retrofit like we're seeing here in Kirklees, so we drive down the need for energy in the first place."

He added: "If there's one lesson we've learned in the last few weeks and months, it's that we need to stop this reliance, dependency, on oil and gas from overseas, Russia in particular, but you don't do that by jumping from Russia to Saudi Arabia and recreating the exact same problem."

On Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's comment that the country would not join Nato, Sir Keir Starmer said: "President Zelensky has been leading from the front in a really courageous way in Ukraine and we were all moved when he addressed Parliament last week.

"Obviously, it's a matter for him how he negotiates.

"I am concerned that what we've seen here is Russia's aggression against the sovereignty of Ukraine and it's very important that we all stand up for the principles here, but as to the precise negotiations, that's a matter for him."

Sir Keir Starmer has told the Government to "up its game" in supporting Ukrainian refugees, calling their approach "too narrow, too slow and too mean".

The Labour leader told reporters in Huddersfield: "The British public have been incredibly welcoming and generous. They've given generously to various schemes to support refugees, a number of thousands of people have said they'll take a refugee - if only the Government actually matched the ambition of the British public, because their approach has been too narrow, too slow and too mean.

"What I want to see from the Government is a realistic package of support for refugees arriving here, who will be traumatised, many of them will have family back in Ukraine that they're desperately worried about, with all sorts of medical needs, schooling needs and work needs.

"So thank you to the British public for their generosity. 'Up your game' is my message to the Government in relation for what they're doing for refugees."

Sir Keir added: "I don't think the Government has put in place the underlying support that's needed. I don't think they've been talking to local leaders, local government, local housing providers because, in the end, what we learned from the Afghan refugees coming last summer is you need that support package, because you're dealing very traumatised people who do have needs which require specialist help and assistance.

"The generosity of the British public is exactly what I would have expected, it's fantastic, but the Government needs to match that now with putting that support in to make sure that this is a realistic and viable option, and not one that just collapses in on itself."

The Home Affairs Committee was told that local authorities will receive £10,500 per refugee for the first year to support Ukrainians through education, English language support, safeguarding and social care.

Under current plans the Government is not asking councils primarily to help with accommodation, as it intends to rely on the more than 120,000 people who have expressed interest so far under the Homes For Ukraine scheme.

Labour MP Clive Betts asked: "Isn't there a potential real problem there? That if there is a concentration of refugees coming to certain areas, where there may already be enormous pressure on things like child mental health, school places, that it will simply not be possible to give them the sorts of services they actually need?"

The Lord Harrington of Watford, minister for refugees, replied: "I'm not turning my mind to that yet... it's a very valid point and please don't think I'm fobbing you off, but for the moment we just have to get these people in."

He added: "We're going to have to - we're going to have to find school places and we're going to have to find extra social workers."

The refugee minister has told MPs he expects "thousands of people" to arrive next week under the Homes for Ukraine sponsorship scheme, but warned it "may not be possible" for all accommodation being offered to be checked beforehand.

Asked if checks will be carried out by councils on accommodation under the Homes for Ukraine scheme before Ukrainians are housed in the UK, Lord Richard Harrington told the Commons Home Affairs Committee: "It may not be possible.

"I mean, I'm talking next week ... I'm expecting thousands of people to come but it will be their responsibility and, particularly where there's a possibility of vulnerability with children, this sort of thing, that would take priority.

"But if we started saying we're going to preview it, it's just not possible."

Asked by the committee if he could give assurances that Ukrainian refugees will not be housed in hotels, he replied: "I honestly can't give you that undertaking. I'd like to but it's not our intention. But if all else fails, it's our duty to make sure they've got a roof over their head and they're fed properly.

"It's not our plan, it's not our strategy. We've got thousands of people from Afghanistan staying in hotels. We've got thousands of asylum seekers. So it's not the plan but I can't give you 100% assurance because I just don't know."

Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab, opening Prime Minister's Questions, told the Commons: "I understand that four members of the Ukrainian parliament are here with us in the gallery today and I'm sure I speak for the whole House in saying that we stand in total solidarity with you."

Conservative MP Dean Russell (Watford) raised concerns over the Gambling Commission announcing that Czech operator Allwyn, owned by Czech businessman Karel Komarek and previously known as Sazka Entertainment, was its "preferred applicant" to run the National Lottery when Camelot's licence expires in 2024.

Mr Russell, who noted Camelot is a major employer in his constituency, told the Commons: "I do wonder, given the current situation in Ukraine, if (Mr Raab) considers it appropriate that the next licensee of the operator of the National Lottery is known to have a joint venture with Gazprom?"

Mr Raab replied: "I understand that Allwyn's owner Mr Komarek, who has long criticised the Putin regime, is in discussions with the Czech Republic government regarding the joint venture with Gazprom and removing its involvement."

People who have registered interest under the Homes For Ukraine scheme who have identified someone they can sponsor will be able to apply from Friday, the Home Affairs Committee heard.

MPs were told that there are lots of informal networks and charities which are identifying people and helping match them with sponsors.

Conservative MP Tim Loughton called for regular updates for the public about progress, "otherwise people will get very frustrated, as they did in some of the volunteering schemes in the pandemic signed up, and then they never got called on to do anything".

Lord Harrington of Watford, minister for refugees, replied: "I'm doing my best to make sure that does not happen... I want it to work. I believe when it works through, the real conduit for this will be those NGOs on the ground, and they'll become expert at it."

Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner pushed the Deputy Prime Minister on the appointment of Lord Lebedev to the House of Lords.

She said: "The right honourable member was foreign secretary on March 17 2020 when British intelligence reportedly warned against the granting of peerage to the Prime Minister's close friend and now Lord Lebedev of Hampton and Siberia. Forty-eight hours later the Prime Minister visited Lebedev at his home in London; details of that meeting have never been released.

"In July 2020 Lebedev's appointment as peer was announced. So can he tell the House what changed between the security warning and the appointment?"

Mr Raab said: "The honourable lady knows full well all individuals nominated for a peerage are done so in recognition of what their contribution is to society. And I should say, that includes those of Russian origin who contribute brilliantly to our nation, many of whom in this country are critics of the Putin regime.

"Life peerages are vetted by the House of Lords' appointments commission for matters of probity and frankly I think she should know better."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner pressed Dominic Raab on whether he has ever "overruled or ignored" direct advice from the British security services.

Ms Rayner said: "I'd like to thank all of the people who have been working tirelessly to bring British nationals home from Iran, our diplomatic staff, and our world leading British intelligence agencies.

"The role of the British intelligence today is critical in the face of Putin's aggression. The Deputy Prime Minister oversaw our foreign intelligence services as foreign secretary. So, can he confirm if at any time he overruled or ignored direct advice from the British security services?"

Mr Raab replied: "Can I say to the honourable lady, what she suggests is nonsense. She's talking about the House of Lords Appointments Commission. They have a vetting process. I have never overruled intelligence advice and I wouldn't comment on the details of it.

"What I would say, and would agree with her on the strength, the agility of the British diplomatic service, which time and time again, are the unsung heroes in returning British nationals - often less celebrated cases than this - but I think now is a great opportunity to recognise the heroic work they do."

Tory MP Adam Holloway asked if taxpayers' money will be used to fund the stay in the UK of working-age men who the Ukrainian government expect to remain and defend the country.

Lord Harrington of Watford, minister for refugees, said the UK cannot run a humanitarian mission and bar such men.

He told the Home Affairs Committee: "This is a mass movement of people. And the Ukrainian government will advise us on what they want to do, but just because they're there in Poland, doesn't mean they're deserters. I mean, there'll be all sorts of reasons for it.

"So I'm afraid it's not a satisfactory answer, but we can't start being the police officer for the Ukrainian government, and they've got enough problems on their mind to do it."

(corrected repetition, amends question number in par 2. First ran at 1231)

Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab said Labour would put security at risk.

Responding to Angela Rayner's fourth question in the Commons, he said: "The suggestion she's making is sheer nonsense. But if she wants to talk about national security then I remind her that she and her shadow cabinet colleagues not so long ago wanted the honourable member for Islington North (Jeremy Corbyn)... a man who wanted and talked about abolishing the Army, pulling out of Trident - she voted for that.

"Has there ever been a more ridiculous, reckless, naive moment to call for unilateral nuclear disarmament and pulling out of Nato?

"A Labour government would put at risk our security. We're doing everything we can to protect it."

Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner asked in the Commons if the Prime Minister "ever asked anyone to urge the security services to revise, reconsider or withdraw their assessment of Lord Lebedev of Hampton and Siberia".

Asking her fourth question during Prime Minister's Questions with Dominic Raab, she said: "What I do know better is the central duty of any Government is to keep the British people safe. There are now widespread reports that the Prime Minister did not accept warnings from our own intelligence services, granting a Russian oligarch, the son and business partner of a KGB spy, a seat here in this Parliament.

"It shouldn't matter if such a warning was about a close personal friend of the Prime Minister. It shouldn't matter if he gave the Prime Minister thousands of pounds of gifts. And it shouldn't matter how much champagne and caviar he serves.

"There is no ifs or buts when it comes to the safety of the British people. So I ask the Deputy Prime Minister, can he guarantee that the Prime Minister never asked anyone to urge the security services to revise, reconsider or withdraw their assessment of Lord Lebedev of Hampton and Siberia?"

Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner accused the Government of going "cap in hand from one dictator to another" by asking Saudi Arabia to produce more oil following the move to divest from Russian fossil fuels.

After facing heckles from the Government benches and a call for order by Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle at Deputy Prime Minister's Questions, the deputy leader of the opposition added: "The Government benches have a choice - they can accept Labour's plan to save working families hundreds of pounds on bills funded by a one-off levy on the soaring profits of energy companies.

"So I ask the Deputy Prime Minister - is their only plan to keep on begging?"

Deputy Prime Minister Dominic Raab replied: "Can I just gently say to her that when she was campaigning as the rest of them were to make the member of Islington North (Jeremy Corbyn) prime minister, this Prime Minister was foreign secretary, leading the response to the nerve agent attack on Salisbury."

After further calls for order for the Commons Speaker, Mr Raab added that Jeremy Corbyn had "sided with Putin" in the past, and quoted Ms Rayner's past words that Mr Corbyn was a "very strong leader" and could not wait for him to become Prime Minister.

The Government has led the way on Russian sanctions and by providing a "big-hearted response" to the humanitarian crisis in Ukraine, Dominic Raab has said.

Asking her final question during Prime Minister's Questions, Deputy Labour leader Angela Rayner said: "There is a war in Europe. There is a fuel energy crisis in Britain. Democracy is at risk. We must support the courageous efforts of President Zelensky and the Ukrainian people.

"These uncertain times require leadership with integrity. A leader that works with the security services, can be trusted to say the right thing for British diplomacy and provide security to the British people.

"Instead we have got this sorry excuse of a Government that is before us."

She accused the Government of "partying during lockdown" adding: "Can the Deputy Prime Minister look the British people in the eye and say this Government is doing their best?

Mr Raab replied that the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary had shown leadership with the "impact of the sanctions and the diplomatic effort" which had let to the "rouble plummeting".

He added: "We have also shown the big-hearted spirit of this Government and indeed this nation", by processing visas for Ukrainians and with the new humanitarian sponsorship scheme.

Conservative Claire Coutinho (East Surrey) called for recognition for service personnel for their role in "working with the Ukrainian armed forces in helping to shore up the eastern flank of Nato".

Speaking during PMQs, she said: "British servicemen and women have served under Operations Cabrit and Orbital since 2015 working with the Ukrainian armed forces in helping to shore up the eastern flank of Nato, which is now more important than ever.

"Would the Deputy Prime Minister join with me in putting on the record the gratitude of this House and consider what recognition we can give them for their service and for their role in history?"

Dominic Raab replied: "She's absolutely right. She's totally right to pay tribute to the professionalism, the dedication, the sacrifice of our armed service men and women every day to defend this country.

"She'll know that recognition for all military operations is kept under continuous review and I know that the Defence Secretary will have heard her very compelling suggestions."

It remains Ukraine's "absolute right" as a "free nation" to apply for Nato membership in the future, Conservative former leader Sir Iain Duncan Smith has said.

Sir Iain told the Commons: "Can I ask my right honourable friend that as the brilliant Ukrainian people fight and die on a daily basis for their rights of freedom and democracy, it's important therefore that we make something very clear and I wonder if he would do this.

"They have asked for membership of Nato for a significant period and Nato has chosen not to give it to them. My concern now is no matter what they decide, it remains their absolute right as a free nation and a free people to make such an application in the future, and noticing that Finland is talking about being a member, that we treat them in exactly the same way as we would an application from Finland."

Dominic Raab replied: "He will have heard what President Zelensky has said overnight in relation to this. But one of the things that we have always been crystal clear as a Government is that if there is a diplomatic offer and, I have to say we have a heavy measure of scepticism about whether Putin could ever fulfil such a deal, but if there is, it has to be done with the will and volition of the Ukrainian President and the Ukrainian people."

Dominic Raab told MPs the "Prime Minister is not just a very social individual" as a Labour MP asked him "what first attracted the Prime Minister to the billionaire Russian oligarchs?"

Speaking at PMQs, Labour's Matt Western (Warwick and Leamington) said: "I'm sure the Deputy Prime Minister will agree with me that when it comes to judging a person, it's often done by the company that they keep."

To laughter from some MPs in the Commons, Mr Western added: "Can he therefore tell us what first attracted the Prime Minister to the billionaire Russian oligarchs?"

Mr Raab replied: "I wasn't quite sure where he was going at the beginning of his question, but what I can tell him - the Prime Minister is not just a very social individual.

"He wants this country to be open, outward-looking to the world, but we were the Government and he was the Prime Minister and I was the foreign secretary that introduced the Magnitsky sanctions that put human rights sanctions, asset freezes and visa bans, not just on Russians where we have evidence of wrongdoing, but... many others. It was this Government, not the Labour Party."

Irish premier Micheal Martin has spoken to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.

Mr Martin, who is in Washington for St Patrick's Day celebrations, tweeted: "I told him the Irish people stand fully behind Ukraine.

"He thanked us for our continued humanitarian aid, shelter, global support and sanctions against Russia.

"He offered sympathy to the family of journalist Pierre Zakrzewski."

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky tweeted that he had spoken to Irish premier Micheal Martin on Wednesday.

He tweeted: "Discussed countering aggression & horrific crimes of Russia against civilians."

Mr Zelensky said he offered his condolences over the death of Irish cameraman Pierre Zakrzewski, who was killed while working in Ukraine.

David Cameron called for a dedicated aid minister in the Cabinet as he said more could be done to support Ukraine with the humanitarian crisis.

The former prime minister was asked on Channel 4 News whether he would rule out putting a no-fly zone in place over Ukraine if he was in office, and said: "I'm afraid I would, you know, in our hearts, every shred of our being wants to do everything we can to help the Ukrainians in the struggle.

"And we are helping, we're helping with weapons, we're helping with training, we're helping with refugees. There's more we can do on humanitarian aid, but I think we have to be very clear with our friends and allies and people we care deeply about, we must be clear about what we can do. But I'm afraid we also have to be clear about what we can't do.

"That said, there are more things that we can do. Well, I think the process started under my premiership of sending more troops to frontline states in Nato, to Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania. Let's turn some of those into permanent bases.

"Let's do more on humanitarian aid. We achieved 0.7% of GDP in our aid payments. I'm sad we've got away from that. I hope we can get back there.

"Let's with the EU lead the donor conference, lead the aid effort. Let's have a dedicated aid minister in the Cabinet doing development. The Foreign Office ministers do a great job, but it'd be good to have someone who's 100% dedicated to humanitarian aid and development."

Former prime minister David Cameron said he regrets the "feeble" western response to Russia's invasion of Georgia in 2008.

Mr Cameron was asked on Channel 4 News whether he regretted his involvement with Russia, including a speech at the State University of Moscow in 2011 where he said Britain and Russia would be "stronger together".

He said: "What I regret is in 2008, when I was leader of the opposition, when Russia effectively invaded Georgia, I went to Tbilisi to show solidarity with President Saakashvili. And if you look at the western response to Georgia, it was feeble, there weren't sanctions, there wasn't pressure put in place.

"We should have done that in 2008 and we did behave differently in 2012 when Putin invaded Crimea, in 2014."

He said by 2014 the UK was leading the effort on sanctions, adding: "When I think back to that time, you know, we were trying to persuade... I mean, the French at that stage were selling warships to the Russians."

He said when he entered No 10 "there was a sense that, look, you had to try and find a way of working with these people".

"We had to work together over terrorism, we had to work together over climate change. We had to work together over banking regulations," he said.

"I thought we had to do business with Russia and its leadership, which at that time was more (Dmitry) Medvedev than Putin."

David Cameron defended the Conservative Party receiving money from Russian donors.

The former prime minister told Channel 4 News: "If the argument is that somehow Russian investment in Britain, or very small numbers of Russians supporting the Conservative Party, somehow changed our policy, I would say that it's complete nonsense."

He refused to be drawn on accusations against Boris Johnson regarding the elevation of Evgeny Lebedev to the House of Lords.

Mr Cameron said: "Look, that's for the Prime Minister to explain and to defend.

"The Lords Appointments Commission is an important body. I always listened to it very carefully. But I'm not here to start throwing bricks at the Prime Minister at this moment."

Refugee minister Lord Harrington, answering questions from peers about the Ukrainian sponsorship scheme, said: "When I was offered the job by the Prime Minister the only criteria I was given was in fact a security one; it's my job to make sure it's done as quickly as possible and as humanely as possible."

The Conservative peer stressed the importance of protecting national security, adding: "But that doesn't mean we're obsessed by it."

Lord Harrington said the Home Office team has more than 100 people and will be "double that by the weekend", adding of the application assessment process: "I've set the target of 24 hours - it may be more if they're so overwhelmed by it but I expect it to come down and down.

"The only reason for that delay is so that we can... it really boils down to criminal record checks from all the databases they've got, it's not more complex than that."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220316ei3g001jl


CE Noticias Financieras English
Russia and Ukraine: "Putin has redesigned the world, but not in the way he wanted".
3930 字
2022 年 3 月 20 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
"Russia does not start wars, it ends them," reads a poster of Vladimir Putin in Simferopol, Crimea, on March 10. Rex Features "Russia doesn't start wars, it ends them," reads a poster of Vladimir Putin in Simferopol, Crimea, on March 10. Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine has changed the world. We are living in new and more dangerous times: the post-Cold War era, which began with the fall of the Berlin Wall, is over.

It is rare to live through a moment of great historical significance and understand in real time what it means.

In November 1989, I stood in a snow-covered Wenceslas Square in Prague, the capital of what was then Czechoslovakia, and saw a new world being born.

The peoples of communist Eastern Europe had risen up in defiance of their dictatorships. The Berlin Wall had been torn down. A divided Europe was being reunited.

In Prague, dissident playwright Vaclav Havel addressed a crowd of 400,000 from a second-floor balcony. It was a thrilling, dizzying moment.

That night, the communist regime collapsed and, within weeks, Havel was president of a new democratic state. I felt, even at that moment, that I had seen the world turn, that it was one of those rare moments when you know the world is being remade before your eyes.

Vaclav Havel in Wenceslas Square, Prague, November 24, 1989. Getty Images Vaclav Havel in Wenceslas Square, Prague, November 24, 1989. How many such moments had there been in European history since the French Revolution? Probably, I thought at the time, about five. This one, 1989, was the sixth.

But that world, born in those dramatic popular revolutions, came to an end when Putin ordered Russian forces into Ukraine.

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz called this moment a zeitenwende, a turning point, while UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said it was a "paradigm shift."

The era of complacency, she said, was over. Pivotal moments in European history The storming of the Bastille, July 14, 1789. Getty Images The storming of the Bastille, July 14, 1789. 1789: French Revolution. Monarchy overthrown, republic founded 1815: The Congress of Vienna redraws the map of Europe, restores the balance of power and ushers in decades of peace after the turmoil of the Napoleonic Wars. 1848: A wave of liberal and democratic revolutions throughout Europe. 1919: Treaty of Versailles. New independent sovereign nation states replace the old multinational empires. 1945: Yalta: the great powers agree to divide Europe into Western and Soviet "spheres of influence". The Iron Curtain falls across the continent. 1989: Democratic revolutions in Soviet-dominated Eastern Europe bring down the Iron Curtain. The Soviet Union collapses two years later. Vladimir Putin calls this the "greatest catastrophe of the 20th century." Quentin Sommerville, one of the BBC's most experienced war reporters, recently walked through the rubble in Kharkiv and said of the Russian bombardment, "If these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you haven't been paying attention."

"Jump into the crater if there is more shelling!": the BBC's frontline correspondent on the last line of defense in Kharkiv. He should know better. He spent enough time under Russian rockets in Syria to be paying attention. But the governments of the democratic world, how much attention have they been paying to the nature of Putin's regime?

The evidence has been accumulating for years.

It has been two decades since he sent troops into Georgia, claiming he was supporting dissident regions.

Later, he sent spies to British cities, armed with nerve agents to assassinate exiled Russians.

In 2014, it invaded eastern Ukraine and annexed Crimea.

Despite all this, Germany and much of the European Union (EU) locked themselves into an unhealthy dependence on Russian gas

. A year after the annexation of Crimea, they approved the construction of a new pipeline, Nord Stream 2, to boost supply. The controversial Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia to Germany The "complacency" to which Liz Truss refers also affects her own country, the United Kingdom.

London has been a safe haven for Russian money since John Major was prime minister. Russian oligarchs

have parked billions in the English capital, laundered their money, bought the most prestigious private homes, socialized with politicians and donated to their campaign funds. Few questions were asked about the origin of their vast wealth, acquired so suddenly.

So no. Western democracies have not been "paying attention" to the nature of the threat that has been incubating on their eastern border.

But Putin has also been complacent.

Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline receiving station near Lubmin, Germany, March 2022. Getty Images Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline receiving station, near Lubmin, Germany, March 2022. First, he believed that the West was in chronic decline

, weakened by internal division and ideological rancor. He saw the election of Donald Trump and Brexit as evidence of this. The rise of right-wing authoritarian governments in Poland and Hungary was further evidence of the disintegration of liberal values and institutions. The humiliating withdrawal of the United States from Afghanistan was proof of a waning power retreating from the world stage.

Second, it misunderstood what was happening on its borders

. It refused to believe that a series of democratic uprisings in the former Soviet republics-Georgia (2003), Ukraine (2004-5) and Kyrgyzstan (2005)-could be authentic expressions of popular will.

As each was aimed at eliminating corrupt and unpopular pro-Moscow governments, it seemed obvious to the Kremlin that this was the work of foreign intelligence agencies, the Americans and the British in particular: the advance of Western imperialism into territory that was legitimately and historically Russian.

Thirdly, he has failed to understand his own armed forces. It is now clear that it expected this "special military operation" to be over in a few days

. Russia's military incompetence has astonished many Western security experts. It brings back echoes of a smaller, more manageable, but nonetheless devastating war in the former Yugoslavia

. In 1992, Serb nationalists launched a war to strangle the newly born independent state of Bosnia.

They argued that the Bosnian identity was false, that the Bosnian state had no historical legitimacy, that it was actually part of Serbia. This is exactly Putin's view of Ukraine.

Bosnian special forces soldiers and civilians are attacked by Serb snipers, Sarajevo, April 6, 1992. Getty Images Bosnian special forces soldiers and civilians are attacked by Serb snipers, Sarajevo, April 6, 1992. Like Russia today, Serb forces enjoyed overwhelming military superiority.

But they were often paralyzed in those areas where Bosnians offered resistance. They seemed unable to seize villages or towns, unwilling to fight street by street, on the ground.

The Bosnian defenders were initially very poorly equipped: I remember children in tennis shoes in the Sarajevo trenches with a loaded AK-47 between three. But they defended their capital for almost four years

. Why Yugoslavia disintegrated There is a similar resolve in the young men who volunteer to defend Kiev.

In the end, instead of taking the cities and towns, the Serbs besieged them, surrounding them, shelling them, cutting off water, gas and electricity.

It is already happening in Mariupol.

They besiege a town and cut off the water supply and within 24 hours all the toilets are a public health hazard. Citizens have to go out on the street to find water outlets and fill containers just to flush.

Cut the electricity and you freeze in your own home. Soon the food runs out. Is that what the Russians intend to do in Mariupol, Kharkiv, Kiev-starvetheminto submission?

However, almost four years of this cruelty gave the Bosnian nation a fundamental narrative of resistance, suffering and heroic struggle.

Ukraine's identity will also be further strengthened by the way Ukrainians are fighting back.

Russian speakers in Ukraine have not felt "liberated" by the invasion. The proof is that they too believe in Ukraine as a sovereign state.

Putin's war, aimed at reunifying what he sees as two parts of the Russian nation, is already having the opposite effect: it strengthens the will of most Ukrainians to seek a destiny free of Russian domination

. Fighting for rationed food during the siege of Sarajevo, 1992. Getty Images Fighting for rationed food during the siege of Sarajevo, 1992. In 1994, while the war in the Balkans was still raging, the rest of Eastern Europe was looking to the future: each nation was eager to take what it saw as its natural place in a Europe of independent sovereign states at peace with each other.

But it was still far from certain that any of them would be allowed to join NATO

. There was a debate, at the time, about whether the newly liberated Eastern European nations should form a third security bloc, to act as a buffer between NATO and Russia.

Russia was weak in the 1990s

and the nations that had endured Soviet occupation for 40 years were not confident that it would remain weak for long. In the end, they wanted at least NATO membership. Under President Bill Clinton, the United States pressed ahead with NATO expansion

. Russian President Boris Yeltsin, who saw himself as a loyal ally of Clinton, was said to be furious when he learned - at a press conference - that NATO planned to admit new members without consulting Moscow. Why Russia never joined NATO And the collapse of the Iron Curtain had raised a new geopolitical question: how far eastward does the Western world extend?

The BBC commissioned me to take a drive through Poland, Belarus and Ukraine to address that question: "Where was the eastern edge of the Western world?"

I went to the hunting lodge in Belarus where, in late 1991, the president of the Russian Federation, Boris Yeltsin, met his counterparts from Ukraine and Belarus. Here, they agreed to recognize each other's Soviet republics as independent nation-states.

They then called Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and informed him that the country of which he was head of state, the Soviet Union, no longer existed

. What were the hours before the collapse of the mighty Soviet Union 30 years ago? It was a time full of dangers and opportunities. For Belarus and Ukraine, it was the opportunity to free themselves from Moscow's domination: the domination of Russian imperialism in both its Tsarist and Soviet forms.

For Yeltsin

, it represented the opportunity to also free Russia from its historical role as an imperial power. US President George HW Bush with Boris Yeltsin in Maryland, 1992. Getty Images US President George HW Bush with Boris Yeltsin in Maryland, 1992. The United Kingdom and France had ceased to be imperial powers after World War II, as Austria had after World War I.

In Turkey, Kemal Ataturk had built a modern secular European republic, a Turkish nation-state, after the multi-ethnic Ottoman Empire was defeated and dismembered in 1918.

Could Boris Yeltsin do the same: build a modern Russian nation-state, at peace with its sovereign neighbors, on the ruins of the Soviet empire?

In the early 1990s, he began his experiment in Westernization

to try to turn an imperial power into a democratic state. But the race - encouraged by Western democracies eager for investment opportunities - to convert a sclerotic state-controlled economy into a free market system was disastrous.

It created mafia capitalism

. A small elite became extraordinarily wealthy by plundering the assets of major industries, especially oil and gas. What Russia's economic system is and why it is accused of being "crony capitalism" The tables finally turned in 1998. The economy collapsed, the ruble lost two-thirds of its value in one month and inflation reached 80%

. I stood next to a middle-aged couple in line at a Moscow bank. They wanted to withdraw their money in dollars or pounds, anything but rubles. The queue was long and slow and, every few minutes, a bank employee changed the exchange rate on display as the ruble plummeted further.

People could see their life savings falling in value by the minute. The couple approached the front of the queue when suddenly the shutters closed: there was no cash left

. Queue at a Russian bank, Moscow, September 1998. Getty Images Queue at a Russian bank, Moscow, September 1998. I went to a former coal mining region near the Ukrainian border, where the mines were barely functioning.

I met a mining engineer who had lost his job: a man in his 30s with a young family. He took me to his country house on the outskirts of town, next to an acre of land.

"About 80% of what my family eats in the year I grow on this piece of land. The rest, like coffee and sugar, I exchange by barter. I haven't used or seen cash in about 18 months

," he told me. Nothing spoke more powerfully about Yeltsin's failure to transform Russia than the vision of this man, an engineer by training, digging a mine so he could eat.

"Stalin turned a nation of peasants into an industrial superpower in one generation. Yeltsin is doing the same thing, but in reverse," he told me.

Many Russians felt they had been robbed. The great experiment in Westernization had been a swindle that had enriched a criminalized elite and

impoverished everyone else. Many of the reports we filed from Russia at the time boiled down to a single question, "What are the political consequences of the deep disenchantment Russians now feel?"

The answer was that Russia would, in time, return to the way it was: democracy would be withdrawn and authoritarian rule would return. A retreat from nation-statehood and a return to a more assertive imperialist attitude

toward its "near abroad": the countries that had formerly been part of the Soviet Union. Former U.S. Secretary of State Zbigniew Brzezinski said that Russia could be a democracy or an empire, but not both.

The Russian emblem, the double-headed eagle, faces both east and west. History has taken Russia in opposite directions: democratic nation statehood in one direction, dominant imperial power in the other.

Go to St. Petersburg and you will see another aspect of this dual character

. It is the country's beautiful lookout on the Gulf of Finland. It is an 18th century city, facing west. It is the European Enlightenment in architectural form. Under the tsars it was the imperial capital. After the Russian Revolution of 1917, the Bolsheviks moved the capital to Moscow and power was placed behind the high crenellated walls of the Kremlin. It is the architecture of defensiveness, suspicion, even fear.

When Russian leaders look west from here, they see a flat open field stretching south and west for hundreds of miles. There are no natural borders

. Winter Palace at sunset, St. Petersburg. Getty Images Winter Palace at sunset, St. Petersburg. The red crenellated walls of the Kremlin in Moscow. Getty Images The wallsThe Kremlin's crenellated red crenellations in Moscow. When I was a BBC correspondent in Moscow in the late 1990s, there was a chauffeur who remembered, as a child, seeing German troops on the outskirts of Moscow in the 1940s. Every time he would drive us to Sheremetyevo airport, we would pass a monument designed to look like metal anti-tank defenses, the so-called Czech hedgehogs, and he would say, "That's how close the Germans came."

Napoleon's army had gone further the century before. That experience, that chronic sense of an insecure Western frontier

, explains how Russian leaders have thought about their "near abroad." In another conversation about the "near foreigner," a friend recited a couplet to me. It rhymes nicely in Russian, but it translates like this, "A chicken is not really a bird; and Poland is not really abroad."

Russia's sense of what it is entitled to in the territories to the west also permeates the popular consciousness.

I will borrow an anecdote from another friend in Moscow at that time. The same driver picked her up at the airport and asked her where she had been. "I was in Prague for a weekend," she said. "Oh, Prague," came the reply. "That's nice. That's ours."

But it wasn't. The Berlin Wall had fallen nine years earlier and the nations of Eastern Europe had ceased to be "ours."

Why the Berlin Wall fell and how its demise changed the world Except Ukraine. The country's name comes from a Russian word for edge or periphery

. Putin does not consider it a neighboring country, but the borderland of Russia itself, and wants it to return to the Russian fold. What would it take for that? How can a nation that has put up such united resistance be subdued? It has almost certainly overreached itself. Several factors must now be alarming him.

The first is the state of his own armed forces.

Smoke rising from a destroyed Russian tank in Ukraine, February 26. Getty Images Smoke rising from a destroyed Russian tank in Ukraine, February 26. The second is the resilience of the Ukrainian defense

. Did Putin really expect the Russian-speaking inhabitants of Ukraine to welcome his troops as liberators? Did he really believe that the 2014 uprising, which replaced the pro-Moscow government with a Western-oriented one, was all a Western plot?

If he did, then it reveals how little the Kremlin understands about its "near abroad."

But its biggest miscalculation has been to underestimate the West's determination

. And this is what makes 2022 one of those crucial years: the zeitenwende, in Chancellor Scholz's words. Almost overnight, Germany

has transformed its attitude toward its role in the world. Traditionally reluctant - for sound historical reasons - to throw its weight around, it had preferred to exercise soft power to hard power. Not now. It has announced a doubling of defense spending and is sending lethal weapons to Ukraine. Gone, too, is ostpolitik, the German political process of seeking peace through compromise and trade.

Germany, along with the rest of the democratic world, will now move to end its dependence on Russian gas. The Nord Stream 2 project is on hold, although it has not yet been ruled out.

We are seeing a profound redrawing of the global energy distribution map

, with the goal of getting Russia out of it. How much the West depends on Russian oil and gas (and what about Latin America) Russia is highly integrated into the global economy. But it has now been pushed out of the system the world uses to exchange payments for goods and services.

Its industries, including oil and gas, depend on imported goods and components. Soon production will stop. Employers will have to lay off their workers. Unemployment will rise.

No one expected the West to sanction the Russian Central Bank. The ruble has already collapsed and interest rates have doubled. No other major economy has ever been subjected to such a punitive sanctions package

. It amounts to Russia's expulsion from the global economy.

More workers will be laid off. Major industries will find it difficult to continue. Unemployment will rise further. Rising inflation will erode life savings.

We will all be affected

. Potentially, this is the retrenchment of the globalized economy that emerged after the end of the Cold War. The United States and the EU have, in effect, divided the world. Those states and companies that continue to trade with Russia will be punished, also excluded from trade with the rich world.

It amounts to a new economic iron curtain separating Russia from the West

. Much will depend on how China negotiates this new landscape. China and Russia are united by their shared antipathy toward American power and their conviction that the greatest threat comes from a resurgent and more unified democratic world.

China does not want Putin to be weakened or the West to be strengthened. Yet that is exactly the effect the war in Ukraine has had.

Vladimir Putin and Chinese leader Xi Jinping meet in Beijing, February 2022. Getty Images Vladimir Putin and Chinese leader Xi Jinping meet in Beijing, February 2022. Some China watchers believe Beijing will attempt to challenge the dollar's dominance as a reserve currency by creating a zone distinct from the yuan as an alternative space in the global economy that can protect itself from any future U.S. attempts to sanction China.

Putin's war, therefore, could redrawthe international financial map

. But, above all, this is a war pitting the world's democracies against the world's authoritarian regimes

. It is also a war between two conflicting conceptions of the rules by which international relations should operate.

Oxford scholar Timothy Garton Ash says that these two worldviews can be expressed in shorthand in two words: Helsinki versus Yalta

. At Yalta in 1945, Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill carved postwar Europe into "spheres of influence": most of Eastern Europe for Russia, the West for the transatlantic alliance that would set about rebuilding Europe's democracies.

"Helsinki," by contrast, describes a Europe of independent sovereign states, each free to choose its own alliances. This emerged from the 1975 Helsinki Final Act and gradually evolved into the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.

Ukraine's defenders are fighting for Helsinki.

Putin has sent in his troops to impose a modern version of Yalta, which would end Ukraine's independence and bring it under Russian rule. Garton Ash argues that the West has been too timid in defending the values of Helsinki, which has formally recognized Ukraine's right to join NATO at an unspecified date in the future without intending for this to happen.

But Ukraine's President Volodimir Zelensky has signaled his willingness to commit to the Helsinki principles by agreeing to abandon Ukraine's ambition to become a NATO member.

With all the risks that entails, it may yet be the price Ukraine pays for the survival of its statehood.

BBC My generation grew up with the existential terror of the threat of nuclear annihilation. The conflict has brought that fear back into the public consciousness. Putin has threatened to use Russia's nuclear arsenal.

That makes this the most dangerous moment since the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962

. The Soviet Union sent nuclear missiles to Cuba, its ally. The United States assembled a fleet of ships to mount a sea invasion of the island.

What the Americans did not know was that the Soviets not only had long-range strategic missiles. They also had smaller tactical nuclear missiles, so-called battlefield nuclear weapons. And that Soviet military doctrine delegated first-use decision making to commanders on the ground.

Had the invasion threat gone forward, it would have triggered a nuclear exchange.

The then U.S. Secretary of Defense, Robert McNamara, only learned of this when the Soviet archives were opened in 1991. Only then did he understand how close the world had come to catastrophe

. In a remarkable film called "Fog of War: Eleven Lessons from the Life of Robert McNamara," he explained how the world had avoided destroying itself. Was it skillful diplomacy? Wise leadership? No.

" Luck," he said. "We were lucky."

That experience, now fading from memory, should give us pause for thought.

You can now receive notifications from BBC Mundo. Download the new version of our app and activate them so you don't miss our best content.

Do you already know our YouTube channel? Subscribe!

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220320ei3k007tg


CE Noticias Financieras English
Russia and Ukraine: "Putin has redesigned the world, but not in the way he wanted".
3794 字
2022 年 3 月 21 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine has changed the world. We are living in new and more dangerous times: the post-Cold War era, which began with the fall of the Berlin Wall, is over.

It is rare to live through a moment of great historical significance and understand in real time what it means.

In November 1989, I stood in a snow-covered Wenceslas Square in Prague, the capital of what was then Czechoslovakia, and saw a new world being born.

The peoples of communist Eastern Europe had risen up in defiance of their dictatorships. The Berlin Wall had been torn down. A divided Europe was being reunited.

In Prague, dissident playwright Vaclav Havel addressed a crowd of 400,000 from a second-floor balcony. It was a thrilling, dizzying moment.

Russia and Ukraine: how Russian "humiliation" over the disintegration of the USSR helps explain Putin's expansionist ambitionsThe Winter War: Finland's desperate struggle to survive against the might of the Soviet UnionHow Putin managed to restore Russia's status as a global power after the collapse of the USSR 30 years agoRussia and Ukraine: what is the "Russkiy Mir" ("Russian World") Putin wants to unifyThat night, the communist regime collapsed and, within weeks, Havel was president of a new democratic state. I felt, even at that moment, that I had seen the world turn, that it was one of those rare moments when you know the world is being remade before your eyes.

Vaclav Havel in Wenceslas Square, Prague, November 24, 1989. GETTY IMAGESHow manysuch moments had there been in European history since the French Revolution? Probably, I thought at the time, about five. This one, 1989, was the sixth.

But that world, born in those dramatic popular revolutions, came to an end when Putin ordered Russian forces into Ukraine.

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz called this moment a zeitenwende, a turning point, while UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said it was a "paradigm shift." The era of complacency, she said, was over.

Pivotal moments in European history

The storming of the Bastille, July 14, 1789. GETTY IMAGES1789: French Revolution. Monarchy overthrown, republic founded1815: The Congress of Vienna redraws the map of Europe, restores the balance of power, and ushers in decades of peace after the turmoil of the Napoleonic wars1848: A wave of liberal and democratic revolutions throughout Europe.1919: Treaty of Versailles. New independent sovereign nation states replace the old multinational empires.1945: Yalta: the great powers agree to divide Europe into Western and Soviet "spheres of influence". The Iron Curtain falls across the continent.1989: Democratic revolutions in Soviet-dominated Eastern Europe bring down the Iron Curtain. The Soviet Union collapses two years later. Vladimir Putin calls this the "greatest catastrophe of the 20th century."Quentin Sommerville, one of the BBC's most experienced war reporters, recently walked through the rubble in Kharkiv and said of the Russian bombing, "If these tactics are unfamiliar to you, then you haven't been paying attention."

"Jump into the crater if there is more shelling!": the BBC's frontline correspondent on the last line of defense in Kharkiv.He should know better. He spent enough time under Russian rockets in Syria to pay attention. But the governments of the democratic world, how much attention have they been paying to the nature of Putin's regime?

The evidence has been accumulating for years.

It has been two decades since he sent troops into Georgia, claiming he was supporting dissident regions.

Later, he sent spies to British cities, armed with nerve agents to assassinate exiled Russians.

In 2014, it invaded eastern Ukraine and annexed Crimea.

Despite all this, Germany and much of the European Union (EU) locked themselves into an unhealthy dependence on Russian gas. A year after the annexation of Crimea, they approved the construction of a new pipeline, Nord Stream 2, to boost supply.

The controversial Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline from Russia to GermanyThe "complacency" to which Liz Truss refers also affects her own country, the United Kingdom.

London has been a safe haven for Russian money since John Major was prime minister. Russian oligarchs have parked billions in the English capital, laundered their money, bought the most prestigious private homes, socialized with politicians and donated to their campaign funds.

Few questions were asked about the origin of their vast wealth, acquired so suddenly.

So no. Western democracies have not been "paying attention" to the nature of the threat that has been incubating on their eastern border.

But Putin has also been complacent.

Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline receiving station near Lubmin, Germany, March 2022. GETTYIMAGESFirst, he believed the West was in chronic decline, weakened by internal division and ideological rancor. He saw the election of Donald Trump and Brexit as evidence of this.

The rise of right-wing authoritarian governments in Poland and Hungary was further evidence of the disintegration of liberal values and institutions. The humiliating withdrawal of the United States from Afghanistan was proof of a waning power retreating from the world stage.

Second, it misunderstood what was happening on its borders.

It refused to believe that a series of democratic uprisings in the former Soviet republics-Georgia (2003), Ukraine (2004-5) and Kyrgyzstan (2005)-could be authentic expressions of popular will.

As each was aimed at eliminating corrupt and unpopular pro-Moscow governments, it seemed obvious to the Kremlin that this was the work of foreign intelligence agencies, the Americans and the British in particular: the advance of Western imperialism into territory that was legitimately and historically Russian.

Thirdly, he has failed to understand his own armed forces. It is now clear that it expected this "special military operation" to be over in a few days.

Russia's military incompetence has astonished many Western security experts. It brings back echoes of a smaller, more manageable, but nonetheless devastating war in the former Yugoslavia.

In 1992, Serb nationalists launched a war to strangle the newly born independent state of Bosnia.

They argued that the Bosnian identity was false, that the Bosnian state had no historical legitimacy, that it was actually part of Serbia. This is exactly Putin's view of Ukraine.

Bosnian special forces soldiers and civilians are attacked by Serb snipers, Sarajevo, April 6, 1992. GETTY IMAGESLikeRussia today, Serbian forces enjoyed overwhelming military superiority

.But they were often paralyzed in those areas where the Bosnians offered resistance. They seemed unable to seize villages or towns, unwilling to fight street by street, on the ground.

The Bosnian defenders were initially very poorly equipped: I remember children in tennis shoes in the Sarajevo trenches with a loaded AK-47 between three. But they defended their capital for almost four years.

Why Yugoslavia disintegratedThere is a similar resolve in the young men who volunteer to defend Kiev.

In the end, instead of taking the cities and towns, the Serbs besieged them, surrounding them, shelling them, cutting off water, gas and electricity.

It is already happening in Mariupol.

They besiege a town and cut off the water supply and within 24 hours all the toilets are a public health hazard. Citizens have to go out on the street to find water outlets and fill containers just to flush.

Cut the electricity and you freeze in your own home. Soon the food runs out. Is that what the Russians intend to do in Mariupol, Kharkiv, Kiev - starve them into submission?

However, almost four years of this cruelty gave the Bosnian nation a fundamental narrative of resistance, suffering and heroic struggle.

Ukraine's identity will also be further strengthened by the way Ukrainians are fighting back.

Russian speakers in Ukraine have not felt "liberated" by the invasion. The proof is that they too believe in Ukraine as a sovereign state.

Putin's war, aimed at reunifying what he sees as two parts of the Russian nation, is already having the opposite effect: it strengthens the will of most Ukrainians to seek a destiny free of Russian domination.

Fighting for rationed food during the siege of Sarajevo, 1992. GETTY IMAGESIn1994, while the war in the Balkans was still raging, the rest of Eastern Europe was looking to the future: each nation was eager to take what it saw as its natural place in a Europe of independent sovereign states at peace with each other

.But it was still far from certain that any of them would be allowed to join NATO.

There was a debate, at the time, about whether the newly liberated Eastern European nations should form a third security bloc, to act as a buffer between NATO and Russia.

Russia was weak in the 1990s and the nations that had endured Soviet occupation for 40 years were not confident that it would remain weak for long. In the end, they wanted at least NATO membership.

Under President Bill Clinton, the United States pressed ahead with NATO expansion. Russian President Boris Yeltsin, who saw himself as a loyal ally of Clinton, was said to be furious when he learned - at a press conference - that NATO planned to admit new members without consulting Moscow.

Why Russia never joined NATOAnd the collapse of the Iron Curtain had raised a new geopolitical question: how far eastward does the Western world extend?

The BBC commissioned me to take a drive through Poland, Belarus and Ukraine to address that question: "Where was the eastern edge of the Western world? "

I went to the hunting lodge in Belarus where, in late 1991, the president of the Russian Federation, Boris Yeltsin, met his counterparts from Ukraine and Belarus. Here, they agreed to recognize each other's Soviet republics as independent nation-states.

They then called Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev and informed him that the country of which he was head of state, the Soviet Union, no longer existed.

What were the hours before the collapse of the mighty Soviet Union 30 years ago?It was a time full of dangers and opportunities. For Belarus and Ukraine, it was the opportunity to free themselves from Moscow's domination: the domination of Russian imperialism in both its Tsarist and Soviet forms.

For Yeltsin, it represented the opportunity to also free Russia from its historical role as an imperial power.

US President George HW Bush with Boris Yeltsin in Maryland, 1992. GETTYIMAGESUnited Kingdom and France had ceased to be imperial powers after World War II, as had Austria after World War I.

In Turkey, Kemal Ataturk was the first to be elected as an imperial power.In Turkey, Kemal Ataturk had built a modern European secular republic, a Turkish nation-state, after the multi-ethnic Ottoman Empire was defeated and dismembered in 1918.

Could Boris Yeltsin do the same: build a modern Russian nation-state, at peace with its sovereign neighbors, on the ruins of the Soviet empire?

In the early 1990s, he began his experiment in Westernization to try to turn an imperial power into a democratic state.

But the race - encouraged by Western democracies eager for investment opportunities - to convert a sclerotic state-controlled economy into a free market system was disastrous.

It created mafia capitalism. A small elite became extraordinarily wealthy by looting the assets of major industries, especially oil and gas.

What Russia's economic system is and why it's accused of being "crony capitalism"The tables finally turned in 1998. The economy collapsed, the ruble lost two-thirds of its value in one month and inflation reached 80%.

I stood next to a middle-aged couple in line at a Moscow bank. They wanted to withdraw their money in dollars or pounds, anything but rubles. The queue was long and slow and, every few minutes, a bank employee changed the exchange rate on display as the ruble plummeted further.

People could see their life savings falling in value by the minute. The couple approached the front of the queue when suddenly the shutters closed: there was no cash left.

Queue at a Russian bank, Moscow, September 1998. GETTY IMAGESI wentto a former coal-mining region near the Ukrainian border, where the mines were barely functioning

.I met a mining engineer who had lost his job: a man in his 30s with a young family. He took me to his country house on the outskirts of town, next to an acre of land.

"About 80% of what my family eats in the year I grow on this piece of land. The rest, like coffee and sugar, I exchange by barter. I haven't used or seen cash in about 18 months," he told me.

Nothing spoke more powerfully about Yeltsin's failure to transform Russia than the vision of this man, an engineer by training, digging a mine so he could eat.

"Stalin turned a nation of peasants into an industrial superpower in one generation. Yeltsin is doing the same thing, but in reverse," he told me.

Many Russians felt they had been robbed. The great experiment in Westernization had been a swindle that had enriched a criminalized elite and impoverished everyone else.

Many of the reports we filed from Russia at the time boiled down to a single question: "What are the political consequences of the deep disenchantment Russians now feel? "

The answer was that Russia would, in time, return to the way it was: democracy would be withdrawn and authoritarian rule would return. A retreat from nation-statehood and a return to a more assertive imperialist attitude towards its "near abroad": the countries that had formerly been part of the Soviet Union.

Former U.S. Secretary of State Zbigniew Brzezinski said that Russia could be a democracy or an empire, but not both.

The Russian emblem, the double-headed eagle, faces both east and west. History has taken Russia in opposite directions: democratic nation statehood in one direction, dominant imperial power in the other.

Go to St. Petersburg and you will see another aspect of this dual character. It is the country's beautiful lookout on the Gulf of Finland. It is an 18th century city, facing west. It is the European Enlightenment in architectural form. Under the Tsars it was the imperial capital.

After the Russian Revolution of 1917, the Bolsheviks moved the capital to Moscow and power was placed behind the high crenellated walls of the Kremlin. It is the architecture of defensiveness, suspicion, even fear.

When Russian leaders look west from here, they see a flat open field stretching south and west for hundreds of miles. There are no natural borders.

Winter Palace at sunset, St. Petersburg. GETTY IMAGESThe red crenellated walls of the Kremlin in Moscow. GETTY IMAGESWhenI was a BBC correspondent in Moscow in the late 1990s, there was a driver who remembered, as a child, seeing German troops on the outskirts of Moscow in the 1940s. Every time he drove us to Sheremetyevo airport, we would pass a monument designed to look like a

metal anti-tank defenses, the so-called Czech hedgehogs, and said, "That's how close the Germans came."

Napoleon's army had gone further the previous century. That experience, that chronic sense of an insecure Western frontier, explains how Russian leaders have thought about their "near abroad."

In another conversation about the "near foreigner," a friend recited a couplet to me. It rhymes nicely in Russian, but it translates like this, "A chicken is not really a bird; and Poland is not really abroad."

Russia's sense of what it is entitled to in the territories to the west also permeates the popular consciousness.

I will borrow an anecdote from another friend in Moscow at that time. The same driver picked her up at the airport and asked her where she had been. "I was in Prague for a weekend," she said. "Oh, Prague," came the reply. "That's nice. That's ours."

But it wasn't. The Berlin Wall had fallen nine years earlier and the nations of Eastern Europe had ceased to be "ours."

Why the Berlin Wall fell and how its demise changed the worldExcept Ukraine. The country's name comes from a Russian word for edge or periphery. Putin does not consider it a neighboring country, but the borderland of Russia itself, and wants it to return to the Russian fold.

What would it take for that? How can a nation that has put up such united resistance be subdued? It has almost certainly overreached itself. Several factors must now be alarming him.

The first is the state of his own armed forces.

Smoke rising from a destroyed Russian tank in Ukraine, February 26. GETTY IMAGESThesecond is the resilience of the Ukrainian defense.

Did Putin really expect the Russian-speaking inhabitants of Ukraine to welcome his troops as liberators? Did he really believe that the 2014 uprising, which replaced the pro-Moscow government with a Western-oriented one, was all a Western plot?

If he did, then it reveals how little the Kremlin understands about its "near abroad."

But its biggest miscalculation has been to underestimate the West's determination. And this is what makes 2022 one of those crucial years: the zeitenwende, in Chancellor Scholz's words.

Almost overnight, Germany has transformed its attitude toward its role in the world.

Traditionally reluctant - for sound historical reasons - to throw its weight around, it had preferred to exercise soft power to hard power. Not now. It has announced a doubling of defense spending and is sending lethal weapons to Ukraine. Gone, too, is ostpolitik, the German political process of seeking peace through compromise and trade.

Germany, along with the rest of the democratic world, will now move to end its dependence on Russian gas. The Nord Stream 2 project is on hold, although it has not yet been ruled out.

We are seeing a profound redrawing of the global energy distribution map, with the aim of getting Russia out of it.

How much the West depends on Russian oil and gas (and what about Latin America)Russia is highly integrated into the global economy. But it has now been pushed out of the system the world uses to exchange payments for goods and services.

Its industries, including oil and gas, depend on imported goods and components. Soon production will stop. Employers will have to lay off their workers. Unemployment will rise.

No one expected the West to sanction the Russian Central Bank. The ruble has already collapsed and interest rates have doubled. No other major economy has ever been subjected to such a punitive sanctions package.

It amounts to Russia's expulsion from the global economy.

More workers will be laid off. Major industries will find it difficult to continue. Unemployment will rise further. Rising inflation will erode life savings.

We will all be affected. Potentially, this is the retrenchment of the globalized economy that emerged after the end of the Cold War.

The United States and the EU have, in effect, divided the world. Those states and companies that continue to trade with Russia will be punished, also excluded from trade with the rich world.

It amounts to a new economic iron curtain separating Russia from the West.

Much will depend on how China negotiates this new landscape. China and Russia are united by their shared antipathy toward American power and their conviction that the greatest threat comes from a resurgent and more unified democratic world.

China does not want Putin to be weakened or the West to be strengthened. Yet that is exactly the effect the war in Ukraine has had.

Vladimir Putin and Chinese leader Xi Jinping meet in Beijing, February 2022. GETTY IMAGESomeChina watchers believe Beijing will attempt to challenge the dollar's dominance as a reserve currency by creating a zone distinct from the yuan as an alternative space in the global economy that can protect itself from any future U.S. attempts to sanction China

.Putin's war, therefore, could redraw the international financial map.

But, above all, this is a war pitting the world's democracies against the world's authoritarian regimes.

It is also a war between two conflicting conceptions of the rules by which international relations should operate.

Oxford scholar Timothy Garton Ash says that these two worldviews can be expressed in shorthand in two words: Helsinki versus Yalta.

At Yalta in 1945, Stalin, Roosevelt and Churchill carved postwar Europe into "spheres of influence": most of Eastern Europe for Russia, the West for the transatlantic alliance that would set about rebuilding Europe's democracies.

"Helsinki," by contrast, describes a Europe of independent sovereign states, each free to choose its own alliances. This emerged from the 1975 Helsinki Final Act and gradually evolved into the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.

Ukraine's defenders are fighting for Helsinki. Putin has sent in his troops to impose a modern version of Yalta, which would end Ukraine's independence and bring it under Russian rule.

Garton Ash argues that the West has been too timid in defending the values of Helsinki, which has formally recognized Ukraine's right to join NATO at an unspecified date in the future without intending for this to happen.

But Ukraine's President Volodimir Zelensky has signaled his willingness to commit to the Helsinki principles by agreeing to abandon Ukraine's ambition to become a NATO member.

With all the risks involved, this may yet be the price Ukraine pays for the survival of its statehood.

My generation grew up with the existential terror of the threat of nuclear annihilation. The conflict has brought that fear back into the public consciousness. Putin has threatened to use Russia's nuclear arsenal.

That makes this the most dangerous moment since the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962.

The Soviet Union sent nuclear missiles to Cuba, its ally. The United States assembled a fleet of ships to mount a sea invasion of the island.

What the Americans did not know was that the Soviets not only had long-range strategic missiles. They also had smaller tactical nuclear missiles, so-called battlefield nuclear weapons. And that Soviet military doctrine delegated first-use decision making to commanders on the ground.

Had the invasion threat gone forward, it would have triggered a nuclear exchange.

The then U.S. Secretary of Defense, Robert McNamara, only learned of this when the Soviet archives were opened in 1991. Only then did he understand how close the world had come to catastrophe.

In a remarkable film called "Fog of War: Eleven Lessons from the Life of Robert McNamara," he explained how the world had avoided destroying itself. Was it skillful diplomacy? Wise leadership? No.

"Luck," he said. "We were lucky."

That experience, now fading from memory, should give us pause for thought. (I)

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220321ei3l004tv


An anti-Russian 'disinformation operation' has singled out a Finnish university but it's unclear why
689 字
2022 年 3 月 23 日
Euronews
EURONEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Euronews All Rights Reserved
Click to view image[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/56/34/50/800x450_cmsv2_c9796a0d-6df1-5843-94ac-4d5d2ce27ba0-6563450.jpg]

Helsinki has seen protests in support of Ukraine in the weeks since Russia's invasion began

(Mikko Stig/Lehtikuva via AP)A university in Finland has been targeted by a "disinformation operation"that has seen automated bots post thousands of anti-Russian messages to its social media pages.

The messages, which began appearing on Monday, call on the University of Helsinki to effectively sanction its Russian students and staff, withdraw scholarships and even stop accepting students from Russia altogether.

The university, which is the largest in Finland, said on Wednesday that it suspected the messages were the result of an organised campaign.

"The comments are very similar, if not identical to each other,"the university's social media lead Tomas Sjöblom told Euronews Next.

"They repeat a variety of circa 10-15 different messages word to word. This kind of movement doesn’t happen by itself, but we don’t have any concrete evidence as to who might be behind this campaign".

Mystery messages

The posts don't leave many clues as to their origin. Most of them are written in English, Sjöblom said, with those appearing in Finland's official languages of Finnish and Swedish appearing to be machine translated.

A motive behind the messages has also been hard to pin down, Sjöblom added.

"It could very well be that the intent is what it looks like on the surface: to pressure the university to place sanctions on its own students or staff. Or it could be something less specific like influencing opinions about people of Russian descent at the university or in Finland,"he speculated.

Helsinki's rail station has become a transit hub for Russians fleeing the impact of sanctions and the threat of persecution for opposing the war in Ukraine (Markku Ulander/Lehtikuva via AP)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/52/04/12/808x521_cmsv2_dafd30df-010a-5fd3-9147-3e0282464b2d-6520412.jpg]

The bot accounts currently only appear to have targeted the University of Helsinki's accounts. Aalto University, located in the city of Espoo near the Finnish capital, told Euronews Next it had not detected any disinformation efforts.

"We do, however, take the possibility seriously; we monitor all discussions and take measures to ensure that the university’s channels are not used as a platform for disinformation campaigns of any kind,"Aalto University's interim head of communications Katrina Jurva told Euronews Next via email.

Both universities have rolled back their involvement with institutions in Russia and Belarus since Russia's invasion of Ukraine began on February 24, following European Commission and Finnish government guidance to cease cooperation.

Finns now back NATO membership

Russia's war in Ukraine has prompted intense debate about security in non-aligned Finland, which shares a 1,340km border and history of military conflict with its larger neighbour to the east.

This week, a survey by the Finnish Business and Policy Forum (EVA)[https://www.eva.fi/en/blog/2022/03/22/russias-invasion-of-ukraine-shifted-the-opinion-of-a-majority-of-finns-in-favour-of-nato-membership/] found that 60 per cent of Finns would support the country joining NATO - the defensive military alliance set up during the Cold War.

That represents a 34 percentage point rise since the same question was polled a year ago.

"The exceptionally rapid, large and broad-based change in attitude is based on the understanding that a fundamental change has taken place in the Finnish military security environment and that the threat posed by Russia has increased,"EVA said.

While attitudes towards Russia appear to be hardening in Finland, the University of Helsinki said it was working to delete all anti-Russian statements posted by the bots.

"We’re concerned about potential implications for the feeling of safety on campus of our Russian speaking students. I think that we have a responsibility towards them as well: to be careful that campaigns such as this don’t make them feel unsafe on campus,"Sjöblom said.

"It’s not a very big leap of imagination to think that a campaign whose main messages are, for example, that most Russians support the invasion, would make it feel unsafe for students to speak Russian on campus or even go to campus, whatever they personally think about the invasion".

Euronews

文件 EURONEN020220323ei3n0005w


An anti-Russian 'disinformation operation' has singled out a Finnish university but it's unclear why
685 字
2022 年 3 月 23 日
Euronews
EURONEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Euronews All Rights Reserved
A university in Finland has been targeted by a "disinformation operation"that has seen automated bots post thousands of anti-Russian messages to its social media pages.

The messages, which began appearing on Monday, call on the University of Helsinki to effectively sanction its Russian students and staff, withdraw scholarships and even stop accepting students from Russia altogether.

The university, which is the largest in Finland, said on Wednesday that it suspected the messages were the result of an organised campaign.

"The comments are very similar, if not identical to each other,"the university's social media lead Tomas Sjöblom told Euronews Next.

"They repeat a variety of circa 10-15 different messages word to word. This kind of movement doesn’t happen by itself, but we don’t have any concrete evidence as to who might be behind this campaign".

Mystery messages

The posts don't leave many clues as to their origin. Most of them are written in English, Sjöblom said, with those appearing in Finland's official languages of Finnish and Swedish appearing to be machine translated.

A motive behind the messages has also been hard to pin down, Sjöblom added.

"It could very well be that the intent is what it looks like on the surface: to pressure the university to place sanctions on its own students or staff. Or it could be something less specific like influencing opinions about people of Russian descent at the university or in Finland,"he speculated.

Helsinki's rail station has become a transit hub for Russians fleeing the impact of sanctions and the threat of persecution for opposing the war in Ukraine (Markku Ulander/Lehtikuva via AP)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/52/04/12/808x521_cmsv2_dafd30df-010a-5fd3-9147-3e0282464b2d-6520412.jpg]

The bot accounts currently only appear to have targeted the University of Helsinki's accounts. Aalto University, located in the city of Espoo near the Finnish capital, told Euronews Next it had not detected any disinformation efforts.

"We do, however, take the possibility seriously; we monitor all discussions and take measures to ensure that the university’s channels are not used as a platform for disinformation campaigns of any kind,"Aalto University's interim head of communications Katrina Jurva told Euronews Next via email.

Both universities have rolled back their involvement with institutions in Russia and Belarus since Russia's invasion of Ukraine began on February 24, following European Commission and Finnish government guidance to cease cooperation.

Finns now back NATO membership

Russia's war in Ukraine has prompted intense debate about security in non-aligned Finland, which shares a 1,340km border and history of military conflict with its larger neighbour to the east.

This week, a survey by the Finnish Business and Policy Forum (EVA)[https://www.eva.fi/en/blog/2022/03/22/russias-invasion-of-ukraine-shifted-the-opinion-of-a-majority-of-finns-in-favour-of-nato-membership/] found that 60 per cent of Finns would support the country joining NATO - the defensive military alliance set up during the Cold War.

That represents a 34 percentage point rise since the same question was polled a year ago.

"The exceptionally rapid, large and broad-based change in attitude is based on the understanding that a fundamental change has taken place in the Finnish military security environment and that the threat posed by Russia has increased,"EVA said.

While attitudes towards Russia appear to be hardening in Finland, the University of Helsinki said it was working to delete all anti-Russian statements posted by the bots.

"We’re concerned about potential implications for the feeling of safety on campus of our Russian speaking students. I think that we have a responsibility towards them as well: to be careful that campaigns such as this don’t make them feel unsafe on campus,"Sjöblom said.

"It’s not a very big leap of imagination to think that a campaign whose main messages are, for example, that most Russians support the invasion, would make it feel unsafe for students to speak Russian on campus or even go to campus, whatever they personally think about the invasion".

Helsinki has seen protests in support of Ukraine in the weeks since Russia's invasion began (Mikko Stig/Lehtikuva via AP)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/56/34/50/800x450_cmsv2_c9796a0d-6df1-5843-94ac-4d5d2ce27ba0-6563450.jpg]

Euronews

文件 EURONEN020220331ei3n00082


Domestic
VR will suspend Allegro traffic to Russia from Monday*** TRANSLATED ***
Maiju Ylipiessa, Eetu Halonen, Mia Peltola
579 字
2022 年 3 月 25 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2022. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
According to STT, the vehicle company that owns Allegro trains entered the US OFAC sanctions list on Friday.

VR will suspend the service of the Allegro train between Helsinki and St. Petersburg for the time being from Monday. VR said in a press release on Friday.

On Sunday, only the morning Allegro service will run from Helsinki to St. Petersburg, and the afternoon train will be canceled. Both scheduled flights run from St. Petersburg to Helsinki. Guests can cancel Allegro tickets purchased for canceling train services free of charge.

According to STT's information, the decision to discontinue operations was the responsibility of VR's Board of Directors and executive management. However, before taking its decision, VR asked the State to comment on the decision. VR is a logistics group wholly owned by the Finnish state.

According to STT's information, Tytti Tuppurainen(sd.), The minister responsible for corporate governance, sent a letter to VR's CEO Lauri Sipponen on Thursday. In a letter received by STT, Tuppurainen and the Prime Minister's Office(VNK) comment on the resumption of passenger and freight traffic between Finland and Russia at VR's request. According to the letter, VR had asked the state owner to comment on the matter last Tuesday.

In the letter, Tuppurainen says that the Finnish state requires VR to strictly comply with all the sanctions imposed on Russia and its citizens by the European Union and other Western countries.

According to the letter, the Finnish-Russian rolling stock company Karelian Trains, which owns Allegro trains, entered the USAC sanctions list on Friday. The Finnish state believes that due to OFAC sanctions, VR's risk of committing an"involuntary" sanction violation will increase significantly, the letter states.

VR's decision or not?

In their reply, Tuppurainen and VNK state that decisions concerning VR's business are the responsibility of the company's Board of Directors and executive management.

VR's Communications Director Tatu Tuominen confirms to BTI that the decision to terminate the service has"of course" been VR's own. However, according to him, the company's management and the state owner have agreed that VR will not stop the traffic entirely at its own discretion.

- It(VR's request for a statement) was probably more than a set-off, Tuominen says.

The operation of Allegro trains has been in the public domain recently. VR has previously stated that the termination of traffic cannot be entirely decided by the company alone, relying, among other things, on compliance with official decisions.

For example, VR told Kauppalehti on Thursday that it was ready to suspend traffic if it received a new policy from the state. According to Karelian Trains, the company that owns Allegro trains, Allegro traffic has been maintained at the request of state leadership.

Topi Simola, VR's director of passenger traffic, says in the company's press release that Allegroje's operations have so far continued"in accordance with official instructions".

- The purpose has been to secure access to Finland for Finns. During these weeks, people who have wanted to leave Russia have had time to leave the country, Simola says.

- Now, according to the state ownership control, it is no longer appropriate to continue operating Allegro's traffic due to sanctions, so we will suspend traffic for the time being.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020220325ei3p0073l


EU launches ‘Isolate Russia from the world’ mission]]
EURACTIV Network
1659 字
2022 年 4 月 5 日 07:46 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

Before you start reading today’s edition of the Capitals, feel free to have a look at the article Ukraine war revives EastMed gas pipe talks but EU insists on feasibility[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/ukraine-war-revives-eastmed-gas-pipe-talks-but-eu-insists-on-feasibility/], by Sarantis Michalopoulos.

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

Today’s edition is powered by EuropaBio European Biotech Week 2022   EuropaBio is delighted to launch the 10th edition of the European Biotech Week. A week-long series of events all over Europe aims at highlighting the role of biotech in everyday life. Become an #EBW2022 partner and register your event or submit an essay! Learn More.[https://eurac.tv/9VWB]

In today’s news from the Capitals:

An increasing number of EU leaders have asked Brussels to push forward a fifth package of sanctions against Moscow following the atrocities and “unbearable scenes”, as French President Emmanuel Macron described, of the destroyed Ukrainian town of Bucha.

Several sources from the capitals confirmed to EURACTIV that a trade ban – as Warsaw recently requested – is now on the radar while EU leaders are still divided over gas imports. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/eu-launches-isolate-russia-from-the-world-mission/]

///

BERLIN

Berlin nationalises Gazprom Germania to block liquidation. The German government has, effective immediately, transferred the ownership of the German Gazprom subsidiary to the federal network agency as a trustee in a bid to save the country’s gas market. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/berlin-nationalises-gazprom-germania-to-block-liquidation/]

///

THE HAGUE

Ukraine expels Dutch journalist for revealing state secrets. Ukraine has declared Dutch journalist Robert Dulmers persona non grata and banned him from Ukraine until 2032, accusing him of having revealed state secrets after he filmed a missile launch. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/ukraine-expels-dutch-journalist-for-revealing-state-secrets/]

NORDICS AND BALTICS

HELSINKI | STOCKHOLM

Nordic Conservatives back NATO membership of Sweden, Finland. The possible NATO membership of Sweden and Finland is backed by the National Coalition Party (NCP) in Finland, the Moderate Party in Sweden, and prominent conservative figures from Norway and Denmark. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/nordic-conservatives-back-nato-membership-of-sweden-finland/]

///

COPENHAGEN

Denmark’s former spy chief spied on by colleagues. Lars Finden, the former head of Danish Defence Intelligence Service (FE), was reportedly spied on by his former colleagues, Danmarks Radio (DR) Danmarks Radio (DR) revealed on Monday in what could be one of the biggest intelligence scandals since World War II. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/denmarks-former-spy-chief-spied-on-by-colleagues/]

///

REYKJAVIK 

Iceland to welcome more Ukrainian refugees despite logistical issues. Iceland will continue welcoming Ukrainian refugees despite struggling with logistical issues for a wave it was not prepared for. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/iceland-to-welcome-more-ukrainian-refugees-despite-logistical-issues/]

///

VILNIUS

Lithuania expels Russian ambassador. Russia’s Ambassador to Lithuania will have to leave the country due to a downgrading of diplomatic relations amid the war in Ukraine, the foreign ministry announced on Monday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/lithuania-expels-russian-ambassador/]

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ATHENS

Sources: Greece does not block Finland’s NATO accession. Sources from the Greek foreign ministry denied rumours in Helsinki that suggest Athens blocks Finland’s potential accession to NATO, EURACTIV Greece reported. Read More.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/sources-greece-does-not-block-finlands-nato-accession/]

///

MADRID

Spanish police seize luxury yacht of Putin’s friend. The Spanish Civil Guard on Monday seized the Russian-owned luxury yacht Tango, moored at the Real Club Nautico in Palma, on the island of Mallorca, EURACTIV’s partner EFE reported. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/spanish-police-seize-luxury-yacht-of-putins-friend/]

///

LISBON

Portugal condemns Russia’s reported atrocities in Bucha. Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa has, together with the government, condemned Russian forces for the reported atrocities committed in Bucha, Ukraine. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/portugal-condemns-russias-reported-atrocities-in-bucha/]

VISEGRAD 

BRATISLAVA

Slovak nuclear plants serviced by Gazprom-linked company. Slovak nuclear power plant operator Slovenské elektrárne a.s. has service contracts with Škoda JS, owned by Russian Gazoprombank, leading to a fear of security breaches and the risk of future sanctions. EURACTIV Slovakia reports. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/slovak-nuclear-plants-serviced-by-gazprom-linked-company/]

///

WARSAW

Former Russian PM proposes to sanction Polish ruling party. Russia should sanction the Polish ruling Law and Justice (PiS) party and its’ voters in retaliation to Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki’s proposal to sanction members of President Vladimir Putin’s United Russia party, former Russian president and prime minister said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/former-russian-pm-proposes-to-sanction-polish-ruling-party/]

///

PRAGUE | BUDAPEST

Czech Pirates unhappy with Orban’s win. Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala congratulated Hungary’s Viktor Orban on his election win, while other politicians from his party, including Foreign Minister Jan Lipavský were much more critical. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/czech-pirates-unhappy-with-orbans-win/]

///

BUDAPEST 

Fidesz’s landslide reinforces female underrepresentation in parliament. The proportion of male and female MPs in the Hungarian legislature is set to stay the same after the general elections on Sunday, Telex reported. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/fideszs-landslide-reinforces-female-underrepresentation-in-parliament/]

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

SOFIA

Bulgaria asks Turkey to help bring back sailors from Ukraine. Bulgarian President Rumen Radev has urged Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan to take joint action in rescuing Bulgarian and Turkish sailors stranded in Ukrainian ports. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/bulgaria-asks-turkey-to-help-remove-sailors-from-ukraine/]

///

BUCHAREST

Zelenskyy warns Putin could go further in address to Romanian MPs. The security of the whole of Europe is at play on the Ukrainian territory, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy told Romania’s parliament Monday evening, calling on the West to unite against Russian aggressors to prevent a ”genocide in Europe.” Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/zelenskyy-warns-putin-could-go-further-in-address-to-romanian-mps/]

///

ZAGREB

Croatia joined NATO only because of US, says president. Croatia joined NATO only because of the US’ help and protection, President Zoran Milanović said at the opening of a Croatian-US forum underway in Zagreb on Monday and Tuesday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/croatia-joined-nato-only-because-of-us-says-president/]

///

LJUBLJANA 

Jansa appointed top bank job in conflict of interest, watchdog finds. Slovenia’s anti-graft watchdog found Prime Minister Janez Janša to be in a conflict of interest when he voted for Franci Matoz, his long-time lawyer, for a top job at the Bank Assets Management Company (BAMC). Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/jansa-appointed-top-bank-job-in-conflict-of-interest-watchdog-finds/]

///

Slovenia ‘very interested’ in Croatian LNG terminal. Slovenia is very interested in gas from Croatia’s LNG terminal, which has ensured 300 million cubic metres in additional capacity, for which a tender will be advertised, Slovenian Infrastructure Minister Jernej Vrtovec said on Monday at a meeting with Croatian Economy Minister Tomislav Ćorić.

Vrtovec said Slovenia was considering diversifying gas supply so as not to be dependent on supply from Russia. The infrastructure for the additional 300 million cubic metres of natural gas already exists, he said, adding that Slovenia would be able to procure nearly one-third of its gas needs via the LNG terminal off Krk island in the northern Adriatic. Asked if Slovenia was interested in building another reactor at the Krško nuclear power plant and if Croatia would be included, Vrtovec said Slovenia was very interested and that this would be discussed. (Željko Trkanjec | EURACTIV.hr)

///

BELGRADE 

International observers deplore conditions in Serbian elections. The election process in Serbia was marked by unequal conditions for participants in elections, resulting from government representatives favoured by the majority of media outlets, pressure on employees in public companies, and abuse of administrative resources, observers from international organisations stated in Belgrade on Monday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/international-observers-deplore-conditions-in-serbian-elections/]

///

SARAJEVO | ZAGREB

US envoy: Ukraine crisis will not spill over to Western Balkans. The war in Ukraine cannot spill over to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Croatia is an example of a smart energy policy, US special envoy for the Western Balkans, Gabriel Escobar, said on Monday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/us-envoy-ukraine-crisis-will-not-spill-over-to-western-balkans/]

///

SARAJEVO 

BiH’s Covic praises Vucic and Orban for their election victories. Dragon Čović, leader of HDZ BiH, the biggest Croat party, congratulated Serbian President Aleksandar Vučić and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for winning the elections in their countries, calling Vučić’s victory “historic” and Orbán’s “magnificent”. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/bihs-covic-praises-vucic-and-orban-for-their-election-victories/]

///

SKOPJE | BUDAPEST

North Macedonia opposition leader in Budapest with Orban. Hristijan Mickoski, the leader of the opposition VMRO-DPMNE, who congratulated the victory of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Serbian President Aleksandar Vučić, attended Fidesz’s election party in Budapest.

At Orbán’s personal invitation, Mickoski and his party’s vice-president Aleksandar Nikoloski were waiting for the results of the elections in Hungary at the Fidesz party office. Orbán’s victory is very important because he has personal ties with VMRO-DPMNE and (North) Macedonia and will do everything possible for (North) Macedonia to progress towards the EU, towards a better standard of living, and towards more investments, writes Nikoloski.

The Hungarian PM gave asylum to Nikola Gruevski, former North Macedonia Prime Minister who fled the country citing judicial persecution. (Željko Trkanjec | EURACTIV.hr)

///

PODGORICA 

US urges Montenegro to impose sanctions on Russia. The US calls on Montenegro to apply the sanctions that the EU imposed on Russia, the US Ambassador to Montenegro Judy Raising Reinke has said. Read More.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/us-urges-montenegro-to-impose-sanctions-on-russia/]

///

PRISTINA | TIRANA

Kosovo and Albanian leaders condemn Russian atrocities in Bucha. Albanian leaders in Kosovo and Albania are united in their condemnation of reported atrocities in Bucha and other towns and cities around Kyiv in Ukraine. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/kosovo-and-albanian-leaders-condemn-russian-atrocities-in-bucha/]

AGENDA:

* EU: College of Commissioners meets / Economy and finance ministers (Ecofin) meet in Luxembourg / European Parliament questions European Commission President von der Leyen on EU executive’s mid-term results and then EU’s chief diplomat Borrell on Strategic Compass.

* NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg holds press conference before foreign ministers’ meeting.

* Germany: Donor conference to help Moldova with refugees from Ukraine,  Germany’s Baerbock, France’s Le Drian will brief press after the event in Berlin.

* Sweden: Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson hosts Norwegian counterpart Jonas Gahr Store in Stockholm.

* Spain: Ukraine’s President Zelenskyy to address Spanish parliament by video conference.

* Greece: Foreign Minister Nikos Dendias hosts Cypriot Ioannis Kasoulides and Israeli counterpart Yair Lapid in Athens, also hosts US Undersecretary of State Victoria Nuland.

* Poland: Regional Policy Commissioner Elisa Ferreira in Poland to visits the border crossing in Korczowa and reception centre with Polish Minister of Funds and Regional Policy Grzegorz Puda.

* Bosnia and Herzegovina: Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenković visits Mostar to attend the ceremony of opening the 23rd international business fair.

* UN Security Council meeting on situation in Ukraine.

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Alexandra Brzozowski, Daniel Eck, Benjamin Fox, Zoran Radosavljevic, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220405ei4500003


Domestic
Russia summons Finnish Ambassador to Moscow for interrogation - demands return of transport seized by Customs*** TRANSLATED ***
483 字
2022 年 4 月 7 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2022. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
According to Haavisto, the works of art borrowed from Russian museums belong to Russian museums.

The works of art borrowed from Russian museums belong to Russian museums, said Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto(Green) on Thursday.

Customs said on Wednesday that valuable works of art that were on their way to Finland via Russia had been stopped at the Vaalimaa border crossing over the weekend. Customs confiscated shipments of works of art due to existing EU sanctions against Russia. The investigation has revealed that the objects belong to Russian art museums.

Haavisto estimates that art loans between museums were not taken into account when drafting the sanctions. According to Haavisto, the aim is to resolve the matter as soon as possible so that the works of art can be returned to their rightful owners in museums.

Russia has urged Finland to return the confiscated works without delay. The country also invited Finland's Ambassador to Moscow Antti Helanterä to address the Russian Foreign Ministry on Thursday regarding the incident.

Haavisto did not want to open the matter further, but said that he had talked to Helanterä on Thursday and received a report on the interview.

- Russia is concerned about the valuable works of art in its own museums, which have now been stopped by Finnish Customs in this situation, because the EU's sanction regulations have not taken such a special situation into account, Haavisto described.

According to Haavisto, Finland has raised the need for an exception in Brussels. He believes the matter will be rectified.

Customs has initiated about 20 preliminary investigations

Customs said it had launched about 20 preliminary investigations into the EU's extensive export and import sanctions on Russia and Belarus. Two cases are currently under investigation, one of which came to light on Wednesday. In it, Customs confiscated tens of millions of euros worth of art objects on their way to Russia.

In ten cases in the preliminary investigation, Customs has stated that there is no need to initiate a preliminary investigation.

- In these cases, the transport of the sanctioned products has left before the sanctions have been imposed. In terms of content, however, there have been products in these transports that are subject to sanction control, but due to the time of ordering, the acts cannot be considered intentional, said Hannu Sinkkonen, Director of Control, in a Customs release.

Preliminary inquiries from Customs state that it has started on so-called dual-use products, which can be used for both civilian and military purposes. Such products include many electronic and electrical products, such as computer parts.

Defense equipment, boats, telephones and various electronic components also belong to the sanctions lists. In addition, the export of so-called luxury goods to Russia is prohibited.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020220407ei47008px


Domestic
Russia summons Finnish Ambassador to Moscow for interrogation - demands return of transport seized by Customs*** TRANSLATED ***
412 字
2022 年 4 月 7 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2022. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
Customs has launched a preliminary investigation into two suspected breaches of EU sanctions following the war in Ukraine.

On Thursday, Russia invited Finnish Ambassador to Moscow Antti Helanterä to an interview with the Russian Foreign Ministry over the transportation of works of art confiscated by Customs.

The matter was confirmed by the Finnish Ministry for Foreign Affairs to BTI. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not provide further details on the content of the discussion.

According to the news agency AFP, Russia is demanding that Finland return the valuable transports of works of art seized by Customs without delay.

Customs said it had launched about 20 preliminary investigations into the EU 's extensive export and import sanctions on Russia and Belarus. There are currently two cases under investigation, one of which came to light as early as Wednesday. In it, Customs confiscated tens of millions of euros worth of art objects on their way to Russia.

In ten cases in the preliminary investigation, Customs has stated that there is no need to initiate a preliminary investigation.

- In these cases, the transport of the sanctioned products has left before the sanctions have been imposed. In terms of content, however, there have been products in these transports that are subject to sanction control, but due to the time of ordering, the acts cannot be considered intentional, says Hannu Sinkkonen, Director of Control, in a Customs release.

Preliminary inquiries from Customs state that it has started on so-called dual-use products, which can be used for both civilian and military purposes. Such products include many electronic and electrical products, such as computer parts.

Defense equipment, boats, telephones and various electronic components also belong to the sanctions lists. In addition, the export of so-called luxury goods to Russia is prohibited.

Art objects stopped at the border belong to Russian art museums

Customs said on Wednesday that valuable works of art that were on their way to Finland via Russia had been stopped at the Vaalimaa border crossing over the weekend. The artefacts are currently seized by Customs.

The investigation has revealed that the objects belong to Russian art museums. Teemu Sepponen, head of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' export control unit, said on Wednesday that this was a temporary situation and that Russian museums still owned works of art.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020220407ei47006k5


Paintings from Russian museums, detained in Finland, to arrive in Russia this weekend - Culture Ministry
126 字
2022 年 4 月 8 日 07:53 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS General Newswire
DANWS
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
MOSCOW. April 8 (Interfax) - The Russian Culture Ministry is organizing the return of Russian museum exhibits detained by Finnish Customs, Culture Minister Olga Lyubimova said.

"The Culture Ministry is organizing the return of these collections, and the exhibits are due to return to the Russian Federation this weekend," Lyubimova said on Telegram.

"The European Commission has explained that the sanction list does not apply to the works demonstrated at European exhibitions," Lyubimova said. The European Commission's decision makes it possible to continue transportation of the paintings, which had been detained by Finnish Customs, she said.

te kp aa

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DANWS00020220408ei4800105


Paintings from Russian museums, detained in Finland, to arrive in Russia this weekend - Culture Ministry (Part 2)
286 字
2022 年 4 月 8 日 08:20 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS General Newswire
DANWS
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
MOSCOW. April 8 (Interfax) - The Russian Culture Ministry is organizing the return of Russian museum exhibits detained by Finnish Customs, Culture Minister Olga Lyubimova said.

"The Culture Ministry is organizing the return of these collections, and the exhibits are due to return to the Russian Federation this weekend," Lyubimova said on Telegram.

"The European Commission has explained that the sanction list does not apply to the works demonstrated at European exhibitions," Lyubimova said. The European Commission's decision makes it possible to continue transportation of the paintings, which had been detained by Finnish Customs, she said.

The minister thanked colleagues from the Russian Foreign Ministry, the Russian embassy to Finland and the Federal Customs Service for "working together and assisting in communication with the Finnish authorities."

Finnish Customs formally acknowledged the detention of the paintings due to the EU sanctions on April 4. The Russian Culture Ministry said back then that the exhibits presented for customs clearance on the Finnish border were part of two shows in Italy, namely, Grand Tour: Dream of Italy from Venice to Pompeii (comprising works from the State Hermitage and Tsarskoye Selo, Pavlovsk and Gatchina museums) and the Shape of Infinity (comprising works from the Tretyakov Gallery and the State Museum of the Oriental Arts).

Russian Special Presidential Representative for International Cultural Cooperation Mikhail Shvydkoi told Interfax that the problem with the return of the Russian works of art derived from sanctions-related bureaucracy, and the exhibits would return to Russia as soon as the bureaucratic procedures were completed.

te kp aa

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DANWS00020220408ei480012x


Domestic
The latest package of sanctions takes into account the flow of works of art borrowed from museums*** TRANSLATED ***
125 字
2022 年 4 月 8 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2022. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
According to the Finnish Mission to the EU, the update on works of art borrowed from museums has been taken into account in the latest sanction package that has now been agreed. Finnish Customs seizes art transports previously on their way to Russia due to EU sanctions against Russia.

EU countries agreed on the latest sanctions package late yesterday. The package is coming into effect soon.

Russia has urged Finland to return the confiscated works without delay. The country also invited Finland's Ambassador to Moscow Antti Helanterä to address the Russian Foreign Ministry yesterday regarding the incident.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020220408ei48003ux


Domestic
The latest package of sanctions takes into account the flow of works of art borrowed from museums*** TRANSLATED ***
Heta Hassinen
303 字
2022 年 4 月 8 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2022. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
Russia has urged Finland to return the works confiscated by Customs.

According to the Finnish Mission to the EU, the update on works of art borrowed from museums has been taken into account in the latest sanction package that has now been agreed. Finnish Customs seizes art transports previously on their way to Russia due to EU sanctions against Russia.

EU countries agreed on the latest sanctions package late Thursday. The package is coming into effect soon.

Russia has urged Finland to return the confiscated works without delay. The country also invited Finland's Ambassador to Moscow Antti Helanterä to address the Russian Foreign Ministry on Thursday regarding the incident.

Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto(Green) said on Thursday that works of art borrowed from Russian museums belong to Russian museums. According to Haavisto, the matter has been resolved as soon as possible.

According to Reuters, Russian Culture Minister Olga Ljubimova said on Friday that the seized works of art would return to Russia over the weekend.

The works of art had been on loan in Italy and Japan

Customs said on Wednesday that valuable works of art that had been on their way to Finland via Russia had been stopped at the Vaalimaa border crossing last weekend.

According to the investigations, the stopped objects belong to the collections of Russian art museums. The items had been on loan in Italy and Japan.

The reason for the stop was EU sanctions against Russia. The sanctions cover luxury items to which works of art can be included.

On Thursday, Haavisto estimated that art loans between museums were not taken into account when drafting the original sanctions.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020220408ei4800439


Museum exhibits detained on Finnish border may be back home on weekend - culture minister
206 字
2022 年 4 月 8 日 09:00 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
The museum exhibits that have been stopped on the Finnish border for thorough customs clearance may be back home this weekend, Russia’s Culture Minister Olga Lyubimova said on her Telegram channel on Friday.

"The Ministry of Culture has begun to make arrangements for the collections’ return. It is expected that the works of art will be back to Russia this weekend," Lyubimova said.

She explained that the further transportation of exhibits was made possible by the European Commission’s decision to the effect they are not on the sanction list.

"We are grateful to our colleagues at the Foreign Ministry, the Russian embassy in Finland and the Federal Customs Service for taking prompt joint action and for the assistance in communicating with the Finnish authorities," Lyubimova said.

Earlier, Russia’s Culture Ministry said that the works of art that had undergone the checks were part of two exhibition projects in Italy featuring exhibits from the State Hermitage Museum and the museum preserves Tsarskoye Selo, Pavlovsk and Gatchina and also the State Tretyakov Gallery, the Museum of Oriental Art and the Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts, which had arrived from Japan.

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020220408ei48000ph


Speech by President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Eduskunta, the Parliament of Finland
2029 字
2022 年 4 月 8 日 16:16 GMT
Ukrainian Government News
UKGOV
英文
Copyright © 2022 SeeNews. All rights reserved.
Dear Mr. Speaker!

Dear Mr. President!

Dear Mrs. Prime Minister!

Members of the Government!

Dear Eduskunta deputies!

Dear Mr. Federal President of Germany!

Dear Chairman of the Swiss Federal Assembly!

People of Finland!

I'll start with what happened this morning.

The Russian military struck at the railway station in our city of Kramatorsk. At the usual train station. At the ordinary people, there were no militaries. At the people who were waiting for trains to leave to a safe area. They hit people with missiles. There are witnesses, there are videos, there are remnants of missiles, but there are no more people. At least 30 dead. About 300 wounded. This is for now.

Once again: this is an ordinary train station. An ordinary city in the east of our state. That's how Russia came to "defend" Donbas. That's how Russia came to "protect" Russian-speaking people. This is how we live for the 44th day. After 8 years of war in the east of our country.

I ask you to honor the memory of all Ukrainian men and women killed by Russian soldiers, Russian missiles, Russian bombs with a moment of silence...

Thank you.

Russia has sent all its combat capable forces from all over their territory up to the Far East to seize Ukraine. But even they were not enough. That is why Russia is gathering as many people as possible who are capable of holding weapons in order to continue the aggression against Ukraine. Looking for mercenaries around the world. Sending militants from various de facto terrorist groups and so-called "private armies" created by some Russian officials. We have seen so many of them among the captured Russian military.

Both very experienced killers and very young boys born in 2003-2004. But none of them could adequately explain why they need this war against Ukraine, what is the purpose of these missile strikes at civilians, what is the purpose of the cruelty that the world saw in Bucha and other cities liberated by the Ukrainian army.

Of course, among the nearly two hundred thousand Russian occupiers on our land were those who did their best not to fight. Who fled to Russia, who deliberately surrendered, who inflicted severe injuries on themselves to get to the hospital and leave the war zone.

But still it was a minority. And the majority of their army continues war on our land for no apparent reason. Absolutely pointless. And as cruel as possible. Continues to fight in a way that you often think - are they people at all?

Yesterday, the Russian military fired from artillery at a boat with civilians on the Kakhovka reservoir. People were just trying to escape from the occupied territories. But they were hit by "Grad". Three children, eleven adults. On the boat. In the middle of the reservoir. Tens of meters from the shore. And they are being hit by artillery...

Hundreds and hundreds of cars with gunshot traces remained on all roads of our country in the areas where Russian troops entered. Ordinary cars of ordinary people who just wanted to live. The Russian military knew for sure that those were ordinary civilians. They saw that there was no threat. But they fired.

There are many examples of such cars with people who were simply crushed by armored vehicles. Literally - crushed by tanks.

You all know what the Russian military has done in our city of Bucha. But they still make such Buchas every day - from Kramatorsk to Mariupol, from Kharkiv to Kherson.

And I'm sure you realize that if the Russian army is ordered to invade your land, they will do the same to your country. I do not wish you this. They will do what happened in Bucha to your cities. To the cities of any country that the leadership of the Russian Federation decides is allegedly part of their empire, not the land of another nation.

And even if Russian soldiers do not understand why they need it, they will still be at war. Because it is hatred and contempt for other people that are being brought up now in Russia at the state level.

Ladies and Gentlemen!

People of Finland!

You have already seen in your history the cruelty and absurdity of the invasion of Russia. Let's be honest: the threat remains. Everything must be done to prevent this from happening again.

Russia's war against Ukraine is now deciding not only the fate of our state. Not only the fate of our people. But the fate of all those who have a common border with Russia.

Like you 83 years ago, Ukraine has the courage to defend itself against the enemy whose forces far outnumber them. There are just a lot of them, in quantitative terms. They have a lot of equipment and a lot of missiles. A lot of people who can be thrown into the war. And a lot of dollars and euros earned from oil trade that are then spent on propaganda of aggression.

But just as your courage saved your country from Stalin's invasion, our courage resists this invasion. For 44 days already. But much remains to be done to win.

Of course, unlike before World War II, the democratic world has now realized that the expansion of tyranny cannot be ignored. If the people are fighting for freedom, they must be supported. But, unfortunately, this understanding is more common among nations than among some very influential politicians. Among smaller states than among some leading states.

We still have to convince the world's powerful states on a daily basis that sanctions against Russia that it will not be able to circumvent and that will definitely stop its military machine are necessary. We still have to ask for the necessary help, for the necessary weapons. And we are still told that we still have to wait for the aircraft, anti-missile systems, tanks, anti-ship weapons.

We are told that we have to wait while we are losing hundreds of people every day from Russian strikes. When dozens of our cities are destroyed. We have to wait while more than ten million Ukrainians have become IDPs. And we have to wait. When more than three million of these ten left our country...

We must do everything together so that they can return home. We must do everything to stop Russia, to stop the war! So that peace is restored in Ukraine, and the Russian occupiers leave our sovereign territory. This cannot be delayed, ladies and gentlemen.

We are told that we have to wait... But I have a question: should both those who kill our people and those who make us wait be held jointly accountable for the deaths of Ukrainians? Those who make us wait for the most necessary. Wait for the opportunity to defend ourselves, our life, wait for the weapons.

I am sincerely grateful to Finland for not delaying when this invasion by the Russian Federation began. For coming to our aid immediately. For the fact that you made a historic decision to provide Ukraine with defense support. For being principled in sanctions matters. For being one of the moral leaders of our anti-war coalition.

But I ask you to show even greater leadership, both at the level of the European Union and in bilateral relations with European countries, to support our struggle for freedom. For our common freedom.

When this war continues, when tyranny loses the war against Ukraine, it will be one of the greatest contributions to Europe's security in decades. Consequently, one of the greatest contributions to the security of your state. That is why we need the weapons that your EU partners have. That is why we need truly effective, powerful sanctions against Russia. Permanent. Such a sanction cocktail, which will be remembered as Molotov cocktails. Insist on it!

I am grateful to the Finnish companies that have already stopped working in the Russian market.

But economic ties with this country must be severed, and I urge you to put pressure on all your companies that continue to support the Russian military machine through their taxes and excise duties in Russia. All Russian banks must be immediately isolated from the global financial system.

We cannot limit ourselves to a partial response to Russia's threat to Europe and the democratic world, because freedom will not survive if the channels of nourishing tyranny are left. And we need to think together about how to protect Europe from Russia's energy weapons.

Every educated person knows that the time of fossil fuels has passed. Mankind can no longer rely on coal, on oil. We need to look for cleaner energy sources for everyone. And if Russia uses energy to finance aggression against other nations and the spread of hatred in the world, it should be an additional incentive. This should speed up the decision-making process.

How much longer will Europe ignore the need to impose an embargo on oil supplies from Russia? This is a matter of security in all senses of the word - from environmental to military.

And I urge you to ask this question out loud to everyone in the European Union. So that the necessary decision finally appears. The world knows the formats of how to do it. And if Europe does not want to physically cut off supplies now, if it is not ready, although it is inevitable, the first step must be to apply a scheme to limit the flow of money for oil into Russia. Let this money accumulate on special accounts without Russia's access to it. Let Russia first restore peace and be held accountable for war crimes, and only then take its dollars and euros from oil trade. Let it remember the spirit of Helsinki and restore the Helsinki Accords in full, and only then will it be possible to discuss the economy, if necessary.

And when we say that we need to stop the war, it is clear to all cultures and it is clear in all languages. When I say this in Ukrainian, it seems to me that there are no people who do not understand this. The same goes for German, Arabic, Chinese or any other language.

Peace is the same value for all. War is the same evil for all.

Ladies and Gentlemen!

People of Finland!

I believe that common sense will still prevail. I am confident that together we will be able to defend freedom and defend Ukraine. That is why we need to think now about how to rebuild our state after this war.

The world knows about the leadership of your country, your people in the field of education. You have really built an educational system that allows you to protect personal freedom, make a person educated and teach respect for other people, the environment and the world. Other countries should learn this, too!

During the month and a half of the Russian invasion, 928 educational institutions in Ukraine have already been destroyed or damaged. These are kindergartens, these are schools, these are universities. I invite your state, your companies, your specialists to join the restoration of our educational sector and the modernization of education in Ukraine. We must do everything we can to ensure that, even after this brutal war against our nation, our people continue to cultivate goodness in their hearts and stay open to the world. I believe in that.

Because hatred must lose. Freedom must win. First - in Ukraine, and then - wherever tyranny will try to raise its head.

Thank you Finland!

Glory to Ukraine!

* * * * *

The information contained herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. SeeNews does not endorse in any way, the views, opinions or recommendations expressed above. The use of the information is subject to the terms and conditions as published by the original source, which you have to read and accept in full prior to the execution of any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein.

SeeNews EOOD

文件 UKGOV00020220408ei480005l


UPDATE 1-Finland to return seized art works to Russia
160 字
2022 年 4 月 8 日 13:58 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
(Adds Finnish foreign ministry statement)

April 8 (Reuters) - Finland will return to Russia some Russian art works seized by Finnish customs, the country's foreign ministry said on Friday.

Finnish customs had stopped three shipments of art works worth around 42 million euros ($46 million) to check whether they were classed as luxury goods and were therefore subject to economic sanctions.

Exceptions for cultural artefacts in the European Union sanction rules will become effective on April 9, after which the foreign ministry will grant customs officials permission to release the art works, the ministry said.

The paintings, statues and antiques had been on loan from Russian museums in Italy and Japan.

Russian Culture Minister Olga Lyubimova earlier said the paintings would return to Russia at the weekend. (Reporting by Reuters staff and Essi Lehto in Helsinki; Editing by Kevin Liffey and Hugh Lawson)

Released: 2022-4-8T14:58:49.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220408ei4802gqh


News
Seized Russian artworks to be returned
Essi Lehto
122 字
2022 年 4 月 9 日
i
IIND
1ST
14
英文
© 2022 All Rights Reserved.
FINLAND

Finland will return some Russian artworks seized by customs to the country, Finland's foreign ministry said yesterday.

Customs had stopped three shipments of artworks worth around €42m (£35m) to check whether they were classed as luxury goods and were therefore subject to sanctions.

Exceptions for cultural artefacts in the EU sanction rules will become effective on 9 April, after which the foreign ministry will grant customs officials permission to release the artworks, the ministry said.

The paintings, statues and antiques had been on loan from Russian museums to exhibitions in Italy and Japan.

Russian culture minister Olga Lyubimova (inset) earlier said the paintings would return to Russia at the weekend. REUTERS

Associated Newspapers Limited

文件 IIND000020220409ei490004o


News; Domestic
U.K. P.M. Boris Johnson Meets With Zelenskyy In Kyiv; At Least 50 Killed In Russian Airstrike On Crowded Train Platform; Russia Complains To Turkey About Ukraine's Use Of Turkish Drones; Finland and Sweden Could Soon Join NATO; Biden Signs Sanctions Bills Targeting Russian Oil & Trade; Ukrainian Families Searching for Their Missing Children After Parents Forcibly Sent to Russia; Will Smith Banned from Academy Events for the Next 10 Years; Jennifer Lopez, Ben Affleck Are Engaged Again. Aired 1-2p ET
Fredricka Whitfield, Nima Elbagir, Ed Lavandera, Cedric Leighton, Zachary Cohen, Jill Dougherty, Katie Polglase
6722 字
2022 年 4 月 9 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[13:00:00]

FREDRICKA WHITFIELD, CNN ANCHOR: So to see Kim's operation in action, go to CNNheroes.com. And while you're there, you can nominate a hero in your life.

Hello again, everyone. Thank you so much for joining me. I'm Fredricka Whitfield. We're monitoring breaking news out of Ukraine. U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson traveling to keep for Kyiv for surprise meeting with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy. A significant show of solidarity as Russia's war in Ukraine rages on. Ukrainian officials now bracing for a major offensive by Russia in the east. Heavy shelling already underway in Kharkiv.

Much of the city reduced to ruins. And officials urging civilians to evacuate in advance of heavy fighting. Today, 10 new humanitarian corridors opening in eastern and southern Ukraine. And now we're getting horrific images from the aftermath of a Russian strike on a train station on Friday. A warning, some of the video is disturbing to watch. But we feel it's necessary for you to see what's happening to people there.

The Russian strike killed at least 50 people including five children, almost 100 others were wounded in the blast all attempting to escape the carnage. Fears mounting that Russia may be getting desperate to seek victory by any means necessary. One European official now saying a quarter of Russia's forces are effectively inoperable, following heavy losses and poor planning.

Let's go to Kyiv now where CNN's Nema Elbagir is. Nema, this meeting between Boris Johnson and Volodymyr Zelenskyy, well, it may be unexpected to the rest of the world. But, you know, what was the goal here?

NIMA ELBAGIR, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, the Ukrainians seem to have hosted Prime Minister Boris Johnson with a great degree of enthusiasm, and diplomacy, calling him a leader in the anti-Putin Coalition, a leader in the anti-Sanction movement, even though -- actually the U.K. came under a significant degree of criticism for how slow it was. How behind the U.S. and even European partners it was to sanction Russia and prime supporters of Russia's leader Vladimir Putin.

But today, it seems to be about what more Prime Minister Johnson has come with, which is a broader package of defensive support, as the U.K. military are calling it, but also a long-term commitment to helping with Ukraine's longer-term financial stability. So, increasing the ceiling of the loan guarantee that Britain's providing at the World Bank, up to a total of around $1.5 billion. They're also providing anti-ship missiles.

This all sounds very good when you hear it in the press conference. And the Ukrainian leadership has been very careful to sound very enthusiastic. But will it change what's happening in the east of the country and from what we have seen from what our investigative team has been able to discover about the trajectory of much of the ordinance that is raining down and bringing death to Kharkiv what you were just telling our viewers about and to other parts of the east.

That's coming from inside Russia, and much of that package of military aid, while it has been very useful in previous chapters of this conflict will not help stem that tide of ordinance that's coming into the east of the country. And that really is the concern for so many people here on the ground, Fred.

WHITFIELD: Sure is. All right. Nema Elbagir. Thank you so much. In less than an hour, Odessa, Ukraine will be under curfew as Russia's onslaught against the port city continues. Senator Ed Lavandera is there. Ed, what are people bracing for?

ED LAVANDERA, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Well, it's going to be a long day and a half, a 36-hour curfew that starts here shortly and will not end until Monday morning. This is definitely different from what we have seen in the past and officially, officials here in Odessa say that this is -- this curfew and this unique curfew is due in large part to because of the train attack that happened yesterday in Ukraine -- in eastern Ukraine where 50 people were killed nearly 100 others were injured.

And that is what is bringing about this particular curfew. But interestingly enough, it also coincides with a special holiday here in the city, which is Odessa's Liberation Day celebrating the city's liberation from Nazi occupation back during the World War II era. And it's a day that would normally bring out thousands of people to celebrate in parks, at memorials, and that sort of thing.

And perhaps those kinds of public gatherings is a concern in something that officials here wanted to prevent, which would make, you know, civilians an easy target.

[13:05:01]

LAVANDERA: And that is due in large part because we have seen a number of attacks here in the last week and in the last day and a half, they seem to have stepped up a little bit. But the missile strikes have largely been contained to more strategic targets, like a military facility just on the northeast edge of town. But given all of that, you know, that -- just this extended curfew really kind of adds to the already anxious mood that exists in the city.

WHITFIELD: And then the evacuation corridors. I mean, I imagine they are also impacted by curfews that are in place but are people willing to use them?

LAVANDERA: Yes, I think there's still a huge appetite for many civilians to get out through these evacuation routes. In fact, Ukrainian officials in various parts of the country, especially in the eastern part of the country are urging families and civilians to evacuate these areas where they're expecting a very aggressive and stepped up military campaign in the days and weeks ahead. So they're bracing for all of that.

And that's why these humanitarian corridors are a key lifeline to get people to safety either within safer parts of this country, or out of the country all together. But it's a very volatile situation, for example, today, they had to adjust several of the routes because of threats and also because of the ongoing investigation and fallout from the attack at the train station in eastern Ukraine yesterday.

So, you know, these humanitarian corridors we've seen day after day after day, just extremely volatile, and very, you know, dangerous. They might sound like they're all safe and protected. But that is not necessarily the case for, you know, thousands of these people that are trying to get out. We were told that yes, on Friday, about 6600 people were able to use those evacuation corridors.

But when you think about how many tens of thousands of people still are looking to be evacuated, that really is just a small number.

WHITFIELD: Yes. All right. Ed Lavandera in Odessa. Thank you so much. Let's get more analysis now on the military installations. Cedric Leighton is a retired Air Force colonel, and a CNN Military Analyst. So good to see you, Colonel. So that reportedly some Russian forces are inoperable. How crippled do you suspect these forces might be that are in country and on the ground?

CEDRIC LEIGHTON, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Well, Fredricka, that's an excellent question. And I think it really depends on the unit. In some cases, we know that many of the Russian units were decimated by the Ukrainians, especially as they were pummeling their convoys. So, when there was a long line, we've seen several pictures of this north and northwest of Kyiv especially where they would go in and they would destroy large portions of those Russian convoys.

Those units are in pretty bad shape. And in fact, in some cases, I believe those tactical units are basically 100 percent decimated, other units, not so much, you know, probably around 50 percent to 60 percent decimated and others even less than that. So, it will vary. But what it does mean in the aggregate is that there is a significant problem with the Russian method of force employment. And they are not going to be able to regenerate the forces as quickly as they would need to in order to have a complete recovery of those -- of those forces. And that's going to have an adverse impact on their war effort.

WHITFIELD: Would that explain why the U.K. Intel community is saying that Russia continues to hit these Ukrainian noncombatant locations like that train station? And like you're seeing and neighborhoods in Bucha? Because they don't have -- they're not met with the kind of force that say the Ukrainian military would be meeting them with?

LEIGHTON: Yes, I think in part, that's true, because, you know, they will go after easy targets, they're lashing out in anger. And, you know, it's civilians who also have been known to fight them, or at least to taunt them. And that is, you know, something that they don't take very kindly to, you know, for obvious reasons but they're also not very well disciplined in many cases. And in that day, you know, as an impact where these forces are not fighting military elements, they're fighting civilians.

And of course, civilians are incredibly easy targets today, they are the proverbial soft target, as we call it, you know, in the military speak.

WHITFIELD: Yes. So, when the Ukrainian defense chief says the Russian military is regrouping say in the east before any kind of advance, what does that regrouping mean?

LEIGHTON: So, usually what it means in this case, I think it's -- it is the case that they are going to get new troops in there, they're going to fix their equipment, they're going to patch up things that need to be patched up such as, you know, holes in the -- in the armor and, you know, fix tires and tank tracks and things of that nature. So, it's a lot of maintenance that goes on and, you know, perhaps some rudimentary retraining.

[13:10:08]

LEIGHTON: That's what the American units would be doing. I -- but, you know, we would have a very focused effort at retraining and doing those kinds of things. Whereas with the -- with the Russians, I'm sure it says concerted effort, there's a kind of a brute force approach they have toward their military efforts and that is going to I think, adversely impact their ability to carry out their offensive in the east.

And, you know, I do think that that offensive is coming. And I don't take that offensive lightly at all but there are going to be weaknesses in their -- in their operations as a result of their haphazard approach to things.

WHITFIELD: And Colonel, Russia apparently has complained to Turkey about Ukraine's use of Turkish drones. Has that been hugely beneficial A, for Ukraine to use these drones? And then at what risk, shall we say, you know, is Turkey taking by providing them? LEIGHTON: Well, Turkey is taking somewhat of a risk here. They, you know, Turkey has been trying to straddle the line between Putin's Russia, Ukraine, U.S. and its other NATO partners. So, the Bayraktar drone which we're seeing here is a key element in Ukraine's efforts to fight the Russians. It has been highly effective. And it has been used against convoys of Russian armor, it has been used against Russian troops and placements.

And it's a very versatile weapon of war. And in fact, it is what the Ukrainians have credited with a lot of their successes. So, when you combine the Bayraktar drone with the Javelin anti-tank missile and the Stinger anti-aircraft missile, and a few other weapons, that's a significant, you know, force equalizer in this case for the Ukrainians and it is a essential part of the Ukrainian war effort. Absolutely.

WHITFIELD: And -- I mean, Turkey is a NATO ally. So, why is it not complicated for Turkey? But there have been other NATO nations that have said, it's a little too complicated to provide air arsenal?

LEIGHTON: Well, I think one simple answer to that, there are a lot of other answers, but I think one simple answer to that, Fredricka, is that it's an unmanned aerial vehicle. That's the key element. The MIG- 29 is a manned aircraft. And there's a bit of a difference in the way people look at that, whether it's on our side or on the Russian side. And that is, I think, one of the key elements.

So, the Turks are getting away with it because of that, at least they're getting away with it up to now. But the more Russian soldiers are killed, you know, using a Bayraktar drone, the less likely the Russians are to look very commonly at that.

WHITFIELD: What's your point of view on the fact that European officials are also claiming that Russians feel this pressure to achieve some sort of victory by May 9th? And that's an important anniversary day, I guess, for Russia.

LEIGHTON: It is yes, in fact, that's the anniversary of the Russian or Soviet victory over Nazi Germany. And what that was, was the date that they -- German signed under documents in Berlin. I -- that anniversary is important for a lot of historical purposes. And it kind of fits with Putin's denazification narrative which is a false narrative. I -- but a, you know, these artificial deadlines can really play havoc with operational plans.

And that is not a good thing from an operational perspective for the Russians to have that kind of a deadline for their -- for their operations. And if they do have that deadline, which I think is highly likely, it's going to really impact on their ability to carry out their mission if they're not careful.

WHITFIELD: All right. Colonel Cedric Leighton, always good to see you. Thank you so much.

LEIGHTON: You bet, Fredricka. Good to be with you.

WHITFIELD: Thank you. All right. Coming up. We have new details about how former President Donald Trump's son, Don Jr. was involved in trying to overturn the 2020 election.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

WHITFIELD: All right. We're learning new details about how former President Donald Trump's son, Don Jr. may have been involved in trying to overturn the 2020 election as votes were still being counted. A CNN exclusive report reveals Trump's oldest son texted then White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows ideas that he thought would ensure Donald Trump a second term in office. CNN National Security Reporter Zach Cohen joining us now with these explosive details. Zach, what more did you learn?

ZACHARY COHEN, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER: Yes, that's right, Fred. Our team breaking this story about a text exchange between Donald Trump Jr. and then White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows. Now it's really revealing on a few different levels here. As you can see, Donald Trump Jr. texted Meadows specifically about to lay out ideas for keeping his father in power.

Now, he says pretty point blank, it's very simple. We have multiple paths. We control them all. And he's talking about paths and ways to birth the Electoral College process and keep his dad in office. Now keep in mind, the first thing I want to point out here is this exchange happened on November 5th, 2020. That is two days after the presidential election. But Joe Biden had not been certified the winner yet and votes were still being tallied.

Now you have the president's son and his wife -- and his chief of staff in the White House, texting about ways to overturn the election results before they've even been decided. Now the second thing I want to point to is the ideas that were being floated here. This exchange really foreshadows what the Trump team, the Trump campaign would really try to put into action of the next day several weeks and months.

[13:20:01]

COHEN: They targeted states, they tried to convince Republicans in certain swing states to step in and to install alternate slates of electors that had been cast their state's votes for Donald Trump. Then they also looked ahead to January 6th as part of the deadline day, the last day where they hoped Congress could overturn the election if it had to. So -- and this part is pretty obvious. But you have to note who the two participants are.

Donald Trump Jr., a member of the Trump family and his most senior White House aide at the time and again, the election had not been decided or sort of -- or it had not been called yet. And yet, they're already planning for ways to overturn the outcome. Now, we asked Donald Trump Jr.'s attorney about this and he said that he -- Donald Trump Jr. received a lot of messages from people and a lot of suggestions.

And that he was likely forwarding along information from somebody else. But, you know, CNN has learned also that Don Jr. had texted Meadows earlier saying, "This is what we need to do, please read it and give it -- and get it to everyone that needs to see it, because I'm not sure we're doing it." Now, we know the January 6 Committee has this text in their possession and they have for some time, and there's no doubt that is part of their investigation.

WHITFIELD: All right. The questions keep mounting. Zack Cohen, thank you so much. All right. Still ahead. The U.S. is putting more pressure on Russia amid the bloodshed that we're seeing in Ukraine. Will it be enough to stop Putin? We'll discuss right after this.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[13:25:55]

WHITFIELD: In a show of support, U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Australia's Chancellor Karl Nehammer paid a visit to President Zelenskyy today in Kyiv. I want to bring in now CNN Contributor Jill Dougherty to discuss. She's the adjunct professor at Georgetown University and a former CNN Moscow Bureau Chief. Jill, good to see you. I mean, how significant is this, that you've got leaders of Australia and the U.K. saying they're willing to risk a lot to have face to face time with the Ukrainian president?

JILL DOUGHERTY, CNN CONTRIBUTOR: You know, on so many levels, Fredricka, this really is, I think, very significant. Number one, remember, you know, a week or two ago, Kyiv and there's still fighting going on. But Kyiv was a place that not a lot of people wanted to go into, it was very war torn. And you had these images of Zelenskyy, you know, coming basically out onto the streets, it was really -- the image was very, very different.

And now you have leaders of the E.U., you know, Boris Johnson and the Australian diplomat coming to Kyiv to meet with Zelenskyy. Then you have the E.U. deciding that it's going to return its diplomatic presence in Kyiv. All of f this, I think is important, you know, again, on that kind of messaging area and the show of support, but also the fact that if you have more diplomatic personnel from other countries in Europe, it gives a presence which makes it harder for Russia, I would think, to decide to do any type of military action there.

If they were to kill people to be blunt about it from other countries, it makes it much more complicated. And already they have said that they are -- they're leaving, they're moving to the east. And I was noting the comments by the foreign minister of Italy saying this is a big signal. And to Ukraine, he was saying thanks for kicking out the Russian troops from Kyiv.

WHITFIELD: Interesting. And then I have to wonder Jill too. By looking at some of these rooms, if anyone is familiar with Kyiv or anywhere in Ukraine, this seems a little bold to me that the president who has been in bunkers, you know, his life has also been on the line. He himself said he's target number one, that he would now be in buildings or rooms being photographed in very recognizable places.

Doesn't that open up now his vulnerability for placement for Putin who wants to take him out?

DOUGHERTY: It could and I was struck by that too. You know, it looks like a presidential palace where he met with Boris Johnson.

WHITFIELD: Right there.

(CROSSTALK)

DOUGHERTY: And so I think (INAUDIBLE) yes, there's some messaging going on there certainly, which is a type of -- I don't want to say return to normal, because that would be ridiculous, but a certain sense that they are in -- that the Ukrainians are in control. And so, that is important. It could increase his vulnerability. But you would think since he's been very careful and the people surrounding have been very careful and have survived up until this point, you would think that they're not taking any outside chances.

WHITFIELD: Yes. You worry that, you know, he or anybody would feel overly confident at this point. They're still very, very vulnerable. So, now let's talk about the other countries and their potential demise and all this. Finland and Sweden now could soon join NATO. What does that mean? What -- why does -- well, A, it's -- that it's NATO and B, the when happening potentially right now and the signal that that too is now sending to Russia, to Putin.

DOUGHERTY: This is huge. This is really huge, because for years, especially Finland, has been kind of the symbol of neutrality. And now, because of the war that Putin has unleashed in Ukraine and because of these images, it has really changed public opinion.

[13:30:07]

So there's an extremely rapid -- here we are, what, six weeks-plus after the beginning of this war, and public opinion is changing in both of those countries, in Finland and in Sweden.

As you mentioned, they're talking about, in Finland, parliament discussing this very soon, possible membership.

Russia will be furious with this. There's no question. And it has already threatened very graphically, actually -- I think the word they used was "rebalance the situation."

But they are definitely threatening Finland and Sweden if they take this step. But at this point, it would appear that Russia can't do anything other than take military action.

And if those countries are in the process of becoming members of NATO or already are members of NATO, then Putin is starting a war with NATO, and that is, you know, mind-bogglingly serious.

WHITFIELD: Right. And then what about now these new sanctions that are focusing on Russia's Foreign Minister Lavrov and Putin's adult children? And France, in fact, says it is willing to go even further.

What's happening here? DOUGHERTY: Well, I think, you know, if you look at it objectively, sanctioning Putin's daughters, his adult daughters, isn't really a huge blow to the Russian economy.

But it is very significant because, ever since they were little kids, he's been private about them. There's not a lot of information about them.

And I think just revealing them to the public is a step, a shot over the bow by the United States and its allies toward Putin himself.

And then also, you know, the closer it gets personally, I think the more it is a challenge to Putin.

So I'm losing track at this point of how many sanctions are actually there.

(CROSSTALK)

WHITFIELD: Right. And there are some left? It seems like all of them would have been --

(CROSSTALK)

WHITFIELD: -- all, you know, imposed by now. But there's still some --

(CROSSTALK)

WHITFIELD: -- unused material?

DOUGHERTY: Well, there is, actually, in the energy field. And U.S. officials are saying basically that there are some here in Washington who would like to open the book and just do everything right now and really throw the book at Russia.

However, the United States is very intent on keeping the unity of the allies together. And realistically, there are some in Europe who don't want to go precisely down the path that the United States might want to go because there are other considerations.

And so the U.S. is, I won't say holding back, but it is tempering some of these sanctions in order to keep that unity. Because you can be sure if the unity started to fray --

WHITFIELD: Yes.

DOUGHERTY: -- Putin would immediately come in and take advantage of that.

WHITFIELD: Right. All right. The world is leverage, right? Trying to maintain some leverage still.

Jill Dougherty, thank you so much.

DOUGHERTY: Thank you. WHITFIELD: Coming up, CNN speaks to Ukrainians forcibly deported to Russia. How they thought it would be a passage to safety but turned into a harrowing experience, next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[13:35:13]

WHITFIELD: Horror stories have emerged of Ukrainians being deported to Russia, forced to pass through what are called filtration or registration camps.

The Mariupol city council said that Russia's failure to agree to evacuation corridors and its creation of the filtration centers are part of a broader effort to cover up potential war crimes carried out in the city.

The council says Russian forces want to identify potential witnesses to their atrocities and silence them.

CNN could not verify the claims. But we are hearing residents who say they were sent to Russia against their will, as well as reports of missing children.

Here now is CNN's Katie Polglase.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

KATIE POLGLASE, CNN INVESTIGATIVE PRODUCER (voice-over): Post after post of missing children in Ukraine, families desperate to find their loved ones.

Most come from the city's most severely impacted by the fighting. And at the top of that list is Mariupol.

These pictures of missing children were provided by parents and police from Magnolia, a Ukrainian NGO tracking missing children.

Their Ukrainian director told CNN they are inundated with cases.

MARYNA LYPOVETSKA, MAGNOLIA "MISSING CHILDREN SERVICE" NGO: The number of missing children is closer to 2,000 in only one month.

POLGLASE: A scene of utter devastation. Amid the chaos and uncertainty, families told CNN relatives, including children, went missing.

And now from this void, a story has emerged of people not missing but deported.

LYPOVETSKA: Unfortunately, some people are stolen, forced, stolen by Russians. Some were displaced in Russia, but no one knows information of where exactly and for what.

POLGLASE: CNN has spoken to multiple Mariupol residents who say soldiers from the Russian army forcibly evacuated them to Russia.

[13:40:03]

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): Some of those who asked to stay were told no.

This testimony is from Anna (ph). We're using a pseudonym to protect her identity. And a CNN producer is reading her words.

Like many others, Anna (ph), a young woman, was living under bombardment in Mariupol.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): They came in and said, it's an order. He told us, if you make a fuss, things will get worse.

POLGLASE (on camera): Many told us that it started with a promise of evacuation. Soldiers came to where they were staying and told them it was dangerous and that they needed to get out.

So they went to shelters and in camps further and further into Russian territory. It was then that they realized there was very little option to get out.

(voice-over): CNN spoke to multiple people on the condition of anonymity. And using Anna (ph)'s testimony we started tracking the locations along the deportation routes.

We are not identifying the routes for the safety of our interviewees.

This is the town of Bezimenee. These tents indicate one of many sites across the town where interviewees told us they were taken on the first step of their journey.

Anna (ph) describes her stop as a, quote, "registration camp," where they said they were interrogated for hours by Russian and Russian- backed forces.

(CROSSTALK)

POLGLASE: Russia claims these camps are to harbor evacuees. Another shelter seen here in Taganrog.

And while some interviewees saw the journey to Russia as a necessary passage to safety, others, including Anna (ph), found the experience distressing and forced.

This is Anna (ph)'s migration card, a standard document provided to her by Russia upon entry, but it masks a troubling journey.

Anna (ph) told CNN they were forced to surrender their phones and passports during intense security checks.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (voice-over): they photograph you from all angles. I felt we were treated like criminals or being held as property of the Russian Federation. I didn't feel we were free to leave. POLGLASE: After questioning, interviewees told CNN they were transferred to other locations dotted across Russia and Russian- occupied territory.

Some made onward journeys as far as Moscow and St. Petersburg.

The limitations on freedom of movement for those interviewed by CNN seem to vary based on their access to money and family ties in Russia.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

POLGLASE: Ukraine's government claims 45,000 people have been forcibly taken to Russia so far, which CNN cannot independently verify.

International Human Rights Conventions prohibit the forced deportation of transfer of civilians.

After a week of transfers across Russian territory, Anna (ph) was finally given permission to leave and decided to drive to the border with Estonia, a route that others have also managed to take, according to the Estonian authorities.

However, others still remain in Russia or are unaccounted for entirely.

And while the conflict in Ukraine continues, the panicked search for the missing, feared dead, or deported, goes on.

Katie Polglase, CNN, London.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WHITFIELD: All right. Still ahead, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences hands down its punishment to Will Smith after that now infamous slap at the Oscars. We'll discuss next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[13:45:49]

WHITFIELD: All right Welcome back. The Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences banning actor, Will Smith, for the next decade from going to any awards shows. All this after slapping comedian, Chris Rock.

Here to discuss is NPR TV film critic, Eric Deggans.

Eric, so good to see you.

OK, so --

(CROSSTALK)

ERIC DEGGANS, TV & FILM CRITIC, NPR: It's good to see you.

WHITFIELD: Yes. Glad you could be with us.

Does this punishment fit the offense?

DEGGANS: Well, I feel like the Academy was in a bind. Will Smith had already resigned from the Academy. And it seemed likely that one of their punishments might be to either suspend him or kick him out of membership.

Since neither of those were available to them, you know, their options were limited. They could bar him from coming to Academy events. They could bar him from being nominated for winning an award. And they could take back the award that he'd already won.

So it feels like this punishment, while it sounds harsh and maybe extensive, it was probably the least of the three most prominent options they had.

WHITFIELD: Right. I mean, the damage has been great, right? Not just the world watching that strike, you know, that offense on Chris Rock.

But now this -- that moment has soiled Will Smith's reputation, that of the entire family. I mean, his kids are all in the entertainment industry now.

I mean, what do you see the road of recovery to be like for him and to his family?

DEGGANS: Yes. This is a family that has chosen to live a lot of its life in the spotlight. Jada Pinkett Smith, of course, has an online talk show. Will Smith has an active YouTube channel and posts a lot of things to Instagram. And so do his children.

So their road to redemption will have to be public as well.

I think Will Smith, in particular, is going to have to do a lot of things that are relatively not self-serving, that are not about himself, but about showing the public, in particular, people who were disappointed by what he did, that it was an aberration, and that's he's not a toxic -- secretly a toxic person.

[13:50:15]

And that he's someone who respects the rights of other people, to even make fun of himself and the family members without worrying that they will get into a physical altercation with him.

WHITFIELD: Right. It will be evaluated, right, from those particularly in the industry who wonder whether it is a gamble to engage him in any kind of project.

Has there been a real road of healing? Has he been contrite?

And will other people on the sets will be feeling comfortable working with him knowing it is hard to forget that moment. These are all the things that they're going to be concerning.

DEGGANS: I think it is more -- I think it's more about, when you are talking about a star that big, and when they put out a project, they're saying to the audience, spend time with this person that you really like, and watch them tell this story.

And so the question is, are there a bunch of people out there who have now decided that they don't want to spend time with Will Smith telling a story, because they are turned off by what he did during the Oscars.

I think his job now is to publicly win back those people. And if he gets those people back, then the studios and the people that he works with, will certainly follow suit and engage with him the way they have been.

I'm not sure it is going to take very much, but he is going to have to sort of prove to the public that this was an aberration, that he realizes that he made a mistake.

And you know, he has to sort of endure some level of punishment for the transgression that he committed in public.

WHITFIELD: Great points, because his fans have either wanted to be with him or be him, right, it's just that much of a feeling of envy that so many had.

And really quick, quick, quick, Bennifer, and need I say more?

(LAUGHTER)

(CROSSTALK)

WHITFIELD: So, -- I mean, hey, they're back together again.

DEGGANS: For people who don't know, Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez seem to be engaged to be married. Jennifer Lopez posted a picture of a wonderful ring. They seem to have reconnected.

They were -- it is like a plot from one of the rom-com movies that either of them could have stared in, in their heyday. You they were together. They were getting married. And they canceled it because of the paparazzi concerns. And then they found other people. And now they've come back.

WHITFIELD: Whoo.

DEGGANS: You know, no one can really understand what it is like to be as famous as Jennifer Lopez, and someone else, like Ben Affleck, who is also about that famous.

So it is good to see the two of them come together again. And I am really pulling for them. I am pulling for Ben.

WHITFIELD: OK. OK. I love your optimism.

I love how you put "a wonderful ring." It is more like the segue could have been, OK, from Chris Rock to a different kind of rock. Because it is a sizable rock that on her hand.

DEGGANS: Exactly. A much more delightful rock.

(LAUGHTER)

WHITFIELD: That is right.

All right. Thank you so much, Eric Deggans. Good to see you. Appreciate you.

DEGGANS: Thanks for having me.

WHITFIELD: All right, we will be right back. Yes.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[13:57:57]

WHITFIELD: All right. Now we are going to San Antonio, Texas, where a local artist is using hats as her canvas and turning her craft into a thriving business, in today's "START SMALL, THING BIG."

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KAREN GONZALEZ, OWNER, SIMPLY MEXICANA: Simply Mexicana is a small business of hand-painted goods like hats, handbags and canvases inspired by the Mexican culture.

My name is Karen Gonzalez and I'm the owner of Simply Mexicana.

It is very important to connect with the Mexican culture because I am a DACA recipient. The last time I was in Mexico, I was 8 months old and my mom was carrying me in her arms.

Being inspired by the colors and traditions and even patterns that Mexico has to offer is very important.

Before I started Simply Mexicana, I was a preschool teacher, and painting was a hobby for me. The first time I ever painted a hat, I was surprised by how easy it was me be to flow the flowers and my art onto it.

And then being able to see that on other people was really exciting. That when it sparked the idea of starting my own business.

I get the hats from Mexico. And then once I bring them home, I decide what I'm going to paint on them. And both together, it makes a beautiful creation.

I love sunflowers. You will see that a lot in all of my hats. It's something unique and it's a theme that comes from somebody's hand.

It has been little bit more than a year that I decided that I can take my hats to market. And then, from market, the idea of the Web site came up.

And I call it my full-time small business. And I'm able to ship my hats all over the U.S.

I hope that anyone who buys the hat from Simply Mexicana will be able to appreciate the inspiration that comes behind the Mexican culture.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WHITFIELD: So pretty and powerful.

All right, a moving moment of solidarity in the U.S., and also a powerful moment. America's pastime honoring Ukraine.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

(SINGING)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

[13:59:57]

WHITFIELD: She is just 11. Yulia Poliack (ph) singing the Ukrainian national anthem at Yankee Stadium. Her family immigrated from Lviv back in 2006.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220410ei4900001


Nokian Renkaat Oyj - Nokian Tyres plc: Information on EU’s newly imposed sanctions
Nokian Renkaat Oyj published this content on 11 Apr 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 11 Apr 2022 05:07:42 UTC.
665 字
2022 年 4 月 11 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/352EFE432C909EEC05D6A14C15526C667FE72CFF]

Nokian Tyres plc: Information on EU's newly imposed sanctions

Mon April 11 08:00 am 2022 in category Company news[https://www.nokiantyres.com/company/publications/releases/2022/genericRelease/]

Nokian Tyres plc: Information on EU's newly imposed sanctions

Nokian Tyres plc Company Release April 11, 2022 at 8:00 a.m.

As communicated on April 9, 2022, the EU has announced new sanctions against Russia, impacting Nokian Tyres' business . The sanctions prohibit the import of tires from Russia to the EU, prohibit the export of certain raw materials from the EU to Russia, and limit transportation from and to Russia. New sanctions will have a significant impact on Nokian Tyres' ability to manufacture tires in Russia, and ability to sell tires both in Russia and in the EU, specifically in Central Europe.

In 2021, Russia represented approximately 20% of Nokian Tyres' net sales, and approximately 80% of Nokian Tyres passenger car tires were produced in Russia. Of raw materials for tires produced in Russia, approximately half came from outside of Russia. Raw material availability and its logistics will have a significant impact on the company's capability to continue production in Russia.

Nokian Tyres is expediting its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe. We continue to increase production capacity at our factories in Nokia, Finland and Dayton, US. According to our plan, in the future all tires sold in the Nordic countries will be produced in Nokia, Finland, and all tires sold in North America will be produced in Dayton, US and in Nokia, Finland.

The Heavy Tyres business of Nokian Tyres plc is not impacted by the ban to import tires from Russia to the EU, as all Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are produced in Finland. Sales and distribution of heavy tires to Russia has been stopped already earlier. Nokian Tyres has never sold tires to the Russian army, and the Russian Federation is not a customer of Nokian Tyres.

According to the sanction regarding specifically tires:

"1. It shall be prohibited to purchase, import, or transfer, directly or indirectly, goods which generate significant revenues for Russia thereby enabling its actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine, as listed in Annex XXI into the Union if they originate in Russia or are exported from Russia.

2. It shall be prohibited to:

(a) provide technical assistance, brokering services or other services related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 and to the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of those goods and technology, directly or indirectly in relation to the prohibition in paragraph 1.

(b) provide financing or financial assistance related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 for any purchase, import or transfer of those goods and technology, or for the provision of related technical assistance, brokering services or other services, directly or indirectly in relation to the prohibition in paragraph 1.

3. The prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the execution until 10 July 2022 of contracts concluded before 9 April 2022, or ancillary contracts necessary for the execution of such contracts." (Official Journal of the European Union, April 8, 2022)

The company has no further information to provide on the subject at this point but will announce any material direct impacts as appropriate and in a timely manner.

Nokian Tyres plc

Päivi Antola

SVP, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations

tel. +358 10 401 7327

Investor relations:

ir@nokiantyres.com[mailto:ir@nokiantyres.com]

Media enquiries:

media@nokiantyres.com

Distribution: Media and www.nokiantyres.com[http://www.nokiantyres.com]

* Original Link[https://www.nokiantyres.com/company/news-article/nokian-tyres-plc-information-on-eu-s-newly-imposed-sanctions/]

Disclaimer

Nokian Tyres plc published this content on 11 April 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 11 April 2022 05:10:23 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020220411ei4b003s8


Nokian Tyres: Nokian Tyres plc: Information on EU's newly imposed sanctions
791 字
2022 年 4 月 11 日 07:50 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
                     Nokian Tyres plc Inside information April 11, 2022 at 10:50 a.m. 
 
The content of the release is the same as in the Company Release 
published today at 8:00 a.m. 
 
As communicated on April 9, 2022, the EU has announced new sanctions 
against Russia, impacting Nokian Tyres' business.The sanctions prohibit 
the import of tires from Russia to the EU, prohibit the export of 
certain raw materials from the EU to Russia, and limit transportation 
from and to Russia. New sanctions will have a significant impact on 
Nokian Tyres' ability to manufacture tires in Russia, and ability to 
sell tires both in Russia and in the EU, specifically in Central Europe. 
 
In 2021, Russia represented approximately 20% of Nokian Tyres' net 
sales, and approximately 80% of Nokian Tyres passenger car tires were 
produced in Russia. Of raw materials for tires produced in Russia, 
approximately half came from outside of Russia. Raw material 
availability and its logistics will have a significant impact on the 
company's capability to continue production in Russia. 
 
Nokian Tyres is expediting its plans to invest in new production 
capacity in Europe. We continue to increase production capacity at our 
factories in Nokia, Finland and Dayton, US. According to our plan, in 
the future all tires sold in the Nordic countries will be produced in 
Nokia, Finland, and all tires sold in North America will be produced in 
Dayton, US and in Nokia, Finland. 
 
The Heavy Tyres business of Nokian Tyres plc is not impacted by the ban 
to import tires from Russia to the EU, as all Nokian Tyres' heavy tires 
are produced in Finland. Sales and distribution of heavy tires to Russia 
has been stopped already earlier. Nokian Tyres has never sold tires to 
the Russian army, and the Russian Federation is not a customer of Nokian 
Tyres. 
 
According to the sanction regarding specifically tires: 
 
"1. It shall be prohibited to purchase, import, or transfer, directly or 
indirectly, goods which generate significant revenues for Russia thereby 
enabling its actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine, as listed 
in Annex XXI into the Union if they originate in Russia or are exported 
from Russia. 
2. It shall be prohibited to: 
 
(a) provide technical assistance, brokering services or other services 
related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 and to 
the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of those goods and 
technology, directly or indirectly in relation to the prohibition in 
paragraph 1. 
(b) provide financing or financial assistance related to the goods and 
technology referred to in paragraph 1 for any purchase, import or 
transfer of those goods and technology, or for the provision of related 
technical assistance, brokering services or other services, directly or 
indirectly in relation to the prohibition in paragraph 1. 
3. The prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the 
execution until 10 July 2022 of contracts concluded before 9 April 2022, 
or ancillary contracts necessary for the execution of such contracts." 
(Official Journal of the European Union, April 8, 2022) 
 
The company has no further information to provide on the subject at this 
point but will announce any material direct impacts as appropriate and 
in a timely manner. 
 
Nokian Tyres plc 
 
                     Päivi Antola 
SVP, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations 
 
tel. +358 10 401 7327 
Investor relations: 
ir@nokiantyres.com 
Media enquiries: 
media@nokiantyres.com 
 
Distribution: Nasdaq Helsinki, media and 
www.nokiantyres.com[http://www.nokiantyres.com] (https://eur04.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url[https://eur04.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url]= 
http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nokiantyres.com%2F&data=04%7C01%7Canne.aittoniemi%40noki[http://www.nokiantyres.com%2F&data=04%7C01%7Canne.aittoniemi%40noki] 
antyres.com%7Cdb29e661661e42af8d0b08d9faa13600%7C2293b824c7984957856edf19 
92afab2e%7C0%7C0%7C637816392838465682%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4 
wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=uUja 
4MnOoeOPKV0IDkizCTUlGfpbdJ%2FNlmhvsd8OOk0%3D&reserved=0) 
 
Nokian Tyres develops and manufactures premium tires for people who 
value safety, sustainability and predictability. Our purpose is to 
empower the world to drive smarter. Inspired by our Scandinavian 
heritage, we craft innovative products for passenger cars, trucks and 
heavy machinery that give you peace of mind in all driving conditions. 
Our Vianor chain provides tire and car services. In 2021, the company's 
net sales were EUR 1.7 billion and it employed some 4,900 people. Nokian 
Tyres is listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. Further information: 
www.nokiantyres.com[http://www.nokiantyres.com] (https://eur04.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url[https://eur04.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url]= 
http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nokiantyres.com%2F&data=04%7C01%7CAnne.Aittoniemi%40noki[http://www.nokiantyres.com%2F&data=04%7C01%7CAnne.Aittoniemi%40noki] 
antyres.com%7C6008b44e6299446045c908d9eaf59fe2%7C2293b824c7984957856edf19 
92afab2e%7C0%7C0%7C637799162931958329%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4 
wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=D%2B 
zognNbQ6ve2pityGWCz9AT%2B46YZWYEdPNkzRcWTtE%3D&reserved=0) 
 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
This information was brought to you by Cision http://news.cision.com[http://news.cision.com] 
                     https://news.cision.com/nokian-tyres/r/nokian-tyres-plc--information-on-eu-s-newly-imposed-sanctions,c3543938[https://news.cision.com/nokian-tyres/r/nokian-tyres-plc--information-on-eu-s-newly-imposed-sanctions,c3543938] 
                  
(END) Dow Jones Newswires

April 11, 2022 03:50 ET (07:50 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220411ei4b000ts


Nokian Tyres plc: Information on EU’s newly imposed sanctions
699 字
2022 年 4 月 11 日
M2 Presswire
MTPW
英文
© 2022, M2 Communications. All rights reserved.
Nokian Tyres (HEX:TYRES) — The content of the release is the same as in the Company Release published today at 8:00 a.m.

As communicated on April 9, 2022, the EU has announced new sanctions against Russia, impacting Nokian Tyres’ business. The sanctions prohibit the import of tires from Russia to the EU, prohibit the export of certain raw materials from the EU to Russia, and limit transportation from and to Russia. New sanctions will have a significant impact on Nokian Tyres’ ability to manufacture tires in Russia, and ability to sell tires both in Russia and in the EU, specifically in Central Europe.

In 2021, Russia represented approximately 20% of Nokian Tyres’ net sales, and approximately 80% of Nokian Tyres passenger car tires were produced in Russia. Of raw materials for tires produced in Russia, approximately half came from outside of Russia. Raw material availability and its logistics will have a significant impact on the company’s capability to continue production in Russia.

Nokian Tyres is expediting its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe. We continue to increase production capacity at our factories in Nokia, Finland and Dayton, US. According to our plan, in the future all tires sold in the Nordic countries will be produced in Nokia, Finland, and all tires sold in North America will be produced in Dayton, US and in Nokia, Finland.

The Heavy Tyres business of Nokian Tyres plc is not impacted by the ban to import tires from Russia to the EU, as all Nokian Tyres’ heavy tires are produced in Finland. Sales and distribution of heavy tires to Russia has been stopped already earlier. Nokian Tyres has never sold tires to the Russian army, and the Russian Federation is not a customer of Nokian Tyres.

According to the sanction regarding specifically tires:

“1. It shall be prohibited to purchase, import, or transfer, directly or indirectly, goods which generate significant revenues for Russia thereby enabling its actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine, as listed in Annex XXI into the Union if they originate in Russia or are exported from Russia.

2. It shall be prohibited to:

(a) provide technical assistance, brokering services or other services related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 and to the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of those goods and technology, directly or indirectly in relation to the prohibition in paragraph 1.

(b) provide financing or financial assistance related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 for any purchase, import or transfer of those goods and technology, or for the provision of related technical assistance, brokering services or other services, directly or indirectly in relation to the prohibition in paragraph 1.

3. The prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the execution until 10 July 2022 of contracts concluded before 9 April 2022, or ancillary contracts necessary for the execution of such contracts.” (Official Journal of the European Union, April 8, 2022)

The company has no further information to provide on the subject at this point but will announce any material direct impacts as appropriate and in a timely manner.

Nokian Tyres plc

Päivi Antola

SVP, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations

tel. +358 10 401 7327

Investor relations:

ir@nokiantyres.com

Media enquiries:

media@nokiantyres.com

Distribution: Nasdaq Helsinki, media and www.nokiantyres.com[http://www.nokiantyres.com]

Nokian Tyres develops and manufactures premium tires for people who value safety, sustainability and predictability. Our purpose is to empower the world to drive smarter. Inspired by our Scandinavian heritage, we craft innovative products for passenger cars, trucks and heavy machinery that give you peace of mind in all driving conditions. Our Vianor chain provides tire and car services. In 2021, the company’s net sales were EUR 1.7 billion and it employed some 4,900 people. Nokian Tyres is listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. Further information: www.nokiantyres.com[http://www.nokiantyres.com]

((M2 Communications disclaims all liability for information provided within M2 PressWIRE. Data supplied by named party/parties. Further information on M2 PressWIRE can be obtained at http://www.m2.com[http://www.m2.com] on the world wide web. Inquiries to info@m2.com)).

Normans Media Ltd

文件 MTPW000020220411ei4b001gt


Finnish 'loopholes' allow imports of Russian coal and oil to continue
1083 字
2022 年 4 月 11 日
Euronews
EURONEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Euronews All Rights Reserved
Activists in Finland are calling for the government to clamp down faster on state-owned companies that continue to import raw materials from Russia, saying it only benefits the Russian government and oligarchs, and helps fund the war in Ukraine.

New sanctions to ban Russian coal imports[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/04/08/coal-trucks-vodka-and-putin-s-daughters-here-s-what-s-in-the-latest-round-of-eu-sanctions] will have a four-month grace period to terminate contracts. But campaigners and politicians across Europe have highlighted that continued trade goes against the spirit of sanctions and provides the Russian government with a stable revenue stream.

"Kramatorsk, today,"wrote Ukrainian MP Inna Sovsun on Twitter next to a picture of a blood-soaked child's toy, following a Russian attack that killed more than 50 people[https://www.euronews.com/2022/04/08/ukraine-war-borodyanka-destruction-more-horrific-than-bucha-after-russian-retreat-zelensky] on Friday.

"EU paid yet another €1 billion to Russia since this happened,"said Sovsun. "Every day. €1 billion sent to those monsters who kill, rape, and torture Ukrainians."

Russian freight imports

Of particular concern to Greenpeace Suomi[https://www.greenpeace.org/finland/] are transit shipments of coal on three routes through Finland to Finnish ports for onward international export. Two of those routes are operated by Finland's state-owned railway company VR, while the third is operated by Estonia's state-owned railway company EVR.

While VR said in March it had stopped passenger and freight service between Finland and Russia, this transit 'loophole' continues to generate income for the company, giving the mine owners in Siberia an easy route to the west for their products, and activists want it to stop immediately.

"People are being killed. And we are funding it,"says Matti Liimatainen from Greenpeace Suomi.

VR initially told Euronews that there were "ongoing"discussions about how to "suspend the eastern traffic entirely"but that they were waiting on sanctions to give them "the firmest grounds"to do so.

However, within 24 hours the position had changed and they now say they aim to shut down freight transport[https://twitter.com/STTuutiset/status/1511685533688377345] from Russia "as quickly as possible"but concede the process will still take "several months."

VR says it will comply with all new sanctions, although it's not clear whether transit shipments for onward export would still be allowed under the specifics of the sanctions, which target member states which purchase any kind of Russian coal or related derivatives.

The company says "if the EU and therefore Finland will specifically sanction for example coal import/export then we will follow those guidelines and timetables."

FILE - Workers at a mine in the Siberian city of Kemerovo (AP/Russian Emergency Ministry Press Service)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/59/42/00/808x456_cmsv2_40b72f19-3911-536c-9d1f-76b99c6a4294-6594200.jpg]

Tracking the coal from Siberian mines to Finnish ports

Greenpeace Suomi has been tracking the origins of the coal shipments that come from Russia to Finland.

In an extensive briefing paper[https://www-greenpeace-org.translate.goog/finland/blogit/50338/mita-yhteista-on-suomen-lapi-kuljetettavalla-hiilella-kuolleella-oligarkilla-ja-lady-gagalla/?_x_tr_sl=auto&_x_tr_tl=en&_x_tr_hl=fi&_x_tr_pto=wapp], the NGO follows the coal from mines operated by a company called Sibanthracite in Novosibirsk to the Finnish west coast ports of Hanko and Pori almost 4,000km away -- and it's a tangled web.

Sibanthracite is owned by an oligarch called Albert Avdolyan[https://www.forbes.com/profile/albert-avdolyan/?sh=735c880feed7], an EU national with a Maltese 'golden passport'[https://www.euronews.com/2022/04/06/eu-threatens-to-take-malta-to-court-over-golden-passport-scheme] whose companies have run joint fossil fuel ventures with Russia's state-owned arms company Rostec.

Previously, Sibanthracite was owned by another oligarch called Dimitri Bosov who was a close associate of Vladimir Putin but was found dead from a gunshot wound[https://www.forbes.com/sites/daviddawkins/2020/05/07/billionaire-dmitry-bosov-dies-from-gunshot-wound-at-home-in-moscow/?sh=37fa90d91612] at his Moscow home in May 2020.

According to data provided by railway operator VR to Euronews, the company usually handles around 12.3 million tonnes of freight between Finland and Russia every year, and this figure has halved since the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Activists don't see why the number can't drop to zero, given the scale of Russian atrocities in Ukraine.

"I would say that this transporting of coal through Finland is a completely unnecessary business which doesn't have anything to do with the warming of our households, that's an inaccurate excuse,"says Liimatainen.

"Then you take this business of transporting coal through Finland the only guys who benefit from this are the Russian oligarchs and the state-owned railway companies in Finland and Estonia, they don't even make any good money out of it. It's a horribly unnecessary business,"he tells Euronews.

Greenpeace Suomi protesters try to stop Russian coal being unloaded at a dock in Helsinki, 5 April 2022 (Greenpeace Suomi)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/59/42/00/808x454_cmsv2_482f312f-3fb6-589a-87d7-72782f890e06-6594200.jpg]

Finnish government response

Within the Finnish government, Tytti Tuppurainen[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/marin/minister-for-european-affairs-and-ownership-steering] is the minister with overall responsibility for state-owned enterprises like railway company VR, oil refining company Neste, national airline Finnair and even Alko the chain of stores which sell stronger alcohol not available in supermarkets.

She told Euronews that Finland is committed to the sanctions that the EU has imposed against Russia so far, and believes that nothing should be off the table when it comes to further sanctions.

"Halting freight transport, including coal transport, is an operational decision, which is up to the VR management, in line with the principles of good governance. However, I am sure that the company will closely listen to the views of the state owner,"Tuppurainen said, before VR announced it would stop Russian coal shipments several months from now.

Railway operator VR isn't the only Finnish company that campaigners find problematic.

In early April activists tried to stop coal from being unloaded[https://www.euronews.com/2022/04/05/activists-block-ship-trying-to-unload-russian-coal-in-helsinki] at a dock in the Finnish capital which had sailed from a Russian port bound for Helsinki's city-owned power company Helen.

That company announced in March it would stop importing coal from Russia[https://www.helen.fi/en/news/2022/due-to-the-ukrainian-situation-helen-will-for-the-moment-stop-procuring-coal-from-russia] to use at its power station in Helsinki -- but now says that it's honouring contracts already in place[https://www.helen.fi/uutiset/2022/viimeiset-kivihiililastit-saapuvat-ven%C3%A4j%C3%A4lt%C3%A4], with this unlikely to be the final shipment.

It's a similar situation with oil refining company Neste, also majority-owned by the Finnish state. In early March the company said it had "mostly"replaced Russian crude oil[https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/oil-products/neste-has-mostly-replaced-russian-crude-oil-other-crudes] with oil from elsewhere, but by the beginning of April, it admitted it was still bringing in shipments of Russian oil[https://www.neste.com/releases-and-news/oil-products/one-last-remaining-crude-oil-cargoes-russia-will-arrive-neste-tonight].

"I think that even now most people don't know our state companies are involved in this kind of business,"says Greenpeace Suomi's Matti Liimatainen.

"The reaction I've seen on social media is now about how shocked people are that it takes so long and the processes are so slow to stop it, and we hope the Finnish government can speed things up, they could do it basically any day."

Activists daub 'No coal no war' slogan on the side of freight train carriages in Kouvola, Finland (Greenpeace Suomi)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/59/42/00/800x450_cmsv2_9022837a-0f54-5cec-9700-d70d83160b60-6594200.jpg]

Euronews

文件 EURONEN020220411ei4b0005q


CE Noticias Financieras English
Russia-Ukraine war live: Putin's government threatens nuclear deployment if Sweden and Finland join NATO
12941 字
2022 年 4 月 14 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
EN VIVONoticia enDesarrolloRussian Deputy Chairman of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev on Thursday threatened to deploy nuclear weapons

in the Baltic if Sweden and Finland join NATO.14.04.2022

08:59

Tension between Russia and Japan over military maneuvers ordered by Moscow in the Sea ofJapanRussian

submarinesfired missiles as part of military maneuvers

conducted in the Sea of Japan, the Russian Defense Ministry announced today, in a context of tension between Moscow and Tokyo due to the conflict in Ukraine."Submarines of the Pacific Fleet fired Kalibr cruise missiles on dummy enemy vessels," the Russian ministry said in a statement.

More than 15 vessels took part in these maneuvers, including two submarines, the Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky and the Volkov, which "fired cruise missiles from a submerged position in the Sea of Japan" and "successfully hit their target," added the official report, reproduced by the AFP agency.

14.04.2022

08:40

Russia threatens nuclear deployment if Sweden and Finland joinNATORussia's Security Council Deputy Chairman Dmitry Medvedev today threatened to deploy nuclear weapons in the Baltics if Sweden and Finland join NATO

."It will be necessary to strengthen the grouping of ground forces, anti-aircraft defense, deploy significant naval forces in the waters of the Gulf of Finland. And in that case it will no longer be possible to speak of a Baltic without nuclear weapons. The balance must be restored," the former president and former prime minister wrote on his Telegram account.

14.04.2022

08:15

Ukraine resumes evacuation of civilians along humanitarian corridors agreed withRussiaNine routes in the east and south of the country are to become operational. Reuters photo.

Ukraine announced on Thursday the reopening of humanitarian corridors

to evacuate civilians from conflict-hit regions after a suspension that the Kiev government attributed to Russian ceasefire violations.Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Irina Vereshchuk said in a statement posted on social networks that nine routes in the east and south of the country are to be operational, a day after their closure because Volodomir Zelenski's government deemed them too "dangerous."

14.04.2022

07:53

Ukraine claims nearly 20,000 Russian servicemen killed since start of invasionTheGeneral Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces detailed that its forces destroyed 753 tanks. AFP photo.

The General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces assured Thursday that, so far, 19,900 Russian military personnel have been killed

since the beginning of the invasion of the country on February 24.This was indicated in a data update disseminated through the social network Facebook, as reported today by the Europa Press agency.

In addition, the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces detailed that its forces destroyed 753 tanks, 1,968 armored vehicles, 366 artillery systems, 160 aircraft, 144 helicopters, 7 ships and 76 fuel tanks, among other losses.

14.04.2022

07:20

Russia says fire and explosions on the ship "Moskva" under controlTheflagship missile cruiser of the Russian Navy 'Moskva' moored in the bay of the Crimean city of Sevastopol. EFE photo.

Russia's Defense Ministry said Thursday that the fire and ammunition explosions that occurred on the missile cruiser 'Moskva' in the Black Sea after it was allegedly hit by Ukrainian missiles is under control

, and that the main missile armament was not damaged. "The focus of the fire in Moskva (Moscow) is localized. There is no open fire. Ammunition explosions have been stopped," the department headed by Sergey Shoigu said in a brief statement.

Defense said that "the causes of the fire are being established," after Ukraine claimed that the ship was hit by "Neptune" anti-ship missiles, which caused "severe damage" to the cruiser.

14.04.2022

05:44

Russian troops suffered nearly 20 thousand casualties since the beginning of the invasion of UkraineTheRussian army's combat losses since the beginning of the invasion of Ukraine on February 24 until this Thursday amounted to about 19,900 troops, the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine reported

.During this period, Russia also lost 753 tanks, 1968 armored combat vehicles, 366 artillery systems, 122 rocket-propelled grenade launchers, 64 air defenses, 160 aircraft and 144 helicopters.

In addition, Vladimir Putin's troops lost 1437 units of automotive equipment, seven vessels, 76 tanks with fuel and lubricants, 134 unmanned aerial vehicles of operational and tactical level, four launchers of missile systems and 25 units of special equipment.

14.04.2022

05:40

German police gave details of seizure of $650 million superyacht linked to Russian tycoonTheyacht of Alisher Usmanov, one of the largest in the world. It was seized in Germany due to EU sanctions following the invasion of Ukraine. Photo Credit:

TwitterGerman authorities seized a superyacht in Hamburg after determining that it

belongsto the sister of Russian oligarch Alisher Usmanov

.The Federal Criminal Police office said Wednesday that after "extensive investigations'' and despite "concealment abroad,'' it was able to determine that the owner is Gulbakhor Ismailova, Usmanov's sister.

The Dilbar superyacht is flagged in the Cayman Islands and registered in the name of a company in Malta, two banking havens where billionaires usually deposit their wealth. It was launched in 2016 and had a reported cost of more than $648 million

.14.04.2022

05:20

At least three dead after shelling on Kharkov At least three people have been killed and four others injured

in the latest Russian shelling on the city of Kharkov, Ukraine's second largest city, according to data from the Prosecutor General's Office.According to these sources quoted by the local Ukrinform agency, the shelling that occurred in the last hours affected the Nemyshlianskyi district of Kharkov, one of the most affected by Russian attacks in recent days.

"According to the investigation, on April 13, 2022, Russian servicemen fired at residential buildings in the Nemyshlianskyi district of Kharkov. Three people were killed in the shelling. Four civilians were wounded," the Prosecutor noted.

14.04.2022

04:50

Ukraine seeks as many countries as possible to be security guarantorsMykhailoPodolyak, presidential advisor of Ukraine, indicated that one of the obstacles on the way to peace talks with Russia is the number of countries that would act as security guarantors.

? Therefore, the official said that Ukraine wants as many countries as possible to act as security guarantors, but Russia does not want their number to increase

.So far, Turkey has repeatedly offered to play a mediating role between its Black Sea neighbors.

14.04.2022

04:20

Ukraine reopened humanitarian corridors to evacuate civiliansUkraine announced Thursday the resumption of civilian evacuations through nine humanitarian corridors, including from the besieged city of Mariupol, after a one-day suspension due to Russian ceasefire violations

."Nine humanitarian corridors are planned today," Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said on her Telegram account.

14.04.2022

03:45

At least 197 Ukrainian children died since the beginning of the Russian invasionTheProsecutor General's Office reported that at least 197 Ukrainian children died and more than 351 results injured

since the beginning of the Russian invasion on February 24.14.04.2022

03:11

Russian warship "seriously damaged" by explosion, Ukraine claims attackARussian warship in the Black Sea was "seriously damaged" by an ammunition explosion

, Russian state agencies said Thursday, after Ukraine claimed to have attacked the vessel."Due to a fire, ammunition exploded on the Moskva missile cruiser. The ship was seriously damaged," the Defense Ministry was quoted as saying.

For his part, the governor of Odessa, a large Ukrainian city on the Black Sea, claimed an attack by his forces on the cruiser Moskva: "Neptune missiles guarding the Black Sea caused very serious damage to the Russian ship

. Glory to Ukraine!" wrote Governor Maksym Marchenko on Telegram.14.04.2022

02:33

Trump aligned himself with Biden and called the Russian invasion in Ukraine a "genocide "DonaldTrump on Wednesday aligned himself with the country's current president, Joe Biden, by also calling the Russian military offensive in Ukraine a "genocide

."In an interview with Fox News television channel, the former U.S. president began to harshly criticize Biden's policies, which he claims have led to the high inflation in the country, after which he said: "Now add to that what is happening in Ukraine. That is genocide."

Trump's comments come a day after Biden publicly accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of committing genocide in Ukraine.

14.04.2022

01:58

Australia expanded sanctions on Russian state-owned companiesAustraliaimposed sanctions on 14 Russian state-owned companies

to undermine Russia's ability to "continue to fund Putin's war," Foreign Minister Marise Payne said.The list of sanctioned entities includes Russian truck manufacturer Kamaz and shipping companies SEVMASH and United Shipbuilding Corp, as well as Ruselectronics.

14.04.2022

01:27

Ukraine remains alert to a possible Russian attack in the east The Ukrainian Defense Ministry published a new report on the overall situation in the country in the face of Russia's encroachment on its territory. The main concern is on its eastern border

, where Vladimir Putin's troops continue to add aircraft, strengthen artillery units, optimize resources, carry out intelligence work and improve its medical care system.On the other hand, Volodimir Zelenski's government warned of a "continuous threat"

by the invading forces to drop missiles on the entire Ukrainian territory."The occupants continue to carry out systematic bomb and missile attacks on military and civilian infrastructure targets in Kharkov, Donetsk and Zaporizhzhya regions," they reported.

According to the Ukrainian military, they managed to stop eight attacks in Donetsk and Lugansk,where they destroyed a tank, four armored units and six vehicle crews, as well as an enemy artillery system. In Mariupol they also reportedly managed to contain the invader's advance

.14.04.2022

00:13

Ukraine negotiates exchange of servicemen captured in ChernobylTheUkrainian Minister of Internal Affairs, Denys Monastyrsky, admitted that he is conducting negotiations aimed at achieving the exchange of 169 servicemen captured in Chernobyl, according to The Kyiv Independent

.The official specified that they are members of the Ukrainian National Guard and noted that the soldiers were taken to Russia and Belarus.

13.04.2022

22:34

Two weeks after the liberation of Bucha, the search for bodiescontinuesUkrainian authorities exhume bodies in Bucha. AP.

Ukrainian authorities exhumed 17 bodies from a mass grave in Bucha on Wednesday, bringing the total number of victims found on Wednesday to 72. ?Bucha was under Russian occupation for weeks. When Ukrainian troops finally cleared the city, they discovered streets full of civilian corpses - many shot in the head and some with their hands tied behind their backs.In all, authorities have so far discovered more than 400 people dead in Bucha, according to the governor of Kiev province, Oleksandr Pavliuk. Dozens more are presumed to be underground.

13.04.2022

22:20

US analyzes sending official to KievTheUS government analyzes sending a high-level official to Kiev to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky.This was reported by the local media Político.com, citing two U.S. officials. In their article they added that the White House did not yet make a final decision on who to send to Kiev, but it could be President Joe Biden; Vice President Kamala Harris; Secretary of State Antony Blinken; or Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin.

13.04.2022

21:52

U.S.detects malware targeting energy industry: Russia would be behindHackers.

Photo PexelsSeveral

U.S. government agencies issued a joint advisory warning of the discovery of malicious cyber tools created by unidentified entities that are capable of sabotaging the energy sector and other crucial industries

.The public alert from the Departments of Energy and Homeland Security, the FBI and the National Security Agency does not identify the entities or provide details about the finding.

But its private-sector cybersecurity partners said the evidence indicates that Russia is behind the tools to disrupt industrial control systems, and that they were configured to initially target U.S. energy companies.

13.04.2022

21:38

France adds military aid for UkraineMore than100 million euros in military equipment was delivered by France to Ukraine, French Armed Forces Minister Florence Parly announced after meeting with her Ukrainian counterpart, Oleksiy Reznikov

."I announced to my counterpart that France will provide further military capabilities, more than 100 million euros in donations of equipment already made," said the minister.

In a statement from the Ministry of Armed Forces, Parly specified that the deliveries concern "means of protection, equipment, armaments and ammunition that meet the needs expressed by Ukraine."

13.04.2022

21:21

Natasha NiebieskikwiatPollemic

over the flashy meeting of the Argentine ambassador to the UN with his Russian colleague"Now more than ever we need to increase mutual understanding and cooperation, regardless of our differences. Thank you Ambassadors of Russia, Cuba, Venezuela, Pakistan, Belarus, China and South Africa for a great discussion on how to preserve #multilateraldiplomacy at the @UN_HRC," Argentine ambassador to the United Nations international organizations in Geneva, Federico Villegas Beltrán, wrote on his Twitter account on Wednesday.

Read

.13.04.2022

21:05

Justin Trudeau against Vladimir Putin: accused him of "war crimes" in Ukraine The Canadian prime minister declared that the Russian leader is responsible for war crimes in Ukraine

.Trudeau declared during a press conference that Russian attacks against civilians, hospitals, railway stations and reports of rapes suffered by Ukrainian women and girls are "war crimes for which Putin is responsible".

On Tuesday, Joe Biden, US President, had declared that Putin is committing "genocide".

13.04.2022

20:47

Save the children: since the beginning of the war almost 400 children diedBoyswalk in Bucha. AP Photo.

Almost five million left their homes since seven weeks ago, reported the child protection organization Save the children.

Although the UN verified the death of 153 minors and 246 wounded, Save the Children, which operates in the area, believes the figure is much higher and warns that "all children are in danger" as attacks on hospitals and schools increase.

Of 7.5 million Ukrainian minors, almost two-thirds have fled, of whom 2.8 million are displaced within the country's territory and another 2 million have taken refuge in neighboring states.

13.04.2022

20:30

Idafe MartinProblems

for Vladimir Putin: Finland and Sweden make steady progress to join NATO Swedish Premier Magdalena Andersson and her Finnish counterpart, Sanna Marin. Reuters photoThe

Russian attack on Ukraine may provoke NATO to move closer to Moscow. Despite threats from Russian President Vladimir Putin, Finland on Wednesday launched the process to join NATO in a few months. Sweden will follow in its footsteps.

Read more

.13.04.2022

20:08

US defends Joe Biden's use of term "genocide" over Russian invasion of Ukraine The US State Department defended the local president's accusation that Russia is committing "genocide" in Ukraine, saying its forces are trying to destroy the country and its civilian population

.Joe Biden leveled the accusation against Russian President Vladimir Putin's forces for the first time on Tuesday, adding however that it would be up to lawyers to decide whether Russia's behavior actually qualifies as genocide.

"I'm going to

predict that what President Biden called is what we will ultimately probably find when we're able to gather all this evidence," said the State Department's number three, Victoria Nuland, on CNN."Because what's happening on the ground is not an accident," she said. "It's an intentional decision by Russia, by its forces to destroy Ukraine and its civilian population," she added.

13.04.2022

19:48

Volodimir Zelenski called on Europe to embargo oil tanker to Russia.The Ukrainian president said it would be to stop "financing the military machine".

"We need an oil embargo and a clear readiness of Europe [to give up] all Russian energy sources. The European Union must stop sponsoring the Russian military machine," the Ukrainian assured in a video released by the presidency's website.

13.04.2022

19:26

Ukraine says it is impossible to control radioactivity at Chernobyl: " We cannot say whether the area is safe".The Chernobyl nuclear plant, which was taken over by the Russians and now Ukraine claims it fails to control radioactivity. Photo NYT.

Ukrainian authorities are failing to restore means of monitoring radioactivity at Chernobyl in northern Ukraine, where Russian soldiers created a subway network when they occupied the site of the worst nuclear accident ever.

"The system for monitoring the level of radioactivity in the forbidden zone is still not working," said Evgeny Kramarenko, head of the state agency in charge of the plant's forbidden zone.

"The servers handling this information disappeared we cannot state whether the zone is completely safe," he added during a video conference accessed by the AFP news agency.

"As long as electricity is not restored and employees do not have authorization from the armed forces to access the radioactivity checkpoints, we cannot assess the damage suffered," he specified.

Kramarenko also assured that "Russian occupants had dug in multiple places" at Chernobyl, where the nuclear accident took place in April 1986.

"They buried heavy equipment, created trenches and even set up subway kitchens, tents and fortifications," he said. "One of these fortifications is located near a site for the temporary disposal of radioactive waste," he warned.

The Russian army had seized the nuclear power plant on the first day of Moscow's offensive against Ukraine on February 24. According to Ukrainian authorities, it withdrew at the end of March.

13.04.2022

19:01

Ukraine damaged a Russian warshipUkrainian forces vindicated an attack on a Russian warship in the Black Sea with missiles, the governor of the port city of Odessa reported.

"Neptune missiles guarding the Black Sea caused very serious damage to the Russian ship - glory to Ukraine!" wrote Maksym Marchenko on Telegram.

An advisor to the Ukrainian president, Oleksii Arestovich, confirmed on YouTube the Ukrainian attacks on the ship, without stating its location.

13.04.2022

18:30

Arrest of Viktor Medvedchuk, businessman close to Vladimir Putin, irritates Moscow.Viktor Medvedchuk, captured. EFE photo.

The news of the arrest of the former leader of a pro-Russian opposition party and close collaborator of the Russian president was received with enthusiasm in Kiev and with irritation in Moscow.

Some analysts believe Medvedchuk will become a valuable pawn in negotiations between Russia and Ukraine to end the devastating war.

Medvedchuk was detained on Tuesday in a special operation conducted by Ukraine's security service (SBU). Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelenski hinted that he might gain freedom by exchanging Ukrainians held captive by the Russians.

13.04.2022

17:50

In Mariupol, the battle between the soldiers is hand to handUkrainians and Russians were fighting hand-to-hand around a steel plant in Mariupol, the city shattered by Moscow bombs.After weeks of bombardments and siege suffered by the population, with 100,000 people desperately waiting for an evacuation, the conflict in the symbolic place of the Ukrainian martyrdom was intensifying amidst shootings in the Azovstal steel plant, the jewel of the metallurgical industry of the city transformed into the headquarters of the 3,000 fighters of the Azov battalion. According to Moscow, more than 1,000 Ukrainian soldiers surrendered and handed in their weapons. However, Kiev denied that this had happened.

13.04.2022

17:07

The President of Poland from Kiev: "This is not a war, this is terrorism".Polish President Andrzej Duda said Wednesday during a visit to Kiev that Russia does not conduct a simple war in Ukraine, but was guilty of "terrorism" and "cruelty".

"This is not a war, this is terrorism. If someone sends planes and soldiers to bomb residential areas and kill civilians, it is not a war. It is cruelty, banditry, terrorism," he said, speaking at a press conference.

13.04.2022

16:48

Russia bans U.S. and Canadian lawmakers from entering its territoryThey are 398 members of the US Congress. It is in response to a similar measure taken by Washington over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.

"In reaction to a new wave of anti-Russian sanctions taken on March 24 by the Biden administration against 328 Duma deputies, reciprocal punitive measures are taken against 398 members of the U.S. House of Representatives," the Russian Foreign Ministry explained in a statement.

In another statement, the same ministry published similar sanctions against 87 Canadian senators (out of 105) and announced that other penalties will be adopted against Canada for its "short-sighted" policies.

Moscow pointed to Canada as being located "at the forefront of the 'Russophobic' course of the current U.S. administration." "The continuation of this short-sighted line, reflecting the failure and dependence of Canadian foreign policy, can only increase the damage caused to Canada itself and its relations with Russia, given the inevitable Russian response," the Russian government warned.

13.04.2022

16:22

Volodymyr Zelensky received four European presidents in Kiev The president of Ukraine with his peers from Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. Reuter photo.

The Ukrainian president was with the leaders of Poland (Andrzej Duda), Lithuania (Gitanas Nauseda), Latvia (Eglis Levits) and Estonia (Alar Karis), who came to express their support for the country after Russia's invasion.

"Ukraine feels the strong and reliable support of each of you," Zelenski said in appreciation of the support received, Ukrinform agency reported.

The same source uploaded to Telegram a series of photos of the meeting. Their visit joins a number of international leaders who have already visited Ukraine, such as Prime Minister Boris Johnson, European Union High Representative for Foreign Policy Josep Borrell and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen.

13.04.2022

16:07

The Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court visited BuchaKarim Khan visited the city where several hundred civilians were killed during Russia's aggression against Ukraine.

"Ukraine is a crime scene. We are here because we have reasonable grounds to believe that (in Bucha) crimes within the jurisdiction of the Court were committed," he said, "We must break through the fog of war to get to the truth," he completed in a tweet.

13.04.2022

15:44

Ukraine is fighting for "the democracy of all Europe," ambassadors sayRussian President Vladimir Putin did not expect the unity and firmness of the sanctions of the European Union (EU) in the face of his invasion of Ukraine, considered today the ambassador of the bloc in Argentina, Amador Sanchez Rico, in a debate in Buenos Aires in which the diplomatic representatives of Poland and Romania, as well as the Ukrainian charge d'affaires also participated, and in which they insisted that Kiev is fighting for the democracy of the entire continent.

"Despite the tragedy of this war and the barbarism we are seeing, we are emerging strengthened within the EU, NATO is emerging strengthened, the ties of the EU with its partners, as well as the European sentiment in Ukraine is emerging strengthened," said Sánchez Rico in the talk held at the Catholic University, in Puerto Madero, convened under the theme "War in Ukraine: European response to Russian aggression".

"At the end of the day, what the Ukrainians want, and what Putin fears, is the system of democracy, of values, the system of peace and freedom that the EU represents," the Spanish diplomat told the Télam news agency.

13.04.2022

15:23

Joe Biden approves US$ 800 million package for UkraineU.S. President Joe Biden. AP Photo.

The U.S. president approved $800 million in weapons, ammunition and other security assistance for Ukraine to confront Russia, AP news agency reported.

"I just spoke with President (Volodimir) Zelenski and shared with him that my administration is authorizing an additional $800 million in arms, ammunition and other security assistance for Ukraine," the president said.

"The Ukrainian military has used the weapons we provided to devastating effect," continued Biden, who said Russia is preparing to "escalate" its attack in the Donbas region.

Biden said that this aid package contains "highly effective weapons" that provided new capabilities to the Ukrainian army.

13.04.2022

14:46

Russia threatened to shell Kiev if Ukraine attacks Russian territory againPro-Russian troops in Mariupol. Photo: REUTERS

Russia today threatened to shell decision-making centers in the Ukrainian capital Kiev if the Ukrainian army attacks or carries out further sabotage actions on Russian territory.

"We see sabotage attempts and attacks by Ukrainian troops against infrastructure on the territory of Russia," Igor Konashenkov, spokesman for the Russian Defense Ministry, said in his evening war part.

If such attempts continue, he added, "the Russian Armed Forces will launch attacks on decision-making centers, including in Kiev, from which the Russian Army has so far refrained."

13.04.2022

14:36

For the UN, a humanitarian truce in Ukraine is impossible for now UN Secretary-General António Guterres. Photo: REUTERS

UN Secretary-General António Guterres assured on Wednesday that at the moment he does not see possible a humanitarian truce throughout Ukraine, something the United Nations was trying to negotiate with the authorities in Moscow and Kiev.

"I think we have no possibility of having a comprehensive humanitarian ceasefire as we wanted," Guterres admitted at a press conference at UN headquarters.

The Portuguese diplomat had tasked the organization's humanitarian chief, Martin Griffiths, to try to push for such a truce, for which he recently traveled to Moscow and Kiev.

Given the failure of that initiative, Guterres explained that the UN put on the table a series of proposals for local ceasefires, corridors for the evacuation of civilians and supply of aid and other issues that could help the country's population.

For now, the UN is waiting to receive answers on the matter from the Russian government, he said.

13.04.2022

14:27

Biden spoke with Zelenski and conveyed the "continued support of the United States" to Ukraine.U.S. President Joe Biden. Photo: REUTERS

U.S. President Joe Biden on Wednesday called his Ukrainian counterpart, Volodimir Zelenski, to keep him abreast of "continued U.S. support" for his country, the White House said.

The Ukrainian president, for his part, said on Twitter that the two leaders had "discussed a new plan for military and potentially economic assistance."

13.04.2022

13:48

Last gasp for Mariupol, the agonizing port that can no longer withstand Russian blows Members of pro-Russian troops aboard a tank in Mariupol. Photo: REUTERS

Has Mariupol fallen? The strategic Ukrainian port, martyr city of this war that has been going on for almost 50 days, is still agonizingly resisting among scarce and sometimes contradictory information, prey to propaganda from both sides. But its fall into Russian hands seems inevitable.

As of Wednesday, Russia claims that 1,026 Ukrainian soldiers have surrendered in the besieged port city. But a top adviser to Ukraine's president, Volodimir Zelenski, insists the city is still standing and that some Marines have joined another battalion.

The mayor of Mariupol says up to 21,000 civilians have died in the southern city and 100,000 are still waiting to be evacuated. Read more.

13.04.2022

13:39

Switzerland joins EU's fifth package of sanctions against Russia A protest in Switzerland against the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Photo: REUTERS

Switzerland today adopted the European Union's fifth package of sanctions against Russia, affecting in particular coal, and expanded the list of affected persons, including also Vladimir Putin's daughters.

The Federal Council decided to join the new Brussels sanctions against Russia and Belarus, with the exception of transport, given "the geographical situation of Switzerland", it specified in a communiqué.

This fifth package of measures provides for a ban on access to EU ports for vessels flying the Russian flag, and the Swiss government considered it "superfluous" for the country to apply this sanction when it has no access to the sea.

It did join the ban on imports of coal and goods that contribute to Russia's foreign exchange earnings, such as timber, cement vodka, and exports of products that could strengthen its industrial capabilities, such as robots or certain chemicals.

13.04.2022

13:31

Pro-Russians ban mission investigating war crimes in Lugansk from 30 AprilThe Lugansk people's republic in eastern Ukraine, whose independence was recognized by the Kremlin in February, announced today that it will ban the activities of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) from April 30.

"I have made a decision to ban the activities of the OSCE special monitoring mission," Leonid Pasechnik, a pro-Russian separatist leader in Lugansk, announced on his Telegram channel.

Pasechnik explained that despite the end of the mandate of that mission which was tasked with monitoring the ceasefire on the Donbas separation line since the signing of the Minsk Peace Agreements in February 2015, the mission "unilaterally" decided to continue its activities in the region.

He also accused it of creating in European capitals "a negative image of Russia and the Lugansk and Donetsk People's Republics."

"Until April 30 all members of the mission must leave the territory of the Lugansk people's republic," he warned.

13.04.2022

13:11

The number of civilian casualties in the war according to the UN.At least 1,892 civilians were killed, and another 2,558 injured, since the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on February 24, the United Nations reported The UN figure includes 478 men, 308 women, 30 girls and 52 boys, plus 71 children and 953 adults whose sixth is still unknown, the office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights reported.

13.04.2022

13:08

Biden may send more military aid to UkraineU.S. President Joe Biden is keeping "options open" to send more military aid to Ukraine, a senior Defense Department official said Wednesday about reports of a new shipment of military assistance to the European country.

Without wanting to get into specifics, the source said in a call with reporters that the U.S. is going to do as much as possible "in the quickest way" to help Ukraine.

"The president is going to keep options open to (send) more national security assistance, stay tuned," the U.S. official remarked.

13.04.2022

12:24

Julio Algañaraz

Russia and Ukraine's difficulties and strengths in the face of a decisive battle Russia is preparing more than 170,000 troops to occupy the entire Ukrainian East and South.

The Russians continue to accumulate forces and there is already talk of an attack device in the Great Offensive they are preparing of 170 thousand soldiers to occupy the entire Ukrainian East and South. Absolute priority to victory in the very rich Donbas region in order to consolidate definitively the Russian power in the small republics of Donetsk and Lugansk.

One of the best informed journalists on the war, Yaroslav Trofinov of the Wall Street Journal, reiterates that "the date of the attack will be set by the Russians". Hours, days or weeks, but "when the time is right". Read more.

13.04.2022

11:56

Robert Burns

A historic Western "arms express" is headed for Ukraine. Western weaponry pouring into Ukraine helped slow Russia's initial offensive and will surely play a key role in the coming, potentially decisive battle for Ukraine's disputed Donbas region. However, the Russian military is making little progress in stopping what has become a historic arms express.

U.S. numbers are rising:more than 12,000 weapons designed to slow armored vehicles, some 1,400 shoulder-fired Stinger missiles to shoot down aircraft and more than 50 million rounds of ammunition, among many other items. Dozens of other countries contribute to the total. Read more.

13.04.2022

11:27

Russia admitted that its economy will take years to rebuild if sanctions continueThe chairman of Russia's Accounting Chamber said Wednesday that the country's economy will take years to rebu ild if the international sanctions imposed as a result of the offensive in Ukraine remain in force for a long time.

"It is necessary to separate the short and medium term. If sanctions remain at the current level, it will take about two years of reconstruction, not less," Alexei Kudrin, a former finance minister, estimated, according to Russian agencies.

13.04.2022

11:06

Chinese military aircraft fly over Europe Russia's European ally Serbia received a sophisticated Chinese anti-aircraft system in a covert operation this weekend, amid Western concerns that a buildup of weapons in the Balkans amid the war in Ukraine could threaten the fragile peace in the region.

Media and military experts said Sunday that six Chinese Air Force Y-20 transport planes landed at Belgrade's civilian airport early Saturday, allegedly carrying HQ-22 surface-to-air missile systems for the Serbian military. Read more.

13.04.2022

11:40

Russia rejects Biden's accusations of 'genocide' in Ukraine as fighting continues in MariupolA soldier stands on a street in Severodonetsk, Donbass region, eastern Ukraine. EFE photo.

Russian forces intensified Wednesday their offensive in Mariupol, in southeastern Ukraine, where at least 20,000 people have already died according to Kiev, while Russia rejected accusations by U.S. President Joe Biden of "genocide."

Moscow announced on Wednesday that of more than 1,000 Ukrainian soldiers had surrendered in Mariupol, a strategic port city that Russian forces have been shelling for more than 40 days and have encircled for more than a month.

13.04.2022

10:02

Putin seeks new markets for Russian hydrocarbons in wake of sanctionsPutin on Wednesday called for developing new outlets for fossil fuels. EFE photo.

Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday called for new outlets to be developed for fossil fuels produced by his country, at a time when European countries are considering extending their sanctions against Moscow's hydrocarbons.

"Opportunities, options and alternative paths are open to us. As for Russian oil, gas and coal, we are going to be able to increase their consumption in the domestic market (...) and increase the delivery of energy resources to the other regions of the world that really need them," he said in a speech on the Russian Arctic.

13.04.2022

09:23

War in Ukraine will aggravate the reality of refugees in AfricaThe situation of refugees and internally displaced persons in East Africa will be aggravated by rising food prices caused by the war in Ukraine, the UN warned Wednesday.

"The conflict in Ukraine will cause a collateral wave of hunger by further exacerbating existing problems such as record high food prices," the World Food Program (WFP) and the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) said in a joint statement.

WFP and UNHCR warned that millions of families who are displaced in East Africa "will be plunged into hunger as food rations dwindle because humanitarian resources are stretched to the limit."

13.04.2022

09:00

Zelensky denounces that more than 500 thousand Ukrainians were deported to RussiaMore than 500 thousand Ukrainians were forcibly taken to Russia by Russian troops, President Volodimir Zelensky said Wednesday during his speech to the Estonian Parliament, Ukrinform agency reported.?According to Zelensky, the Russians try to take the deported Ukrainians to the remote regions of the country, confiscate their documents and personal belongings, such as cell phones, and separate children from their parents, intending to give them in illegal adoptions to Russian families."

13.04.2022

08:22

More than 1,500 bodies of Russian soldiers are in morgues of Ukrainian city of DniproA Russian armored fighting vehicle destroyed during the war with Ukraine is seen in the residential area of Yahidne. AP Photo.

The bodies of more than 1,500 Russian soldiers are in morgues in Dnipro, an industrial city in eastern Ukraine, Deputy Mayor Mikhail Lysenko said Wednesday.

"Now we have more than 1,500 dead Russian soldiers in the morgues of Dnipro, which nobody wants to recover," he said in an interview with the Russian-language Nastoatchee Vremia media, saying he hoped that "Russian mothers can come and look for their children."

13.04.2022

07:59

Exhuming the body of the former mayor and other victims of the Russian invasion in GostomelA priest and relatives react in front of the exhumed body of Gostomel Mayor Yuriy Prylypko. AFP photo.

The body of the former mayor of the Ukrainian city of Gostomel, northwest of Kiev, Yuri Prilipko, was exhumed for expert examinations to determine the conditions in which he died, whether it was a combat action or whether he was executed by Russian forces as part of the invasion of Ukraine, which entered its 49th day today.

"He was a great patriot, a great man, beloved," assured during the ceremony yesterday priest Petro Pavlenko. On March 7 Prilipko died from gunshot wounds when Russian soldiers entered this small town, where there was a military base.

According to the municipality, his death occurred "when he was distributing bread and medicine to the sick and wounded."

"Killed by the community, by Gostomel, killed as a hero," the municipality said in a statement, explaining that, due to the circumstances, the funeral could not be held.

13.04.2022

07:39

Russia allegedly uses mobile crematoria to dispose of evidence of crimesVolunteers unload from a van bags with bodies of civilians who, according to residents, were killed by Russian army soldiers. Reuters photo.

Russian troops intend to eliminate any kind of evidence confirming that they committed crimes against humanity in Ukraine and for this purpose they use mobile crematoria, especially in the city of Mariupol, to leave no trace of their atrocities, the Ukrainian intelligence service assured.

In a message reproduced on its Telegram account by the city council of this port city, the Ukrainian intelligence services assure that "the leadership of Russia has ordered the destruction of any evidence of the crimes of its army in Ukraine".

"After the widespread international genocide of the Ukrainian people in Bucha in the Kiev region, Russian troops began to use mobile crematoria in Ukraine," they add.

13.04.2022

07:20

Macron dissociates himself from Biden, avoids using the word "genocide"In this file photo taken on March 24, 2022, US President Joe Biden shakes hands with France's President Emmanuel Macron. AFP Photo.

French President Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday refused to repeat his US counterpart Joe Biden's accusation that Russia is committing "genocide" in Ukraine, and warned that verbal escalation is not helping to end the war.

Biden on Tuesday accused Russian forces of committing genocide in Ukraine and said that "it is increasingly clear that Putin is simply trying to erase the very idea of being able to be Ukrainian."

13.04.2022

05:50

Ukraine foiled a Russian cyberattack on one of its largest energy facilitiesUkraine foiled a Russian cyberattack on one of its largest energy facilities, officials said Tuesday, as the country prepares for a major military offensive by Moscow in the east.

The attack was carried out by Sandworm, a hacker group with links to Russian intelligence services, according to the Ukrainian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT).

The attack was intended to knock out electricity to "millions" of Ukrainians and was to take place in two phases, according to the government agency. There was a first attack in February and the second, foiled, was planned for April 8.

13.04.2022

05:39

Pope Francis wrote a short book entitled "Against War".Pope Francis wrote a short book entitled "Against War", which will go on sale this Thursday and in which he reflects on the risk of expanding that Third World War he announced at the beginning of his pontificate.

"A year ago, on my pilgrimage to battered Iraq, I was able to touch the disaster caused by war, fratricidal violence and terrorism, I saw the rubble of houses and the wounds of hearts, but also seeds of hope to be reborn. I would never have imagined then that a year later a conflict would break out in Europe," he lamented in a preview of the volume advanced by the daily Corriere della Sera.

And he continued: "The Third World War, saying that we are already living it, even if it is still in pieces" but that now "those pieces have become bigger and bigger, welding together.... So many wars are happening right now in the world, causing immense pain, innocent victims, especially children."

"These wars seemed far away to us. Until, now, almost suddenly, war broke out near us. Ukraine was attacked and invaded", he added.

13.04.2022

05:20

Russia claims that more than 1,000 Ukrainian soldiers surrendered in Mariupol More than 1,000 Ukrainian soldiers surrendered to Russian troops in the city of Mariupol, which has been under siege for weeks, the Russian Defense Ministry said Wednesday. Among them, there are 162 officers and 47 women.

"In the city of Mariupol, in the area of the Ilich metallurgical factory, 1,026 Ukrainian servicemen of the 36th Marine Brigade voluntarily laid down their arms and surrendered," the ministry said in a statement.?They also specified that "151 wounded Ukrainian servicemen of the 36th Marine Brigade were provided with medical assistance on the spot, after which they were transferred to the Mariupol hospital."

13.04.2022

04:50

Ukraine will not be able to open any humanitarian corridors on Wednesday due to Russian blockadesUkrainian authorities announced that this Wednesday they will not be able to open any humanitarian corridors in the country for evacuation of civilians and supply of basic commodities due to blockades and ceasefire violations by Russian troops.

Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk assured that "unfortunately" these humanitarian corridors, which began to function unevenly a few days after the Russian invasion began, "cannot be opened today".

As he explained on his Telegram channel, in the Zaporiyia region in the south, "the (Russian) occupants blocked evacuation buses and in the Lugansk region (east) they are violating the ceasefire."

13.04.2022

04:20

Macron differed from Biden and avoided talking about genocide in UkraineFrench President Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday avoided talking about genocide in Ukraine, unlike Joe Biden, because it seems to him that a verbal escalation does not contribute to the goal of stopping the war and seeking peace, although he insisted that the Russian army has committed "war crimes".

"Russia has unilaterally unleashed a most brutal war. It is established that the Russian Army has committed war crimes. Now we must find those responsible and go to justice, which is what we are doing in cooperation with the Ukrainians," the president explained in an interview to France 2 channel.

Asked whether he considers that it is necessary to speak of genocide in Ukraine, he indicated that it is necessary to be "cautious with words" because "the Ukrainian people and the Russian people are brotherly peoples", the war "is madness" and "of an incredible brutality".

"I will continue to try to stop this war and build peace. So I don't think that the escalation of words is helpful. What we can say is that the situation is unacceptable and that there are war crimes."

13.04.2022

03:55

U.S. warned that Russia increased "its aggressive character".The United States warned that Russia increased its aggressive and repressive character, amid the administrative arrest of Russian opposition leader Vladimir Kara Murza.

"These are not the actions of a government that is confident. These are the actions of a government, of a regime, that is fundamentally insecure," said U.S. State Department spokesman Ned Price.

He further indicated that the Russian government "is unwilling to allow its own people to do what is the right of all people everywhere: to express their protest, to march peacefully, to form associations, and to make their voices and their free will heard."?Finally, he urged Russia to stop "abusing repressive laws against its own citizens, nonviolent protesters or peaceful demonstrators."

13.04.2022

03:28

At least 191 children were killed in Ukraine since the beginning of the warThe Prosecutor General's Office of Ukraine confirmed that at least 191 Ukrainian children died and 349 others were injured as a result of Russia's invasion.Last Monday, a 12-year-old and a one-and-a-half-month-old child died in Kharkov, while four others were injured after an attack on civilian infrastructure. The actual number of children affected by the war is estimated to be much larger than reported, due to the lack of information coming from the frontline areas.

13.04.2022

02:53

President of Poland meets with Zelenski?The President of Poland Andrzej Duda meets this Wednesday with his Ukrainian counterpart Volodimir Zelenski in the framework of the invasion of Russia. The meeting will also be attended by the presidents of Lithuania, Gitanas Nausedas, Estonia, Alar Karis, and Latvia, Egils Levits. Jakub Kumoch, head of Poland's International Policy Office, who is accompanying the Polish president on his visit, said:"Our goal is to support President Zelenski and the defenders of Ukraine at a crucial moment".

13.04.2022

02:10

Russian troops continue to move to the eastSatellite images taken by Maxar Technologies this April 11 show military deployments of Russian troops along the 14k-34 highway and the corridor from Soloti and Valuyki in western Russia into Ukraine.

13.04.2022

01:39

Putin assures that the "operation" in Ukraine will continue until its goals are achievedRussian President Vladimir Putin vowed Tuesday that Russia's military offensive in Ukraine will continue until its goals are met, insisting that the campaign is proceeding as planned despite a retreat in the face of stiff Ukrainian opposition and suffering significant losses.

Russian troops, frustrated in their advance toward the Ukrainian capital, are now focused on the eastern Donbas region, where Ukraine said Tuesday it was investigating a claim that a poisonous substance had been dropped on its troops.

13.04.2022

00:13

Ukraine destroyed 300 Russian air targets since the beginning of the warThe Ukrainian Air Force reported that it shot down the Russian Sukhoi Su-25 military aircraft on Wednesday, which became the 300th enemy air target to be shot down.

12.04.2022

22:45

Zelensky says it is unclear whether chemical weapons were used in MariupolUkrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he cannot say with certainty whether chemical weapons were used in the besieged city of Mariupol. "We take with great attention yesterday's reports on the use of ammunition with a poisonous substance in Mariupol against the defenders of the city. It is still not possible to draw 100% conclusions about what kind of substance it was," Zelensky said in a video address on Tuesday. ? "It is clear that it is impossible to conduct a full investigation and a full analysis in the blockaded city."

12.04.2022

21:49

U.S. prepares new military assistance packageJoe Biden during a conference in Menlo, Iowa. AP Photo.

The United States is expected to announce soon that it will send hundreds of millions of dollars in new military assistance to Ukraine, according to two Biden administration sources cited by Reuters and CNN.The final amount had not been finalized as of this Tuesday, but is expected to be close to $700 million.If approved, the addition of approximately $700 million in security assistance would bring total aid to Ukraine to more than $3 billion since the start of the Biden administration, including nearly $2.5 billion since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine.

12.04.2022

21:33

Estimated 21 thousand killed in MariupolAt least 40% of large buildings in Mariupol were destroyed.height. EFE photo.

The mayor of the city of Mariupol, Vadym Boichenko, estimated that there were 21,000 murders in the city of Mariupol since the beginning of the Russian invasion, on February 24.Although the Ukrainian official clarified that it is difficult to calculate the exact number of victims since the beginning of the fighting in the streets, he denounced that Russia seeks to hide evidence of torture.?"There is evidence that several bodies have disappeared from the streets," Vadym Boichenko pointed out in a television interview. "Now we know that there are so-called "concentration" spaces where they hide bodies and where they plan to destroy the evidence of the tortures they have committed in Mariupol," he consigned and added: "We call it genocide, a war crime."

12.04.2022

20:55

The United States claimed that Russia launched more than 1540 missilesBorodyanka, one of the cities most punished by Russian troops in Ukraine. Photo REUTERS

In the United States they claim that since the war began, Russia launched more than 1540 missiles to date during the invasion of Ukraine.?This was denounced by a senior defense official to NBC News. He also added that the convoy of vehicles is intended to resupply Russian forces and is about 67 kilometers north of Izyum in eastern Ukraine.

12.04.2022

20:40

WTO downgraded world trade growth prospects due to the warThe World Trade Organization (WTO) on Tuesday reduced the forecast for world trade in goods growth this year from 4.7% to 3%, and warned that the final percentage is uncertain due to the prolongation of the war conflict between Russia and Ukraine.The WTO report indicated that "the most immediate economic impact of the crisis has been a marked increase in commodity prices. Despite their small shares in world trade and production, Russia and Ukraine are key suppliers of essential goods, such as food, energy and fertilizers, whose supply is currently threatened by the war. Cereal shipments through Black Sea ports have already been disrupted, which could have dire consequences for the food security of poor countries."

12.04.2022

20:12

Biden used the word "genocide" to describe the war in UkraineJoe Biden on his arrival in the state of Iowa. Photo AP

U.S. President Joe Biden on Tuesday for the first time used the word "genocide" to describe the war in Ukraine.The president made the comment while discussing his administration's efforts to curb rising gasoline prices as a result of the invasion launched by Russian President Vladimir Putin in Ukraine."I'm doing everything in my power with executive orders to reduce prices and deal with that price spike caused by Putin," Biden said at an event in the farm state of Iowa."Your families' budget, your ability to fill your tank, none of that should depend on whether a dictator declares war and commits genocide on the other side of the world," the president added in reference to Putin and Ukraine.

"Their families' budget, their ability to fill the tank, none of that should depend on whether a dictator declares war and commits genocide on the other side of the world," the president added in reference to Putin and Ukraine.

12.04.2022

19:51

Zelensky thanks Biden but asks for "heavy weapons".The Ukrainian President thanked his U.S. peer Joe Biden for the support and for using the word "gonocide" to describe the attack by Russian forces."Calling a spade a spade is essential to confront evil," Zelenski said, immediately asking for more weapons to defend themselves. ? "We are grateful for the U.S. assistance provided so far and we urgently need more heavy weapons to prevent further Russian atrocities."

12.04.2022

19:40

Ukraine and Russia accuse each other of lack of progress in negotiationsUkraine and Russia accused each other on Tuesday of impeding the progress of peace negotiations and while the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, reaffirmed that his army is advancing "calmly" towards the "fundamental objective" in the east, his Ukrainian counterpart, Volodimir Zelenski, denounced "violations" and "torture" in the areas occupied by the invading forces.On the 48th day since the beginning of the invasion, Putin estimated that the "lack of consistency" of the Ukrainians prevented reaching an agreement between the two countries, but the advisor to the Ukrainian president, Mikhail Podoliak, said that the "negotiations are extremely difficult" because of Moscow although he clarified that they continue "in line".?"Our task is to fulfill the set goals while minimizing losses, we will act harmoniously, calmly, in accordance with the plan proposed from the beginning by the General Staff," the Kremlin leader said at a press conference with Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, in which he refused to talk about dates, AFP news agency reported.

12.04.2022

19:20

Zelensky offers to exchange Medvedchuk for Ukrainian prisoners of war Zelensky at a press conference. AP photo.

President Zelensky suggested in a speech to exchange the recently captured Viktor Medvedchuk, a lawmaker close to Vladimir Putin, for Ukrainians held in Russian captivity.

Zelenski also said that the official was captured while trying to flee abroad. Medvedchuk was charged with treason and had been on the run for days after the Russian invasion.

12.04.2022

18:59

Russia is reportedly amassing warplanes at one of its airfields.According to satellite images seen by RFE/RL, the number of fighters and bombers at the military airport the city of Lipetsk ("Lipetsk-2"( of Russia doubled to more than 30 aircraft since the end of March.?The fear of Ukrainian forces is that it is planning a new attack.

12.04.2022

18:41

720 new people killed in Kiev identified.Funerals to bid farewell to those killed in the war. EFE.

Ukraine identified the bodies of more than 720 people killed by the Russian army in Kiev province.?The Interior Ministry also reported that more than 200 people are still missing, according to statements by Kiev province police chief Andriy Nebytov.

12.04.2022

18:22

UNHCR: 11 million people have already fled their homes in UkraineRussia's invasion of Ukraine already forced more than 11 million people to flee for their lives, 4.6 million as refugees in other countries and another 7.1 million internally displaced, but the numbers are growing "exponentially" and the situation may give way to "the largest refugee crisis in Europe so far this century," warned the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR).

"Nearly 50 days after the outbreak of war in Ukraine, the world is witnessing one of the fastest growing refugee emergencies in recent times," the agency alerted.

12.04.2022

18:09

Mariupol: at least 40% of high-rise buildings destroyedMariupol totally destroyed. Photo EFE.

According to preliminary estimates of the city council, 40% of high-rise buildings with 84,000 inhabitants were completely destroyed.

According to Ukrinform, "2.3 billion is needed to build the same amount of housing and create at least basic living conditions there."

Mariupol Mayor Vadym Boychenko said that more than 10,000 civilians were killed in the city by the Russian action.

12.04.2022

17:49

Nokia is leaving Russia and is kicking out a large part of its 2,000 employees.It was announced on Tuesday by the Finnish telecommunications company, the announcement of the Nordic giant, which employs 90,000 people worldwide.

The announcement comes a day after its Swedish rival Ericsson decided to indefinitely suspend its activities in Russia.

Read more.

12.04.2022

17:30

A NATO base in the "Stalin City".A NATO base in the "City of Stalin". AFP photo.

Dozens of aging Soviet- and Chinese-made MiG fighters rust away at a former communist military base in an Albanian town once called Stalin. Now, the site is to become a NATO air base.

Read more.

12.04.2022

17:15

Ukraine claims it killed 19,600 Russian troopsA Ukrainian soldier in front of corpses of Russian soldiers. AFP photo.

As stated by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine via Facebook and compiled by the local Ukrinform agency, Russian losses in Ukrainian countryside also amount to 732 tanks and 157 aircraft.

In addition, they name 1,946 armored combat vehicles, 349 artillery systems, 111 multiple rocket launchers, 63 air defense units, 140 helicopters, 1,406 motor vehicles, 7 ships/boats, 76 fuel tankers, 124 tactical and operational UAVs, 25 special equipment units and 4 mobile missile launching systems.

12.04.2022

16:55

Oil prices closed with a rise of more than 6%.Oil prices closed Tuesday up more than 6% following the easing of anti-Covid measures in China, as OPEC warns that it will not be able to offset the supply of Russian crude.

Thus, North Sea Brent rose 6.25% to 104.64 dollars a barrel in London, while WTI rose 6.69%, returning above 100 dollars, to 100.60 a barrel in New York.

12.04.2022

16:40

U.S. accuses Russia of "disrespecting" the lives of civiliansThe US government said Russia committed "widespread atrocities" in recent weeks in Ukraine.

Secretary of State Antony Blinken made this allegation at a press conference, explaining that these abuses are coming to light as Russian troops withdrew from cities they had occupied or besieged.

The foreign minister cited the testimony of women and girls who have been raped, as well as civilian infrastructure bombed, such as a theater and a train station.

However, Blinken said his government is not in a position to confirm an alleged chemical attack on the port city of Mariupol.

For his part, Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said that Russia does not respect civilians and "unfortunately innocent Ukrainians are paying the price."

12.04.2022

16:22

Cara Anna

The drama of the boys who survived the horror in Bucha. The coffin was made from pieces of a closet. In a dark basement beneath a building shaking from shelling in the Russia-Ukraine war, there were few options.

Six-year-old Vlad watched his mother being carried out of the shelter last month and into the yard of a nearby house. The burial was rushed and devastating.

Read more.

12.04.2022

16:08

Ukraine captured pro-Russian businessman and lawmaker close to Vladimir PutinAs reported by The Kyiv Independent, the Ukrainian government announced that Viktor Medvedchuk, a pro-Kremlin party lawmaker and very close to President Vladimir Putin, was captured by the Security Service.

Medvedchuk is charged with treason. He had been released from house arrest in February.

He was captured in a special operation, Kiev authorities announced. "A special operation was carried out thanks to the SBU (Ukrainian security services). Bravo!" said Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelenski on the Telegram app.

The president posted a photo showing the detainee, handcuffed, accompanied by Ukrainians in uniform.

12.04.2022

15:54

U.S. accuses Russia of contemplating use of "chemical agents" in MariupolU.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken believes Russia contemplates using chemical weapons in Ukraine. Reuters photo.

The United States assured on Tuesday that it has "credible information" about the possibility of Russia's use of "chemical agents" in its offensive to seize the Ukrainian city of Mariupol.

"We share this information with Ukraine" and "we are in direct contact with our allies to determine what is currently happening, it is a very worrying issue," the head of U.S. diplomacy, Antony Blinken, told reporters.

In any case he said he could not affirm that Russian forces have already used chemical weapons in Mariupol.

12.04.2022

15:40

Macron assures that Putin "decided that he will not stop" with his war because "he needs a military victory"Emmanuel Macron assured that Putin will not stop until he achieves his goal. Reuters photo.

Russian President Vladimir Putin "decided that he will not stop" with his war because "he needs a military victory", although he "recognized that Ukraine will not submit", French President Emmanuel Macron said Tuesday in an interview with the weekly Le Point.

He also remarked that for the head of the Kremlin, Mariupol represents "perhaps an obsession because it is a symbol of Ukraine that opposes him."

"I believe very little in our collective ability to put it on a negotiating table in the short term", Macron added.

12.04.2022

15:25

Belarus tightens security on the border with UkraineBelarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, next to Vladimir Putin. Photo EFE.

The Belarusian military is strengthening security on the border with Ukraine in prevention of attacks from Kiev and in the framework of the war with Russia, the Defense Ministry reported Tuesday.

"Belarusian uniformed men continue to carry out tasks to strengthen sections of the country's southern border. The units work on a rotational basis," the military authority posted on its Telegram channel.

According to the message, which was reproduced by Sputnik agency, "the most important roads and viaducts are guarded, as well as the inspection of vehicles is carried out."

In the context of the Russian special military operation in Ukraine, Minsk plans to continue strengthening security on the southern and western borders of the country.

12.04.2022

15:05

German President canceled his trip to Ukraine over ties with Russia: "My presence was unwanted."German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier. Photo: EFE

German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier, criticized for his relations with Russia in recent years, said today that he had intended to travel to Ukraine with other heads of state, but Kiev refused.

"I was prepared but, apparently, and I take responsibility for this, my presence was not wanted in Kiev," the German president announced, during his visit to the Polish capital Warsaw, German public television ARD and the DPA news agency reported.

Steinmeier intended to travel to the Ukrainian capital together with the Polish President, Andrzej Duda, who wanted to add to his mission his peers from the Baltic countries, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.

The aim was "to send a clear signal of common European solidarity with Ukraine," explained the German leader, who, according to the Ukrainian ambassador in Berlin, Andrij Melnik, is criticized for his "political closeness" to the Kremlin.

12.04.2022

14:44

Russia intensifies its attacks on Donetsk and at least 120 Ukrainian soldiers could be killedA Russian soldier in Mariupol. Photo: EFE

The Russian Army today intensified its attacks in the vicinity of the locality of Popasnoye in the Donetsk region, where at least 120 Ukrainian soldiers could have been killed, the Russian Defense Ministry said in its evening part.

"In the vicinity of the locality of Popasnoye, Donetsk region, the Russian artillery units attacked six positions of the units of the 24th motorized brigade of the Ukrainian Army," Igor Konashenkov, Russian Defense spokesman, reported.

According to the representative of the military organization, "as a result of the attacks more than 120 soldiers, 11 armored vehicles and 14 vehicles were killed".

The representative of the Defense Ministry noted that the Russian aviation destroyed 38 military targets in Ukraine, including an arsenal, eight parking lots of Ukrainian military equipment in the Kharkov region in the east of the country.

He also noted that Russian anti-aircraft defense shot down two Ukrainian drones over the localities of Ochakov and Mikolayv.

12.04.2022

14:08

Ukraine denounced a thwarted Russian cyberattack on its power gridUkraine denounced a thwarted Russian cyberattack on its power grid. Photo: REUTERS

Russian military hackers attempted last week to knock out power to millions of Ukrainians in a long-planned attack, but were foiled, Ukrainian officials said on Tuesday.

At a generating plant, hackers managed to penetrate the network and disrupt part of the industrial control system, but people defending the station managed to prevent blackouts, officials said.

"The threat was serious, but it was prevented in time,'' top Ukrainian cybersecurity official Victor Zhora told reporters. "It looks like we were very lucky.''

12.04.2022

13:35

A Ukrainian governor denounced that at least 400 civilians have been buried in his region since the beginning of the warAbout 400 civilians have been buried in the town ofSeverodonetsk in eastern Ukraine since the start of the Russian invasion, Lugansk oblast governor Serguii Gaidai said Tuesday.

"In the 48 days of war there have been about 400 burials" in Severodonetsk, he said on the Telegram app, without giving details on the causes of these deaths. Morgues in nearby towns "are full of civilian bodies," he added, explaining that mass graves had been dug in the neighboring town of Lyssytchansk.

12.04.2022

13:14

Pope Francis called for an end to the "abominable" war in UkrainePope Francis called for an end to the war in Ukraine. Photo: EFE

Pope Francis today urged an end to the "abominable" war in Ukraine, which is causing so much suffering among the population, and said that these armed conflicts are "a failure of politics and humanity."

"The present moment leaves us deeply concerned, because it is marked by the forces of evil," Francis said in a video message sent to participants of the interreligious pilgrimage organized in solidarity with the Ukrainian people by the Elijah Interfaith Institute in Chernovtsi, southwestern Ukraine.

The Argentine pontiff lamented "the suffering inflicted on so many fragile and defenseless people; the numerous civilians massacred and the innocent victims among the young; the desperate situation of women and children" and implored "the inestimable gift of peace for the beloved Ukrainian people."

The situation in Ukraine, Jorge Bergoglio added, obliges human beings "not to remain silent, not to remain indifferent in the face of violence" and "to speak out forcefully to demand, in the name of God, an end to these abominable actions."

12.04.2022

13:05

Barack Obama said that Vladimir Putin "has always been ruthless".Former U.S. President Barack Obama. Photo: EFE

Former U.S. President Barack Obama said today that Vladimir Putin"has always been ruthless against his own people as well as others."

In an interview with NBC's Today show, the former Democratic leader described the Russian president as someone who has always been "wrapped up in this twisted and distorted sense of grievance and ethnic nationalism."

"What we've seen, with the invasion of Ukraine, is that he's reckless in a way that we may not have anticipated eight or 10 years ago, but you know, the danger was always there," Obama said.

12.04.2022

12:25

Ukraine stated that negotiations with Russia are going ahead "despite being very difficult"Negotiations between Russia and Ukraine are going ahead, despite difficulties reported by Kiev. Photo: EFE

Negotiations between Ukraine and Russia are continuing, despite being "very difficult," said the member of the Ukrainian delegation to the talks, Mikhail Podoliak, adviser to the country's president, Volodimir Zelensky.

"Negotiations are extremely difficult and the emotional background on days like today is very complex," Podoliak told the "Ukrainska Pravda" portal.

Despite this, the talks are taking place in working groups, he added, going on to allude to "traditional Russian tactics" of exerting pressure on these negotiating processes with "certain public statements."

12.04.2022

12:11

Former CIA director warned that NATO may intervene in Ukraine if Russia is confirmed to have used chemical weaponsFormer CIA director and retired U.S. Army general David Petraeus. Photo: REUTERS

The former commander of the U.S. armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, General David Petraeus, believes that if it is proven that Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered the use of chemical weapons in Ukraine, NATO will get involved in the conflict.

"Yes, I think there is a red line that could provoke a very harsh reaction from NATO, but I don't know where to define it. Putin has in the past authorized the use of chemical weapons and we know he has tactical nuclear weapons, and I think the world can't turn its back if he uses them," Petraeus said.

Interviewed by the Italian television program Quarta Repubblica, Petraeus, who also served as CIA director, warned that if an eventual red line is crossed, "NATO could intervene directly in the Ukrainian conflict."

The general avoided answering whether U.S. intelligence is working on the option of a Russia without Putin. "With all due respect, even if we thought about it, we would not share our plans with either you or your viewers. But eventually, all leaders leave the scene," he said to the query.

12.04.2022

11:46

Ukraine drew up a list of 100 "traitors" who collaborated with RussiaUkrainian soldiers in a village near Kiev. Photo: REUTERS

Ukrainian authorities drew up a first list with the names of 100 "traitors," or collaborators with the Russian invader in the fourteen regions of Ukraine, Ukrinfom news agency reported.

The list is divided into four categories:"politicians, judges, lawyers, media and law enforcement".

The list, compiled by the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and the NGO Honest Movement, includes "73 politicians, 13 law enforcement officials, 13 media and one judge."

Those on the list are "collaborationists" with Russia from all regions of Ukraine and, according to Ukrinform,"637 cases of treason or collaborationism" have already been opened in the country.

The procedure for including someone on the list is as follows: "Before adding someone, the Honest Movement checks the name and helps law enforcement agencies and public organizations to verify the information," says the agency, which adds that the list can be consulted on the Internet.

12.04.2022

11:26

Maria Laura Avignolo

Did Russia use chemical weapons in Mariupol? London investigatesA pro-Russian tank advances in the port city of Mariupol. Photo credit: Reuters.

A chemical attack in Mariupol, Ukraine's martyred city? That is what the British Ministry of Defense is currently investigating.

The attack could have taken place on Monday with a Russian drone, and there are three victims with vomiting, rashes. There are no deaths. Added to this is the arrest of a Briton, who is fighting in Mariupol as a legionnaire.

The concern appears to have been triggered by an unconfirmed claim by a Ukrainian battalion, fighting to defend Mariupol from a Russian attack, that a drone had used a poisonous substance against the city. However, there has been no independent verification of the allegation. Read more.

12.04.2022

11:01

Sweden called Russia's threats over possible NATO membership "unacceptable"Swedish Chancellor Ann Linde. Photo: AFP

Swedish Foreign Minister Ann Linde said today in Sarajevo that Russia's threats to her country and Finland over its possible decision to join NATO following Russia's invasion of Ukraine launched on February 24 are "unacceptable".

"It is absolutely unacceptable for Russia to threaten Sweden or Finland in any way, because it is the citizens who decide their security policy," Linde told reporters in Sarajevo.

"There is a time before and a time after February 24. Sweden and Finland will decide alone about their future," said the Swedish minister, who is on a visit to Bosnia-Herzegovina.

12.04.2022

10:44

Vladimir Putin assured that the objectives of the Russian army are "noble".Russian President Vladimir Putin. Photo: EFE

Russian President Vladimir Putin is convinced that the Russian army in its advance on Ukraine has "noble objectives", which will be fulfilled.

Those noble goals are, according to Putin, to protect the people of the Donbas with the military campaign in Ukraine.

The Donbas is the eastern region of the country, bordering Russia, formed by the pro-Russian republics _proclaimed independent_ Donetsk and Lugansk, at war eight years ago with the central power in Kiev. Read more.

12.04.2022

10:21

Zelensky denounced "hundreds of violations" in Russian-occupied areasUkrainian President Volodimir Zelensky made the allegation during a presentation to the Lithuanian parliament. Photo: AP

Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelenski on Tuesday denounced "hundreds of cases of rape" in areas occupied by the Russian army, "including underage girls and very young children."

12.04.2022

09:59

Ukraine refused to share the Stations of the Cross at the Vatican with Russia Pope Francis with the Ukrainian ambassador to the Holy See, Andrii Yurash. Photo: EFE

The Ukrainian embassy to the Holy See rejects the Vatican's decision that a Ukrainian and a Russian family will carry the cross together during the Way of the Cross on Good Friday at the Colosseum, to be presided over by Pope Francis.

"We understand and share the general concern in Ukraine and many other communities about the idea of bringing Ukrainian and Russian women together to carry the Cross during Friday's Stations of the Cross at the Colosseum," Ukrainian Ambassador to the Holy See Andrii Yurash tweeted today.

"Now we are working on the issue and trying to explain the difficulties of its realization and its possible consequences," Yurash added.

12.04.2022

09:39

Unicef warned that half of the remaining children in Ukraine may be left without access to foodThe situation of children in Ukraine becomes more and more dramatic. Photo: AP

The situation of at least 3.2 million children remaining in Ukraine is becoming increasingly dramatic, and half of them could soon be left without access to food, with almost two out of three having to leave their homes.

This was warned today by Unicef, the United Nations Children's Fund, and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, which said that since the beginning of the invasion, it has documented the death of 142 children and 229 wounded.

According to a Unicef statement, children, families and communities in Ukraine are under attack. And bombs to water system infrastructure and lack of power left at least 1.4 million people without access to water in Ukraine, and another 4.6 million have limited access.

Unicef's director of programs, Frenchman Manuel Fontaine, says in the communiqué to have been shocked by the extent of the destruction caused by the Russian invasion.

"I have just returned from a mission in Ukraine. In my 31 years of service as a humanitarian operator, I have rarely seen so much damage caused in such a short time," Fontaine writes in the communiqué.

The Unicef official admitted that "these casualty numbers are probably much higher, many caused by crossfire or the use of explosive weapons in populated areas." "Even the systems that help children survive are under attack," he added.

12.04.2022

09:03

Ukraine claimed that 90% of war refugees are women and children90% of war refugees are women and children. Photo: REUTERS

Commissioner for Gender Parity in Ukraine Kateryna Levchenko said today that 90% of Ukrainian displaced persons and refugees are women and children.

"Ukrainian people are going through a dramatic moment and enduring heinous crimes committed by Russian soldiers, Levchenko said. Thousands of women and children have been killed and women and children make up 90 percent of the displaced."

Of the total number of displaced persons, "seven million had to move to other areas of the country and 4.5 million abroad", said the official, speaking by videoconference at a meeting convened by the Italian Foreign Ministry on work and women's empowerment.

12.04.2022

08:09

Six people found shot dead in cellar in Kiev suburb The bodies of six people shot dead by bullets were found in a basement in the eastern suburb of Kiev, the Ukrainian Prosecutor General's Office announced on Tuesday.

"The bodies of six civilians with gunshot wounds were discovered in the basement of a house," the prosecutor's office stated on Telegram, accompanying its message with a photograph of the corpses and specifying that an investigation was opened.

12.04.2022

07:57

At least eight killed and 19 wounded in shelling in the Ukrainian city of KharkivA damaged car and building are seen, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine, in Kharkov. Reuters photo.

At least eight people, including a child, were killed and 19 wounded during shelling fired from Russian military forces recorded in recent hours in Kholodna Gora, in the west of the Ukrainian city, the head of the Kharkov Regional State Administration (northeast), Oleg Sinegubov, said last night.

"Continued shelling of the regional center, in particular in the area of Kholodna Gora. A few hours ago, the occupants again fired on Saltivka," Sinegubov was quoted as saying by the Unian news agency.

Russia is attacking several Ukrainian cities from the air, including Kharkov, Mariupol and Mikolaiv, the Spanish Europa Press agency noted.

12.04.2022

07:40

Putin assures that it is "impossible" to isolate Russia in modern worldPutin, assured on Tuesday that it is "impossible" to isolate Russia in the modern world. AFP Photo.

Russian President Vladimir Putin assured Tuesday that it is "impossible" to isolate Russia in the modern world with sanctions over Russia's military campaign in Ukraine and that the country will work with those partners who still support it.

"We are not going to isolate ourselves. In the modern world there is no way to strictly isolate someone and it is completely impossible (to isolate) a country as big as Russia," he said during a visit to Russia's Vostochny cosmodrome in the far east of the country.

"So we will work with those partners who want to interact" even with Russia, noted the Kremlin chief, who traveled to the Amur region accompanied by Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko.

12.04.2022

07:20

Ukrainian Finance Minister calls for million-dollar support for Ukraine's survivalUkrainian Finance Minister Sergi Marchenko called for immediate financial support, amounting to billions of dollars, for the country's survival after the heavy fiscal deficit caused by the Russian invasion, the Financial Times (FT) published on Tuesday.

The minister foresaw a bleak outlook for Ukraine's economy and estimated the damage caused to the civil and military infrastructure at 270 billion dollars (248.4 billion euros), while almost 7,000 residential buildings were damaged.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220414ei4e005et


ASECTION
RUSSIA THREATENS TO MOVE NUCLEAR WEAPONS TO BALTIC SEA IF FINLAND, SWEDEN JOIN NATO RUSSIA THREATENS TO MOVE NUKES TO BALTIC SEA IF FINLAND, SWEDEN JOIN NATO
services
957 字
2022 年 4 月 15 日
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
PPGZ
A-4
ISSN:1068624X
英文
© 2022 Post Gazette Publishing Company. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights reserved.
Russia warned Finland and Sweden on Thursday that if they join NATO, Moscow will reinforce the Baltic Sea region, including with nuclear weapons.

The threat came a day after Finnish officials suggested the country could request to join the 30-member military alliance within weeks and as Sweden mulled a similar move.

Helsinki and Stockholm are officially nonaligned militarily, but they are reconsidering their status in light of Russia's invasion of Ukraine - escalating warnings from Russia.

Dmitry Medvedev, a Putin ally who serves as deputy chairman of Russia's Security Council, said Thursday that NATO expansion would lead Russia to strengthen air, land and naval forces to "balance" military capability in the region.

"There can be no more talk of any nuclear-free status for the Baltic - the balance must be restored," Mr. Medvedev said.

3 Russians charged in sanction violations

A Russian legislator and two aides were charged with conspiring to violate U.S. sanctions as they pushed a covert Russian propaganda campaign in the U.S. to win support for moves against Ukraine and other countries, an indictment unsealed Thursday said.

Three conspiracy charges were brought in an indictment in Manhattan federal court against the legislator, Aleksandr Babakov, 59, and two of his staff members - Aleksandr Nikolayevich Vorobev, 52, and Mikhail Alekseyevich Plisyuk, 58.

All three men named are based in Russia and remain at large, authorities said. Mr. Babakov serves as deputy chairman of the State Duma, the lower house of the Russian legislature, federal authorities said in a release.

France moving embassy back to Kyiv

France is moving its embassy in Ukraine back to Kyiv from the western city of Lviv, after Russian troops pulled away from regions around the capital and have concentrated on embattled eastern Ukraine.

The French Foreign Ministry announced the move Thursday after Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian spoke with his Ukrainian counterpart Dmytro Kuleba about French military and humanitarian support for Ukraine. A date for the move was not announced.

French officials freeze oligarchs' properties

France's government says it has frozen 33 properties on the French Riviera, Paris and elsewhere that belong to Russian oligarchs targeted for sanctions over the war in Ukraine.

The Finance Ministry this week published an updated list of Russian-owned properties that have been frozen in France, including a luxury chateau overlooking the Mediterranean on the Cap d'Antibes that reportedly belonged to sanctioned Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich.

Together, the 33 properties are estimated to be worth half a billion euros. Unlike property that is seized or confiscated, frozen properties still belong to their owners and they can live in them. But they cannot be sold or rented out.

The total value of Russian assets frozen or seized in France is now approaching 24 billion euros, with the bulk of that being nearly 23 billion euros in frozen financial assets for the Russian central bank.

Aside from financial assets and properties, French authorities have also frozen or seized three yachts and four transport ships, and frozen six helicopters and three artworks.

Germans seize massive superyacht

German authorities say they have seized a massive superyacht in Hamburg after determining that it belongs to the sister of Russian oligarch Alisher Usmanov.

The Federal Criminal Police Office said Wednesday that, after "extensive investigations" and despite "offshore concealment," it had been able to determine that the owner is Gulbakhor Ismailova, Usmanov's sister.

Superyacht Dilbar was launched in 2016 at a reported cost of more than $648 million.

The German police office said German authorities worked in Brussels to ensure that European Union sanctions applied to the owner. It says the yacht can no longer be sold, rented, or loaded.

Red Cross giving most cash aid ever

The international Red Cross says it's rolling out its largest-ever cash assistance program to help more than 2 million people in Ukraine or who have fled abroad cope with the fallout from Russia's invasion.

Nicole Robicheau, spokeswoman of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, said Thursday the organization plans to distribute "well over 100 million" Swiss francs - about $106 million - to people affected by Russia's 7-week-old war in Ukraine.

IFRC says it and national Red Cross organizations have already helped over 1 million people with items like blankets, food, mats and kitchen equipment.

Ambassador says food situation desperate

The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations accused Russia of making the food situation in Yemen and elsewhere worse by invading Ukraine, calling it "just another grim example of the ripple effect Russia's unprovoked, unjust, unconscionable war is having on the world's most vulnerable."

Linda Thomas-Greenfield told a U.N. Security Council meeting on war-torn Yemen on Thursday that the World Food Program identified the Arab world's poorest nation as one of the countries most affected by wheat price increases and lack of imports from Ukraine.

Russia's deputy U.N. ambassador Dmitry Polyansky shot back saying: "The main factor for instability and the source of the problem today is not the Russian special military operation in Ukraine, but sanction measures imposed on our country seeking to cut off any supplies from Russia and the supply chain, apart from those supplies that those countries in the West need, in other words energy."

CAPTION: PHOTO: Paul Wennerholm/TT News Agency/AFP via Getty Images: Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson, center, welcomes Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin, right, prior to a Wednesday meeting in Stockholm, Sweden, on whether to seek NATO membership.

CREDIT: Post-Gazette news services

PG Publishing Co., Inc

文件 PPGZ000020220415ei4f0000o


Neighbouring Russia causes business problems in Finland]]
EURACTIV Network
1122 字
2022 年 4 月 18 日 07:47 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

Today’s edition is powered by Solidaridad.

The 10 changes needed for the CSDD to make an impact where it is needed most

The European Commission’s proposal on Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence misses the opportunity to require businesses to respect human rights & the environment across their value chains and improve the livelihoods of smallholder farmers, workers & miners. Here is how they can fix it: Continue Reading >>[https://eurac.tv/9VYA]

In today’s news from the Capitals:

HELSINKI

Since the war started in Ukraine, foreign investors and employees view Finland hesitantly due to the 1,300-kilometre-long border with Russia, with some even considering it a possible risk factor. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/neighbouring-russia-causes-business-problems-in-finland/]

///

EU INSTITUTIONS 

Greece, Cyprus and Malta block sanctions against Russia-owned ships. The governments of Athens, Nicosia and Valetta have blocked sanctions aiming to ban Russian ships or those with Russian interests from EU ports, EURACTIV Greece has learned. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/greece-cyprus-and-malta-block-sanctions-against-russia-owned-ships/]

///

PARIS

Macron holds rally in Marseille to win over Mélenchon voters. With just a week to go before the final round of the presidential election, President Emmanuel Macron held a rally Saturday in Marseille to win over young people who overwhelmingly voted for rivals Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Marine Le Pen in the first round. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/macron-holds-rally-in-marseille-to-win-over-melenchon-voters/]

///

VIENNA

Austria wants to prosecute Russian war crimes. The justice ministry has confirmed its intention to order the public prosecutors’ office to begin to clarify “the requirements for domestic jurisdiction in the case of war crimes,” press agency APA reported. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/austria-wants-to-prosecute-russian-war-crimes/]

///

THE HAGUE | BRATISLAVA

Dutch Patriot missile system arrives in Slovakia after convoy collision. The Dutch Patriot missile unit arrived in Slovakia after one of the three convoys suffered a collision in the Czech Republic, the NL Times reported. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/dutch-patriot-missile-system-arrives-in-slovakia-after-convoy-collision/]

UK AND IRELAND

LONDON

Archbishop condemns Rwanda asylum plan. The backlash against the UK government’s controversial £120 million plan to outsource the processing of thousands of asylum seeker claims to Rwanda continued over the weekend with criticism from the Archbishop of Canterbury, the head of the Anglican Church. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/archbishop-condemns-rwanda-asylum-plan/]

NORDICS AND BALTICS

STOCKHOLM

Swedish minister promises tough response to violent protesters. Protesters who attacked the police during riots in Norrköping and Linköping will face a “tough” response,  Interior and Justice Minister Morgan Johansson told a press conference on Sunday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/swedish-minister-promises-tough-response-to-violent-protesters/]

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ROME

Italian ports now off-limits for Russian vessels. Italy has banned Russian-flagged vessels from its ports from Sunday as part of the EU’s fifth sanction package against Russia. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/italian-ports-now-off-limits-for-russian-vessels/]

///

MADRID

Spain keeps face mask rule in public transport and health centres. Face masks will be mandatory in public transport and health centres “with no exceptions” as of Wednesday, Health Minister Carolina Darias has warned. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/spain-keeps-face-mask-rule-in-public-transport-and-health-centres/]

Spanish Hipra vaccine to soon join EU market. The Spanish DNA-based vaccine produced by Hipra pharma could soon be made available.

The Hipra vaccine has achieved 100% efficacy in humanised mouse models and could be approved for human use in the EU “by the end of May or early June”, science minister Diana Morant has said, EFE had reported.[https://www.efe.com/efe/espana/efefuturo/morant-apunta-que-la-vacuna-de-hipra-podria-comercializarse-a-finales-mayo/50000905-4781523]

According to the pharma company, the new vaccine will be cheaper. It will also grant a higher level of protection and be easier to store than the mRNA vaccines made by Pfizer and Moderna. A total of 103,266 people have died in Spain since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to official data. (Fernando Heller | EuroEFE.EURACTIV.es)

VISEGRAD 

BRATISLAVA

Slovakia offers to repair Ukrainian military equipment. Slovakia has offered to repair Ukrainian military vehicles in a factory in Moldava Nad Bodvou, near the Ukrainian borders, defence minister Jaroslav Naď (OĽaNO) announced. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/slovakia-offers-to-repair-ukrainian-military-equipment/]

///

WARSAW

Wounded Ukrainian soldiers to be treated in Polish hospitals. Some Ukrainian soldiers wounded in fighting are being taken to Polish hospitals for treatment, Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/wounded-ukrainian-soldiers-to-be-treated-in-polish-hospitals/]

///

PRAGUE

Czech FM says Russian ‘ban’ on weapons export to Ukraine is nonsense. Russia’s demand to stop arms exports to Ukraine does not make any sense, the Czech foreign ministry said after Russia told the Czech Republic in a diplomatic note that they were banned from sending weapons to Ukraine. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/czech-fm-says-russian-ban-on-weapons-export-to-ukraine-is-nonsense/]

///

BUDAPEST 

Third of young Hungarians would try their luck abroad, survey reveals. The number of young Hungarians considering moving abroad has reached a high, K&H Bank found in a representative survey commissioned for the first quarter of its 2022 youth index, Telex reported via MTI. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/third-of-young-hungarians-would-try-their-luck-abroad-survey-reveals/]

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

SOFIA

Experts: US delays F-16 fighter jets over trust issues with Bulgaria. The delay in delivering the new American F-16 fighter jets may be due to a lack of trust in the Bulgarian authorities, which have not proven that they can reliably protect NATO secrets, two former Bulgarian defence ministers have said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/experts-us-delays-f-16-fighter-jets-over-trust-issues-with-bulgaria/]

///

ZAGREB

Croatian inflation highest since summer 2008. Prices of goods and services for personal consumption, measured by the consumer prices index, were on average 7.3% higher this March than the previous year, the Croatian statistical office (DZS) said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/croatian-inflation-highest-since-summer-2008/]

///

BELGRADE 

World Bank concerned by Ukraine war impact on Serbia’s energy dependence. The consequences of the war in Ukraine will be devastating for Ukraine and Russia, World Bank chief economist for Europe and Central Asia, Asli Demirguc-Kunt, said on Saturday, adding that the war would also affect the Western Balkans and that energy dependency was a serious concern in Serbia. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/world-bank-concerned-by-ukraine-war-impact-on-serbias-energy-dependence/]

///

SARAJEVO 

Germany suspends project financing in RS over BiH obstruction by Serbia. Germany has suspended the funding of infrastructure projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina’s Serb entity Republika Srpska because its political leaders are obstructing the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina’s central authorities and bringing its stability into question, the foreign ministry said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/germany-suspends-project-financing-in-rs-over-bih-obstruction-by-serbia/]

///

PRISTINA

Foreign embassies tell Kosovo government not to speculate after police attack. EU and US Embassies in Pristina have called on the Kosovo government to refrain from speculating on the origin of a firearm attack that targeted their police on the border with Serbia. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/foreign-embassies-tell-kosovo-government-not-to-speculate-after-police-attack/]

///

TIRANA | BERLIN

Albanian ‘ministry of propaganda’ not based on German model. The Director of Albania’s controversial Media and Information Agency (MIA), Endri Fuga, claimed that the institution is based on the German model, but EURACTIV Germany confirmed this is not true. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/albanian-ministry-of-propaganda-not-based-on-german-model/]

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Alexandra Brzozowski, Daniel Eck, Benjamin Fox, Zoran Radosavljevic, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220418ei4i00001


CE Noticias Financieras English
Finland, Alberto Fernandez's model country, calls for firm rules to invest in Argentina
1080 字
2022 年 4 月 19 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Finland, Alberto Fernández's model country and one of the most developed economies in the world, is confident that Argentina's agreement with the IMF is "a positive step forward", although it raised a reservation: Ambassador Kirsi Vanamo-Santacruz stressed that for foreign investments to arrive in the country there must be "a favorable business environment, including certain stability, security and predictability".

The Finnish ambassador pointed out to El Cronista that her country's investments respond to companies that cooperate, in principle, in technological matters and increase mutual knowledge and trust through good experiences with their project counterparts. Therefore, Vanamo-Santacruz clarified, "we first expect Argentine companies to make their investments to increase their production in sectors of common interest".

Since he took office, Alberto Fernández has highlighted Finland as one of the countries he has as a model of development. In fact, the President praised Finland's progressive tax model where "those who have less, pay less; and those who have more, pay more", according to the Head of State.

Therefore, it is relevant that Ambassador Vanamo-Santacruz has categorically highlighted that she expects Argentina to apply economic sanctions against Russia for the military invasion in Ukraine and considered that "NATO is an actor that promotes transatlantic and European security and stability".

-What is Finland's assessment of Argentina's agreement with the IMF?

-It is an issue that we follow with great interest. The agreement is a positive step forward. This agreement is a necessary condition for continuing the already existing cooperation between Finnish investors and Argentina, and we hope that it will allow to deepen these ties.

-Do you think there will be more investments from Finland from now on?

-Argentina and Finland have many common interests, such as the development of connectivity, digital services, and the growth of sustainable production that considers the environment. The main sectors of interest for Finland are the bio-economy, including the forestry industry, the energy sector, and telecommunications, as well as logistics. These are all sectors that demand significant capital investments. The predictability and long-term stability of the market facilitates these investments.

-What conditions must exist to increase Finland's investments in Argentina?

-Of course, in general, when doing business and investing abroad anywhere in the world, companies must have a conducive business environment, including some stability, security and predictability.

Finland's investments typically arise from gradually increasing cooperation. Finnish companies cooperate, in principle, on technological matters and increase mutual knowledge and trust through good experiences with their project counterparts.

When markets grow, there are more opportunities to enhance this learning curve. Therefore, we first expect Argentine companies to make investments to increase their production in sectors of common interest. Also, the demand for high technology such as IOT (Internet Of Things), digitalization, AI (Artificial Intelligence) and energy efficiency solutions, increases and creates conditions to respond with Finnish solutions and investments.

-Do you think Argentina will be important for Finland in food delivery due to global shortages?

-Finland, as a member country of the European Union, is working to achieve positive results between the negotiations of the agreement between Mercosur and the European Union. Argentina has exceptional resources to increase its food production for the domestic and international market.

Argentina has the opportunity to invest to boost production in various sectors of agriculture and the food industry. Naturally, these investments in production require predictability in export conditions.

Also, important global customers require long-term certainty from their suppliers to secure trade. For them, changing suppliers means high costs and risks even in normal years without global crises.In Finland, food supply is based on domestic primary production. Approximately 80% of food raw materials are produced domestically, which represents an adequate level of self-sufficiency in terms of security of supply. However, globally, the impacts of food shortages are of concern to us, especially the impacts on the most vulnerable countries, including those already facing a humanitarian crisis.

-Is it important to impose more economic sanctions on Russia?

-Finland strongly condemns Russia's attack on Ukraine. Russia's target is Ukraine, but the invasion is also an attack on the security order of Europe as a whole. The attack is also a serious violation of international law and a violation of the UN Charter.

The European Union has reacted decisively and unitedly with an unprecedented package of sanctions. The scope of the sanctions and the other measures taken demonstrate that the international community explicitly condemns Russia's actions. The sanctions are effective and hit Russia's economic stability hard. The situation is constantly being assessed and, if necessary, the European Union is ready to react swiftly with further strong coordinated sanctions.

-Do you think Argentina should sanction Russia economically?

-Russia's actions have been condemned around the world, including in Argentina, which we welcome. The European Union and its key partners, such as the United States, have responded by imposing comprehensive sanctions against Russia. The response is a country-specific decision, but we do invite all our partners to join the sanctions already adopted.-Is Finland ready to join NATO?

-Finland sees NATO as an actor that promotes transatlantic and European security and stability. We have been part of the NATO Partnership for Peace since 1994 and the relations between NATO and Finland today are very close.

Finland's security and defense policy is based on a strong national defense capability, as well as safeguarding the nation's room for maneuver and keeping different options open. This also means that we maintain our option to apply for NATO membership. NATO's open-door policy is a key element of European security. It is very welcome that NATO has continued to uphold this principle in the current situation. It is important for Finland that NATO continues to keep its doors open to new members in the future.

We always examine our options in a real-time context. After the Russian invasion of Ukraine, there has been a fundamental change in the environment of Finland and the whole of Europe. The Finnish government is preparing a report on the current situation, assessing the changes in the foreign and security policy environment and their implications for the country. The report is due to be presented to Parliament in early April. Based on the report, Parliament is expected to hold an extensive debate on foreign and security policy.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220420ei4j0007v


News
Carter-Ruck, CMS lawyers should face US visa bans over Russia work, says US congressman Steve Cohen; Co-chair of US government agency the Helsinki Commission singles out UK libel lawyers for US visa bans
By James Booth
1291 字
2022 年 4 月 19 日 18:42 GMT
Financial News
LONFIN
英文
© 2022 Financial News Ltd. All rights reserved.
A US congressman has called for UK libel lawyers from law firms such as CMS, Carter-Ruck and Harbottle & Lewis to face US visa bans over their work for Russian clients.

"I urge you to place travel bans on foreign enablers of Russian oligarchs," US representative Steve Cohen wrote in an 18 April[https://twitter.com/RepCohen/status/1516191359404806150?s=20&t=fj0phsHxm9lLkHxZ0cXLNw] letter he posted on Twitter to US secretary of state Antony Blinken.

"Oligarchs, who hire lawyers to engage in abusive lawsuits against journalists to silence them, cannot exert malign influence in our system and the systems of our democratic allies without their enablers," wrote Cohen, a Democrat from Tennessee.

READ Vladimir Putin's offshore wealth is his 'Achilles' heel', says Bill Browder[https://www.fnlondon.com/articles/vladimir-putins-offshore-wealth-is-his-achilles-heel-says-bill-browder-20220324]

"Among the worst such enablers have been certain lawyers in the United Kingdom. Despite our close ties with the United Kingdom, the nature of its libel laws and the vast amount of blood money in its financial system make it an ideal place for oligarchs to abuse the law to harass and intimidate," the letter said.

Cohen singled out six UK lawyers who he said should be the subject of US visa bans for their work suing journalists in the UK for overseas clients.

The six include Nigel Tait, managing partner of libel law firm Carter-Ruck; Geraldine Proudler, a partner at City law firm CMS; John Kelly, a partner at London law firm Harbottle & Lewis; and Hugh Tomlinson QC, a barrister at Matrix Chambers. All lawyers denied allegations against them.

Tait, Proudler, Kelly and Tomlinson have previously been named in UK parliamentary proceedings[https://www.fnlondon.com/articles/law-firms-under-fierce-pressure-from-mps-to-shutter-moscow-offices-after-russian-invasion-of-ukraine-20220302] in connection with their work for Russian clients who sued publisher HarperCollins over the book Putin's People, written by journalist Catherine Belton. HarperCollins is a subsidiary of News Corp, which owns Dow Jones' Financial News and Wall Street Journal among other publications.

Kelly represented billionaire Roman Abramovich, Tait acted for Russian oil company Rosneft, and Tomlinson represented Russian oligarchs Mikhail Fridman and Petr Aven, as well as Abramovich, in their suits against the publisher.

Proudler acted for Fridman and Aven in suits against HarperCollins and also represented a Russian police officer who brought a UK lawsuit against hedge fund manager and Putin critic, Bill Browder, in a separate matter.

READ London lawyers hit back at 'dangerous' criticism of Russia links[https://www.fnlondon.com/articles/london-lawyers-hit-back-at-dangerous-criticism-of-russia-links-20220330]

A spokesperson for Harbottle & Lewis said in a statement: "The firm has not engaged in an abusive lawsuit as alleged, and there was no such suggestion made when the proceedings were considered by a High Court judge who reviewed the book and ruled that it contained a number of defamatory allegations. As such there is no basis for any such steps to be taken."

Tamsin Allen, a partner at law firm Bindmans, said her client Tomlinson had acted properly at all times.

"Regulatory rules for lawyers are very strict and work to ensure equal entitlement to independent legal advice. Tomlinson acted properly and in accordance with those rules throughout and has never acted as Cohen suggests. There is therefore no proper basis for Cohen's request," Allen said in a 19 April statement.

"We strongly reject the allegations of impropriety that have been made against CMS, and in particular Geraldine Proudler," a spokesperson for CMS said in a statement. "We have reviewed the steps taken in our media litigation practice and are confident that these were compliant with all professional regulations as well as our wider responsibilities at the time. Congressman Cohen says he seeks to sanction lawyers who are currently performing work for Russian clients, but as we have said since the invasion of Ukraine, CMS is no longer accepting new instructions from Russian based entities or from any individuals with connections to the Russian government."

"The claims made against Carter-Ruck are misconceived and are rejected entirely," said Carter-Ruck lawyer Mathilde Groppo in a 19 April statement. "In addition to other matters, we are not working for any Russian individuals, companies or entities seeking to challenge, overturn, frustrate or minimise sanctions. We have never acted for Russian individuals, companies or entities seeking to challenge sanctions. We condemn the Russian government's decision to invade Ukraine. We are not acting for, and will not be acting for, any individual, company or entity associated with the Putin regime in any matter or context, whether sanctions-related or otherwise, and will continue to conduct all 'know your client' checks in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, as we have always done."

CMS said on 11 March that it was pulling out of Moscow following Russia's invasion of Ukraine[https://www.fnlondon.com/articles/dentons-to-split-from-russia-offices-over-ukraine-invasion-20220314]. "We continue to be shocked by the attacks on Ukraine and our thoughts are with all Ukrainians affected by the war," the firm said in a statement at the time.

Cohen's initiative follows testimony from Browder and a statement from Arabella Pike of HarperCollins, at a 6 April hearing of the Helsinki Commission entitled, "Countering oligarchs, enablers and lawfare."[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/events/countering-oligarchs-enablers-and-lawfare]

The Helsinki Commission is a US government agency which is also known as the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe. It promotes human rights, military security, and economic cooperation in 57 countries in Europe, Eurasia, and North America, according to its website.

Democratic congressman Cohen co-chairs the commission alongside fellow Democrat, Senator Ben Cardin.

Hermitage Capital boss Browder has been a persistent critic of Putin's regime and a key architect of the so-called Magnitsky Act laws which have been adopted across the world to target human rights offenders with sanctions.

Tomlinson represented Browder in the previously mentioned lawsuit brought against him by a Russian police officer. Other clients he has represented include journalist Heather Brooke, for whom he acted for pro bono in a case that helped expose the UK's parliamentary expenses scandal.

Cohen's letter also mentioned Keith Schilling, senior partner of libel law firm Schillings, and his representation of Malaysian businessman Jho Low who is accused by US prosecutors of involvement in a scheme to embezzle millions of dollars from Malaysian fund 1MDB.

"We are on record as confirming that we not acting for any sanctioned entities and that we also hope that sanctions will foreshorten the Russian regime's horrendous war in Ukraine," a spokesperson for Schillings said.

"We fail to see how any representation of the Malaysian national named by congressman Cohen could in any circumstances support the (in any event wholly misplaced) allegations that we are acting in the manner alleged in relation to Russian 'oligarchs,'" the statement continued.

"Congressman Cohen has been sadly misinformed as there is no basis for any allegation that we have in any way behaved other than in the highest traditions of the legal profession in upholding the rule of law," the statement said.

Shlomo Rechtschaffen, founder of London law firm Rechtschaffen Law, was also mentioned in the letter. Rechtschaffen is accused by Cohen of acting for "Walter Soriano, an enabler of Oleg Deripaska, Roman Abramovich and Dmitry Rybolevlel, in an abusive lawsuit against Scott Stedman".

Rechtschaffen denied acting improperly and said the letter was "completely absurd," in a 19 April email to FN.

"The English High Court decided, in two separate decisions, that the claims brought by Mr Soriano are neither libel tourism or any other abuse of process and that they have real prospects of success," he said.

Sign up here for FN Law — our weekly newsletter on the City's legal sector[https://confirmsubscription.com/h/j/DD20C48A3B56BB49]

To contact the author of this story with feedback or news, email James Booth[mailto:james.booth@dowjones.com]

Carter-Ruck, CMS lawyers should face US visa bans over Russia work, says US congressman Steve Cohen[https://www.fnlondon.com/articles/carter-ruck-cms-lawyers-should-face-us-visa-bans-over-russia-work-says-us-congressman-steve-cohen-20220419]

Financial News

文件 LONFIN0020220419ei4j000xd


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10402
Karolis Broga
6145 字
2022 年 4 月 25 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
(c) 2022 Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
NO. 10402 (94808) MONDAY MORNING, APRIL 25

 

GROUP OF LAWMAKERS VISITS UKRAINE TO MEET WITH MAYORS

 

Vilnius, April 25 (ELTA) – Chairman of the Lithuanian Parliament's Committee on National Security and Defence Laurynas Kasčiūnas recently visited Ukraine, where he met with Mayor of Mykolaiv City Oleksandr Syenkevych and Mayor of Dnipro City Borys Filatov. Meetings were also attended by other Conservative lawmakers, Deputy Parliament Speaker Paulius Saudargas and MP Justinas Urbanavičius.

According to Kasčiūnas, as Russia has changed its attack strategy, the meetings discussed preparation for defence and challenges faced by Ukrainians as a result of the Russian invasion.

"We have heard a very clear statement from Russia that its goal besides Donbass is a land corridor to Transnistria. This means they would have to seize Mykolaiv and Odessa. Their strategy is changing," MP Kasčiūnas told the news agency ELTA.

The politician said there is a problem with drinking water as Russian forces destroyed water supply in Mykolaiv. Now trucks deliver drinking water, while for other household purposes people draw water from a river. Local authorities are now working on a temporary solution to address the situation.

The MP added that Russian forces are 20 km from Mykolaiv and can shell the city not only with cruise missiles but also with artillery, which cuts the warning time for people to seek shelter and may lead to more casualties.

Sixty buildings have been destroyed in Mykolaiv and around 400 have been partially destroyed. Therefore, the MPs and the mayors discussed the European Union's assistance how it would help rebuild Ukraine.

Lithuanian lawmakers visited Ukraine and delivered aid to Ukrainian troops for the fourth time. This time they transferred pickup trucks, thermal imaging cameras and medical supplies to troops deployed near Mykolaiv.

 

CONSERVATIVE LAWMAKERS REGISTER DRAFT RESOLUTION WELCOMING FINLAND'S AND SWEDEN'S ASPIRATIONS TO JOIN NATO

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – Conservative MPs Laurynas Kasčiūnas and Laima Andrikienė have registered a draft resolution Regarding the Aspirations of the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to Join NATO.

The draft resolution welcomes the intentions of Finland and Sweden to strive for NATO accession and encourages the countries to exercise their sovereign rights to apply for membership in the Alliance.

The draft resolution states that third countries do not have any right to veto in any form Finland's, Sweden's or any other European country's, which meets NATO criteria, free determination to join NATO.

Based on the document, if Finland and Sweden join NATO, this will significantly enhance the security and defendability of the two countries, of the entire region and NATO, especially taking into account that the regional security situation has deteriorated due to Russia's and Belarus' war against Ukraine and the loss of self-determination of Belarus.

The draft resolution expresses an expectation of rapid and smooth NATO accession and affirms a smooth ratification process at the Lithuanian Parliament.

The document also states that Finland and Sweden are reliable NATO partners, while their political, economic and defensive potential is an important factor for the security and defence of the Baltic and Nordic region.

Based on the draft resolution, parliament believes that Finland and Sweden meet all political, economic, military and other requirements required for NATO membership and the two countries are capable of fulfilling NATO membership commitments.

 

BALTIC PRIME MINISTERS AGREE IN RIGA ON JOINT EFFORTS TOWARDS GREATER REGIONAL SECURITY

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On 22 April, Prime Ministers of the Baltic Council of Ministers Ingrida Šimonytė, Krišjānis Kariņš and Kaja Kallas met in Riga to discuss joint efforts to strengthen security in the region and provide support to Ukraine, also focusing on energy security, joint energy projects, preparation for the next winter season, and sanctions on Russia. The prime ministers also signed a joint statement, said the Office of the Government of Lithuania.

Condemning Russia's aggression and the ongoing war crimes in Ukraine, the prime ministers of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia called on international partners to increase support for Ukraine, particularly with heavy weapons. This is especially important for the victory of Ukraine and for peace in Europe, stressed the prime ministers.

The prime minister of Lithuania noted the importance of concerted international efforts to ensure that the perpetrators are brought to justice.

According to Prime Minister Šimonytė, the pressure on the Kremlin must continue, along with scaled up sanctions.

"The next package of sanctions should include an oil and gas embargo, the disconnection of the rest of Russian and Belarusian banks from the SWIFT, and putting those responsible for Russian propaganda on the list of sanctions," said Ingrida Šimonytė.

The Lithuanian prime minister emphasised the importance of granting Ukraine the status of an EU candidate.

"Russia's appalling aggression and de facto loss of Belarus' independence have fundamentally changed the security situation in the region. This change must reflect in NATO's relevant decisions," said the prime minister.

NATO must be fully prepared to defend the Baltic States, therefore appropriate decisions must be made regarding an effective forward defence, integrated air defence and early capability building in the Baltic States, emphasised the Lithuanian prime minister.

The Baltic prime ministers agreed to work closely following the refusal of Russian oil and gas, and to ensure regional coordination and the required natural gas reserves for the next winter season using the available infrastructure in the region.

The prime ministers also discussed the regional gas market, the need to step up the synchronisation of the power grids, and other issues related to increased energy security.

The prime ministers noted the need to continue coordination of actions and to act in unison and solidarity.

 

PRIME MINISTERS OF BALTIC STATES ISSUE JOINT STATEMENT REGARDING UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On Friday, 22 April, Prime Minister of Latvia Krišjānis Kariņš, Prime Minister of Estonia Kaja Kallas and Prime Minister of Lithuania Ingrida Šimonytė met in Riga, Latvia, to discuss the regional security situation and further aid to Ukraine, which is facing Russia's military aggression. The prime ministers have also adopted a joint statement, said the Office of the Government.

"We, the prime ministers of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, met in the wake of Russia's unprovoked and unjustified military aggression against Ukraine. We call on Russia to immediately cease its aggression, withdraw its troops from the whole territory of Ukraine and to fully comply with its obligations under international law, including international humanitarian law, and to uphold human rights. We condemn the barbaric actions by Russia leading to the loss of innocent human lives, including women and children," the joint statement reads.

According to the prime ministers, every loss of life is a tragedy, whereas abduction, detention, torture, sexual assault and indiscriminate killing cannot and will not be tolerated or forgotten. It was noted that international efforts are ongoing to record the testimonies of Ukrainians in order to document and investigate the war crimes and eventually bring those responsible to justice.

"We stand united in support of Ukraine, its government and brave Ukrainian people. We reaffirm our unwavering support to Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders. Ukraine is on the frontline of fight for all of Europe and values we share. We will continue providing political, financial, humanitarian and military assistance to Ukraine. We urge our allies and partners to continue to do the same. Swift delivery of heavy weapons to Ukraine is essential for winning the war and securing peace in Europe. The future of Ukraine lies in the European Union. We recognise a clear European perspective for Ukraine with a view of granting the EU candidate country status," the statement reads.

Based on the statement, Russian aggression challenges the whole Euro-Atlantic security. Whereas unity, solidarity, and cohesion, reinforced through the unique transatlantic bond remain the cornerstone of security and stability on the continent. In light of Russia's war in Ukraine the prime ministers commend the indispensable and complementary effort of NATO and EU to fortify Europe's security architecture.

"NATO remains the foundation of our collective defence and the essential forum for security consultations and decisions. NATO is a defensive Alliance and will continue to strive for peace, security and stability in the whole of the Euro-Atlantic," the prime ministers stated.

The heads of Government of the Baltic States also said that at the upcoming NATO Summit in Madrid, they will seek to endorse the next NATO Strategic Concept and to significantly strengthen the long-term NATO deterrence and defence posture, and NATO's Eastern Flank.

"To deny opportunity for any aggression, a modern forward defence posture in the Baltic States is necessary. It would require more sizeable in-place forces in land, air and sea domains. Permanent allied force presence in the Baltic States should build around three combat ready divisions, with one division for each of the Baltic States, assigned for a collective defence operation and able to integrate national home defence forces. Each allocated division should include a forward deployed combat ready Allied brigade with necessary enablers built upon strengthened eFP BGs. We are committed to continuously increase national defence budgets to at least 2.5% of GDP. Additional funding will facilitate more rapid capability build-up in most critical areas, including for common Baltic projects," the joint statement reads.

Furthermore, the prime ministers reaffirmed that they will continue to work together to enhance the security of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Joint efforts in the area of capability building, defence planning and training ensure preparedness and ability to defend the Baltics, if and when necessary, said the prime ministers.

"We will continue to cooperate in procurement of Multi-Launch-Rocket-Systems (MLRS) and to explore other options for more coordinated efforts in the area of capability building. Together we will ensure that arrangements are in place to enable joint procedures to provide military and non-military assistance to each other or several of the Baltic States upon their request. Together we will reduce opportunities for the adversary to exploit gaps in our defence system either in peacetime, crisis or conflict," the prime ministers stated.

The heads of Government also stressed that the countries face hybrid threats, such as cyberattacks, information manipulation campaigns, foreign interference, intelligence operations, lawfare and economic pressuring. Adversaries use these tactics to try to divide the societies and weaken their resolve. They noted that countries must be ready for all types of threats and will therefore work individually, collectively and through NATO-EU cooperation to solidify resilience and ability to prevent and recover from any type of attack, be it kinetic or non-kinetic.

"Each nation has the right to choose its own security arrangements free from outside interference. NATO's door should remain open. The importance of further strengthening cooperation with like-minded partners such as Finland and Sweden, with whom we share the same challenges and threat assessment, will remain our priority work strand," the statement concludes.

 

GERMANY IS READY TO MAKE SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION TO ESTABLISHMENT OF NATO'S BRIGADE IN LITHUANIA – FORMIN

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On 22 April in Vilnius, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Lithuania Gabrielius Landsbergis met with German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock, who is paying an official visit to Lithuania, said the Foreign Ministry.

The meeting focused on bilateral relations between Lithuania and Germany, Russia's war against Ukraine, the security situation in the region, comprehensive assistance to Ukraine, the need to strengthen the NATO eastern flank's defence capabilities, and ties with China. 

Lithuania's foreign minister noted that he appreciated Germany as a reliable strategic partner and thanked the country for its solidarity, significant contribution to the strengthening security of Lithuania and NATO's eastern border, and for the leadership of NATO's enhanced Forward Presence battlegroup in Lithuania.

According to Landsbergis, Germany's timely decision to deploy additional troops in Lithuania sends a clear message of unity and solidarity on behalf of the NATO as a whole.

"Today, I heard the most important message for Lithuania and the whole region – Germany is ready to make a significant contribution to the establishment of NATO's brigade in Lithuania," said the foreign minister.

According to Lithuania's foreign minister, there is a need for specific NATO decisions regarding the strengthening of the eastern flank's forward defence. The Alliance must be ready to defend the Baltic States from the very first minutes of a conflict.

The foreign ministers discussed how Russia's actions had radically changed the security environment and that this must be reflected in the decisions of the next NATO Summit in Madrid.

Landsbergis also thanked Germany for its solidarity in imposing sanctions against Russia and Belarus, the intention to stop importing oil from Russia by the end of the year, and stressed the urgent need to reach a consensus in the European Union on a new comprehensive package of sanctions against Russia.

"I understand that this is a difficult decision for countries that depend to a large extent on Russian energy resources, but it is a necessary one," said Landsbergis.

The foreign ministers agreed to continue providing comprehensive support to Ukraine, which was fighting for the values and security of Europe as a whole.

"As Russia intensifies its military actions in the eastern Ukraine, Ukraine needs all possible weapons to counter new attacks. If our partners are facing challenges in training Ukrainian soldiers to use modern equipment, Lithuania can offer our competent instructors, equipment, polygons, and other necessary assistance. We are already training Ukrainians to use the equipment, so it will be easy for us to expand the training program," said Landsbergis.

Landsbergis also stressed that Lithuania was ready to support all steps taken by Germany in order to protect the rules-based global security order, defend Ukraine, and punish the aggressor.

During her official visit to Lithuania, Baerbock will also meet with German troops stationed in Lithuania as part of NATO's enhanced Forward Presence Battle Group Battalion.

 

DEPUTY DEFMIN AND ESTONIAN AND LATVIAN COUNTERPARTS DISCUSSED NECESSITY TO STRENGTHEN NATO PRESENCE

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On 21-22 April, Deputy Minister of National Defence Margiris Abukevičius visited Riga. He had a meeting with State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence of Latvia Jānis Garisons on the security situation, assistance to Ukraine, joint Baltic projects and new initiatives. The deputy minister also met with Latvia's cybersecurity personnel on opportunities for cooperation in the area, stated the Ministry of National Defence.

"Russia's war in Ukraine has changed the security environment irreversibly. Russia is a long-term threat to the Alliance, particularly, the Baltic States. We have discussed the desired changes in the Alliance's deterrence and defence with the Estonian and Latvian colleagues with that in mind. NATO presence in the Baltics must be significantly increased, so that it would not only deter but also be ready for the defence of the Alliance territory effectively and immediately. We need to have forward-deployed equipment, ammunition and stocks," says Abukevičius.

On 22 April, the deputy minister joined the Lithuanian delegation for the Baltic prime ministers' meeting which addressed the Baltic security cooperation, upcoming NATO Summit in Madrid this summer, sanctions on Russia and Belarus, and energy security.

Abukevičius will conclude his visit to Riga with the Senior Leaders Course at the Baltic Defence College. He will join State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence of Latvia Jānis Garisons and Permanent Secretary of the Estonian Ministry of Defence Kusti Salm for a discussion on the security of NATO's eastern flank countries in the wake of the Russian brutality in Ukraine.

 

ARMOURED VEHICLE REPAIR SHOP TO BE BUILT IN RUKLA WITH SECOND INFANTRY FIGHTING VEHICLE ACQUISITION IN PLANNING

 

Vilnius, April 25 (ELTA) – As the Ministry of National Defence is in negotiations on the second stage of Vilkas Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV) acquisition, The Infrastructure Management Agency signed a contract with Jungtiniai Projektai UAB on constructions of IFV repair shop at Rukla, reports the Ministry of National Defence.

A repair yard for armoured tracked and wheeled equipment and trucks is planned to be built on the territory of the Lithuanian Grand Duke Algirdas Mechanised Infantry Battalion. The facility will also include a carwash, equipment shelter, quarters for vehicle technical service and painting. With the estimated overall area of approx. 5,000 square meter, it will make the largest repair shop in the Lithuanian Armed Forces.

"The future facility is closely linked to the IFV acquisition programme already underway in the Lithuanian Armed Forces which is critically important for national security. The repair yard will ensure technical maintenance of the combat equipment of the Lithuanian Armed Forces," says Deputy Minister of National Defence Vilius Semeška.

The constructions are planned to be completed next July. The total value of the project is EUR 12 million.

The Ministry of National Defence initiated negotiations on the second round of Vilkas IFVs. According to the deputy minister, the contract on additional vehicles could be signed as soon as this summer. Over 120 armoured infantry fighting vehicles of Boxer type are planned to augment the Lithuanian Armed Forces capabilities. Part of them will be armed with a 30 mm cannon and another part – with 12.7 mm machine-guns.

If the contract is signed, the new batch of Vilkas IFVs would begin arriving in late 2023 – early 2024.

 

THE WEST MUST TAKE FURTHER COORDINATED ACTIONS TO SANCTION AGGRESSORS – FINMIN

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – Minister of Finance of Lithuania Gintarė Skaistė visited Washington DC on 22 April, where she met with US Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Wally Adeyemo. The minister emphasised the need of international coordination of further sanctions on Russia, which is carrying out military aggression against Ukraine, and on Russia's accomplice Belarus.

The minister said the West must strive for an agreement not to buy oil and gas from Russia.

According to Skaistė, the leadership of the United States in coordinating international sanctions against aggressors is an example of successful cooperation of Western partners striving to stop aggressors.

The minister stressed that war crimes perpetrated by Russia in Ukraine must not go unpunished. She said Russia and Belarus must be removed from international financial institutions and the Russian regime must be cut off from main financial flows, i.e. the West cannot continue buying Russian oil and gas because Russia uses this income to fund its war against Ukraine and her people.

What is more, the minister underscored the necessity of a large-scale financial and humanitarian aid for Ukraine that would reflect both short- and long-term reconstruction needs of the country.

 

DELEGATION LED BY JUSTICE MIN VISITS THE NETHERLANDS

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – A Lithuanian delegation led by Minister of Justice Evelina Dobrovolska is visiting The Hague, the Netherlands, to meet with representatives of international justice bodies and discuss cooperation as well as coordinated actions of assistance to Ukraine, which has been invaded by Russia.

Cooperation opportunities as well as an investigation opened by the International Criminal Court (ICC) into war crimes and crimes against humanity in Ukraine were discussed at a meeting with ICC Prosecutor Karim Khan.

Dobrovolska said Lithuania's Ministry of Justice took on leadership in consolidating support of other countries for crucial legal processes. Currently, this is a priority for Lithuania.

The minister stressed that justice must triumph and everything must be done so that war criminals would be punished as soon as possible as Russia and Belarus carry out brutal military aggression against independent Ukraine.

Furthermore, Dobrovolska said that solidarity of all countries is key, as well as the involvement of non-governmental organisations and Eurojust, the European Union Agency for Criminal Justice Cooperation.

According to the minister, war crimes must be punished and, therefore, politicians and academics are invited to discuss this topic at an international conference in Vilnius on 6 May.

Moreover, at a meeting with Registrar of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) Philippe Gautier, challenges related to the implementation of the Court's decisions and procedural regulations of cases were discussed.

According to the minister, as the ICJ adopted a decision on the application of temporary protection measures striving to stop Russia's aggression in Ukraine, it is crucial that the issue of Russia's responsibility for failing to implement this decision would be constantly raised at the United Nations.

In The Hague, meetings also took place with President of Eurojust Ladislav Hamran, Minister for Legal Protection of the Netherlands Franc Weerwind, representatives of Europol and Lithuanians working at Europol.

 

MINISTERS OF CULTURE OF LITHUANIA AND POLAND VISITED UKRAINE

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On April 22, at the invitation of Oleksandr Tkachenko, the minister of culture and information policy of Ukraine, Piotr Gliński, the deputy prime minister and minister of culture and national heritage of Poland, and Simonas Kairys, the minister of culture of Lithuania, visited Ukraine. The purpose of their visit is to support Ukraine in countering the aggression of the Russian federation on the cultural and information fronts, reports the Ministry of Culture.

"Lithuania and Poland are great friends of Ukraine, who were the first to come to the rescue. We felt this in disorder and disaster caused by Russian aggression on our land. The war does not make Ukraine weak. On the contrary it becomes only stronger. We plan to expand the boundaries of cooperation between the countries of the Lublin Triangle. The Russian occupation forces are not only destroying everything in Ukraine, they are threatening the whole Europe. Today, Ukraine is in the forefront of both military and value confrontation. Only thanks to the consolidation of the partners' efforts will we be able to resist the aggressor on all fronts," said Oleksandr Tkachenko, the minister of culture and information policy of Ukraine.

During the visit of the Lublin Triangle, countries expressed their unconditional solidarity with Ukraine by signing a relevant statement concerning this.

Piotr Gliński, the deputy prime minister and minister of culture and national heritage of Poland said: "Today we are in Kyiv to demonstrate our full support for Ukraine, to show that 'solidarity' is not an empty word. We were supposed to meet here on 25 February – and we are meeting almost two months later, two months of the struggle of the heroic defenders of Ukraine against the brutal, ruthless invaders. We, Poles, Lithuanians, Ukrainians, the people of the heart of Europe, know very well, due to our difficult past, the modus operandi of the Russian Federation, heir to the Soviet Union and Tsarist Russia. This experience makes us stand together here – because today Ukraine is fighting for its own, but also for our freedom, for our basic values. There is no place for an illusion of symmetry or nuance in this war. That is why we are here today – to constantly remind and show the world that there has been a war in Ukraine, that innocent people are dying, and that the culture, which is an integral, inseparable part of the European heritage, is being destroyed. We want to support Ukraine on all fronts, also in the field of culture. I strongly believe that the entire civilised world is on the side of Ukraine, I believe that the Ukrainians will achieve the final victory. Nowadays, like never before, we have a chance to reconcile and strengthen our mutual relations. Two months ago we remotely signed a declaration of cooperation in the field of culture and historical heritage. Today we are here to confirm our will to develop cooperation within the Lublin Triangle in the field of culture."

Simonas Kairys, the minister of culture of Lithuania added: "Yesterday we heard the news that there will be no session of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee in Kazan. The Saint Sophia Cathedral, which we visited today, is a symbol of the history and statehood of Ukraine, a grand and culturally rich country. We would like to once again emphasise the absurdity of the situation in which Russia is still the chair of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, whose aim is to preserve, not to destroy.

I strongly believe that, together with Ukraine and Poland, we will develop cooperation in the Lublin Triangle format. Firstly, both Lithuania and Poland actively support Ukraine's integration into the European Union. Ukraine already is a part of Europe which is defending our values with weapons and the blood of its citizens. To us, the ministers of culture, it is highly important to speak about the war in the information sphere as well. We must even more actively strive for Russian and Belarussian TV channels to be blocked in the EU territory and solve other matters related to the fight with disinformation. The enemy is always trying to poison our thoughts, our thinking, and then he comes armed."

Thus, during the joint meeting the Ministry of Culture and Information Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture of Lithuania and the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Poland discussed urgent issues concerning:

Establishment of a joint working group to restore Ukrainian cultural heritage;

The need to impose sanctions against individuals and legal entities that support Russian military aggression against Ukraine and continue to spread disinformation about the war in Ukraine;

Provision of financial support for Ukrainian broadcasters of the national marathon;

Provision of Ukraine with TV and radio equipment that will help restore the TV infrastructure damaged by Russian troops in some areas;

Implementation of cultural projects aimed at supporting the temporarily displaced Ukrainian population (refugees), including initiatives for cultural cooperation between artists and cultural figures, provision of books, etc.

It should be reminded that joint events and cooperation were planned between the countries of the Lublin Triangle before the full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine. It is a diplomatic initiative that unites Ukraine, Lithuania and Poland. Within this format, Warsaw, Vilnius and Kyiv cooperate in the political, economic, social and cultural spheres. In particular, on 28 February, the ministers of culture of the Lublin Triangle signed an online declaration of intent to develop cultural routes Ukraine-Poland-Lithuania.

 

KLAIPĖDOS NAFTA REVENUE AT EUR 58.6MN IN 2021

 

Klaipėda, April 25 (ELTA) – AB Klaipėdos Nafta annual general meeting of shareholders held on 22 April in between the other questions approved the audited consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2021, the company reports.

Revenue of the group of AB Klaipėdos Nafta for the year 2021 comprises EUR 61.8 million, 22.8% less compared to the year 2020 (EUR 80.1 million). The company's revenue comprises EUR 58.6 million and is lower by 24.3% compared to 2020 (EUR 77.5 million).

Adjusted net loss of the group comprises EUR -47.2 million, while in 2020 an adjusted net profit of EUR 11.5 million was earned. Adjusted net profit margin of the group is -76.3% (2020 – 14.3%). The company's adjusted net loss comprises EUR -48.1 million, while in 2020 an adjusted net profit of EUR 11.0 million was earned. The company's adjusted net profit margin is -82.0% (2020 – 14.2%);

The group's EBITDA for the year 2021 comprises EUR 26.1 million and is 45.8% lower compared to the year 2020 (EUR 48.2 million). The company's EBITDA comprises EUR 24.6 million and is 48.0% lower compared to 2020 (EUR 47.3 million).

 

LITHUANIA'S GOVERNMENT DEFICIT TO GDP RATIO AT 1% IN 2021 – EUROSTAT

 

Luxembourg, April 22 (ELTA) – In 2021, the government deficit of both the euro area and the EU decreased compared with 2020, as did the government debt. In the euro area the government deficit to GDP ratio shrunk from 7.1% in 2020 to 5.1% in 2021, and in the EU from 6.8% to 4.7%. In the euro area the government debt to GDP ratio decreased from 97.2% at the end of 2020 to 95.6% at the end of 2021, and in the EU from 90.0% to 88.1%, stated Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union.

In 2021, all Member States, except Denmark (+2.3%) and Luxembourg (+0.9%), reported a deficit. The highest deficits were recorded in Malta (-8.0%), Greece (-7.4%), Latvia (-7.3%), Italy (-7.2%), Romania (-7.1%), Spain (-6.9%), Hungary (-6.8%), France (-6.5%) and Slovakia (-6.2%). Fifteen Member States had deficits higher than 3% of GDP. Lithuania's deficit was 1.0%

At the end of 2021, the lowest ratios of government debt to GDP were recorded in Estonia (18.1%), Luxembourg (24.4%), Bulgaria (25.1%), Denmark and Sweden (both 36.7%). Fourteen Member States had government debt ratios higher than 60% of GDP, with the highest registered in Greece (193.3%), Italy (150.8%), Portugal (127.4%), Spain (118.4%), France (112.9%), Belgium (108.2%) and Cyprus (103.6%).

In Lithuania, at the end of 2021, the government debt to GDP ratio was 44.3%.

In 2021, government expenditure in the euro area was equivalent to 52.4% of GDP and government revenue to 47.3%. The figures for the EU were 51.6% and 46.9%, respectively. In both zones, the government expenditure ratio decreased, while the government revenue ratio increased.

 

IN LITHUANIA, GOVERNMENT DEBT TO GDP RATIO WAS 44.3% AT THE END OF Q4 2021 – EUROSTAT

 

Luxembourg, April 22 (ELTA) – At the end of the fourth quarter of 2021, the government debt to GDP ratio in the euro area stood at 95.6%, compared with 97.5% at the end of the third quarter of 2021. In the EU, the ratio also decreased from 89.9% to 88.1%, reports Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union.

For the euro area, the decrease in government debt to GDP ratio is due to an increase in GDP and a slight decrease in the nominal debt in absolute terms, while for the EU the nominal debt continued to increase slightly but was outweighed by the increase in GDP.

Compared with the fourth quarter of 2020, the government debt to GDP ratio decreased in both the euro area (from 97.2% to 95.6%) and the EU (from 90.0% to 88.1%). The decreases are due to the increases in GDP outweighing the increase in government debt.

At the end of the fourth quarter of 2021, debt securities accounted for 82.6% of euro area and for 82.3% of EU general government debt. Loans made up 14.2% and 14.7% respectively and currency and deposits represented 3.1% of euro area and 3.0% of EU government debt. Due to the involvement of EU Member States' governments in financial assistance to certain Member States, quarterly data on intergovernmental lending (IGL) are also published. The share of IGL as percentage of GDP at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021 accounted for 1.8% in the euro area and to 1.6% in the EU.

The highest ratios of government debt to GDP at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021 were recorded in Greece (193.3%), Italy (150.8%), Portugal (127.4%), Spain (118.4%), France (112.9%), Belgium (108.2%) and Cyprus (103.6%), and the lowest in Estonia (18.1%), Luxembourg (24.4%) and Bulgaria (25.1%).

In Lithuania, the ratio of government debt to GDP was 44.3% at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021. It was by 0.8 percentage points lower compared with the third quarter of 2021 and by 2.3 percentage points lower compared with the fourth quarter of 2020.

Compared with the third quarter of 2021, seven Member States registered an increase in their debt to GDP ratio at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021, nineteen a decrease, while the ratio remained stable in Germany. Increases in the ratio were observed in Slovakia (+1.8 percentage points – pp), Czechia (+1.5 pp), Latvia (+1.3 pp), Bulgaria (+0.9 pp), Romania (+0.6 pp), Malta (+0.4 pp) and Sweden (+0.3 pp), while the largest decreases were recorded in Greece (-8.3 pp), Cyprus (-5.4 pp), Slovenia (-5.0 pp) and Italy (-3.8 pp).

Compared with the fourth quarter of 2020, seven Member States registered an increase in their debt to GDP ratio at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021 and twenty Member States a decrease. Increases in the ratio were recorded in Czechia (+4.2 pp), Malta (+3.6 pp), Slovakia (+3.3 pp), Romania (+1.6 pp), Latvia (+1.5 pp), Germany (+0.6 pp) and Bulgaria (+0.4 pp), while the largest decreases were observed in Greece (-13.1 pp), Cyprus (-11.4 pp), Portugal (-7.8 pp), Croatia (-7.5 pp), Denmark (-5.4 pp) and Slovenia (-5.1 pp).

 

LAST OF SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL REMOVED FOR TEMPORARY STORAGE AT IGNALINA NPP

 

Vilnius, April 22 (ELTA) – On 21 April, the last – 190th – cask of spent nuclear fuel was taken to the new interim spent fuel storage facility at the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant (NPP). This is an important phase in the decommissioning of the Ignalina NPP, which was started in 2016 and is now on the way to being successfully completed, said the Ministry of Energy.

"Watching the last cask of nuclear fuel travel to the interim storage facility, there is a great sense of pride – a technically complex project has been implemented. We would especially like to thank the power plant team and the representatives from other institutions who helped to implement the project in a safe and timely manner," said Deputy Minister of Energy Albinas Zananavičius.

With no nuclear (fissile) materials left in the reactor buildings, one of the most significant guidelines of the Ignalina NPP decommissioning programme will have been achieved. Once all of the fuel is removed from the units, the Ignalina NPP will be able to obtain a VATESI decommissioning licence and perform complex decommissioning works related to the dismantling of the reactor systems. The terms of this licence are expected to allow for the reduction of post-operational costs and more efficient dismantling and demolition of buildings.

"The completion of such a significant and technically complex project is an important event in the history of the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant and an expression of our core mission. We aim to become experts in the safe and efficient decommissioning of nuclear facilities as well as in radioactive waste management. We are committed to safely implementing an unprecedented project – the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant with two RBMK reactors. We need to do our part for future generations, so we are moving towards this goal," said CEO Audrius Kamienas.  

The design storage time for casks is 50 years. In accordance with the provisions of the Radioactive Waste Management Development Programme, at the end of the temporary storage period, the spent nuclear fuel is planned to be placed in a deep repository along with the other long-lived radioactive waste.

The metal-concrete CONSTOR® RBMK-1500/M2 storage casks have a height of 4.5 m and a diameter of 2.6 m; one fully loaded cask weighs 118 tonnes and holds 91 fuel assemblies.

During the entire operation period of the Ignalina NPP, 21,571 heat-generating nuclear fuel assemblies were used – 6,016 are stored in the old storage facility and 15,555 are stored in the new storage facility.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Monday, April 25

-- President Gitanas Nausėda:

-- -- to give an interview to Good Morning Britain (Presidential Palace, 9:00);

-- -- to have a working meet with Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas and Chief of Defence Valdemaras Rupšys, 11:00);

-- -- to see off the Lithuanian delegation to Summer Deaflympics in Brazil (Presidential Palace, 15:00).

-- Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen:

-- -- to arrive at Berlin Brandenburg Airport, Germany (15:00);

-- -- to meet with Annett Witte, the head of the Friedrich Naumann Foundation for Freedom, and Professor Karl-Heinz Paqué, the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Foundation (16:15);

-- -- to meet with the Lithuanian community at the Embassy of Lithuania in Germany (19:00).

-- Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė:

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (8:30);

-- -- to hold a working meeting (9:00);

-- -- to attend an informal meeting of ministers (10:00);

-- -- to attend a sitting of the Government (10:30);

-- -- to deliver a welcoming speech at the annual conference of the Lithuanian Confederation of Industrialists (11:00);

-- -- to meet with PKN Orlen President Daniel Obajtek (13:00);

-- -- to attend a meeting of the project supervision commission for the construction of the physical barrier at the border with Belarus (14:00).

BUSINESS

-- The annual conference of the Lithuanian Confederation of Industrialists (LPK) to take place in Vilnius (Hilton Garden Inn Vilnius City Centre, Gedimino 44B, 11:00).

-- END.

Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA

文件 ELTA000020220425ei4p000b5


Russia must be pushed out of the Donbas region, the chairman of the Defence...
1112 字
2022 年 4 月 27 日 13:27 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
Russia must be pushed out of the Donbas region, the chairman of the Defence Committee has said.

Conservative MP Tobias Ellwood told Sky News: "The unanswered question I hope the Foreign Secretary will address is what are we collectively trying to achieve? What is mission success?

"Given the threat is not just to Ukraine but well beyond that this is game-changing, what we're experiencing here in European security.

"Putin must strategically fail in Ukraine, and if we allow him to survive, he will regroup and attempt to advance his sphere of influence way beyond Ukraine in the future.

"So we need to be very, very clear what our mission is - it must be to push Russia completely out of the Donbas region."

Russian aggression should not prevent Finland from joining Nato, the chairman of the Defence Committee has said.

Conservative MP Tobias Ellwood told Sky News: "Nato is very much a defensive alliance - if and until threatened - if people have been wanting to join Nato that is their right.

"And absolutely, it will be important to Nato to include them in this alliance. It will, I think, almost double the actual border line between Nato and Russia itself.

"That is something that Russia will have to come to terms with, but we shouldn't cede to Russian aggression and allow Russia to exploit our weaknesses, which is exactly what Putin has been doing."

Dominic Raab was non-committal when asked if Liz Truss was right to say that the West should supply warplanes to Ukraine.

The Justice Secretary told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I certainly don't think we should be... avoiding providing support to Ukraine at this critical moment in the war. And the Foreign Secretary is right about that."

Pressed on whether she was right about providing the planes specifically, he said: "We need to listen very carefully to what the Ukrainians need and help with our allies to provide them with the military support, so that they win and so that (Vladimir) Putin loses, and that's part of it, so is the sanctions."

The Kremlin is sanctioning 287 British MPs in a retaliatory move against the UK's action over the Ukrainian invasion, according to a statement from the Russian foreign ministry.

A translation of a statement reported by the state-owned Russian news agency RIA Novosti read: "In response to the decision taken on March 11 this year by the British government to include 386 deputies of the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation on the sanctions list, on the basis of reciprocity, personal restrictions are being introduced against 287 members of the House of Commons of the British Parliament.

"These persons, who are now banned from entering the Russian Federation, took the most active part in the establishment of anti-Russian sanctions instruments in London, contribute to the groundless whipping up of Russophobic hysteria in the UK.

"The hostile rhetoric and far-fetched accusations coming from the lips of British parliamentarians not only condone the hostile course of London, aimed at demonising our country and its international isolation, but are also used by opponents of a mutually respectful dialogue with Russia to undermine the foundation of bilateral cooperation."

Boris Johnson told MPs reportedly sanctioned by Russia to "regard it as a badge of honour".

Conservative MP Ben Everitt (Milton Keynes North) said at PMQs: "Within the last hour or so it's been reported that 287 members of this House have been sanctioned by the Russian state.

"Now I'm sure nobody here is rushing to change their summer holiday plans, but perhaps the Prime Minister will assure us that he will continue his excellent relationship with President (Volodymyr) Zelensky and continue to provide the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian military with the support that they need?"

The Prime Minister said: "It's I think no disrespect to those who haven't been sanctioned, when I say that all those 287 should regard it as a badge of honour.

"And what we will do is keep up our robust and principled support for the Ukrainian people and their right to protect their lives, their families, and to defend themselves.

"That's what this country is doing, and that has the overwhelming support, I think, of the whole House."

An MP joked he was "distressed" not to be included in Russian sanctions against MPs, as Commons Speaker Sir Lindsay Hoyle said he was "alarmed" by reports of the sanctions.

Conservative MP and former whip Michael Fabricant (Lichfield) raised a point of order in the Commons, said: "The Interfax news agency under an hour ago in Moscow announced that the foreign ministry of the Russian government will now sanction 287 members and former members of the House of Commons, from both sides of this House. I'm proud to say, Mr Speaker, that both you and I are on that list."

He asked what advice Sir Lindsay would give to MPs. Sir Lindsay said: "I am of course alarmed to hear what is reported to the chamber. Rather than give a kneejerk reaction now, I'm sure the Government will rapidly be assessing the implications of this move. I am therefore asking the Government to keep me and the House authorities briefed on this very important issue."

He said he would ensure MPs are "kept informed as appropriate".

Labour MP Chris Bryant (Rhondda) said: "I'm absolutely distressed that I'm not on the list. And, if I'm honest, slightly surprised, I can only assume that the Russian Federation accepts that every single thing that I have said about President (Vladimir) Putin over the last few years is true. He is a barbarous villain and we must make sure that he fails."

Downing Street would not rule out training Ukrainian pilots or sending British jets to eastern Europe to "backfill" for allies who supply jets to Kyiv.

"Whilst there are no plans to send things like planes from the UK, certainly we want to work with other countries to ensure that Ukraine has the equipment that it needs," the Prime Minister's official spokesman said.

The Government was "not ruling anything out" but there were "specific challenges" with the type of equipment operated by the UK, the Ukrainian air force predominantly relies on jets from the Soviet era.

Former minister Andrew Murrison said he was "delighted" to be sanctioned by Russia.

"I assume written notification will follow which I'll frame and hang in the appropriate place," the former Foreign Office and defence minister said.

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220427ei4r0028l


Kemira Oyj - Q1 2022 Conference call transcript
Kemira Oyj published this content on 27 Apr 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 27 Apr 2022 14:21:51 UTC.
3260 字
2022 年 4 月 27 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/33DFE46B099588AC42767174638B9B3BC91FE07F]

Q1 2022 Conference call transcript

REFINITIV STREETEVENTS

EDITED TRANSCRIPT

KEMIRA.HE - Q1 2022 Kemira Oyj Earnings Call

EVENT DATE/TIME: APRIL 27, 2022 / 7:30AM GMT

REFINITIV STREETEVENTS | www.refinitiv.com[https://www.refinitiv.com/] | Contact Us[https://www.refinitiv.com/en/contact-us]

CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS

Jari Rosendal Kemira Oyj - Chairman of Management Board, President & CEO Mikko Pohjala Kemira Oyj - VP of IR

Petri Castren Kemira Oyj - CFO & Member of Management Board

CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS

Harri Taittonen Nordea Markets, Research Division - Senior Director & Sector Coordinator

PRESENTATION

Mikko Pohjala - Kemira Oyj - VP of IR

Operator^ Good morning everyone and welcome to Kemira's Q1 2022 Results Webcast. My name is Mikko Pohjala from Kemira's Investor Relations. And I'm accompanied by President and CEO, Jari Rosendal; as well as our CFO, Petri Castren here and thank you. Earlier today, we published our Q1 report and we had a strong start to the year. First you will hear a short update by Jari and Petri and then we have reserved more timeyouâ €™ re your questions after that which you can present either via the teleconference or then via the webcast tool.

With that, Jari, I'll hand it over to you.

Jari Rosendal - Kemira Oyj - Chairman of Management Board, President & CEO

Okay, thanks Mikko. Welcome from my point of view also. I said we had a good and strong start to the year with good demand from all of our business areas. Inflation continued high and as we have previously said, we expected it to be high for the first half of the year, but obviously doing due to the Ukrainian war situation, it will be intensifying during the year yet to be seen how it will play out. Sales did catch up with higher raw material cost, but due to the new inflation pressures that we see coming, that game continues, and we need to be vigilant with that. So still a good start to the year.

So a summary of Q1 record hide revenue and operative EBITDA. In absolute numbers due the war started in late February, we announced discontinuing our deliveries to Russia and Belarus on first of March 5 days into the crisis. And on fourth of April then EU in its fifth sanction package banned exports for most of our goods, so now we can't even deliver.

The revenue from mainly Russia from last year was roughly 3% of the group total revenue. So a small impact not a huge one. During Q1, we also had our Annual General Meeting and dividend payment of EUR 0.58 cents was decided and half of that has been already delivered or paid out in seventh of April. Our '22 full year, Outlook is unchanged.

Then going into the Q1 main figures, so revenue, a new record EUR 768 million and up year-on-year 27%, operative EBITDA EUR 120 million that also a record with a margin of 15.6 and goes to show that yes we have caught up with pricing but not gone above the pricing on catching so much value from that part of drop through. Sales prices increased completely compensated mostly for the raw material prices but we still have work to do on that area. EPS for the first quarter EUR 0.26.

Pulp and Paper had a strong quarter demand was strong from all areas of business and customer segments. Volumes came slightly down, mainly due to a prolonged strike here in Finland by a large customer. That strike ended now into on 22nd of April. High assess prices coming in but we are working also to on contract structures and pricing check intervals with the customers to balance that out better when going up on raw materials. Public paper revenue for the quarter EUR 447 million and operative EBITDA EUR 71 million with 16.0 margin.

Then industry and water did also well and oil and gas now clearly from a volume point of view has recovered, water business continues to be our stronghold and backbone. Municipal market continues to be solid and the industrial markets also strong in water treatment.

Oil and Gas share market demand has recovered. Margins are still where we want them to be but going to the right direction. organic growth for I&W 31% driven by sales prices and added volumes mainly from oil and gas revenue EUR 322 million and operative EBITDA EUR 49 million and 15.2% of revenue. Q1 is seasonally a bit weaker for I&W that's good too note.

Then a bit more detail on oil and gas which is part of the I&W segment. And this sort of bit more information as to the situation due to the war has changed in the oil and gas energy sector.

Say share market in North America continued to grow as oil prices are high close to $100 a barrel demand from chemical enhanced oil recovery customers remain solid. And also Sterling's business did not happen during Q1 due to the winter weather. But now deliveries have started already in April. Growth obviously in oil and gas very strong year-on-year but you can see from the graph that the revenue is now exceeding comparable level in 2019. Also from the upper right hand graph, you can see how the rig count and the frack crew count is developing to positive direction. Profitability for our oil and gas business is improving, but still work to do in that area.

Bit more than on the Ukraine war situation. As said we discontinued our deliveries to Russia, Belarus in early March and now we are on the sanctions list as of a couple of weeks back so that business cannot even anymore happen. We don't have any manufacturing assets in Russia, Belarus or Ukraine. They are pure export markets for us. And we have mainly exported from Finland, but some other European countries have done deliveries to the area also.

We didn't have meaningful sourcing from those regions. And we are now using alternative sources and finding alternative sources for raw materials. Kemira uses natural gas in some of them are many sites in Europe and some are dependent on it. So we do have exposure, but in our view the exposure comes more from our supply chain and the customers who use significantly natural gas and some very dependent on the Russian deliveries.

So at the moment, accelerate the inflation which we didn't really see in Q1. But probably we'll see in the future is the biggest impact. And I'm really pleased about our organization's capability to react really fast. We were in hours and days in crisis management mode and we're able to react to this and mitigate the impacts really, really fast and that's the nature of Kemira organization.

With my short comments, key operative focus areas for going forward. So following to mitigate the impacts of the war and ensure delivery, reliability to our customers. Focus on employee stakeholder safety is high on our list. We continue to focus on profitable growth and especially our biobased strategy, sort of continuation and I again mentioned the delivery reliability because markets are very strong. And now even the Chinese COVID situation Shanghai lockdown is then the next possible challenge. We didn't see that in Q1 yet. Only 60% of world's biggest port share in Shanghai is operational.

So, mitigate the inflation ensure operational agility to react to situation and capture market demand. And we continue to construct the expansions of ASA line in China, bleach line in Uruguay, and ramp up then the plans that we started up last year.

I'll conclude my short comments here and I expected to continue with the financials. Petri please.

Petri Castren - Kemira Oyj - CFO & Member of Management Board

Thank you Jari and good morning, good morning for me as well. So obviously market environment has become very much challenging and very difficult to predict. And therefore the agility and responsiveness has become really more important than ever. And against that backdrop, we have really gotten off to a good start for the year. Again, points that I will emphasize during the next few minutes are the inflationary pressures they have accelerated during the quarter and are expected to continue. So I'll share some data about that. Obviously, on the sort of a net pricing versus variable cost, we have now turned to positive territory for the first time since 2020, and that's a big positive and a very good outcome. And then let's not and we will need to touch on some of the external risks that we have considered when we are giving our outlook for the rest of the year. But starting with a traditional profitability bridge, so 27% revenue increase 23% of it came out of volume and then about 4% FX impact, which basically means that volume was roughly flat. And volumes were down in our Pulp and Paper segment but the strike that Jari was talking about was clearly any impact on that, as well as some of the Russia deliveries that were the last for the month of March. So if one was to normalize for these impact, we would have had modest volume increase in Pulp and Paper as well. In I&W we did see volume increase as again as Jari was saying driven by oil and gas.

Variable cost is obviously a big thing, 122 million year-on-year. That's a well over 30% rate of increase year-on-year. So I've been with Kemira for 8 years and some clearly the fastest inflation that we have seen, seen and really require a very dramatic pricing actions from our teams, which we have done quite well. And we have seen it accelerating. So from Q4 of last year to Q1, the price increases over 10%. So if you were to analyze that's a 40% rate. And in fact, as the market continues to pay challenges, so we see another 10% or 10% plus increase for Q2 versus Q1. And that's really, as far as we can estimate the market is so uncertain. We hope to see some stabilization but really, it's difficult to estimate longer term inflationary or raw material impact.

Energy alone represents almost 30 million out of the 122 million on a year-on-year increase. Though, obviously, the big positive is that for the first time since 2020, we have now a positive net, although the drop through margin that Jari mentioned is still weak. So out of the 160 million of additional revenue, we're getting something like 15 million of additional EBITDA which is sort of a fairly modest drop through.

FX and increased fixed costs played a relatively minor role compared to the price and cost impact and there's those were largely offsetting each other. And in fact, I would, I'm quite happy that we have been able to offset the inflationary pressures on salary side and on fixed costs quite well. So we're really the fixed cost increases below the overall inflation as we see so far at least.

Then I talked about the operating side of the Russia a little bit more on the financial side of the Russia. And Ukraine war situation to us. Fortunately, our exposure to Russia is relatively modest. So last year, we derived 3% of our revenue from Russia. We have a sales subsidiary with approximately 50 employees and no production assets there. In the quarter we took 3.6 million charge and we took it as an item not impacting comparability. So this is not in our operative EBITDA and this charge covers mostly logistics equipment. Rail cars that are at risk of not being returned and also trade receivables where the customer is not paying on the on the back of the sanctions and are not able to pay.

We wanted to be very transparent about our exposure. So the remaining net assets regarding Russia are about 13 million at the end of the quarter. And that's between our Finnish legal entity as well as the local entity in Russia. And that now consists mostly of cash receivables and some customer equipment that we have on customer sites. And since end of March, we've been able to receive some payments from Russia but obviously it's getting more difficult all the time. This we need to soon increase the scale of these charts. So fast is the increase on inflation and other costs. So again, lumping the last 4 quarters, so to demonstrate the impact of the cost the impact is 324 million. And again, like I said it has been helped with an accelerating trend and at least for the next quarter, we'll expect that this trend to continue to the variable costs and again this is highlighting the need that we will need to continue to work with our customers -- customer pricing. And this sort of reminder of last year when we started to see this trend, we were able to compensate a lot of it with additional volumes as the world was sort of recovering and volumes were increasing on the back of the COVID lockdowns that were easing off last year, but this year any material growth we're really a seeing only in our line guys otherwise. The rest of the areas the volume growth are relatively modest, and obviously at risk depending on what happens to the macroeconomic situation.

Cash flow Q1 seasonally weak as I often talked about, but obviously now in Q1 the -- we have tied more capital into networking capital and typically and obviously 2 reasons. One is the volume impact. So very high sales of your size up capital in receivables, but also in inventory we have seen inventory values increase and that ties up ties up capital. There is some inventory built up by design. So we feel that it's important that we are sort of prepared better for disruption so that we can continue to service our customer and that show that he has sort of served us well during this difficult times.

More of a house housekeeping matter we did receive 10 million of excess capital return from our pension fund Neliapila this was already mentioned last time we got this meeting and our CapEx starting off at a modest pace as last year. But we are we're keeping our full year CapEx forecast unchanged. Regarding gearing, operative ROCE, which is the main KPI we use for capital efficiency improved on the back of a strong quarter, even as our capital or capital tied to the business increased, balance sheet somewhat higher net debt but leverage ratio remained at the year-end level.

Few words about energy and so obviously energy has become quite a focal point, I guess one can say at this point. So they are increasing and have become a bigger cost item for us. We now have seen in recent quarters energy increases at the rate of 40% to 50%. Fortunately, our direct exposure to gas is significantly smaller than our exposure to electricity. And a portion of the electricity is really hatched through formula pricing with our customers or through availability of electricity in Finland at production cost.

With that in mind good to note that [19:48:00] has already been producing electricity in on a trial basis. And it's getting ready for commercial launch later in the in the year now currently scheduled for Q3. This also increases the level of emission free energy that we have. So with between [20:12:00] and the additional win purchase contracts that we have done for renewable wind energy. They are actually raising the level of the share of emission free clean energy to 75% in Finland. And again, that's a combination of our nuclear, hydro and now wind energy.

When we talk about outlook for the year, it's worth noting the uncertainties first and as they have increased during the quarter, so inflation I talked a lot about inflation and the rates and the expectations COVID-19 is certainly a risk particularly in China what it might do for the global supply chains, and obviously war in Ukraine. And it impact on energy availability and price just today we have seen some news about gas availability in Poland and Bulgaria, which is sort of disturbing a little bit. End markets are expected to remain good as most of our products are used as consumables in our customers processes. So, summarizing our base our basis for market outlook assumes no major disruptions from the war or the COVID-19 risk inflation pressures are expected to remain strong for the year. Having now the emphasize the risks we are maintaining our '22 outlook on unchanged. So revenues are expected to increase and the operative EBITDA is expected to be within the plus or minus 5% range compared to last year's EUR 426 million.

With that, I'm ready to conclude my remarks, and we're ready to move to the Q&A session. Operator, please.

QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS

Mikko Pohjala - Kemira Oyj - VP of IR

Thank you, Petri and Jari. We actually have already a couple of questions in the webcast tool. So maybe we'll start with them, and then we go to the teleconference line as they have been here for a while. So 4 questions. First one, this is for you, Petri. Could you specify year-on-year volumes in each division?

Petri Castren - Kemira Oyj - CFO & Member of Management Board

I'm not sure if we give them out by segment, but sufficient to say that it's sort of -- with the strike impact and with the Russian impact on the pulp and paper side, they are negative mid-single-digit type of a number. And again, offsetting that positive so that the net impact for the group is sort of flat 0. But like I said, normalizing the pulp and paper impact for the strike, we would have seen a small positive on the volumes on pulp and paper side as well.

Mikko Pohjala - Kemira Oyj - VP of IR

Then the next question is related to sales price increases and variable costs. So sales price increases more than offset the variable cost increases already in Q1. Do you see this trend continuing in the coming quarters? If so, could there be some upward pressure in your guidance?

Jari Rosendal - Kemira Oyj - Chairman of Management Board, President & CEO

Well, now the visibility on the inflation side is bigger than we saw a couple of months ago. So it's hard to estimate, but we have to work on the sales prices and contract structures going forward.

This is an excerpt of the original content. To continue reading it, access the original document here[https://docs.publicnow.com/33DFE46B099588AC42767174638B9B3BC91FE07F].

* Original Link[https://docs.publicnow.com/33DFE46B099588AC42767174638B9B3BC91FE07F]

Disclaimer

Kemira Oyj published this content on 27 April 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 27 April 2022 14:22:26 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020220427ei4r00fwa


Finland will not pay for Russian gas in roubles, says minister
91 字
2022 年 4 月 28 日 11:41 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
HELSINKI, April 28 (Reuters) - Finland will not pay for Russian gas in roubles despite Russia's request for European countries to do so, Finnish minister in charge of European affairs, Tytti Tuppurainen, said on Thursday.

"Finland's stance is clear. We support harsh sanctions...and we are ready to sanction also gas," she told reporters, adding Finland would seek to exit all Russian fossil energy as soon as possible. (Reporting by Anne Kauranen)

Released: 2022-4-28T12:41:36.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220428ei4s02rdv


UPDATE 1-Finland will not pay for Russian gas in roubles
356 字
2022 年 4 月 28 日 13:18 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
(Adds comments, background)

HELSINKI, April 28 (Reuters) - Finland will not pay for Russian gas in roubles despite Russia's request for European countries to do so, the Finnish minister in charge of European affairs Tytti Tuppurainen said on Thursday.

"Finland's stance is clear. We support harsh sanctions ... and we are ready to sanction also gas," she told reporters. "Our policy is absolutely clear, we will not be paying in roubles. It is for the companies to carry this out within their own contractual framework with the Russian company counterpart."

Under the new Russian payment mechanism, buyers are obliged to deposit euros or dollars into an account at Gazprombank, which then converts them into roubles, placing the proceeds in another account owned by the foreign buyer and transferring the payment in roubles to Gazprom.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has demanded that countries he terms "unfriendly" pay for gas in roubles or be cut off.

The European Commission has accused Moscow of blackmail over its demand but in an advisory note last week, said buyers of Russian gas could participate in the scheme if they could confirm payment was complete once they had deposited euros, as opposed to later when the euros were converted to roubles.

Gas is hardly used for heating houses in Finland and it accounts for around 7% of all energy used in Finland, far less than in some other European countries.

Finnish utility Fortum, in which the state of Finland holds a 50.76% stake, said on Thursday its German subsidiary Uniper would continue to pay in euros for gas from Russia's Gazprom via the new payment mechanism.

Tuppurainen, who is also in charge of state-owned companies, said Uniper should adhere to the German government's energy policies.

"We need EU level guidelines for this so that individual member countries would not make conflicting interpretations when it comes to paying in roubles," she said.

The matter will be discussed between EU energy ministers on Monday. (Reporting by Anne Kauranen; editing by David Evans)

Released: 2022-4-28T14:18:42.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220428ei4s038tl


Nokian Renkaat Oyj - Nokian Tyres’ update on the war in Ukraine
Nokian Renkaat Oyj published this content on 29 Apr 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 29 Apr 2022 11:27:21 UTC.
3406 字
2022 年 4 月 29 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/2EA3EF6CB808BA8E740F39DA926EE246613C6024]

Nokian Tyres' update on the war in Ukraine

Fri April 29 02:15 pm 2022 in category Articles[https://www.nokiantyres.com/company/publications/releases/2022/articleRelease/]

Nokian Tyres' update on the war in Ukraine

The company starts to expedite its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe. The Board of Directors changed the proposal to the Annual General Meeting regarding the dividend payment, cutting the total dividend payable to shareholders by EUR 106 million to fund the new capacity.

Nokian Tyres will update this page as necessary as the situation evolves.

April 28, 2022

WAR IN UKRAINE OVERSHADOWED Q1 - OPERATING ENVIRONMENT REMAINS HIGHLY UNCERTAIN

Nokian Tyres held its Annual General Meeting on April 28, 2022. The company published its Q1 results on April 27, 2022.

Jukka Moisio, President and CEO:

"For the past two months, we have witnessed shocking events in Ukraine. We have followed the situation with great sadness and we, along with the whole international community, unequivocally condemn the war, which has caused unspeakable suffering to so many.

The war in Ukraine started to impact our operating environment in late February. However, the year began with good tire demand and in January−March, our net sales with comparable currencies increased by 21.9% and segments operating profit improved. The result was driven by price increases that we implemented in a wide range of markets and products to offset high raw material and other cost inflation.

At these difficult times, our first priority has been to help our Ukrainian colleagues and their families stay safe, and support all Nokian Tyres employees. To secure supply of our products, we immediately activated contingency plans in February, including shipping tires closer to our customers, securing the raw material supply, and transferring production of selected key product lines from Russia to our other factories. To reduce reliance on the Russian production and to diversify our manufacturing footprint, we have continued to increase capacity at our factories in Finland and in the US, and we are expediting our plans to invest in new capacity in Europe.

The war in Ukraine will significantly impact our financial results in 2022, especially starting from the third quarter. Due to high uncertainty and dynamic environment, it is impossible to estimate the ultimate impact on our overall performance at the moment. The sanctions have a significant impact on our ability to manufacture tires in Russia, and thus our ability to sell tires in Russia and in Central Europe.

Our short-term focus will be on adapting to the fast-changing, highly uncertain operating environment, maintaining control of our operations in Russia and securing cash flow. We have a strong product portfolio, and although there will be difficulties in the short term, we will do our utmost to ensure supply of our products to customers. In the mid-term, adding new supply capability to Europe will be one of our key priorities. At the same time, the Board is evaluating long-term strategic paths in the changing operating environment.

I would especially like to thank all Nokian Tyres employees for their perseverance and resilience during this difficult time."

War in Ukraine - Summary of Nokian Tyres' actions

On February 24, Russia started the war in Ukraine, which has caused high uncertainty related to Nokian Tyres' operating environment and manufacturing capacity.

On April 8, the EU announced new sanctions against Russia, which impact Nokian Tyres' business. The sanctions prohibit the import of tires from Russia to the EU, prohibit the export of certain raw materials from the EU to Russia, and limit transportation from and to Russia. The sanctions have a significant impact on Nokian Tyres' ability to manufacture tires in Russia, and ability to sell tires both in Russia and in the EU, specifically in Central Europe.

In 2021, Russia represented approximately 20% of Nokian Tyres' net sales, and approximately 80% of Nokian Tyres passenger car tires were produced in Russia. Of raw materials for tires produced in Russia, approximately half came from outside of Russia. Raw material availability and its logistics will have a significant impact on the company's capability to continue production in Russia.

Nokian Tyres is expediting its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe, and continues to increase production capacity at its factories in Nokia, Finland and Dayton, US. According to the plan, in the future all tires sold in the Nordic countries will be produced in Nokia, and all tires sold in North America will be produced in Dayton and in Nokia.

The Heavy Tyres business of Nokian Tyres plc is not impacted by the ban to import tires from Russia to the EU, as all Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are produced in Finland. Sales and distribution of heavy tires to Russia were stopped due to the war. Nokian Tyres has never sold tires to the Russian army, and the Russian Federation is not a customer of Nokian Tyres.

Nokian Tyres has taken active measures, such as below, to manage the impacts of the war in Ukraine to its personnel and business:

Health and safety actions

* Continuously communicating about the situation in the organization and providing support to Nokian Tyres' employees

* Being in daily contact with the Ukrainian colleagues to help them and their families stay safe

* Donating to humanitarian efforts in Ukraine

Operational response actions

* Ensuring compliance with applicable sanctions regime

* Establishing a crisis management team and activating contingency plans to limit the operational and financial impacts, including shipping tires closer to customers, securing the raw material supply to the factories, and transferring production of selected key product lines from Russia to Finland and the US

* Taking care of the personnel and management in Ukraine and Russia

* Securing control of the asset base in Russia (March 31, 2022: EUR 476.1 million)

* Stopping investments into the Russian production, and stopping all heavy tire sales and distribution to Russia

* Expediting plans to diversify manufacturing footprint by investing in new production capacity in Europe and continuing to increase passenger car tire capacity in the Finnish and US factories

* Implementing cost measures by cutting and delaying activities and reducing discretionary spending

Financial response actions

* On March 30, the Board of Directors decided to change its dividend proposal to the Annual General Meeting to be held on April 28, 2022 from EUR 1.32/share to EUR 0.55/share (2021: EUR 1.20). The new dividend proposal cuts the total dividend payable to shareholders by EUR 106 million to fund the new capacity in Europe

* Taking measures to secure the company's liquidity and financial flexibility

* Leveraging the strong balance sheet to support the company in difficult times

April 11, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES PLC: INFORMATION ON EU'S NEWLY IMPOSED SANCTIONS

Nokian Tyres plc Inside information April 11, 2022 at 10:50 a.m.

As communicated on April 9, 2022, the EU has announced new sanctions against Russia, impacting Nokian Tyres' business. The sanctions prohibit the import of tires from Russia to the EU, prohibit the export of certain raw materials from the EU to Russia, and limit transportation from and to Russia. New sanctions will have a significant impact on Nokian Tyres' ability to manufacture tires in Russia, and ability to sell tires both in Russia and in the EU, specifically in Central Europe.

In 2021, Russia represented approximately 20% of Nokian Tyres' net sales, and approximately 80% of Nokian Tyres passenger car tires were produced in Russia. Of raw materials for tires produced in Russia, approximately half came from outside of Russia. Raw material availability and its logistics will have a significant impact on the company's capability to continue production in Russia.

Nokian Tyres is expediting its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe. We continue to increase production capacity at our factories in Nokia, Finland and Dayton, US. According to our plan, in the future all tires sold in the Nordic countries will be produced in Nokia, Finland, and all tires sold in North America will be produced in Dayton, US and in Nokia, Finland.

The Heavy Tyres business of Nokian Tyres plc is not impacted by the ban to import tires from Russia to the EU, as all Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are produced in Finland. Sales and distribution of heavy tires to Russia has been stopped already earlier. Nokian Tyres has never sold tires to the Russian army, and the Russian Federation is not a customer of Nokian Tyres.

According to the sanction regarding specifically tires:

"1. It shall be prohibited to purchase, import, or transfer, directly or indirectly, goods which generate significant revenues for Russia thereby enabling its actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine, as listed in Annex XXI into the Union if they originate in Russia or are exported from Russia.

2. It shall be prohibited to:

(a) provide technical assistance, brokering services or other services related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 and to the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of those goods and technology, directly or indirectly in relation to the prohibition in paragraph 1.

(b) provide financing or financial assistance related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 for any purchase, import or transfer of those goods and technology, or for the provision of related technical assistance, brokering services or other services, directly or indirectly in relation to the prohibition in paragraph 1.

3. The prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the execution until 10 July 2022 of contracts concluded before 9 April 2022, or ancillary contracts necessary for the execution of such contracts." (Official Journal of the European Union, April 8, 2022)

The company has no further information to provide on the subject at this point but will announce any material direct impacts as appropriate and in a timely manner.

April 9, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES PLC: EU BANNING TIRE IMPORTS FROM RUSSIA TO THE EU

Nokian Tyres plc Company Release April 9, 2022, at 7:45 a.m.

Nokian Tyres plc has received information that the EU has announced new sanctions against Russia, including a ban on tire imports from Russia to the EU. We are currently studying the newly imposed sanctions in detail, and we continue to implement our contingency plans. As we communicated on March 30, 2022, Nokian Tyres plc is expediting its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe.

We continue to increase production capacity at our factories in Nokia, Finland and Dayton, USA. The Heavy Tyres business of Nokian Tyres plc is not impacted by the ban to import tires from Russia to the EU, as all Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are produced in Finland.

April 8, 2022

DIVERSIFYING NOKIAN TYRES' MANUFACTURING CAPACITY - THE BOARD'S NEW DIVIDEND PROPOSAL FUNDS NEW PRODUCTION IN EUROPE BY EUR 106 MILLION

Last week Nokian Tyres announced that the company starts to expedite its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe. Therefore, the Board of Directors changed the proposal to the Annual General Meeting regarding the dividend payment, cutting the total dividend payable to shareholders by EUR 106 million to fund the new capacity.

Because of the war in Ukraine, the company starts to expedite its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe. Nokian Tyres also continues to increase capacity at its factories in Finland and the US, aiming to become geographically more diversified in its manufacturing operations.

In its proposal announced on March 30, 2022, the Board of Directors proposed that a dividend of EUR 0.55 per share be paid from the financial year January 1-December 31, 2021, i.e. approximately EUR 76.1 million in total. The Board of Directors' earlier dividend proposal announced on February 8, 2022 was EUR 1.32 per share.

Comparing to the cost of the Dayton plant, which is around EUR 350-400 million, the dividend reduction would give ~25% of the funds to finance a new plant.

Nokian Tyres is no longer investing into production in Russia. By continuing to operate the passenger car tire factory in Russia, the company wants to make sure that the factory is controlled by Nokian Tyres. Shipments of passenger car tires to Russia have been suspended. All Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are designed and manufactured in Finland. Tires for trucks and buses are designed in Finland and produced in the EU. Sales and distribution of heavy tires to Russia has been stopped. Nokian Tyres has never sold tires to the Russian army, and the Russian Federation is not a customer of Nokian Tyres.

March 30, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES PLC: BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHANGES THE PROPOSAL TO THE AGM REGARDING THE DIVIDEND PAYMENT, PREPARATIONS FOR NEW CAPACITY IN EUROPE STARTING

Nokian Tyres plc, Inside information, March 30, 2022 at 3:40 p.m.

The war in Ukraine has caused high uncertainty related to Nokian Tyres plc's ("Nokian Tyres") operational environment and manufacturing capacity. Consequently, the company starts to expedite its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe. Therefore, the Board of Directors of Nokian Tyres has decided to change its dividend proposal to the Annual General Meeting to be held on April 28, 2022. The company continues to increase capacity at its factories in Finland and the US.

The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of EUR 0.55 per share be paid from the financial year January 1-December 31, 2021, i.e. approximately EUR 76.1 million in total based on the total number of outstanding shares of Nokian Tyres at the time of the proposal. The proposed dividend corresponds to the minority dividend pursuant to Chapter 13, Section 7 of the Finnish Companies Act, i.e. eight per cent of the shareholders' equity.

The dividend is proposed to be paid to the shareholders who are registered in the company's shareholder register maintained by Euroclear Finland Oy on the dividend record date of May 2, 2022. The payment date proposed by the Board of Directors is May 11, 2022.

The Board of Directors' earlier dividend proposal from the financial year January 1-December 31, 2021 announced on February 8, 2022 was EUR 1.32 per share payable in two instalments.

According to the financial statements for the financial year January 1-December 31, 2021, the distributable funds of Nokian Tyres amounted to EUR 742.7 million.

Nokian Tyres plc

Board of Directors

Further information:

Päivi Antola, tel. +358 10 401 7327

SVP, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations

Investor relations:

IR@nokiantyres.com[mailto:IR@nokiantyres.com]

Media enquiries:

media@nokiantyres.com[mailto:media@nokiantyres.com]

March 22, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES' UPDATE

As a company, Nokian Tyres has followed the situation in Ukraine with great sadness and we hope for a quick diplomatic solution to this tragedy.

We are in daily contact with our Ukrainian team, and we have helped and continue to help our employees and their families to stay safe. Over half of our Ukrainian employees are male and cannot leave the country, but we assist them in any way possible given the current situation. In addition, Nokian Tyres has made a donation to UNICEF to help the children in the war zone in Ukraine.

We use all possibilities to accelerate the increase of capacity in our factories in Finland and in the US. According to the plan, all tires sold in the Nordic countries in the future will be produced in Nokia, Finland, and all tires sold in North America in the future will be produced in Dayton, US and in Nokia, Finland. The company is actively looking for additional capacity and aims to become geographically more diversified in its manufacturing operations.

All Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are designed and manufactured in Finland. Tires for trucks and buses are designed in Finland and produced in the EU. We don't accept orders for heavy tires from Russia.

By continuing to operate the passenger car tire factory in Russia we want to make sure that the factory is operated and controlled by Nokian Tyres also in the future. We no longer invest into the Russian production.

We do not want to speculate on how the situation in general will evolve. We will announce any material direct impacts to Nokian Tyres as appropriate and in a timely manner. We continue to assess the situation and are prepared for rapid responses when needed.

On Sunday Nokian Tyres was on the spotlight in the media regarding an analyst call. Certain statements were referred to as they would have been Nokian Tyres' statements. Correction to the media have been made.

March 8, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES' UPDATE

As a company, Nokian Tyres has followed the situation in Ukraine with great sadness and we hope for a quick diplomatic solution to this tragedy.

A crisis management team meets daily, and we are prepared for different scenarios. We are also monitoring closely the development of sanctions and potential counter-sanctions. We have activated our contingency plans to mitigate the financial and operational impacts to our business. For example, we are shipping tires closer to our customers, securing the raw material supply to our factories, transferring production of selected key product lines from Russia to Finland and to the US, and securing transport capacity from Russia with existing and new service providers. We continue to increase production in Finland and in the US. All Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are designed and manufactured in Finland. Tires for trucks and buses are designed in Finland and produced in the EU.

Currently, our Russian operations are impacted by transportation capacity availability, and lead-times to our customers have increased. The operations can be further impacted by raw material supply. We have been able to fulfill the customer orders despite the supply chain challenges, and continue to do our best to serve our customers and to deliver as agreed with them.

Our compliance with current sanctions requires that some of our customers and suppliers in Russia need to change their bank. In cross-border transactions, there are delays and volume is small, as the currency trading is not working normally.

For us the safety of our employees is number one priority. We will do everything we can to support our Nokian Tyres team in this situation. We have been operating in Ukraine since 2006, and during those years have built many long-lasting relationships with Ukrainian colleagues and customers. We have some 20 employees in Ukraine. We are in daily contact with our Ukrainian team, and as a first priority, we have taken measures to secure their and their families' safety as best as we can and we will continue our help to them, both on a personal level and as an employer. In addition, Nokian Tyres has donated EUR 100,000 to UNICEF to help the children in the war zone in Ukraine.

We do not want to speculate on how the situation in general will evolve. We will announce any material direct impacts to Nokian Tyres as appropriate and in a timely manner.

February 28, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES PLC WITHDRAWS FINANCIAL GUIDANCE FOR 2022

Nokian Tyres plc, Inside information, February 28, 2022 at 12:00 a.m.

The Russian military actions in Ukraine and the consequent sanctions have caused significant uncertainty related to Russia, to the functionality of the Russian financial and payment system, and to the Russian ruble exchange rate. Therefore the Board of Directors of Nokian Tyres plc has decided to withdraw the Company's financial guidance for 2022 published on February 8, 2022. Due to the prevailing uncertainties, the Board is not in a position to give a new guidance at this moment.

Earlier guidance from February 8, 2022:

In 2022, Nokian Tyres' net sales with comparable currencies are expected to grow significantly and segments operating profit is expected to grow. The global car and tire demand is expected to grow. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to cause uncertainties, including cost inflation and availability challenges, in the whole automotive value chain. In addition, current geopolitical situation causes uncertainties in 2022.

* Original Link[https://www.nokiantyres.com/company/news-article/nokian-tyres-statement-on-our-businesses-in-russia/]

Disclaimer

Nokian Tyres plc published this content on 29 April 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 29 April 2022 11:27:39 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020220429ei4t00aq5


World news
Ukraine evening briefing: Five developments as Ben Wallace says 'cheap drones are taking Russia apart'
By Sophie Tanno and Sam Hall
835 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 16:18 GMT
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
英文
The Telegraph Online © 2022. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Plus: Russian military helicopter violates Finland's airspace, and Britain sanctions Russian war correspondents

Good evening. In heavy criticism of Russia's military prowess, Ben Wallace has said that Russia is “currently being taken apart by cheap drones, poor leadership and equipment that doesn’t really work”.

The Defence Secretary added that Sergei Lavrov, Russia's foreign minister, “should go to military school” over Moscow's tactical mistakes.

It comes as a Russian military helicopter violated Finnish airspace on Wednesday morning, as experts warned the country could face acts of interference from Moscow as it considers applying for Nato membership[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/01/finland-discuss-joining-nato-wake-ukraine-invasion/].

Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, has divided the EU over plans to ban Russian oil imports across the bloc, with Kyiv accusing any country opposing the move as being "complicit" in Russian crimes.

Below are the key developments from this afternoon-and you can

follow the latest on our live blog here [https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/04/ukraine-news-russia-war-putin-nuclear-latest-lviv-mariupol-live/]

.

1. Ben Wallace takes aim at Russia's military

Ben Wallace has said that Russia is “currently being taken apart by cheap drones, poor leadership and equipment that doesn’t really work”, in heavy criticism of the country's military capabilities.

He made the comments during a joint news conference with Antti Kaikkonen, Finland's Minister of Defence.

The Defence Secretary said that Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov “should go to military school” due to Moscow's military mistakes.

“What we have learned is the so-called Russian military hardware is not really much worth the money they pay for it,” Mr Wallace said.

He added that British-made NLAWs (anti-tank missiles) had helped to decimate Russian tanks[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/31/triumphant-ukrainian-soldiers-thanking-queen-russian-tank-destroy/].

2. Russian helicopter violates Finnish airspace

A Russian military helicopter has violated Finland's[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/05/03/inside-nuclear-bunkers-will-protect-finland-war/] airspace, the country's defence ministry said on Wednesday.

It comes as the country considers an increasingly-likely Nato membership bid[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/14/russia-warns-nuclear-weapons-baltics-sweden-finland-join-nato/].

"The aircraft type is a Mi-17 helicopter and the depth of the suspected violation is about four to five kilometres", a ministry spokesman said.

Experts have warned that Finland and Sweden would likely be subjected to Russian acts of interference as they consider whether to join the military alliance as a deterrent against aggression from their eastern neighbour.

3. Britain sanctions Russian war correspondents

Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary,[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/04/27/lord-frost-liz-truss-has-failed-get-results-northern-ireland/] has announced that Britain will sanction three Russian war correspondents in an effort to crack down on disinformation and propaganda supporting the Kremlin’s war efforts.

Evgeny Poddubny, a correspondent for the All-Russia State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company, has been sanctioned alongside Alexander Kots and Dmitry Steshin, who both work for the newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda.

Both Mr Stots and Mr Steshin have reportedly been banned from entering Ukraine since 2014, “due to violation of the law on the status of foreigners and stateless persons” while reporting on the Euromaidan protests.

However, both have extensively reported on the ground during the current conflict.

RT and Sputnik online have also been hit with sanctions, along with All‑Russia State Television and Radio Broadcasting, InfoRos, SouthFront and The Strategic Culture Foundation.

Read the full story here. [https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/04/britain-sanctions-russian-war-correspondents-crack-propaganda/]

4. EU divided over plans to ban Russian oil

The EU is split after Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president,[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/02/16/eu-abusing-powers-says-hungary-court-rules-bloc-can-halt-funds/] announced the bloc would hit the Kremlin's energy sector with fresh sanctions.

Slovakia and Hungary, which are up to 100 per cent reliant on Russian oil, were granted exemptions until the end of 2023. But it appears that may not be enough to prevent them from vetoing the embargo.

Budapest said in a statement: "We don't see any plan or guarantee on how even a transition could be managed on the basis of the current proposals, and what would guarantee Hungary's energy security."

EU sanctions need full unanimity from all 27 EU member states in order to come into force.

Kyiv has accused any EU country that blocks Ms von der Leyen's plans[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/05/04/ftse-100-markets-live-news-russia-oil-energy-inflation/] of being 'complicit' in Russian crimes.

Read the full story here. [https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/04/hungary-threatens-sink-eu-plans-ban-russian-oil/]

5. Russia 'planning Second Wolrd War parade' in Mariupol

Ukraine has accused Russia of planning to hold a military parade in the captured city of Mariupol[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/28/ukrainian-commander-makes-desperate-evacuation-plea-hundreds/] on May 9 to celebrate victory over the Nazis in the Second World War.

Kyiv said an official from Russia's presidential administration had arrived in the strategic southern port city, which has been largely destroyed in Russia's more than two-month invasion of Ukraine, to oversee plans for the Victory Day parade.

"Mariupol will become a centre of 'celebration'," Ukraine's military intelligence said in a statement on social media.

"The central streets of the city are urgently being cleaned of debris, bodies and unexploded ordnance."

Mariupol mayor Vadym Boichenko[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/12/ukraine-morning-briefing-five-developments-mariupol-mayor-says/] later told Ukrainian television there were ongoing "works" in the city, as if the Russians were preparing for something.

"They are removing signs of the crimes they have committed," he said.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

文件 TELUK00020220504ei54003bi


Live updates | UN: More than 300 evacuated from Mariupol
By The Associated Press
3029 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 23:21 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The United Nations says more than 300 civilians from the besieged southeastern city of Mariupol and four other towns have been evacuated to Ukrainian-held Zaporizhzhia in a second successful operation to get civilians out of areas subject to Russian shelling and attacks.

Osnat Lubrani, the U.N. humanitarian chief in Ukraine, said in a statement that many of the civilians from Mariupol, Manhush, Berdiansk, Tokmak and Vasylivka came Wednesday with nothing but the clothes they were wearing and are now getting humanitarian assistance. She said they'll also receive “much- needed psychological support.”

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the 344 evacuated Wednesday are in addition to the more than 150 people who were evacuated earlier this week from the bunkers under the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol, which is surrounded by Russian troops and reportedly came under renewed fire on Wednesday.

No civilians were reported evacuated from the plant on Wednesday. Zelenskyy said they are trying to reach an agreement to save those remaining at Azovstal, including women and children.

___

KEY DEVELOPMENTS IN THE RUSSIA-UKRAINE WAR: — AP evidence points to 600 dead in Mariupol theater[https://apnews.com/article/Russia-ukraine-war-mariupol-theater-c321a196fbd568899841b506afcac7a1] airstrike

— EU takes major step toward Russian oil ban[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-global-trade-moscow-europe-c6c7a1960b88c363ce5f3eaf0ea07dcd], new sanctions

— Why Russia is attacking Ukraine's railways[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-europe-migration-4129b6c37dfff07ec63ebdbb05ef37a2]

— Russia storms Mariupol steel plant[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-europe-donetsk-organization-for-security-and-cooperation-in-5de7bbc536a8da94c0d9586b95817612] as some evacuees reach safety

— Pope Francis struggles to make progress in Ukraine peace effort[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-pope-francis-diplomacy-europe-83a98bf40d2c51ba8a1de88e847c6e70]

— EU eyes sanctions for head of the Russian Orthodox Church[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-pope-francis-europe-religion-european-union-99cf29b70263256d8a1520af87675a3f]

Follow all AP stories on Russia’s war on Ukraine at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

___

OTHER DEVELOPMENTS:

The commander of the main defending force at the Azovstal steel mill in the strategic Ukrainian port city of Mariupol says Russian troops have broken into the territory of the mill, where limited evacuations of besieged civilians occurred last week.

The Russian government, meanwhile, pledged to facilitate humanitarian corridors from Thursday through Saturday to enable more evacuations.

In a video posted Wednesday, Denys Prokopenko, commander of the Ukrainian Azov regiment, said the incursions had continued a second day “and there are heavy, bloody battles.”

Azovstal remains one of the biggest hubs of Ukrainian military resistance and has been subjected to massive Russian aerial bombardments and shelling. Russian State TV showed smoke rising over Azovstal.

Hundreds of Ukrainian forces from different parts of the army, as well as civilians, remain in the plant’s underground shelters.

___

Sweden’s foreign minister says the United States is willing to provide “security assurances” during the application period if Sweden and neighboring Finland seek membership in NATO.

Ann Linde spoke to Swedish public broadcaster SVT on Wednesday from Washington after meetings with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and members of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.

Linde said there is great interest from the U.S. in Sweden and Finland joining NATO.

Jolted by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Sweden and Finland appear ready to revoke their long-standing policy of military non-alignment and apply for NATO membership.

Russia has warned of unspecified consequences if that happens and both countries have been looking for some form of NATO protection from the moment they apply to when they become members, a process that can take months.

___

A Russian government statement said its armed forces and their allies would open a humanitarian corridor on specified hours from Thursday through Saturday from the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol, Ukraine, so civilians can be evacuated.

The statement appeared on the Telegram messaging app Wednesday and pledged the forces would refrain from military actions, withdraw to a safe distance and facilitate the withdrawal of the civilians to any destination they choose.

But there was no immediate confirmation of those arrangements from other sources and similar promises to set up evacuation corridors have collapsed, because of what the Ukrainians blamed on continued fighting by Russians. A United Nations spokesman said discussions about future evacuations were ongoing.

___

Air raid sirens sounded in cities across Ukraine on Wednesday night and missile fire followed shortly after in the cities of Cherkasy, Dnipro and Zaporizhzhia.

In Dnipro, Mayor Borys Filatov said one strike hit the center of the city. The strikes in Dnipro also hit a railroad facility, authorities initially said, without elaborating. Ukrainian Railways said none of its staff were injured in the Dnipro attack.

Complaining that the West is “stuffing Ukraine with weapons,” Russia bombarded railroad stations and other supply-line points across the country. Meanwhile, the European Union moved to further punish Moscow for the war by proposing a ban on oil imports, a crucial source of revenue for Russia.

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says the sanctions imposed by his country and others against Moscow over its war in Ukraine will set back Russia’s economic development by decades if they remain in place.

Scholz told reporters in Berlin on Wednesday that Russia cannot hope to win a peace with Ukraine unless Kyiv supports it.

“A peace by diktat will not work,” he said.

___

In a video message posted on Twitter, Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba welcomed the European Union’s decision to propose an embargo on Russian oil. He said Ukraine isn’t happy it will be delayed for several months, but “it’s better than nothing.”

Kuleba said it should be clear now “that times for half-sanctions or half-measures when it comes to sanctions is gone.” He says the EU can no longer support Ukraine on one hand by imposing sanctions, while continuing to pay Russia for oil and gas and support their “war machine.”

He also said if any country continues to oppose the embargo on Russian oil, it will be a reason to say the country is complicit in the crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine.

The proposals need unanimous approval from EU countries and are likely to be the subject of fierce debate. Hungary and Slovakia have already said they won’t take part in any oil sanctions. They could be granted an exemption.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary’s foreign minister says the country won’t support a European Union proposal for banning oil imports from Russia in a move that could derail the bloc’s efforts to apply united pressure against Moscow over its war in Ukraine.

In a video on social media, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said Wednesday that Hungary’s energy supply “would be completely destroyed” by an EU embargo of Russian oil, which he said would make it “impossible for Hungary to obtain the oil necessary for the functioning of the Hungarian economy.”

Szijjarto’s statement came as European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen proposed that EU member nations phase out imports of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year as part of a sixth package of sanctions against Russia.

The proposals must be unanimously approved to take effect, and reluctance by governments in Hungary and Slovakia to support sanctions against Russian fossil fuels has placed roadblocks before a united EU response.

Szijjarto said Hungary would only support the sixth round of sanctions if oil imports were exempted.

___

LONDON — Britain announced a further raft of sanctions against Russia, banning the country from doing business with management consultants, accounting and PR firms in the U.K.

The British government also imposed asset freezes and travel bans on journalists working for state-owned media and other broadcast organizations the U.K. accuses of spreading propaganda.

The sanctioned individuals include three journalists embedded with Russian forces in Ukraine: Evgeny Poddubny, Alexander Kots and Dmitry Steshin.

The British government said the new sanctions would mean social media, internet services and app stores must take action to block content from two of Russia’s major sources of alleged disinformation, RT and Sputnik. Both have been pulled from British airwaves.

Tech and Digital Economy Minister Chris Philp said RT and Sputnik “have churned out dangerous nonsense dressed up as serious news to justify Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.”

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says Russian President Vladimir Putin has “completely miscalculated with his brutal war of aggression against Ukraine” because it has led NATO to strengthen its eastern flank, resulted in comprehensive sanctions against Russia, and prompted large-scale military support for the Ukrainian side.

Scholz said Wednesday that Germany is currently considering supplying Ukraine with howitzers, in addition to Gepard anti-aircraft guns and other equipment the government has already agreed to send.

He spoke to reporters in Meseberg, near Berlin, alongside German Finance Minister Christian Lindner, who announced plans to require that Russians who are subject to sanctions have to disclose their assets in Germany or risk fines.

Economy Minister Robert Habeck said the government is also planning to make it easier for Russians fleeing their home country to find work in Germany.

“We can really use them,” he said, but added that there would be security checks to ensure that “we don’t bring a lot of spies over here.” ___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria’s parliament has approved providing additional aid to war-torn Ukraine following a debate that had rattled the governing coalition.

The proposal, introduced by the centrist party of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, was supported by 200 legislators. Sixteen were against, one abstained, while 23 lawmakers were not present.

The vote took place after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sent a letter to the parliament in Sofia. Instead of weapons deliveries, he reportedly asked for damaged Ukrainian military equipment to be repaired at Bulgarian plants and then sent back.

While three of the parties in the four-party ruling coalition had been in favor of sending weapons and ammunition to Ukraine, the fourth party, the pro-Russian Socialists, threatened to quit the coalition if such aid were approved.

The decision also includes Bulgarian assistance for the export of Ukrainian grain via Bulgaria’s Black Sea ports, and Bulgaria importing electricity from Ukraine.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — British Defense Secretary Ben Wallace reaffirmed his country’s strong support for Finland and Sweden potentially joining NATO.

Finland and Sweden are expected to announce next week whether to seek membership of the 30-nation alliance.

“I cannot conceive that we would not come to support,” Wallace told reporters. “We will do whatever we need to do.”

Wallace said Finland was “in a pole position” to join NATO and the British Parliament would be able to ratify a Finnish membership “quickly.”

Wallace on Wednesday observed a military exercise in western Finland involving troops from the United Kingdom, Latvia, the United States and Estonia.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says his country could not accept a deal with Moscow that would allow Russian troops to remain in occupied territory.

Speaking to participants in the Wall Street Journal CEO Council Summit, Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces had halted the Russian offensive in what he described as the first stage of the conflict.

In the second stage, he said, Ukraine would expel Russian troops from its territory and in the third, would move to fully restore its territorial integrity.

Zelenskyy said he would not accept a cease-fire deal that would allow Russian forces to remain in their current positions. “We will not accept a frozen conflict,” the president said without giving further details.

Zelensky emphasized that Russian President Vladimir Putin must agree to meet him to negotiate any deal to end the fighting.

He said it was important to continue peace talks but noted that “until the Russian president signs it or makes an official statement, I don’t see the point in such agreements.”

___

LVIV, Ukraine — New satellite images analyzed by The Associated Press suggest fighting may be ongoing at a besieged steel plant in Mariupol.

The Kremlin is denying that Russian forces are trying to storm the Azovstal plant, the last remaining holdout of Ukrainian fighters in the port city.

An image shot by Planet Labs PBC at dawn Wednesday showed black smoke rising at one side of the plant near a canal. Buildings at the plant, including one under which hundreds of fighters and civilians are likely hiding, showed large, gaping holes in the roof. Debris littered the grounds.

Meanwhile, another satellite photo showed that a recent Russian missile attack tore a hole in a key bridge near Odesa.

Russia has attacked the bridge on three occasions. Though it is still standing, a chunk of the bridge is missing toward its south end, the image shows.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s Interior Ministry says a road crash in the western Rivne region has killed 26 people and injured 12 more. The collision involved a bus, a van and a fuel truck, the ministry said. The bus had been headed to Poland, which has been a key destination for Ukrainian refugees.

According to a ministry statement, the accident occurred because the van “performed a maneuver to overtake another vehicle, and drove into the oncoming lane, where it collided with a fuel truck.”

It wasn’t immediately clear how a Poland-bound bus with 34 passengers on board became part of the accident.

___ MOSCOW — The Kremlin has rejected media reports that President Vladimir Putin might formally declare war on Ukraine on May 9, when Russia celebrates the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II, and announce a broad mobilization.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed the reports as “untrue” and “nonsense” at a daily conference call with reporters.

Western media reported earlier this month, citing U.K. and U.S. officials, that Putin might pivot from a “special military operation” to an all-out war with Ukraine, which would allow him to introduce martial law and mobilize reservists.

The reports said Putin could announce the changes during Victory Day celebrations on May 9, Russia’s most important holiday. ___

MOSCOW — The Russian defense minister has warned that Moscow will see any Western transports carrying weapons into Ukraine as legitimate targets.

Sergei Shoigu’s statement Wednesday comes as the U.S. and other Western allies have increased shipments of weapons to Ukraine. Speaking at a meeting with top military officials, Shoigu denounced the West for “stuffing Ukraine with weapons.”

“Any NATO transports carrying weapons or resources for the Ukrainian military that arrives in the country’s territory will be seen by us as a legitimate target to be destroyed,” he said.

The Russian military has repeatedly reported strikes on Ukrainian depots containing Western weapons. Striking Western transports delivering them would mark a significant escalation in the conflict.

___

MOSCOW — Belarus has announced snap military exercises amid the Russian war in Ukraine, while insisting it would not threaten any neighbors.

The Belarusian Defense Ministry said the exercises that began Wednesday would be used to assess the readiness and capability of the country’s armed forces, and the military’s ability to operate on “unknown terrain in a rapidly changing situation.”

The ministry did not say how many troops are involved in the exercises but noted that their number would be gradually increased.

It said the maneuvers “do not threaten the European community in general and any neighboring countries in particular.”

Belarus allowed its ally Russia to use its territory as a staging ground before Moscow launched its military action in Ukraine on Feb. 24.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian officials say evacuations from the besieged port of Mariupol will continue on Wednesday.

Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said evacuations from Mariupol and three other locations to Zaporizhzhia, a city in southeast Ukraine, would take place “if the security situation permits.”

The governor of the Donetsk region, Pavlo Kyrylenko, confirmed that evacuation buses had already left Mariupol and would stop at three other locations to pick up more passengers.

Kyrylenko said the effort is supported by the United Nations and the International Red Cross.

___

BRUSSELS — The European Union plans to sanction the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill of Moscow, in its next round of measures against Russia, according to several EU diplomats.

The three people with direct knowledge of the discussions were not authorized to speak publicly as negotiations on the sixth EU package of sanctions between the 27-nation bloc’s ambassadors were ongoing Wednesday.

Kirill is a longtime ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin and has justified his country’s invasion of Ukraine.

Kirill has also echoed Putin’s unfounded claims that Ukraine was engaged in the “extermination” of Russian loyalists in Donbas, the breakaway eastern region of Ukraine held since 2014 by Russian-backed separatist groups.

If the sanctions proposed by the EU’s executive arm are approved by EU member countries, Kirill would be added to the EU’s updated list of individuals facing travel bans and a freeze of assets.

A total of 1,093 individuals, including Putin and oligarchs, as well as 80 entities, are already subject to the punishing measures.

— Reported by Samuel Petrequin

___

BRUSSELS — The European Union’s chief executive is proposing that the bloc ban oil imports from Russia over its war on Ukraine, and target the country’s biggest bank and major broadcasters in a new round of sanctions.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told EU lawmakers Wednesday that the sanctions should involve “a complete import ban on all Russian oil, seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined.”

She says the aim is to “make sure that we phase out Russian oil in an orderly fashion, in a way that allows us and our partners to secure alternative supply routes and minimizes the impact on global markets.”

The sanctions proposals are to be debated by the 27 EU member countries. Hungary and Slovakia have already said they would not take part. The two are landlocked and heavily dependent on Russia for their energy supplies.

Banks are also in the EU executive arm’s sights, notably the giant Sberbank. Von der Leyen says the aim is to “de-SWIFT Sberbank,” as well as two other banks. SWIFT is the major global system for financial transfers.

Von der Leyen says those alleged to be spreading disinformation about the war in Ukraine should be targeted, notably three big Russian state-owned broadcasters. She did not identify any of the outlets.

Eds: UPDATES: Updates with no civilians reported evacuated from Azovstal on Wednesday. With AP Photos. AP Video.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220504ei540099d


Russia’s sixth sanction package opens EU’s Pandora’s Box]]
EURACTIV Network
1317 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日 07:33 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

In today’s news from the Capitals:

SOFIA | BUDAPEST | PRAGUE | BRATISLAVA

Budapest and Bratislava are unhappy with the European Commission’s proposal to ban Russian black gold despite being given extra time to phase it out, while Sofia and Prague have jumped on the bandwagon and are now asking for special treatment. 

Moreover, sources said Greece and Cyprus raised objections to another proposal to ban all shipping companies that are EU-owned or have European interests from transferring Russian oil into Europe or elsewhere in the world. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/russias-sixth-sanction-package-opens-eus-pandoras-box/]

///

EU INSTITUTIONS

EU plan to curb foreign state-backed buyers picks up pace. EU countries and lawmakers will on Thursday (5 May) kick off discussions on a European Commission plan targeting foreign state-backed buyers of European companies amid fears of a Chinese buying spree. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/economy-jobs/news/eu-plan-to-curb-foreign-state-backed-buyers-picks-up-pace/]

///

BERLIN

German industry backs oil embargo plans. Germany’s main industry associations have voiced clear support for the EU’s plans to impose a gradual Russian oil embargo, even though they said it would be a challenge. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/german-industry-backs-oil-embargo-plans/]

///

PARIS

French Insoumise agreement with Socialists endorses ‘disobeying’ EU rules. Some EU rules could be ‘disobeyed’, according to the electoral agreement between the French Socialist Party and Jean-Luc Mélenchon’s radical left party due to be ratified by the Socialist Party’s National Council Thursday evening. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/france-insoumise-agreement-with-socialists-endorses-disobeying-eu-rules/]

///

VIENNA

Austria more than doubles financial support for Ukraine with citizen donations. The Austrian government collected €42 million in donations from citizens, more than doubling its financial support for Ukraine. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/austria-more-than-doubles-financial-support-for-ukraine-with-citizen-donations/]

///

THE HAGUE

Dutch face food shortage amid spring drought. The farmers association, ZLTO, fear that the lack of rain this spring could lead to crop failure and a food shortage, broadcaster NOS reports. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/dutch-face-food-shortage-amid-spring-drought/]

UK AND IRELAND

DUBLIN 

Backlash in Dublin after Russian TV simulates nuclear attack on Ireland, UK. Political leaders in Dublin have expressed outrage after simulations of nuclear attacks on Ireland and the UK were shown on Russian TV over the weekend. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/backlash-in-dublin-after-russian-tv-simulates-nuclear-attack-on-ireland-uk/]

NORDICS AND BALTICS

COPENHAGEN

Danish broadcaster publishes bilingual warnings for Ukrainian refugees. Danish broadcaster TV2 published a bilingual title to reassure the 25,000 Ukrainian refugees about the annual siren tests in Denmark. Read more. [https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/danish-broadcaster-publishes-bilingual-warnings-for-ukrainian-refugees/]

///

NORDICS 

Nordic countries want fast ratification of Swedish, Finnish NATO membership. The five Nordic prime ministers gathered in Copenhagen for the India-Nordic summit, where green energy, Russia and a possible fast NATO ratification period for Sweden and Finland were on the agenda on Wednesday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/nordic-countries-want-fast-ratification-of-swedish-finnish-nato-membership/]

///

HELSINKI

Finland plans to strengthen its Eastern border. The 1,300-kilometre border separating Finland and Russia is getting a makeover as the government wants new fences on some parts of the Eastern border and to replace two Dornier 228 surveillance aircraft with new multirole planes. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/finland-plans-to-strengthen-its-eastern-border/]

UK would always come to help Finland and Sweden. The UK would always come to the help of Finland and Sweden even if they are not NATO members, UK Defence Minister Ben Wallace told a press conference in Finland on Wednesday afternoon. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/uk-would-always-come-to-help-finland-and-sweden/]

///

STOCKHOLM

Sweden ramps up efforts to protect Gotland island. The government and Swedish Armed Forces ramped up their efforts to protect Gotland island in Southern Sweden following Russia’s repeated threats and the general security situation in Europe since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Read more. [https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/sweden-ramps-up-efforts-to-protect-gotland-island/]

NATO application: great uncertainty among Social Democrats. There is great uncertainty within the ruling Social Democrats’ parliamentary group regarding the question of potential Swedish membership in NATO, according to a poll conducted by the daily Aftonbladet on Wednesday. Read more. [https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/nato-application-great-uncertainty-among-social-democrats/]

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ROME

Italy eyes Japan for further renewable energy cooperation. Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi recalled the importance of boosting the industrial partnership between Italy and Japan, particularly in the renewable energies sector, at a press conference at Palazzo Chigi after a bilateral meeting with the Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/italy-eyes-japan-for-further-renewable-energy-cooperation/]

///

MADRID

Spanish Social Security breaks record with 20 million contributors. The Spanish Social Security scheme (Seguridad Social) added 184,577 more contributors in April and broke, for the first time, the threshold of 20 million people at work, EURACTIV’s partner EFE reported, quoting official sources. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/spanish-social-security-breaks-record-with-20-million-contributors/]

///

ATHENS

Renew Europe welcomes first Greek MEP who left EPP. Giorgos Kyrtsos, an EU lawmaker of the centre-right European People’s Party (EPP), decided on Wednesday to leave the party and join the centrist Renew Europe group in the European Parliament. The move comes as a result of an ongoing row between the MEP and his national New Democracy party, which belongs to the EPP. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/renew-europe-welcomes-first-greek-mep-who-left-epp/]

VISEGRAD 

WARSAW

Poland wants to become CEE’s main oil supplier, replace Russia. Poland’s largest majority-state-owned oil company PKN Orlen says it can replace Russia as the main oil supplier for Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) as it has the infrastructure, the right suppliers, and enough fuel to ensure a continuous supply of oil to the region. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/warsaw/]

///

PRAGUE

War crimes among priorities of Czech EU presidency. The investigation and prosecution of war crimes will be among the topics of the Czech EU Council presidency in the second half of 2022, Justice Minister Pavel Blazek (ODS, ECR) has said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/war-crimes-among-priorities-of-czech-eu-presidency/]

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

BUCHAREST

Romania ready to give up Russian oil. Romania supports the European Commission’s decision to phase out oil and petroleum products imports from Russia, Energy Minister Virgil Popescu has said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/romania-ready-to-give-up-russian-oil/]

///

ZAGREB

Hospitals in Zagreb ignore law, refuse medically justified abortion. Hospitals in Zagreb have refused to perform an abortion on a pregnant woman whose 24-week-old foetus was diagnosed with a malignant and deadly brain tumour, reviving the abortion debate in the staunchly Roman Catholic country. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/hospitals-in-zagreb-ignore-law-refuse-medically-justified-abortion/]

///

LJUBLJANA 

Slovenian central bank intervenes in housing market. Slovenia’s central bank has announced an adjustment of mortgage lending standards in a move that could spur demand for loans, even as it acknowledged that the housing market is already overheated. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/slovenian-central-bank-intervenes-in-housing-market/]

///

WESTERN BALKANS 

Scholz wants all Western Balkan states in EU, urges Serbia to reform. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz on Wednesday said he wants all Western Balkans countries to join the EU but that Serbia must press ahead with reforms, including on media freedom, before it can join. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/scholz-wants-all-western-balkan-states-in-eu-urges-serbia-to-reform/]

///

SARAJEVO 

Bosnian Croat leader: Holding elections in October is threat to peace. Dragan Čović, leader of the biggest Bosnian Croat party, the HDZ, criticised the decision of the national electoral commission to call countrywide elections for 2 October without implementing any changes to the electoral law sought by Croats. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/bosnian-croat-leader-holding-elections-in-october-is-threat-to-peace/]

///

PRISTINA | BERLIN

Germany supports Kosovo’s Council of Europe membership bid. The German government is ready to support Kosovo’s membership bid in the Council of Europe, Bundestag MP Knut Abraham has confirmed. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/germany-supports-kosovos-council-of-europe-membership-bid/]

/// 

TIRANA

Albanian healthcare workers flee en masse, government unfazed. A recent report has detailed how thousands of health workers fled to Germany in 2020, while Prime Minister Edi Rama has dismissed concerns about the loss of skilled workers in key sectors. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/albanian-healthcare-workers-flee-en-masse-government-unfazed/]

AGENDA:

* Germany: Chancellor Olaf Scholz to speak at the summit of the G7 engagement group “C7”. He will also host Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala in Berlin.

* Italy: European Parliament President Roberta Metsola to meet Italian President Sergio Mattarella, Senate President Elisabetta Casellati and Chamber President Roberto Fico.

* Spain: ​​ EU Equality Commissioner Helena Dalli visits Madrid.

* Serbia: German Defence Minister Christine Lambrecht to visit Serbia as part of a tour of the Western Balkans.

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Daniel Eck, Benjamin Fox, Zoran Radosavljevic, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220505ei5500002


News; Domestic
Sweden, Finland Both Considering Joining NATO; Finland's Military Ramps Up Readiness to Possible Aggression; EU Preparing New Sanction, Including Ban on Russian Oil; Early Results Showing Major Losses or Conservative Party; U.S. Demand for Abortion Pills By Mail Expected to Soar; Hundreds of Storms in Recent Days, Some Spawning Tornadoes. Aired 4:30-5a ET
Max Foster, Nic Robertson, Clare Sebastian, Nada Bashir, Tom Foreman, Derek Van Dam
3794 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[04:30:00]

FOSTER: The huge factory believed to be in the last remaining stronghold in the strategic port city. And fighting there is said to be bloodied and intense. Dozens were reported wounded on Thursday by Russian shelling and airstrikes in the key city of Kramatorsk in eastern Ukraine. The city seen as a pivotal one in Russia's quest to seize control of Ukraine's Donbas region.

And the U.S. confirms it helped Ukraine locate Russia's flagship Moskva in the Black Sea, but denies it had any role in sinking the cruiser. The Kremlin saying it is well aware that Ukraine is getting intelligence from the U.S., Britain and NATO.

Now Russia's war in Ukraine is being felt far from Ukraine's borders. Several European countries, that are not part of NATO, are becoming much more vocal about possibly joining the alliance. One of them is Finland. And CNN's Nic Robertson joins us from there. And we are really seeing the defenses come up frankly there -- Nic.

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: We are. And the Prime Minister framed in a month or so ago, by saying look, when Russia invaded Ukraine, Europe's security architecture fundamentally changed. Finland has always sort of been leaning in towards Europe if you will. It's a member of the European Union. But it does feel because of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, that NATO and its protection is a safer place to be. And we've been to see Finland's troops training with other NATO members.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ROBERTSON, CNN (voice-over): In Finland's forests, the nation's military is readying should Russia threaten war. Arrow 22, joint military exercises. Finnish troops alongside British, American, Latvian and Estonian forces.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I really don't know what happens. It depends on the commanders of each side. Let's see. And if the main target is upwards, that means the tank is destroyed.

ROBERTSON (voiceover): These annual exercises now with added urgency, Russia's war in Ukraine, causing Finland to consider joining NATO.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We want to develop. And if you are in your own bubble, you don't develop.

ROBERTSON: Arrow 22 is all about preparing Finland for potentially joining NATO, in the words of the organizers, for the purposes of national defense to create and sustain international operability.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): Finland's defense chief and his U.K. counterpart, visiting the battle training, success in the forests, speeding Finland's path to NATO membership.

ANTTI KAIKKONEN, FINNISH DEFENSE MINISTER: We have a very good interoperability with NATO, and I believe that Finland would fulfill the criteria needed to be a NATO member. I believe that possible negotiations with NATO wouldn't take so much time because of that.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): Until then, the U.K. pledging military support and clearly signaling political backing to help hasten Finland's membership.

BEN WALLACE, BRITISH DEFENSE SECRETARY: Exercises like this today show that our forces are professionally matched or professionally able to interrupt or operate. And that's a really important sort of strength that fill-in would definitely add to NATO.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, I like the rails, like, he can really hold up.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): Meanwhile, at the back of one of the tanks, camaraderie, the talk not about NATO.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I like your weapons better.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): Troops of different nations trading tips about each other's weapons.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: You guys came up pretty heavy huh.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): Joint battlefield exercise experiences bonding all.

CAPTAIN DENIS MAJEWSKI, U.S. ARMY: You get to hear the experiences of the Finns, the way they grew up so close to Russia. It's definitely an interesting experience, and I think it helps us all grow together.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): After a day of shooting tank shells at each other, some Finnish troops pumped about their prospects should Putin pick a fight with them.

JAAKKO INKINEN, FINNISH ARMY: It doesn't seem logical because if they have already troops in Ukraine, then they decide to attack us, they get their (BEEP) kicked.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): Finland is just days away from deciding if it will join NATO.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

ROBERTSON (on camera): So, that gives you the flavor of the sort of military preparations. Politically, the sort of groundwork being laid for a potential decision is really about -- is really well advanced at the moment. The discussions have been going on in Parliament and other places for the past couple of weeks. And by early next week, we will very likely hear from Finland's foreign ministry. Their assessment of the proposal that they should potentially join NATO. And that is at the moment seeming very likely to tip in the favor of joining NATO.

We know that of the 200 members in Parliament, more than 100, more than a majority are in favor of joining NATO, that's at the moment.

[04:35:00]

And towards the end of next week, Finland's President and Prime Minister will both put forward their views. So, the real expectation is right now, by the end of next week, it should be very clear that -- of what Finland's decision is. And it seems very, very, very likely that they will be deciding that they want to join NATO. And steps coming up soon as well, for Sweden potentially to take a similar decision -- Max.

FOSTER: Yes, fascinating, Nic, thank you so much. They've been talking about this for years in that region and suddenly it appears to be happening because of Ukraine.

Now wave after wave of punishing sanctions have been leveled at Moscow since the war began, but the issues always come down to Russian energy shipments to Europe, which brings Russia billions of dollars. A sixth round of sanctions is taking shape in the EU, the key proposal is to stop imports of Russian oil by the end of the year. But also proposing removing Russia's largest banks from a vital international banking network.

But not all EU members are on board to the proposed oil ban. The Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Bulgaria have all indicated that they would seek to be exempted. CNN's Clare Sebastian is covering the sanctions angle for us this morning.

And when you look at the European Commission's view on this, exemptions don't really work in terms of how they're trying to get through this. But they are dealing, these countries, with costs of living crisis and domestic issues.

CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Max, the EU confirmed to me this morning that discussions are still ongoing in the Council and that's now a third day. And that does signal that the sort of balance between, you know, inflicting harm on Russia and minimizing harm to Europe. That is up for debate, right.

So, yes, the EU didn't really want to dilute this with exemptions to begin with, but they also want to put on a display of unity, and there's a report this morning that suggests they are making tweaks -- or potentially making tweaks to that original text. Reuters is reporting -- according to one EU source -- that they are preparing to increase a transition period for the introduction of a ban on shipping services to transport Russian oil from one month to three months.

So that's not the embargo itself necessarily, but one of the measures they were going to use to cut off Russia. They may now -- according to this report -- be tweaking that.

So, look, you know, we do not know exactly what the outcome is going to be, but I think it was something very important for the EU to begin with, that they're trying to present a united front. Because of course, one of the fears is that Russia is using this to sort of, you know, reveal the fault lines in the bloc and try to divide Europe. They want to guard against that.

FOSTER: OK, Clare, thank you.

U.K.'s ruling Conservative Party has suffered losses in local council elections held on Thursday. Results for England have been trickling in overnight. According to the British Press Association, the opposition Labour Party has clinched victory in three key London authorities. This is the first big -- well, the first British election since the "Partygate" scandal erupted last year. And it comes amid an ongoing crisis over the rising cost of living.

CNN reporter Nada Bashir outside 10 Downing Street for us. I mean, there have been losses for the Conservative Party in London, major ones. But outside London, they've been doing OK. And the opposition Labour Party haven't made massive gains. So, not the most exciting night, but a warning really about what's to come with the general election.

NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Yes, absolutely, Max, and it is still early in the day, as you mentioned results will be trickling in throughout the day even into tomorrow. And as you mentioned there, we have seen some significant losses for the Conservative Party, particularly centered around the south and in London. They've lost the significant city an important seat of Wandsworth in London. The first time since 1970, so historic lost there.

And also, in just the last few hours, the Labour Party has declared a victory in Westminster. That's the first time the Conservatives have lost that seat since its creation back in 1964. Conversely though, we have seen the Labour Party make some gains. Keir Starmer, the Labour Party leader, has described this as a tipping point for the party. But at this stage, it could probably be best described as modest gains for the Labour Party.

Now as you mentioned there, this is all important with regards to the future general election. It is important to -- this is a local election, constituents are voting on local issues. But for some, this has been seen as a referendum on Boris Johnson's own leadership. This is the first electoral test he and his party have faced since 2018. This comes amid the cost of living crisis soaring. Energy prices, inflation rising, really squeezing families. Charities warning that the government's welfare system is failing. Some of the most vulnerable families in the country.

And of course, as you mentioned, there is "Partygate." Prime Minister Boris Johnson directly implicated. He was issued a fine by the Metropolitan Police for taking part in a social gathering when the country was under strict COVID regulations -- as were members of his own government.

And we do know that he is facing three separate investigations. One by the Metropolitan Police, one by the Cabinet Office. And now he's also facing a parliamentary inquiry, into whether or not he knowingly misled Parliament when he told them that no parties took place.

[04:40:00]

Now we do know that the Metropolitan Police have been waiting for the end of this local election in order to release more information regarding the investigation into "Partygate." So, there could suddenly still be more fines to come. But it's certainly a worry for the Conservative Party as they see these results. How this will translate in terms of support for the Conservative Party and for the Prime Minister. We do know the MPs from its own party have previously said that if the Conservatives perform poorly in this local election, the Prime Minister ought to consider calling a vote of confidence with their leadership -- Max.

FOSTER: As you say, more votes to come in. So, we'll wait to see how it plays out. The small parties appear to be doing really well. We should mention Northern Ireland but haven't not gotten any numbers in from Northern Ireland. But there's a separate story there, right. It's about how well Sinn Fein can potentially do.

BASHIR: Yes, absolutely Max. We do have a Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland have begun voting today. So, we'll wait to see how those results come in. But analysts and observers have said that they are expecting Sinn Fein to do well in this election, and that will be crucial. And really significant because, of course, this could be the first time in decades that we've seen the party come to power. And that is hugely significant and of course, this will mean that we've got in Northern Ireland, politicians calling for a separatist movement, as with in Scotland. We know Nicola Sturgeon of course supporting that. So that will be crucial to keep an eye on over the next day when those results come in -- Max.

OK, Nada, thank you. We'll wait to see what happens.

With the U.S. Supreme Court seemingly on the verge of ending national abortion rights, demands for abortion pills is expected to soar. But will providers be able to get the drug passed strict state laws?

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[04:45:00]

FOSTER: The fury over the U.S. Supreme Court likely plans to end federal abortion rights isn't dying down. New rules were held -- sorry, new rallies were held around the country on Thursday, days after the leak of a draft opinion indicating that the court intends to strike down Roe v. Wade. The landmark case legalizing abortion nationwide. But authorities are warning of potential violence. They had tall metal fences put up around the perimeter of the court on Wednesday, and concrete barriers were added just hours ago.

During an interview with CBS, Hillary Clinton warned that the Supreme Court's far right majority could go far beyond targeting abortion rights.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HILLARY CLINTON, FORMER U.S. DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE: This opinion is dark. It is incredibly dangerous, and it is not just about a woman's right to choose. It is about much more than that. And any American says, look, I'm not a woman, this doesn't affect me. I'm not black, it doesn't affect me. I'm not gay, that doesn't affect me. Once you allow this kind of extreme power to take hold, you have no idea who they will come for next.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

FOSTER: Well meanwhile, there's been a surge of interest in abortion pills that could be used to circumvent state laws outlawing the procedure. CNN's Tom Foreman has details.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

TOM FOREMAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): For those intent on ending abortions in parts of the United States, the biggest barrier may now not be politics, but pills, which researchers say are effective, available, and now used for more than half of all abortions.

SUE SWAYZE LIEBEL, STATE POLICY DIRECTOR, SUSAN B. ANTHONY LIST: Abortion activists have been quietly building a whole new business model to target young women on their phones. To click, get information, and receive abortion drug by mail.

FOREMAN (voice-over): The Food and Drug Administration approved mail order supplies of the so-called abortion pills with a prescription this past December for women in the first ten weeks of pregnancy. Advocates insists it is less invasive, more discreet, and just as safe as surgical abortion.

DR. JENNIFER VILLAVICENCIO, AMERICAN COLLEGE OF OBSTETRICIANS AND GYNECOLOGISTS: And oftentimes people choose this for various reasons. They want to be able to manage their abortion in their own home with their family, and you know, around -- in a surrounding that they are comfortable with.

DR. REBECCA GOMPERTS, WOMEN ON WAVES: We've seen an incredible increase of requests help. People are really, really scared of what's going to happen.

FOREMAN (voice-over): That's why some abortion rights supporters, such as Women On Waves, based in the Netherlands say they are already facilitating shipments of the drugs to women in far-flung corners of the U.S. and they're promising to step up the effort no matter where those women are or what the state laws say.

GOMPERTS: What I am doing is legal, under the laws where I work from. And actually, I have a medical oath to do this. I am a doctor. My oath is that I help people that are in need and that is what I am doing.

FOREMAN: In many states, where lawmakers are trying to stamp out abortion rights, the simple truth is they have written a lot of special lines in their laws, to keep outside providers of these pills from accessing their population. But abortion rights defenders say it's only five little pills. And they believe there is a way to get them to the women they see in need.

Tom Foreman, CNN, Washington.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

FOSTER: Coming up, a series of storms have been wreaking havoc in parts of the U.S. bringing dangerous flooding and tornadoes. Where the severe weather is heading, after the break.

[04:50:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

FOSTER: The U.S. is being pummeled by what forecasters say is the worst spring storm season in years. Including this storm system brought an EF-3 tornado to Andover, Kansas last Friday. City officials say around 100 structures were damaged and more severe weather is on the horizon. CNN meteorologist Derek Van Dam has the details.

DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: Yes, that's right, Max. It has been a banner year for severe weather and one way to contextualize that is just how many tornadoes we've actually experienced so far this season. To date we've had actually over 600 reports of tornadoes and on average we'd have about 524. So, we're sitting at about 119 percent of average in terms of confirmed tornados from the National Weather Service.

And yesterday was a prime example. We had two tornadoes in eastern Texas. You can't forget about the wind damage associated with these severe storms that are marching eastward across the southeastern U.S. It is all associated with this cold front. That's the triggering mechanism for the thunderstorms to develop. Of course, a lot of hot humid air in place across that region. And this is going to provide the recipe, the ingredients necessary for the recipe for severe storms to develop once again.

In fact, we've just got the latest update from the Storm Prediction Center. Look at that shading of orange. Raleigh to Atlanta to Montgomery, those are the areas that we need to pay particular attention to the weather today. Damaging winds, large hail and a few tornadoes are possible. In fact, the Storm Prediction Center has identified two particular locations across the Carolinas and into Georgia and portions of eastern Alabama that have a 10 percent probability of tornadoes. That means that anywhere from about a 25 mile radius of a particular point, there is a 10 percent probability of a tornado occurring within that region. So, that's what that that probability actually means.

Here's the severe storms around the 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. time frame for Atlanta and then across the Carolinas by the afternoon and evening hours with a heavy rain threat ongoing across the mid-Atlantic. Weather Prediction Center has a slight risk of flash flooding across portions Pennsylvania into Maryland, Max. So very, very busy across much of the Eastern Seaboard. Back to you.

FOSTER: Unbelievable scenes. Thank you so much Derek.

Now David Chappelle's alleged attacker will not face felony charges. The comedian was on stage at the Hollywood Bowl on Tuesday when a man from the audience tackled him. Police say the suspect was carrying a replica hand gun that also included a knife blade. He is now facing four misdemeanor charges.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

[04:55:00]

MIKE FEUER, LOS ANGELES CITY ATTORNEY: This alleged attack has got to have consequences and this afternoon my office has filed charges alleging battery, possession of a weapon with the intent to assault, and charges relating to interfering with a performance. My office takes protecting public safety extremely seriously and we are going to vigorously prosecute this case.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

FOSTER: Hollywood Bowl is now adding additional security measures and reviewing his existing procedures following the attack.

Now before we go, history was made on Thursday at the White House with the appointment of its first black Press Secretary. Karine Jean-Pierre will replace Jen Psaki -- who will step down next week. Jean-Pierre currently serves as her principal deputy and has been on President Biden's senior communications team since he took office. She described what this promotion means.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KARINE JEAN-PIERRE, INCOMING WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: This is a historic moment and it's not lost on me. I understand how important it's for so many people out there, so many different communities that I stand on their shoulders and I have been throughout my career.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

FOSTER: Jean-Pierre will also become the first openly LBGTQ person to hold the position. Her family includes her partner, CNN national correspondent Suzanne Malveaux, and their daughter. CNN reported last month that Psaki is planning to join MSNBC.

Thanks for joining us here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max Foster in London. Our Coverage Continues on "EARLY START" with Christine Romans and Laura Jarrett. You're watching CNN. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220506ei56000m9


Valtioneuvosto - How can I help Ukrainians?
Valtioneuvosto published this content on 10 May 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 10 May 2022 16:16:51 UTC.
422 字
2022 年 5 月 10 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/D4793D7EFDA3DC7BE2FEE6D1DA38EAC26E619870]

How can I help Ukrainians?

The purpose of sanctions is, as part of other foreign policy measures, to influence the policies or actions of a state or group when such policies or actions are considered a threat to international peace and security. These types of actions can include the dissemination of weapons of mass destruction, international terrorism or extensive human rights violations. The range of restrictive measures includes export and import restrictions, financial sanctions and travel restrictions.

The EU has imposed and gradually expanded sanctions against Russia in response to the illegal annexation of Crimea and the conflict in Eastern Ukraine since March 2014. On 24 February, Russia began a military invasion of Ukraine in breach of the UN Charter and international law. The European Union has strongly condemned Russia's invasion and has imposed several packages of sanctions against Russia. The sanctions have been coordinated in close cooperation with partners.

Sanctions can be imposed on individuals, businesses and various sectors.

Personal sanctions involve freezing of assets. Sanctioned individuals are also subject to travel and transit restrictions.

Export and import bans have been imposed extensively on the energy, defence, aviation and transport sectors, among others. A number of sanctions have also been imposed on the financial sector. The sanction packages also include other measures, such as the ban on Russian flights in EU airspace.

As the territory of Belarus has been used for the invasion of Ukraine, Belarus is considered a party to the invasion. For this reason, the sanctions imposed on the Russian financial sector have been extended to also apply to Belarus, meaning that Russia cannot circumvent the sanctions by going through Belarus. Other sanctions have also been previously imposed on Belarus.

Impact of the sanctions on Finland

The sanctions have a particular impact on Finns involved in trade with Russia. Before the new sanctions were imposed, there were more than 2,000 Finnish companies engaging in trade with Russia. The extensive sanctions imposed on the financial sector will also slow payment transactions between Finland and Russia.

* Original Link[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/ukraine#what-can-i-do]

Disclaimer

Government of Finland published this content on 10 May 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 10 May 2022 16:18:47 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020220510ei5a00dw1


News; Domestic
Russian Forces Target Odessa; Finland's Leaders Set To Decide On Joining NATO ; Protests In Philippines Over Presidential Election; Finland Poised To Join NATO; German Foreign Minister Meets Zelenskyy In Kyiv; Ukrainian Hospitals Treating Patients With Complex Wounds; Queen Misses Opening Of Parliament; Warhol Portrait Of Marilyn Monroe Breaks Sales Record. Aired 2-3p ET
Lynda Kinkade, Nic Robertson, Fred Pleitgen, Isa Soares, Max Foster
7293 字
2022 年 5 月 10 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[14:00:00]

LYNDA KINKADE, CNN HOST: Hello everyone, I'm Lynda Kinkade, you're watching CNN NEWSROOM live from Atlanta. Tonight, shopping centers here in Odessa and renewed heavy shelling in Mariupol. We'll have the latest on Russia's war in Ukraine. Then, Finland edges closer to joining NATO , but what would that mean for Vladimir Putin ? We'll have a live report from Helsinki. And later, angry protests break out in the Philippines after early results from the presidential election.

Well, the mayor of Odessa calls it a cowardly Russian attack against the people of Ukraine. Take a look at these scenes. Apocalyptic. They show the aftermath of a missile strike on a major shopping center. One of several civilian target-hit in that key port city. Ukraine says Russia used new hypersonic missiles in the bombardment, apparently, for just the second time during this war. One person was killed, but Odessa's mayor says the death toll would have been much higher if a curfew hadn't been in effect.

To the east of the country, the last remaining bastion of Ukrainian fighters in Mariupol came under heavy shelling overnight. The commander inside the Azovstal Steel plant says many soldiers are badly wounded and need immediate evacuation. One female fighter holed up inside, a former music student, released a defiant message on Facebook .

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): Can I say that I will shoot the knees of those who spread information that I am gone? People, we are at war. I will outlive you all. Mariupol, we are fighting here. People, do we compose yourselves? How do you like Azovstal? The only thing that I can say is that Azovstal is holding on to the Russians while they are here, we are fighting to the last.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KINKADE: Well, let's bring in Scott McLean, who is in Lviv with more on all of this. And Scott, I want to start with Russia attacking those multiple targets in that vital Black Sea port of Odessa. And this time, using hypersonic missiles.

SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, look, Odessa has been a scary place lately. It is a long way from the frontlines, but the Russians have been bombing it relentlessly with these missiles as of late, for the last few weeks, really. And so, officials there were expecting to get a new barrage of missiles on the May 9th victory day holiday. And frankly, that is exactly what they got.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

MCLEAN (voice-over): As darkness falls in Odessa, firefighters race to control the flames at a shopping mall in the northern part of the city, after the Ukrainian military says it was hit by seven missiles. The sprawling shopping center, one of the largest in southern Ukraine and home to many well-known international stores, was closed at the time because of a government-imposed curfew in effect all day Monday.

It's not clear why it was targeted. Sunrise Tuesday morning shows the flames extinguished, and the sheer scale of the damage. Military officials also say one missile started fires at three warehouses, torching more than 1,200 square meters and causing extensive damage. This is what's left of a sea-side luxury hotel complex called the Grand Patin(ph), which used to be frequented by Russian elites, and it's still owned by a pro-Russian businessman.

Officials said no one was killed or injured. It was one of two hotels hit. The second struck south of the city, in the sea-side village of Zatoka, not far from an important bridge that has been hit several times in recent weeks. The only road or rail connection between the southwest corner of Ukraine and the rest of the country. All of this coming just as European Council President Charles Michel was in the city, meeting with the Ukrainian prime minister.

[14:05:00]

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT, UKRAINE (through translator): Despite the visit of the president of the European Council, Russian troops launched a missile strike on the Odessa region. This is Russia's true attitude towards Europe, and it has always been like this, irrespective of their rhetoric in Moscow.

MCLEAN: Odessa has been a frequent target of Russian missiles in recent weeks, mostly hitting infrastructure, but now increasingly terrorizing residential areas too.

MAYOR GENNADIY TRUKHANOV, ODESSA, UKRAINE: We worked all night to provide assistance for the people, all our units. Now, housing and communal services count the number of affected departments. We will provide help.

MCLEAN: Unclear just what the Russians are trying to achieve here, beyond sowing fear among the civilian population.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

MCLEAN: And the European Union official tells CNN that Charles Michel , actually during that meeting with the Ukrainian prime minister, had to seek shelter because of the air raid sirens, and because of those incoming missiles. Now, three of those missiles, the Ukrainians say are these Kinzhal missiles, this Russian missiles that's only been used twice, this is the second time that it's been used in combat, and there is some debate about the significance of this.

There's no doubt that these missiles are bigger, they have a bigger play load, they have a longer range. But if you ask U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin , he says they're not a game-changer. Lynda.

KINKADE: Right. And Scott, in terms of the scene at the Mariupol steel plant, we know there have been several evacuations there. This is one of the last places of resistance in Mariupol. What's the latest there?

MCLEAN: Yes, so according to the mayor's office, the Azovstal Steel plant continues to be pounded by Russian heavy artillery. This is not anything new. This has been happening for weeks now, with the Russians taking aim at that facility, trying to smoke out the people who remain there. There are hundreds of soldiers, we're told, potentially hundreds of soldiers wounded as well. There are also, though, according to the mayor's office, still about a 100 civilians left.

And this is surprising only because the Ukrainians had previously said that all of the women, children, and elderly people were successfully evacuated by those three U.N . and Red Cross evacuation missions, which arrived in Zaporizhzhia a couple of days ago. We can only assume that those civilians are all men who have been treated as combatants, as with the rest of the soldiers. Now, they have pleaded to President Zelenskyy to try to broker some kind of an agreement, some kind of deal to get them out of there.

And the president said that he's been working on that with international third-party countries that might be influential with the Russians. We don't have more details than that. But there is no word at this stage on when or even if any kind of a deal might be successful. And those soldiers say, Lynda, that they will not leave without a weapon in their hands. They are prepared, as you heard from that 21-year-old medic earlier, they're prepared to fight until their death if need be.

KINKADE: Yes, the resistance is strong, Scott McLean for us in Lviv, Ukraine, thanks very much. Well, stalemate continues in the Russian occupied city of Kherson along Ukraine's southern coast. This area is vital to Russia's plans to gain control from Crimea to the Donbas region in the east. Now, nearby villages are enduring relentless shelling. And CNN's Nick Paton Walsh shows us live for those still trapped there has become nothing short of a nightmare.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR (voice-over): Both nothing and everything has changed here. The frontlines have barely moved on the road to the southern city of Kherson, the first Russian captured in the six weeks since we were last here. But instead, since then, almost everything in between has been torn up by shelling that literally does not stop. Trapping people who physically cannot flee in the churn of a brutal stalemate.

Here, in the village of Shevchenko are two neighbors, both --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

WALSH: We move to the yard as the shells get closer.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

WALSH: Olena (ph) still manages to get down to his wife's basement shelter. She's installed a plank on the way here to help him rest.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

WALSH: They used to get dressed up to go to bed, it was so cold down here. But Manchin(ph) leaving, and she chuckles.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

WALSH: Night spent here have focused her hatred.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

[14:10:00]

WALSH: Across the road is Valentina (ph), alone. Shells always seem to just miss her.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

WALSH: Overwhelmed, yet hauntingly eloquent.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING IN FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

WALSH: It's not so much that life goes on here, but that it has nowhere else to go. These men selling cows' milk, although, that's not what Leonard(ph) has been drinking.

"Hello to everyone", he says, "40 times a day and night, they shell." Barely, a window was intact. Shrapnel flying through the glass daily. Yesterday, was Svetlana's (ph) turn, but she can't leave, as she's waiting for her son to return from the war in Mariupol.

"Our children are all at war", she says. "My son is a prisoner. If he comes back, and I have gone, it's like I've abandoned him. We wait, hope, worry. He is alive, and we will live." On the road out of here, the shrapnel rises fiercely above the warm fields. Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Shevchenko, Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

KINKADE: Well, the war in Ukraine is making the global food crisis even worse. The conflict has sent prices for grains, cooking oils, and fuel and fertilizer soaring. And fruit supplies can't leave the country by sea because of a Russian blockade. The U.N. Food Agency officials says nearly 25 million tons of grain are stuck in Ukraine, in large part because of that blockade. President Zelenskyy is now asking the international community for help.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ZELENSKYY: This is not just a strike at Ukraine. Without our agrarian export, dozens of countries in various regions of the world have found themselves on the brink of food deficit. With time, the situation can truly become disastrous. Politicians have already begun looking into ramifications of the price crisis and food shortage in the countries of Africa and Asia.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KINKADE: Well, Martin Frick is the director of the World Food Program Global Office in Berlin. Good to have you with us, Martin.

MARTIN FRICK, DIRECTOR, WORLD FOOD PROGRAM GLOBAL OFFICE IN BERLIN: Hello.

KINKADE: So, you've described this global food crisis as a perfect humanitarian storm. Explain what you mean?

FRICK: That is indeed correct. We were already in trouble at the beginning of this year. COVID and also climate change, plus a whole series of ongoing conflict have driven up global food crisis. Now, the war in Ukraine is just adding the additional pressure that the world cannot shoulder.

KINKADE: And when you look at how much food comes from Ukraine and Russia, it's substantial. This region is known as Europe's food basket. I just want to bring up a graphic for our viewers. According to One World data -- our world and data in 2019, and this is obviously based on U.N . figures, 64 percent of global sunflower oil, which is of course used in many pre-packaged products comes from the region, along with 23 percent of wheat from both those countries, I should say.

And also we've got 10 percent of barley coming from Ukraine. But when you take it along with what comes from Russia, that's almost 20 percent, 16 percent of maize also coming from Ukraine. So, the longer this war drags on, the bigger the problem, right?

FRICK: That's absolutely right. And if you combine Russia and Ukraine, you're basically looking at about 12 percent of the globally- traded calories. So, the impact is very substantial.

KINKADE: And some 25 million tons, I mentioned of grain is currently stuck in Ukraine. Russia of course has blocked access to the Black Sea, Ukraine's main export route. And of course, trucks face other hurdles. Most men under the age of 60 have to stay in the country to join the war effort. So, they can't export outside the country, they can't leave the country. Now, on top of that, Russia has reportedly stolen 400,000 tons of grain, that's according to Ukraine's Defense Ministry .

[14:15:00]

What can be done right now to help get some of the grain inside Ukraine exported?

FRICK: The most significant thing that could be achieved is actually an opening of at least some of the Black Sea ports. The port cities alone, we have 6.5 million tons of wheat that is blocked there, about a 100 ships couldn't leave the Black Sea with grains on board. And that is double important, that's important because the wheat is needed right now, but also storage capacity will be needed in a couple of weeks when the next harvest is done.

KINKADE: And Russia, of course, is also a major exporter of fertilizer. Fertilizer of course, used in agriculture right around the world. Sanctions are impacting those exports. And on top of that, you've got gas prices at record highs. So, the risk is that the world food supply becomes more expensive, but less abundant.

FRICK: Well, this risk has already materialized. We are basically at 80 percent higher wheat prices than a bit over a year ago. And there's a lot of uncertainty on the markets which is reflected in the prices worldwide. And that is affecting countries who are already deeply indebted and just simply cannot afford buying on the global market with these prices.

KINKADE: All right, we'll have to leave it there for now. Martin Frick; director of the World Food Program Global Office in Berlin, thanks so much for your time.

FRICK: Thank you.

KINKADE: Well, U.S. President Joe Biden is blaming Russia's war on Ukraine and COVID-19 for economic concerns back at home.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOE BIDEN , PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I know the families all across America are hurting because of inflation. I understand what it feels like. I come from a family where when the price of gas or food went up, we felt it. It was a discussion at the kitchen table.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KINKADE: Well, inflation hasn't been this high in the U.S. In 40 years. Prices at the pump have also hit record highs with the Fed raising interest rates, fears of a recession are getting stronger. I want to bring in "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" anchor Richard Quest, always good to see you, Richard. So, U.S. President Biden speaking earlier, talking about what his administration can do to tackle inflation. And I have to ask you, is a recession inevitable?

RICHARD QUEST, CNN BUSINESS EDITOR-AT-LARGE: It's not inevitable, no. No, the prospect -- I was thinking about that as I was walking into the office today. You know, it depends on how you phrased the question. Can the Fed engineer a soft landing? Yes, they can. Will they? Well, that's another matter. Because the amount of -- the amount that they're going to have to do to get rid of 8.5 percent inflation is so huge -- now, I've got a chart in front of me, we haven't had this sort of inflation since -- well, you know, the 1980s.

Another thing to bear in mind, it's coming at the same time as other countries are also slowing down. So, the EU, highly likely to skirt recession. The Bank of England has already said that the U.K. almost certainly will go into recession. China is slowing down to such an extent it will feel like a recession. So, in the great global economics, Lynda, you look for where is the engine of growth? What's pulling everybody up? And the truth is, there isn't anything.

And that is why we are now entering what I believe is amongst the most difficult economic times since the Second World War.

KINKADE: Wow, and Richard, of course, there's a lot of volatility in the markets.

QUEST: Yes --

KINKADE: Last I checked, U.S. stocks are back up after a major three- day slide.

QUEST: Right --

KINKADE: How are they looking now?

QUEST: Well, the thing about the stocks, you look at that. I mean, we were down -- we're up 42, we were down same for the triple stock, up and down, up and down. And the reason for this volatility is new ways of trading. You've not only got consumers who are trading, of course, but you've got high frequency economics type of trading, you've got quantum trading. So, you have a lot more automatic trading systems that spot the trend, make the trade, huge amounts of volatility going through the markets.

Which is why I say -- I suggest, don't look during the day, look at the open and look at the close, which will be an hour and a half or so, which we'll have --

KINKADE: Yes --

QUEST: For "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" because that shows you where your book-squaring is. The truth is that the losses are now so volatile and large, that it gets harder to skirt recession because the volatility in itself, means that we all feel worse off, and therefore stop spending, therefore make a bad situation worse.

KINKADE: Right, and of course, Richard, a key inflation report comes out tomorrow.

QUEST: Yes, CPI --

KINKADE: A consumer price report -- yes, what can we expect?

[14:20:00] QUEST: Oh, you know, whether it's 8.1, 8.3, 8.5, doesn't make any difference. You're looking underneath it. The headline numbers, forget about. Even if you -- even if you look at the underlying trend or the core number, now, what you're looking at is things like what could be causing inflation in three months time? Wages, oil, prices, things that go into manufacturing foodstuffs, that go into manufacturing, things that are being bought now, that where there will be a price point in 3 to 6 months from now.

Because the interest rate increases being introduced now won't have an effect for about 3 to 6 to 9 months.

KINKADE: Right, all right, well, we will tune in to "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" --

QUEST: Yes --

KINKADE: With you after this --

QUEST: Thank you --

KINKADE: Next hour, and see how the markets finish at the end of the day, thanks so much --

QUEST: Thank you --

KINKADE: Richard. Richard Quest there. Well, still to come tonight, early election results, protests in the streets, and two candidates with a controversial legacy. We're going to bring you the latest on the Philippines' presidential vote. Also, the U.K. formally opens British parliament, but without the head of state. Why Queen Elizabeth had to ask her son to step in. We'll bring you that story as well.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

KINKADE: Welcome back. In the Philippines, people are taking to the streets in anger protesting against the presidential election outcome. Preliminary results show Ferdinand Marcos Jr . and his VP running mate Sara Duterte winning in a landslide. CNN's Ivan Watson has more on their controversial campaign.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

IVAN WATSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (on camera): We're still days away from final, official results of Monday's national elections in the Philippines. But the preliminary numbers suggest a landslide victory for Ferdinand Marcos Jr . known popularly in the Philippines as Bongbong; the son of the late ousted dictator of the Philippines. Bongbong ran a campaign calling for unity, also with a bit of a nostalgia message.

Critics argue, white-washing the atrocious human rights record of his father when he spent nearly a decade ruling through martial law.

[14:25:00] Also, downplaying allegations of gross corruption, and millions, tens of millions of Filipino voters appear to respond to his campaign message. Here's part of what he had to say to voters after polls closed.

FERDINAND MARCOS JR., PHILIPPINES PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: I wanted to issue a short statement. And essentially, it's a statement of gratitude, to all of those who have been with us in this long and sometimes very difficult journey for the last six months. I need -- I want to thank you for all that you have done for us. There are thousands of you out there.

WATSON: Part of what appeared to work for Bongbong Marcos was a strategic alliance with another powerful political dynasty, that of Rodrigo Duterte , the outgoing, rather controversial Philippines president. His daughter, Sara, was a running mate for the post of vice president alongside Marcos. And that combination seems to have won, potentially, a bigger electoral mandate than any other president and vice president ticket has seen really, potentially in generations.

There have been reports of more than a 1,000-vote-counting machines that appear to have malfunctioned, and that has triggered some displays of discontent, some protests in the Philippines capital on Tuesday. Take a listen.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): We saw the need to mobilize ourselves because we've heard reports of cheating, malfunctioning, vote-counting machines, forms of harassment from the electoral board and police, other forms of harassment of poll watchers and instances of vote-buying. So, all of these are very alarming.

WATSON: The biggest rival to Bongbong Marcos is the presidential candidate, former Vice President Leni Robredo , she herself has come out, not conceding, but admitting disappointment, and also calling on her supporters not to give in to disunity. So, we'll be watching closely to see how investigations into malfunctioning machines go forward, and also into how the various politicians will position themselves as the official vote-count progresses. Ivan Watson, CNN, Hong Kong.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

KINKADE: Well, now to the unrest in Sri Lanka sparked by the nation's economic crisis. Troops have been ordered to shoot anyone involved in looting, damaging property or assaulting officials. It comes after clashes broke out Monday between pro and anti-government protesters, killing at least eight people and injuring more than 200. Protesters set fire at homes and destroyed vehicles. The outgoing prime minister who resigned Monday was rescued in a pre-dawn operation, after protesters tried to enter his home.

He's now at an undisclosed location. Well, to China, where Shanghai is further tightening lockdown measures. Under new rules, residents living near anyone who tests positive for COVID-19 will be sent to a government quarantine center. City officials have also issued new guidelines for disinfecting residents homes, it follows complaints on social media over videos showing workers entering people's apartments without their permission and damaging their personal belongings.

Still to come tonight, Finland is on the verge of making a decision about NATO membership. And if they join, it could be a crushing blow to Russia's president. We'll have more on that story next. Plus, NATO forces are holding training exercises near the Ukraine as Moscow and its allies keep a close watch.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[14:30:00]

(MUSIC PLAYING)

KINKADE (voice-over): Welcome back, I'm Lynda Kinkade. Thanks for joining us.

Finland may be on the cusp of joining NATO . Russia's war in Ukraine has made that once unthinkable prospect highly likely. That's according to the Finnish minister.

The country shares a long land border with Russia. In the next few days, Finland's president and prime minister will share their opinions on applying for NATO membership.

And on Saturday, lawmakers will make the decision. For many Finns, Russia now poses too large a threat to ignore. Our Nic Robertson shows us what they are hoping to protect.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): Through the trees to the left, Russia; to the right, remote Finnish farmhouses. Through clearings, a glimpse of the flimsy fence following much of the 1,300 kilometer/830 mile border that separates them.

It is quite remarkable how open the border appears to be. We are not allowed to cross the field. But on the other side of the field, less than 100 meters away, it is a low, waist-high fence, a few wooden poles and some wire.

For a clearer view of the border, you need to get above it.

From up here, you can really see just how fine the border is, tracing its way across the countryside.

It looks calm. Yet below here, the biggest geopolitical realignment in a generation is taking place.

Other fences?

SIRKKU KORHONEN, FARM OWNER: (INAUDIBLE).

ROBERTSON (voice-over): Sirkku Korhonen is caught in it. Her farmland touches Russia.

KORHONEN: Our land is zero meters. ROBERTSON: Your land is on the border.

KORHONEN: Yes.

ROBERTSON: How do you feel about that?

KORHONEN: Confused. It has been safe. But now it is different.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): For Finns, that change in feeling came fast.

Once tepid support for NATO rocketed as Russia invaded Ukraine, from one third to over two thirds in a matter of weeks.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE). Excellent choice because we need now protection. And it's the best available.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Joining NATO would be that gate to us (ph) that no one will invade us.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): Here in Finland's east, generations have grown, knowing that Russia can be a dangerous neighbor.

ROBERTSON: As local legend would have it, when the Russians arrived here 281 years ago and stormed the fort up the Hill, they spilled so much blood this log was carried down the hill on it.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): World War II commemorations of Finnish dead from battling the Red Army are plentiful, too. Finland ultimately escaping invasion by agreeing to be non-aligned.

[14:35:00]

ROBERTSON (voice-over): At the last Finnish cafe before the Helsinki to Moscow transcontinental rail line crosses into Russia, security, not trade, is the top priority, despite new E.U. sanctions on Russia harming business.

VILLE LAIHIA, CAFE WORKER: If you know our common history with Russia, we were in a similar situation back in the '30s. And I think it would be really naive and foolish of us to remain neutral when we have this much historical background to learn from.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): At the local ice hockey rink, many of the pros practicing sport Ukrainian flags on their helmets. Sympathies strong; similarities easy to imagine.

JARNO KOSKIRANTA, SAIPA HOCKEY TEAM CAPTAIN: It's natural enough (ph) to bring into mind at what could happen because we are so close.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): Captain Koskiranta's focus: keep his team's head in the game. NATO membership, he says, should help.

KOSKIRANTA: I hope it will bring more like we can (ph) a little bit relax and just try to enjoy our lives like we have been enjoying so far. ROBERTSON (voice-over): At the official road crossing, one of the few places Russians can legally enter Finland, traffic is one-tenth what it was two years ago and no apparent cross-border threat; the reverse, even. This young Russian seeking Finland's safety, an escape from Putin's war.

ANTON, RUSSIAN CITIZEN: I think I will never come back into Russia.

ROBERTSON: Really?

ANTON: Yes, probably. I also am trying to avoid conscription because I don't want to die in Ukraine. That is not I like -- what I would like to do.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): It may look like a flimsy fence. But in a few days, when Finland's parliament is expected to vote for NATO membership, this wire and wood border could become part of a new Iron Curtain, keeping Vladimir Putin 's ill intent at bay.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

KINKADE: Nic Robertson joins me now from the Finnish capital of Helsinki.

Good to see you, Nic. Interesting report there.

I'm wondering if there's any discussion in Finland to strengthen that flimsy border?

ROBERTSON: I think there is a real perception and understanding here that, although the border looks flimsy and there are people trafficking issues, which, the border guards that we met patrolling the border, try to stay on top of, they do use high-tech monitoring equipment to detect what is going on along the border.

They can respond to it. It's not the same as having people all the way along the border. I think there is the understanding here in Finland that if Russia does step up the aggressive activity along the border, then, clearly, they will have to put more people on that border to monitor it and perhaps step up the level of technology they have in place.

It's a sort of it -- think of perhaps it as an electronic tripwire. If it's gets tripped in too many places and you don't have enough people, then it's not an effective border. And Finns are fully aware of the limits of what they have at the moment.

KINKADE: Right. Nic, I want to ask you about the German foreign minister, who made a visit to Ukraine, the highest ranking German lawmaker to visit the country.

What were the key takeaways from that visit?

ROBERTSON: Yes. Annalena Baerbock said she had an open and friendly meeting with President Zelenskyy. The Dutch foreign minister was there as well. The conversation, she said, was about ongoing support for Ukraine but also addressing what is becoming a growing global concern and a growing focus of European politicians.

We saw this with Charles Michel , the European Council president, who went to Odessa yesterday, the port that would hit, if Ukraine was not under war from Russia, it would be the port where a lot of the wheat will be exported that's grown in Ukraine to the rest of the world, particularly developing nations.

So we can see a deeper line of conversation now opening with the Ukrainians about how to keep that flow of food going, what can be expected from their crops this year, how much the international community is going to need to step up. That was part of that conversation.

I think it was significant that she was there anyway, given the problems that there were a few weeks ago, when Frank-Walter Steinmeier , the German president, was all set to go on a trip with the presidents of Poland and the Baltic States.

That was declined by the Ukrainians. That sort of put a real bad feeling in the relationship, which had already been testy since the war began. This seems to draw a line under that and move forward. I think that's why she described the meeting as open and friendly.

[14:40:00]

That's the way they want to have the relationship now.

KINKADE: All right, we will leave it there for now. Nic Robertson for us in Finland. Good to have you with us. Thank you.

NATO forces are conducting training exercises in the Black Sea just 160 kilometers from Ukraine. The exercises are making Russia and its allies nervous. The Belarusian military chief says the country is deploying special forces to its border with Ukraine, as a response to the U.S. and its allies increasing their military presence in the area.

NATO officials say the drills are worth the risk of escalation. Our Fred Pleitgen got to see one firsthand.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: On high alert in the Black Sea, U.S. Navy SEALs, Romanian and British special forces practice raiding an enemy ship, an exercise that requires a lot of skill but also, strong cooperation, a member of the Romanian special forces tells me.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (INAUDIBLE) is very important, so all the teams can get on board of the ship in the exact time they should.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): These are among NATO 's most elite units. They allowed us to film on the condition we would not reveal their identities. The raid involves both fast, rigid inflatable boats, as well as a chopper, to land troops on the ship, search it and detain would-be enemy combatants. This drill is part of a much larger special forces exercise called Trojan Footprint, involving some 30 countries, both NATO and non-NATO allies.

PLEITGEN: On the face of it, this exercise has nothing to do with Russia's invasion of Ukraine. But we're not very far from Ukraine's borders at all. And the U.S. has been very keen to strengthen the NATO alliance and show that it's committed to collective security here in Europe.

Romania directly borders Ukraine, where the war is raging, both on land and at sea.

The exercise took place not far from Snake Island, which the Russians raided in late February and are occupying. The Ukrainians, though, have struck back, managing to hit the flagship Moskva cruiser and sink it.

It in the past few days, they released videos of their forces allegedly hitting both a Russian landing vessel and a Russian chopper unloading troops on Snake Island.

The Russians, for their part, claim to have hit Ukrainian strike aircraft and a helicopter. Romanian forces telling us they recently had to destroy a sea mine that floated here from Ukrainian waters. But the commander in charge of this drill says they keep the war next door off their minds and focus on getting better.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's important on the level of training that we reach p .

PLEITGEN: But it is quite real right now, (INAUDIBLE)?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes. Yes, it is real and we are prepared for anything.

PLEITGEN (voice-over): The U.S. says exercises like this one have become even more important since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, to strengthen the NATO alliance and deter Moscow from aggressive moves against member countries -- Fred Pleitgen, CNN off the coast of Romania, in the Black Sea.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

KINKADE: Still to come tonight, injuries from the front line. The human toll of Putin's war on Ukraine. We will speak with the wounded at a hospital, in Lviv, next.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[14:45:00]

(MUSIC PLAYING)

KINKADE: Welcome back.

The Italian prime minister, Mario Draghi , is at the White House, where he's been talking to U.S. President Joe Biden about the war in Ukraine. Take a listen to what he had to say just a moment ago.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MARIO DRAGHI , ITALIAN PRIME MINISTER: The ties between our two countries have always been very strong. And if anything, this war in Ukraine made them stronger.

JOE BIDEN (D), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: I agree.

DRAGHI: If Putin ever thought that he could divide us, you think there's no question about that. We stand together in condemning the invasion of Ukraine, sanction and ration and of helping Ukraine as President Zelenskyy is asking us to do.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KINKADE: We're back to what's happening on the ground now. From schools to railway stations to shopping malls, throughout the war in Ukraine, Russia has consistently hit civilian targets with devastating consequences.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KINKADE (voice-over): This video shows the aftermath of an attack on a civilian convoy trying to flee the fighting around Kharkiv. Police say several people were killed. Also in Kharkiv, officials say 44 bodies have been pulled from the rubble of an apartment building in the town of Izyum.

That town was been shelled for days before Russian forces took control back in March.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KINKADE: Well, the World Health Organization has verified 200 attacks on health care facilities in Ukraine since the start of Russia's invasion. It's a worrying find as hospitals are filling up fast with the wounded from the front lines. CNN's Isa Soares met with patients at a hospital in Lviv.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ISA SOARES, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Dmytro is in shock. His body pierced and organs punctured multiple times by shrapnel. From shelling just outside his home in Kharkiv, a battleground in eastern Ukraine.

At first, he was very tough, he tells me. And then, I came to terms with everything that happened to me. His voice almost a whisper. He tells me he regrets not listening to his elders that fateful day.

How are you feeling? After you know, clearly some horrendous few days?

I never thought that I would say it. You have to protect yourself to the maximum and follow all the rules that are told by adults, he says.

The 19-year old, who lost both his parents before the war, was evacuated by train and transferred here to Western Ukraine's biggest hospital, where he's undergone multiple surgeries and spent weeks in the ICU.

Dmytro's doctor tells me he too is struggling to make sense of the injuries he's been seeing.

DR. HNAT IHOROVYCH HERYCH, SURGICAL DEPARTMENT HEAD, LVIV FIRST MEDICAL UNION: I've done some operation that I only read from the books and my colleagues from the Austria in Germany they also have some experience but they never seen such serious disease.

SOARES: Dmytro's part of a steady stream of patients who have been evacuated from the front lines and arrived in Lviv on medical trains like this one, an impressive wartime operation with an inbuilt ICU carriage, which travels back and forth between the front line in the east with critically injured patients.

It's a journey that little Sofia also had to make when she left Mykolaiv in southern Ukraine. The 9-year old just out of the ICU is now recovering after a piece of shrapnel measuring 1 centimeter entered her brain as she made her way home. She's very strong.

"She hasn't even cried when she got wounded," her mother tells me.

Visibly exhausted, her mother shows me photos of happier times. Now relieved her little girl is turning a corner.

[14:50:00]

SOARES (voice-over): "At first when she started breathing independently and was still in Mykolaiv, they let me walk into the ICU. I walked in and unexpectedly she said, 'Mommy,' with tears in her eyes. I was so happy that she remembered me and that she didn't lose her memory," she says.

Sofia's neurosurgeon tells me he's never seen a case like this, as he shows me her CT scans.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: -- more than 1 percent.

SOARES: So the shrapnel came through the front.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

SOARES: All the way, perforated all the way to the back of the skull?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

SOARES: Dr. Mykhailo (ph) tells me he operates on as many as five children every week. Proof perhaps that even the most innocent are not immune to the scars of Russia's war -- Isa Soares, CNN, Lviv, Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

KINKADE: If you would like to safe and securely help people in Ukraine, who may be in need of shelter, food and, water please go to cnn.com/impact. We'll find several ways you can help.

Still to come tonight, a missing monarch and symbolic ceremony and the commitment to Ukraine. Coming, up how the opening of U.K. Parliament looked a little different than expected.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(MUSIC PLAYING)

KINKADE: South Korea's new president, Yoon Suk -yeol, has begun his five-year term. In his inauguration speech in Seoul, Mr. Yoon said he has a bold plan to strengthen North Korea's economy in exchange for denuclearization.

He says his administration is open to dialogue with Pyongyang, despite the threat from its nuclear weapons program.

And for the first time in nearly 60 years, the queen misses the opening of British Parliament . Queen Elizabeth was unable to fulfill this key duty as monarch, due to ongoing mobility issues.

Her son, Prince Charles, stepped in Tuesday to read her speech, outlining the U.K. government 's agenda.

And prime minister Boris Johnson vowed to remain a steadfast friend to Ukraine. CNN's royal correspondent Max Foster has more.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

MAX FOSTER, CNN LONDON CORRESPONDENT: This was a very symbolic moment in modern British history. We got used to seeing Prince Charles step up to represent the queen when she can't make an event.

But this was a core, constitutional responsibility, the opening of Parliament. The monarch has to be there. She couldn't make it because of this recurring mobility issue.

[14:55:00]

So she issued legal orders to allow Prince Charles and Prince William to represent her instead. For the very first time, Prince Charles read the queen's speech. Written by the government, it sets out their legislative agenda for the coming parliamentary term.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHARLES, PRINCE OF WALES: Her Majority's ministers will work closely with international partners to maintain a united NATO and address the most pressing global security challenges.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

FOSTER: We were given less than 24 hours' notice that the queen wouldn't be able to attend Parliament on Tuesday. That's really the form now. Whenever she is slated to appear at an event, we will be told probably on the day or the night before, whether or not she will be there -- Max Foster, CNN, London.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

KINKADE: A record-breaking night for the art world. Andy Warhol's iconic painting of Marilyn Monroe became the most expensive piece of 20th century art ever sold. The piece went for $195 million at Christie's in under four minutes on Monday.

Warhol painted the "Shot Sage Blue Marilyn" after her death in the '60s, making her a pop art icon.

Thanks so much for watching tonight. I'm Lynda Kinkade. Stay with CNN, "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" is coming up next.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220511ei5a0005l


World News
Boris Johnson vows UK will fight Russia if it invades Sweden or Finland
By, Nina Lloyd & Nick Wood & Stephanie Colderick
474 字
2022 年 5 月 12 日 11:45 GMT
chroniclelive.co.uk
EVECHONL
英文
© 2022 Reach Plc
The Prime Minister has signed security pacts with Sweden and Finland

Prime Minister Boris Johnson[https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/all-about/boris-johnson] has signed security pacts with Sweden and Finland which could result in British soldiers being sent to either country should Russia invade either country. Calling Russian President Vladimir Putin a "21st-century tyrant" Johnson promised to defend both countries when meeting with their leaders on Wednesday, May, 11.

Finnish President Sauli Niinisto said that there would be "British boots on the ground" should Russia attempt to invade. He also said that Finland would come to the aid of the UK, should the country require it, WalesOnline reports[https://www.walesonline.co.uk/news/uk-news/boris-johnson-vows-uk-fight-23934575].

He said: “I think the solemn declaration is itself clear. And what it says is that in the event of a disaster, or in the event of an attack on either of us, then yes, we will come to each other’s assistance, including with military assistance. But the nature of that assistance will of course depend upon the request of the other party. But it’s also intended to be the foundation of an intensification of our security and our defence relationship in other ways as well.”

Read more: Facebook users warned over new profile picture app with links to Russia[https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/world-news/facebook-users-warned-over-new-23934083int_source=nba]

On the same day Boris told the Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson that the UK "will not hesitate" to act if Sweden was attacked. Boris said: “The many carcasses of Russian tanks that now litter the fields and streets of Ukraine, thanks to Swedish-developed and British-built NLaws anti-tank weapons, certainly speak to how effective that co-operation can be. Most importantly, this is an agreement that enshrines the values that both Sweden and the UK hold dear, and which we will not hesitate to defend.”

The British Prime Minister also made stark comparisons between signing the agreements with Finland and paying tribute to VE Day. He said: "This week, many of us have been paying tribute to the brave men and women who secured victory and peace in Europe 77 years ago. So it’s a sad irony that we’ve been forced to discuss how best to fortify our shared defences against the empty conceit of a 21st-century tyrant.”

Currently both Sweden and Finland are both considering joining Nato in the wake of Russia invading Ukraine.[https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/all-about/ukraine]

Read next:

Boris Johnson vomited before Susanna Reid interview on GMB, claim aides[https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/tv/boris-johnson-vomited-before-susanna-23903569]

Vladimir Putin more likely to start World War Three than accept defeat in Ukraine, state TV claims[https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/world-news/vladimir-putin-world-war-three-23838085]

North East MP to increase office security after being placed on Putin's sanction list[https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/north-east-news/north-east-mp-russia-sanction-23800475]

Northumberland family to take in desperate Ukrainian refugees fleeing war[https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/north-east-news/northumberland-family-ukraine-refugees-war-23928861]

Ukrainian family finds sanctuary in South Shields thanks to Hexham mum and local charity[https://www.chroniclelive.co.uk/news/north-east-news/ukrainian-family-finds-sanctuary-south-23924028]

Reach Plc

文件 EVECHONL20220512ei5c000xg


Finland's Leaders Support Joining NATO
VOA News
762 字
2022 年 5 月 12 日
Voice of America Press Releases and Documents
VOA
英文
Copyright © 2022 Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc.
May 12, 2022 5:53 AM

Finland's President Sauli Niinisto and Prime Minister Sanna Marin Thursday expressed their approval for joining NATO, a move that would complete a major policy shift for the country in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"NATO membership would strengthen Finland's security. As a member of NATO, Finland would strengthen the entire defense alliance," they said in a joint statement. "Finland must apply for NATO membership without delay. We hope that the national steps still needed to make this decision will be taken rapidly within the next few days."

The leaders said they came to their decision after allowing time for Finland's Parliament and the public to consider the matter, and to consult with NATO and neighboring Sweden. Officials in Sweden are expected to consider their own possible NATO application in the coming days.

NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said in late April that if Finland and Sweden were to apply, "they will be welcomed and I also expect the process to be quick."

Russia has warned against NATO expansion, and said in March that if Finland and Sweden join the alliance, "there will be serious military and political consequences."

The fight for Ukraine played out beyond the battlefields on Wednesday, with Kyiv cutting off one Russian natural gas pipeline that supplies European homes and industry, while a Moscow-installed official in southern Ukraine said the Kremlin should annex Kherson after Russian troops took control.

Ukraine's natural gas pipeline operator said it was stopping Russian shipments through a hub in eastern Ukraine controlled by Moscow-backed separatists because of interference from enemy forces, including the apparent siphoning of gas.

About one-third of Russian gas headed to Western Europe passes through Ukraine, although one analyst said the immediate effect might be limited since much of it can be redirected through another pipeline. Russia's giant state-owned Gazprom said gas flowing to Europe through Ukraine was down 25% from the day before.

The European Union, as part of its announced effort to punish Russia for its 11-week invasion of Ukraine, is looking to end its considerable reliance on Russian energy to heat homes and fuel industries.

It has, however, encountered some opposition from within its 27-member bloc of nations, especially from Hungary, which says its economy would sustain a major hit if its supply of Russian energy were cut off.

In Brussels, negotiations with Hungary over a ban on Russian energy purchases ended Wednesday for the moment. If not resolved, it would constitute a major split among NATO allies in unified Western sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin to sanction him for his invasion of Ukraine.

Meanwhile, Kirill Stremousov, deputy head of the Kherson regional administration installed by Moscow, told Russia's RIA Novosti news agency, "The city of Kherson is Russia."

He asked that Putin declare Kherson a "proper region" of Russia, much as Moscow did in 2014 in seizing Ukraine's Crimea Peninsula and declaring Luhansk and Donetsk as independent entities shortly before invading Ukraine on Feb. 24.

Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said that it would be "up to the residents of the Kherson region" to make such a request, and to make sure there is an "absolutely clear" legal basis for the action.

Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak derided the notion of its annexation, tweeting: "The invaders may ask to join even Mars or Jupiter. The Ukrainian army will liberate Kherson, no matter what games with words they play."

Kherson is a Black Sea port with a population of about 300,000 and provides access to fresh water for neighboring Crimea. Russian forces captured it early in the war.

On the war front, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his Tuesday night address that Ukraine's military is gradually pushing Russian troops away from Kharkiv, the country's second-largest city and a key battleground in the Donbas, the eastern industrial region that the Kremlin is trying to capture against stiff opposition from Kyiv's forces.

Ukraine is also targeting Russian air defenses and resupply vessels on Snake Island in the Black Sea, according to the British Defense Ministry.

The ministry said Russian resupply vessels have minimum protection since the Russian Navy retreated to Crimea following the sinking of the flagship of its Black Sea Fleet. Separately, Ukraine said it shot down a cruise missile targeting the Black Sea port city of Odesa on Wednesday.

Some information for this story came from The Associated Press, Agence France-Press and Reuters.

U.S. Government

文件 VOA0000020220512ei5c0000g


CE Noticias Financieras English
Ukraine - Russia war today, live: breaking news about Putin, Finland and NATO
10791 字
2022 年 5 月 12 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Today's highlights

- Russia bans Gazprom from sending gas to Poland via Yamal pipeline

- Zelenski says he is ready to talk to Putin, "but without ultimatum".

- Russia continues to attack Donbass and the cities of Odessa and Mariupol

- EU assures that Russian gas supply is guaranteed

- Putin may make official the annexation of Kherson to Russia

- Brussels warns of world famine due to Ukrainian wheat blockade

- War has already left 3,496 civilians dead, UN says

22:20 Finland's leaders support joining NATO "without delay" Vladimir Putin has achieved what Dwight Eisenhower, JF Kennedy, Ronald Reagan or Bill Clinton could not: to convince the majority of Finns that, for their own security, they should join the NATO atlantist alliance, led from Washington since World War II and constantly expanding since then. Reports La Vanguardia's special envoy in Helsinki, Andy Robinson.

21:50 Ukraine struggles to expel Russia from Snake Island The battle for Snake Island is perhaps the most unknown of all the battles being fought in Ukraine. It has been for days until yesterday the British Ministry of Defense warned that if Russia "consolidates its position with [elements of] strategic air defense and coastal cruise missile defense, it could dominate the northwestern sector of the Black Sea." That would include southern Ukraine, added Ukrainian and British military experts consulted by the BBC. Felix Flores reports.

21:20 Russia bans Gazprom from sending gas to Poland through the Yamal pipeline Russia continues to respond to Western sanctions with energy supply cuts to central European countries. Russian gas giant Gazprom has announced that it will stop using the Yamal-Europe gas pipeline that runs through Poland. The company has stopped using this branch line, which is key to gas supplies in the event that the tap is turned off via the Ukrainian route, on explicit orders from the Kremlin.

20:51 European Commission analyzes impact of Russian gas supply cut-off The European Commission is analyzing the sanctions imposed by Russia on several European companies and their implications for the security of gas supply to the European Union. This comes after Gazprom announced that it will cut off supplies to Europe via Poland as a result of sanctions on a Polish company. "The Commission is currently analyzing the Russian decision on sanctions against certain companies in the EU and the implications for the security of gas supply," explained a spokesman for this institution.The Community Executive "is in close contact with Member States on these developments," he added.Recall Gazprom has cut gas supplies to Europe through the Yamal-Europe pipeline through Poland after Russia imposed sanctions against the Polish owner of that section, EuRoPol GAZ, among 31 other foreign energy companies.

20:00 Russia cuts gas supplies to Europe through Poland, Gazprom stops using the Yamal-Europe pipeline, considered an alternative branch in case Russian transit through Ukraine stops during the war.

19:47 U.S. on the verge of approving new Ukraine aid package Leaders of both major U.S. parties have sought to clear the way for Senate approval of the additional $40 billion package for Ukraine and its allies, a military and economic aid package that underscores U.S. determination to strengthen its role in the fight against the Russian invasion. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Mitch McConnell, has called on Republicans and Democrats "to help us pass this urgent funding bill today." The only apparent stumbling blocks to quick passage appeared to be demands by some Republicans for a vote on proposals that would include an inspector general to review the new spending.

19:36 European Commission analyzes impact of Russian gas supply cut The European Commission is analyzing the sanctions imposed by Russia on several European companies and their implications for the security of gas supplies to the European Union. This comes after Gazprom announced that it will cut off supplies to Europe via Poland as a result of sanctions on a Polish company. "The Commission is currently analyzing the Russian decision on sanctions against certain companies in the EU and the implications for the security of gas supply," a Commission spokesperson explained. The EU executive "is in close contact with the Member States on these developments," he added. Gazprom has cut off gas supplies to Europe through the Yamal-Europe pipeline, via Poland, after Russia imposed sanctions against the Polish owner of that section, EuRoPol GAZ, among 31 other foreign energy companies.

19:22 Russian Baltic Fleet to study NATO's naval potential in the region Russia's Baltic Sea Fleet today began naval exercises to study NATO's capabilities in that region. The move comes just on the day Finland announced its decision to join the Atlantic Alliance. The aim is for Russian officers to familiarize themselves with "the peculiarities" of the geopolitical situation in the fleet's area of responsibility and "with the composition, organization, emplacement and combat capability of the naval forces of NATO countries." The tactical exercises involve the participation of almost a hundred officers, as well as more than 50 ships of the Russian Navy.

19:10 Russia reduces its pressure on Kharkiv and focuses on Donetsk and Luhansk The Ukrainian counteroffensive north of Kharkiv has eased military pressure on the country's second city, while Russian forces continue their ground offensive westward in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. "The Ukrainian Army continued its advance northeast of Kharkiv. The Ukrainian counteroffensive to the north of Kharkiv forced Russian troops to move to the defense and reduced artillery pressure on the city," the U.S.-based Institute for the Study of War has reported. However, the main pressure being exerted by the Russian army right now is in the east, where the offensive to conquer the Donetsk and Luhansk regions continues, and in the south, to maintain control of Kherson, key to the land corridor with occupied Crimea. According to information published by the Ukrainian army, the Russians are trying to reinforce the units that suffered casualties in Donetsk and to provide them with logistical support, so they have redeployed about 300 combat teams.

18:59 The number of refugees who have left Ukraine now exceeds 6 million The latest count released by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) already puts the number of people who have been forcibly removed from Ukraine since Russia launched its invasion in February at more than six million. The agency has already warned recently that the figure is likely to continue to rise to over eight million. Of these refugees, 3.2 million have initially arrived in Poland, while another 895,000 have crossed into Romania. In addition, 583,000 arrivals have been recorded in Hungary, 460,000 in Moldova and 409,000 in Slovakia. In addition, 27,000 people have crossed into Belarus, while another 785,000 have arrived in Russia, although in the latter case the Russian authorities have assured local agencies that the actual figure now exceeds one million. In addition to these refugee figures, there are also internally displaced persons, already more than eight million. In total, about one third of the population has been forced to leave their homes.

18:47 G7 foreign ministers to look for ways to unblock Ukrainian grain G7 foreign ministers, who are meeting from Thursday in Weissenhaus in northern Germany, will focus their talks on the global food crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said. "We will talk today about Russia's grain blockade, how to unblock it and get grain to the world," said Baerbock, who is hosting the meeting of the club of industrialized nations, which also includes the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada, Italy, France and Japan. These days, which will last until Saturday, have a "bigger dimension" than the support for Ukraine, since the Russian aggression has caused not only a "deep crisis for the whole of Europe" but a "global crisis", said the minister in a brief appearance at the beginning of the meeting. "There are 25 million tons of grain blocked in ports, especially in Odessa, a grain that is food for millions, urgently needed in Africa and the Middle East," Baerbock warned.

18:36 Ukraine's 2022 spring sowing is almost 76% complete Ukrainian farmers have already sown 8.7 million hectares of 2022 spring crops, 22% less than on the same date in 2021, Ukrainian grain traders' union UGA has explained. The union has related that Ukraine planned to sow 11.45 million hectares of spring cereals this year, 3.5 to 4 million hectares less than in 2021 due to the Russian invasion and "occupation of territories." Official data show that farmers have planted 188,000 hectares of spring wheat, 918,000 hectares of spring barley, 3.239 million hectares of corn and some other crops. The spring wheat area could amount to 190,000 hectares, 900,000 hectares of spring barley and 3.9 million hectares of corn. The Ukrainian Ministry of Agriculture has not provided grain crop prospects for 2022. It has said that planting area could fall by 20% this year due to fighting with Russian troops in many regions.

18:25 France supports Finland's readiness to join NATO France has said it supports the Finnish government's decision to back NATO membership, which is motivated by the Russian invasion of Ukraine and breaks with more than eight decades of non-alignment. The Elysée has reported that French President Emmanuel Macron has conveyed to his Finnish counterpart, Sauli Niinistö, that France "fully supports Finland's sovereign decision to rapidly join NATO." Today, both President Niinistö and his Prime Minister, Sanna Marin, made the historic decision to support Finland's accession to NATO. Read more: Finland's leaders support joining NATO "without delay".

18:12 Russia bans Gazprom from sending gas to Poland via the Yamal pipeline Russia continues to respond to Western sanctions with energy supply cuts to central European countries. Russian gas giant Gazprom has announced that it will stop using the Yamal-Europe gas pipeline that runs through Poland. The company has stopped using this branch line, which is key to gas supplies in the event that the tap is turned off via the Ukrainian route, on explicit orders from the Kremlin.

18:00 UN to investigate alleged Russian rights abuses in Ukraine The UN Human Rights Council has approved by a large majority to launch an investigation into allegations of rights abuses committed by Russian troops in parts of Ukraine formerly under their control. The Council has approved the resolution by vote, with 33 members in favor and 2 against (China and Eritrea). In addition, there were 12 abstentions.

17:48 Netherlands assures Ukraine that it is ready to give up Russian oil Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte has stated before the Ukrainian Parliament that the Netherlands is ready to give up Russian oil "without delay". However, the Dutch politician has not mentioned anything regarding Kyiv's desire for accelerated accession to the European Union. Rutte considered that the collective sanctions imposed on Russia "are unparalleled in history" and should be maintained until the Russian aggression ends and "Ukraine's sovereignty is restored". In addition, he has also assured that one should "take the next big step as quickly as possible, and stop buying Russian oil." "Let me say clearly that the Netherlands is ready to take this step without delay together with our partners and allies," Rutte has remarked. The Dutch government had already communicated that it plans to phase out the use of Russian gas by the end of this year, while the European Commission intends to stop all imports of crude oil from Russia within six months.

17:36 ???? BREAKING NEWS | Russia bans Gazprom from sending gas to Poland via the Yamal pipeline The decision comes as the Kremlin's response to Western economic sanctions against Russia. The executive order prohibits Gazprom from any cooperation with EuRoPol GAZ, which owns the Polish section of the pipeline. The Yamal-Europe pipeline, which has hardly been used this year, had been considered as a possible alternative route in case the usual routes through Ukraine are paralyzed during the war.

17:34 Orbán does not support EU sanctioning Russian religious leaders Hungary has said through its President Viktor Orbán that it will not support the inclusion of religious leaders on the European Union's sanctions lists against Russia. According to Orbán, sanctioning church dignitaries "would affect the freedom of religion of Hungarian communities, which is sacred and inviolable". The head of the Russian Orthodox Church is included in the European Commission's new proposal for sanctions against Moscow for the invasion of Ukraine. The Orbán government does not support European sanctions on Russian crude oil either, as they would cause problems for the Hungarian economy, which is highly dependent on Russian oil and gas.

17:24 Ukraine fights to oust Russia from Snake Island The battle for Snake Island is perhaps the most unknown of all the battles being fought in Ukraine. It has been for days until yesterday when the British Ministry of Defense warned that if Russia "consolidates its position with [elements of] strategic air defense and coastal cruise missile defense, it could dominate the northwestern sector of the Black Sea." That would include southern Ukraine, added Ukrainian and British military experts consulted by the BBC. Felix Flores reports.

17:10 Zelenski says he is ready to talk to Putin, "but without ultimatum" Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelenski has said he is ready to talk to his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, "but without ultimatum". In a television interview which will be broadcasted in the evening but of which several previews have already been released, Zelensky opened the door to dialogue with the Kremlin leader: "I am ready to talk to Putin, but without ultimatum". Zelenski has maintained in this interview to the Italian RAI that negotiations with Moscow are complicated because "every day the Russians occupy villages, many people have left their homes, have been killed by the Russians" and Ukrainian citizens are suffering "torture and murder". "This complicates things a lot, we want them to understand that our society is very peaceful, for eight years we have been trying to have a dialogue," he argued. "I know that Putin wanted to achieve a result but he has not succeeded. That we are proposed to deliver something to save the face of the Russian president is not fair. Ukraine is not going to save someone's face by paying" with its territories. In this regard, Zelenski has stated that at no time has he ever considered "recognizing the independence of Crimea," annexed by Russia in 2014, and stressed that Crimea "has always been Ukrainian territory." "Ukraine wants peace, very normal things like respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity, people's traditions, language. They may be trivial things but they have been violated by Russia and must be returned," he has pointed out, while remarking that Ukrainians must win the conflict because "they have no right to lose it after the tens of thousands of deaths" that have occurred.

16:57 EU congratulates Moldova on its management of the refugee crisisUkrainians European Commissioner for Home Affairs Ylva Johansson has commended the work of Moldova in its handling of the migration crisis caused by the Russian army's invasion of Ukraine. "The solidarity you have shown towards Ukraine is really impressive. But what has impressed most is how you have managed the migration situation," Johansson said at a joint press conference with Moldovan Interior Minister Anna Revenco. She noted that more than 400,000 refugees have already arrived in Moldova and more than 100,000 still remain in the country of just over 2 million inhabitants.

16:46 Putin blames the West for the global economic crisis caused by the war in Ukraine The President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, has blamed the West for having created a global crisis through the sanctions imposed on the country for its military intervention in Ukraine. Moreover, the Russian leader has assured that the Russian Federation is resisting this blow as it did in World War II. "These sanctions are largely provoking the global crisis. Their perpetrators, guided by short-sighted and inflated political ambitions, by Russophobia, to a greater extent harm their own national interests, their own economies, the welfare of their citizens," he has indicated in Putin a telematic meeting with members of the Government. "We see this primarily in the sharp rise in inflation in Europe. In some countries it has already approached 20% a year, and in the eurozone as a whole the prices of raw materials have risen by more than 11%," he has argued. For Putin, "the blame for this lies entirely with the elites of Western countries, who are ready to sacrifice the rest of the world to maintain their global dominance," he said.

16:33 Scholz conveys Germany's support to Finland to join NATO German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has publicly welcomed Finland's decision to apply to join the NATO military alliance. Scholz has affirmed in a tweet that the Nordic country has the support of Germany: "In a telephone conversation with the President, I have assured Finland of the full support of the German government," he wrote in his official Twitter account.

16:21 Blinken to travel to Germany and France for NATO meetings U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken has announced that he will travel to Germany and France from May 14-16 for meetings with European and NATO allies, right in the middle of discussions to integrate Finland into the alliance in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Blinken will travel to Berlin on May 14 to attend an informal meeting of NATO foreign ministers to discuss "the united response to Russia's continued brutal war against Ukraine." The meeting will also serve to discuss preparations for the upcoming NATO Leaders' Summit in Madrid in June.

16:07 Finland's leaders support joining NATO "without delay" Vladimir Putin has achieved what Dwight Eisenhower, JF Kennedy, Ronald Reagan or Bill Clinton could not: to convince the majority of Finns that, for their own security, they should join the NATO atlantist alliance, led from Washington since World War II and constantly expanding since then. Reports La Vanguardia's special envoy in Helsinki, Andy Robinson.

15:55 EU considers increasing arms funding to Ukraine EU diplomacy chief Josep Borrell is pressing member states to increase the amount of military aid to Ukraine. The bloc is currently slated to allocate between €500 million and €2 billion, according to sources familiar with the discussions. Member states have yet to agree to the proposal on the European Peace Fund, with Germany being the main holdout at a meeting of EU political and security ambassadors this week. Most member states support a quick decision and want an announcement to be made next week.

15:43 Russia will defend Luhansk independence and sovereignty Russian President Vladimir Putin has publicly congratulated the Luhansk people's republic on the eighth anniversary of its declaration of independence and assured its leader, Leonid Pasechnik, that Russia will defend the enclave's sovereignty. "The citizens of the Luhansk people's republic are celebrating this holiday today in difficult conditions, defending their homeland with weapons in their hands. I am sure that with our joint efforts we will defend the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the republic," the Russian leader said in a telegram. Putin noted that the agreement on peace, cooperation and mutual assistance between Russia and the LPR, signed on February 21, after the Kremlin recognized the pro-Russian republics of Luhansk and Donetsk, "will serve as a secure basis for strengthening the ties of brotherhood and alliance between our countries." "Receive our sincere congratulations on the occasion of the Day of the Luhansk people's republic. I sincerely wish you health and success, and all Luhansk residents courage, courage and tenacity in the struggle for a future of peace and security," he added. The self-proclaimed Luhansk people's republic declared its independence on May 12, 2014, a day after the Donetsk people's republic, after expressing disagreement with the pro-European protests that rocked Kyiv and led to the overthrow of pro-Russian President Viktor Yanukovych. Both republics were recognized by Russia just three days before the start of the invasion of Ukraine.

15:30 Russia stresses stability of its economy despite war Russia's Economic Development Minister Maxim Reshetnikov has sought to stress the stability of the Russian economy despite the unprecedented sanctions to which the country finds itself subjected because of its "special military operation" in Ukraine. "In conditions of unprecedented pressure of sanctions the Russian economy really exhibits resilience," Reshetnikov said at a video conference of the President of Russia Vladimir Putin devoted to the economic situation. The Economy Minister remarked that "the situation on the financial and currency markets has stabilized" and that "there has been neither a sharp decline in production nor an increase in unemployment". However, Reshetnikov admitted that "the main difficulties persist", among which he mentioned "breaks in logistic chains, the fall in exports and the need for working capital experienced by companies". Reshetnikov indicated that the Executive has allocated 180 billion rubles (about 2.77 billion dollars) only to subsidize the increase in interest rates, with the particularity that the VEB (Foreign Trade Bank) assumes 50% of the credit risk.

15:18 Ukraine set to try first Russian soldier for killing unarmed civilian A Russian prisoner of war accused of murdering a civilian will be tried for war crimes committed on Ukrainian territory during the Russian invasion, Ukrainian Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova announced Wednesday. The prosecutor general's office has recorded more than 10,700 war crimes and identified more than 600 suspects since the beginning of the Russian invasion on February 24.

15:04 Germany accuses Russia of using energy as a weapon Germany has said Russia is using its energy exports as a "weapon" after Moscow cut natural gas supplies in retaliation for Europe's sanctions over the war in Ukraine. Gazprom PJSC, which was seized by Germany as a sanction against Russia for the invasion of Ukraine, has seen its deliveries reduced by about 10 million cubic meters of gas per day, German Economy Minister Robert Habeck has said. The reduction in supplies marks the latest escalation in Europe's energy standoff with Russia.

14:54 Russian strike on school in Chernobyl kills at least 3 A Russian air strike targeting a high school and boarding school in the Chernobyl region of northern Ukraine has left at least three people dead and twelve others wounded. "Tonight, a Russian fighter jet fired missiles at secondary schools and boarding schools in Novhorod-Siverskyi in the Chernobyl region," Ukraine's First Lady Olena Zelenska confirmed on her Telegram account. "Rescue services are currently working at the site, but three victims and twelve wounded have already been confirmed," added in her message the wife of President Volodimir Zelenski, who also denounced it as "deliberate shelling. The Russians, who claim to be attacking only military installations, are waging a war against our children. In fact, they are waging a war against our future".

14:40 EC calls for "maximum flexibility" to help Ukraine export its grain The European Commission has proposed a series of measures to help Ukraine speed up the export of its agricultural products in the face of the Black Sea blockade following Russia's invasion. The aim is thus to facilitate the "urgent" departure of 20 million tons of grain to the European Union and the rest of the world. "Twenty million tons of grain have to leave Ukraine in less than three months using EU infrastructure. This is a gigantic challenge, so it is essential to coordinate and optimize logistics chains, establish new routes and avoid bottlenecks as much as possible," said Euro Commissioner for Transport Adina Valean. Ukraine is one of the world's five largest grain exporters and, under normal circumstances, 75% of its production is exported, generating around 20% of annual national export revenues. "The situation threatens global food security and there is an urgent need to establish alternative logistic routes using all relevant modes of transport," the EC executive has remarked in the "action plan" published today. The EC has asked trade and transport administrations to give priority to agricultural exports and "maximum flexibility" in customs controls, where waiting times for trucks often exceed 12 hours.

14:29 Ukraine will not reopen gas route to Europe until it controls transit system Ukraine will not reopen the suspended Sokhranovka gas transit route to Europe until Kyiv gets control of its transit system, the head of the Ukrainian system operator, GTSOU has assured Reuters. The pipeline through that crossing point runs through Ukraine's Luhansk region, part of which has been under control of Russian-backed separatists since 2014. GTSOU head Sergiy Makogon has explained that Gazprom was unaware that Moscow-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine had started stealing gas in transit through Ukraine, which Kyiv said was one of the reasons it announced a state of "force majeure" on gas flows through Sokhranovka.

14:17 UN decides today whether to investigate possible Russian war crimes in Ukraine The UN Human Rights Council decides today whether to launch an investigation into alleged war crimes committed by Russian troops in the Kyiv area. The resolution, submitted by Ukraine and supported by more than 50 countries, would mandate a newly formed Commission of Inquiry to investigate events in the regions around Kyiv that were temporarily controlled by Russian troops. The commission would prepare a report by early next year. Russia denies targeting civilians and calls its actions in Ukraine a "special military operation" to disarm the country and rid it of what the Kremlin describes as anti-Russian nationalism fomented by the West.

14:05 Russia bans 31 companies from participating in gas supplies The 31 foreign energy companies included in Moscow's sanctions list will not be allowed to participate in gas supply processes from Russia, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has explained. "These are sanctions that veto those companies. Therefore, we will not have any interaction with those companies, they are simply vetoed," he announced at a telephone press conference. In addition, Peskov has remarked that these companies "will not participate in the process of Russian gas supplies" to Europe. These are 31 companies that are blacklisted by the Russian government in response to sanctions imposed by the West over the Russian "special military operation" in Ukraine. Those sanctioned include companies from Germany, France and other European countries, as well as the United States and Singapore.

13:52 Finland and Sweden apply to join NATO, now what? Finnish President Sauli Niinisto and Prime Minister Sanna Marin have stated that their country should submit an application to join the NATO military alliance "without delay." In addition, Sweden's ruling Social Democrats are expected to decide on Sunday whether to reverse decades of opposition to NATO membership, a move that would almost certainly lead Sweden to apply to join the alliance. This accession process is expected to be much shorter than previous applications to join the alliance founded in 1949.

13:40 Kuleba insists Ukraine should be granted EU candidate status in June Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba has called for Ukraine to be granted candidate status for joining the European Union and expressed hope that the decision will be made at the upcoming European summit on June 23-24. Kuleba has remarked that such a decision "will largely define the future of Europe", after meeting in Berlin with the co-chairman of the German Social Democrats, Lars Klingbeil. "It is about anchoring Ukraine in the European integration project," said the minister, who clarified that "it is obvious" that the status of candidate country "does not imply an immediate membership," but it means "legally fixing" Kyiv in the accession process. Finally, Kuleba affirmed that "the European Union needs Ukraine as much as Ukraine needs the European Union" and argued that the public opinion in Ukraine and in the bloc of the Twenty-seven is mostly in favor of accession.

13:28 Russia will respond to Finland's NATO membership Russia has said it is obliged to respond to Finland's decision to join NATO. "Finland's entry into NATO means a radical change in the country's foreign policy," the Russian Foreign Ministry has said in a statement. "Russia will be forced to take retaliatory measures, both of a military-technical and other nature, to prevent the emergence of threats to its national security," the ministry headed by Sergey Lavrov added.

13:20 Sweden plans to apply for NATO membership next week, according to Expressen The Swedish government plans to submit an application for NATO membership next week, local daily Expressen has reported. Sweden would thus follow neighboring Finland in rewriting its post-World War II security policy in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. According to Expressen, the Swedish Parliament will debate the security situation on Monday and Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson will then convene a special cabinet meeting at which a formal decision to apply for membership will be made. The same newspaper has also explained that Swedish politicians believe that their NATO membership will act as a deterrent in case Russia wants to invade Sweden. "Sweden's NATO membership would raise the threshold for military conflicts and thus have a conflict prevention effect in northern Europe," says a report quoted by Expressen.

13:07 Kremlin says Finland's NATO membership is a threat to Russia Russia has already said it considers Finland's decision to apply for NATO membership a threat, Russian President Vladimir Putin's press secretary Dmitry Peskov has told reporters. "It certainly is," Peskov assured during a telephone press conference. Peskov also recalled that there is an order from Putin to reinforce Russia's western borders. Gonzalo Aragonés, correspondent of La Vanguardia in Moscow, reports.

12:56 Zelenski praises Finland's readiness to join NATO Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelenski has spoken on the phone with his Finnish counterpart, Sauli Niinistö, whom he praised for the Nordic country's readiness to join NATO. In a message on his Twitter account, Zelenski has explained that he "praised Finland's readiness to apply for NATO membership," one of the issues he spoke about with theNordic leader. The conversation took place just hours after Niinistö and the Finnish Prime Minister, the Social Democrat Sanna Marin, expressed their support for the Nordic country's accession to the Atlantic Alliance.

12:44 Michel welcomes Finland's "historic step" towards NATO membership The President of the European Council, Charles Michel, has welcomed the "historic step" taken by Finland's top authorities to pave the way for the country's accession to NATO. Michel has considered that this decision represents "a powerful signal of deterrence" in the midst of Russia's war against Ukraine. "The unity and solidarity of NATO and the EU have never been so close," he wrote on Twitter following the decision of the President of Finland, Sauli Niinistö, and the Prime Minister, the Social Democrat Sanna Marin, to give their support on Thursday to the Nordic country's accession to NATO. For Michel, it is "a historic step" that, once taken, "will contribute greatly to European security". Now all that remains is for the rest of the coalition government and the Finnish Eduskunta (Parliament) to give their official backing to formalize the membership application, something that could happen in the next few days.

12:32 Ukrainian grain exports drop by half so far in May Ukrainian grain exports have more than halved so far in May compared to the same period last year. However, exports have come in at just under 300,000 tons are similar to all of March, the first full month after the Russian invasion, according to data released by the country's Ministry of Agriculture. Ukraine exported 667,000 tons in the same period of May 2021. The country was exporting up to 6 million tons of grain per month before Russia invaded the country in February.

12:21 NATO ready to integrate Finland quickly NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has assured that the Alliance is ready to integrate Finland "quickly" if it applies for membership. "I welcome the joint statement by Finnish President Niinistö and Prime Minister Marin supporting the application for NATO membership without delay," Stoltenberg said in a message to the press, in which he stressed that the doors of the Atlantic Alliance "are open."

12:10 Ukrainian counteroffensive from Kharkiv nears Russian border The Ukrainian General Staff yesterday celebrated the liberation of a new enclave northeast of Kharkiv in the rapid counteroffensive it is conducting, not only to drive Russian troops away from the city but, above all, to try to cut the main supply line running from Belgorod in Russia and supplying the troops fighting in the Donbass. The counteroffensive is indeed going fast and is approaching the Russian border, but President Zelenski has asked the population not to create "emotional pressure" on the armed forces in expectation of quick victories. Catherine Gomez reports from Ukraine.

11:57 Kremlin considers Finland's NATO membership a threat The Kremlin has said that Finland's decision to join NATO is "definitely" a threat to Russia and that expansion of the military bloc will not make Europe or the world more stable. In a telephone press conference, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that the steps taken by Finland to join NATO were a cause for regret and that they will devote a symmetrical response to it. It should be recalled that the President and Prime Minister of Finland have announced that their country will apply for membership in the NATO military alliance "without delay".

11:42 Russia's Gazprom reserves less gas transit capacity through Ukraine Gazprom has cut 28% gas transit capacity through Ukraine's largest transit point to Europe, the Ukrainian gas system operator has announced, and shipments continue to fall two days after the country's second transit point was completely shut down. Russian gas flows to Europe, which typically meet around 40% of the continent's needs, have been closely watched since the start of the conflict in Ukraine. Ukrainian transit system operator GTSOU said Thursday that Gazprom had booked capacity of 53.19 million cubic meters through the Sudzha entry point, down from 73.4 mcm shipped a day earlier. The company said Tuesday it had to reduce supplies due to a force majeure at the Sokhranivka transit point, which supplied almost a third of the fuel piped from Russia to Europe via Ukraine.

11:26 Sweden considers Finland's support for NATO membership "important" Swedish Foreign Minister Ann Linde has assured that the backing of Finland's president and prime minister, Sauli Niinisto and Sanna Marin, respectively, for NATO membership is "important," although neither country has taken the final formal step. "Sweden will decide after the report on security policy consultations has been presented," Linde explained on Twitter, where he stated that Sweden "takes into account" the assessments that neighboring Finland may make. Linde considers this country "its biggest ally in security and defense" and everything points to the two going hand in hand towards the Atlantic Alliance, in a process that could be accelerated to counter the potential threat posed by Russia.

11:14 Finland's leaders support joining NATO "without delay" Finland will submit an application to join NATO "without delay," Finnish President Sauli Niinisto and Prime Minister Sanna Marin have announced, a major policy shift triggered by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Opinion among Finns about NATO has changed rapidly in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Finnish public support for joining NATO has risen to record numbers in recent months

11:02 Russia warns of risk of "nuclear war" with NATO in case of direct conflict Deputy Chairman of Russia's Security Council Dmitry Medvedev warned Thursday that a "nuclear war" with NATO is possible if a direct conflict with the alliance is triggered. For Medvedev "the supply to Ukraine by NATO countries of weapons, the training of its troops to use Western equipment, the sending of mercenaries and exercises by the Alliance near our borders increase the probability of a direct and open conflict between NATO and Russia". Such a conflict, for Medvedev, would have "the risk of turning into a full-fledged nuclear war", given the weapons capabilities of both Russia and the other countries involved, starting with the United States

10:53 Russian military strikes two ammunition depots in Chernobyl, northern Ukraine The Russian Defense Ministry reported this morning that they successfully targeted two ammunition depots supplying equipment and supplies to the Ukrainian military in the Chernobyl region. The facilities, located in northern Ukraine, were raided this morning on the orders of the Moscow High Command, from where they have highlighted the good results of the attack. On the other hand, the Kremlin has also reported that they have managed to destroy an anti-aircraft missile defense system S-300 in the Kharkov region and also a radar station in the vicinity of the city of Odessa

10:44 Ukraine to try first Russian prisoner accused of killing unarmed civilian The Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office is preparing to try for the first time since the war began a Russian soldier taken prisoner for killing an unarmed civilian during the "special military operation" ordered by Vladimir Putin. This was announced a few moments ago by the Prosecutor General of this country, Iryna Venediktova, who for weeks has been warning about war crimes being committed in Ukraine by Russian troops. The first to be tried in the conflict will be Vadim Shysimarin, a commander of the fourth armored division of the Kantemirovskaya Guards of the Moscow region who was arrested by Ukrainian soldiers. He is accused of shooting and killing an unarmed civilian riding a bicycle through Chupajivka, whom he allegedly shot down for fear that he would inform Ukrainian troops about his position

10:35 Finland inching closer to joining NATO In a joint statement between Finnish President Sauli Niinisto and Prime Minister Sanna Marin, the country's leaders have declared their willingness for Finland to join NATO "without delay." The outbreak of the war in Ukraine and the threat from Russia has accelerated moves to join the alliance, which will take a giant step eastward with the Nordic state's membership. "We hope that the national steps still needed to make this decision will be taken quickly in the coming days," the two leaders explained. On the other hand, Sweden is also reportedly on the verge of formalizing its registration to join the transatlantic organization to further strengthen the Western military conglomerate

10:25 Putin promises to defend "independence" of Luhansk one year after its independence The Russian army "will defend the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity" of Luhansk and the self-proclaimed Donbass People's Republics, Russian President Vladimir Putin guaranteed on Thursday. Precisely Putin has called the president of the Luhansk People's Republic, Leonid Pasechnik, to congratulate him on the anniversary of the territory's independence and to inform him about the Russian military presence to protect the region. The Russian leader reminded that "the citizens of the Luhansk People's Republic celebrate their national holiday in difficult conditions, defending their homeland with weapons in hand."

10:16 Snake Island continues to concentrate the war in the Black Sea Russia and Ukraine continue to dispute the control of Snake Island, a small area of 0.17 square kilometers that was captured by the Russian army during the first hours of the "special military operation". Although the tiny islet may seem dispensable, the British Ministry of Defense assures that if Russia "consolidates its position with strategic air defense and coastal defense with cruise missiles, it could dominate the northwestern sector of the Black Sea". Felix Flores analyzes in La Vanguardia the importance of the Snake Island in the Ukrainian war and how the area is being fought in order to have the definitive control

10:07 Denmark will support Finland's "swift" entry into NATO Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen has come out in favor of Finland joining NATO and has promised to support the Finnish bid to make it happen "swiftly." "Denmark will, of course, warmly welcome Finland to NATO. It will strengthen NATO and our common security," Frederiksen commented, as Finnish leaders have declared their willingness to join the alliance. On the other hand, he assured that "Denmark will do its utmost to ensure that the admission process will be quick after the formal application".

09:58 UK assures that Russia has an "inability" to control important cities in Ukraine The British Ministry of Defense has analyzed on Thursday the "inability" of the Russian army to capture and keep under its control important cities in Ukraine, beyond small enclaves. This is highlighted in the daily military report offered publicly by the British military administration, from where they justify this analysis by failed offensives such as the one in Kharkov, where Russian troops have withdrawn. "It appears that Moscow has withdrawn units from the region to reorganize and replenish its forces after numerous casualties," explains the statement, from where they reveal that "once reconstituted, these forces will probably be deployed on the eastern bank of the Siverskyi Donets River"

09:49 Transnistria remains anchored in the past while threatening to intervene in the Ukrainian war The Kremlin's strategy of trying to connect Russia with Transnistria through Crimea remains one of the great promises Moscow has made to the isolated citizens of the secessionist republic that still lives in a perpetual past. This is told by Jordi Joan Baños from its capital, Tiraspol, where the inhabitants of the militarized region de facto separated from Moldova to a large extent do not want war with Ukraine. The residents of the city consulted by the correspondent of La Vanguardia explain how they fear that the escalation of violence that has been taking place in the country for days ends in an entry into the full conflict.

09:40 EU and Japan strengthen ties in the wake of the war in Ukraine The President of the European Council, Charles Michel, and the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, visited Japan on Thursday to share positions on Russia over the war in Ukraine and territorial conflicts in Asia. They were received by the Japanese Prime Minister, Fumio Kishida, with whom they agreed to reduce imports of energy and other Russian materials as part of the sanctions against the government led by Vladimir Putin In addition, von der Leyen said that Brussels intends to have a "more active" role in the Pacific and accumulate "more responsibilities" in the area, on which they stressed that "Japan understands what is at stake."

09:31 ???? War in Ukraine | Russia intensifies its offensive in Donetsk and Luhansk The General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine has warned on Thursday in its daily report that Russia is intensifying its attacks in the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk since early morning. On the other hand, the Russian army is also multiplying its offensive on Kherson, located in southern Ukraine and where practically the whole region has already come under the control of Russian troops. As for the situation with Belarus, the Ukrainian authorities warn of the threat of an offensive from the north, as Moscow's allied soldiers are still deployed near the Ukrainian border.

09:22 Draghi assures Biden that Putin has managed to unite them "more" with the war in Ukraine Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi stressed in his meeting with U.S. President Joe Biden that the Ukraine war launched by Vladimir Putin has achieved the opposite effect in the West than the Russian leader sought. "Putin thought he could divide us. He was wrong. We are together," Draghi assured during his meeting with the American leader. For the head of the Italian government "The ties between our two countries will always be strong. And if anything, this war in Ukraine has made them stronger." However, Draghi said he was open to "the possibility of achieving a ceasefire and starting credible negotiations" with Moscow

09:13 ???? Finland gives green light to join NATO Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin and President Sauli Niinistö have just announced that they will take "to Parliament and the entire Finnish nation" their willingness to join NATO. Both leaders consider that "Finland must join NATO without delay" and call for speed: "We hope that the national steps still necessary to make this decision will be taken quickly in the coming days." "The time has come to agree on international contacts with NATO and its member countries, as well as with Sweden," the Finnish leaders stress. Both Marin with Niinistö assess in their joint communiqué that "as a NATO member, Finland would strengthen the entire defensive alliance."

09:12 ???? Breaking news: Finland takes a stand in favor of joining NATO

09:06 Ukrainian authorities claim to have detained 750 saboteurs since the war began Ukrainian National Police has put the number of people detained for sabotage since the beginning of the war with Russia at 750, in addition to having ended the operations of 88 groups of infiltrators. This was confirmed Thursday by the head of the Department of Organizational Analytical Support of the Ukrainian police, Oleksiy Sergeyev, who detailed that almost half a thousand cases have been opened for collaboration with Russia. "Since the beginning of the war, 88 sabotage and reconnaissance groups have been exposed and 750 people involved in sabotage activities have been detained, of which 676 have been transferred to the Security Service of Ukraine," the statement explains

08:57 CNN shows a videoshowingRussian soldiers seen executing two unarmed civilians Allegations of war crimes against Russia continue to mount in Ukraine after U.S. broadcaster CNN recently published a video showing two Russian soldiers executing unarmed Ukrainian civilians. The footage is captured by a video surveillance camera in a store near Kyiv, where a group of Russian servicemen shoot two Ukrainian civilians in violation of international law. The Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office is already processing war crimes charges against the alleged perpetrators of the massacre, after the victims have been identified by their relatives

08:48 UN to consider Russian war crimes allegations in Bucha and Mariupol today The Russian military's human rights abuses in the cities of Bucha and Mariupol, among others, will be investigated this Thursday at a special UN session requested by Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky. The UN Human Rights Council will study the "deterioration" of human rights in Ukraine, especially after the suspension of Russia from this organization a few weeks ago. For his part, Russian President Vladimir Putin has ruled out any participation, explaining that "the Russian delegation is not going to legitimize this new political spectacle organized in the form of an extraordinary session."

08:39 The President of Finland defends that its possible joining NATO will not be "against anyone " The probable accession of Finland to NATO would not be a gesture directed "against anyone", despite the fact that it will happen months after the beginning of the war between Russia and Ukraine, the Finnish President, Sauli Niinistö, promised on Thursday. He reiterated this on several occasions during his meeting with UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who has traveled to Finland to visit Niinistö weeks before a potentially historic decision. "If we want to maximize our security, it means maximizing the defense of our country," explained the Finnish president, who considered that "no one can be offended if someone wants to defend himself." In this sense, Niinistö commented that Russia had interceded for Finland not to join NATO so that the alliance would not reach even further east

08:30 UN warns of worldwide famines if food and fertilizers from Russia and Ukraine are not distributed United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres has warned of the risk of worldwide famines if the distribution of fertilizers and food from Russia and Ukraine is not unblocked soon. Guterres has assured that this is a problem that can quickly reach different parts of the planet: "I am deeply concerned about the risks of famine that can spread to various regions of the world," he said. Therefore, Guterres recalled that "the Russian invasion of Ukraine is not only causing massive devastation, destruction and suffering in the country under attack, triggering the largest displacement of human beings in Europe since World War II and sending shock waves throughout the region and the world."

08:21 Russia has attacked Ukraine with almost 800 missiles since the beginning of the war The deputy head of the Main Operations Directorate of the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Oleksiy Hromov, has reported on Thursday that Russia has launched almost 800 missiles on Ukraine since the beginning of the war. Specifically, the Kremlin has ordered the attack on Ukrainian territory with 788 ballistic cruise missiles that have been launched from Russia or Belarus since last February 24. Of these almost 800 rockets, about half a thousand or so bombardments have been carried out over practically the entire Ukrainian geography, although most of the attacks have been on localities in the Donbass.

08:12 ???? Finland will announce today if it asks to join NATO This Thursday at 9 am, Finland will make official if it decides to join NATO after weeks of speculation about a possible accession following the Russian invasion of Ukraine that would have encouraged the proceedings. This was announced by the Finnish Prime Minister, Sanna Marin, and its President, Sauli Niinistö, who will appear jointly to announce the Nordic country's historic decision. Finland's accession to NATO would be "swift", according to the alliance's Secretary General, Jens Stoltenberg, a few days ago. On the other hand, Sweden could follow Finland, also deciding to opt for the transatlantic organization after the outbreak of the war in Ukraine.

08:04 Battle for Odessa gains prominence in Ukraine war Controlling the port of Odessa is becoming one of Russian President Vladimir Putin's obsessions in the new phase of his "special military operation" in Ukraine, and the Black Sea city is suffering from Russian shelling every day. Beyond the stalled Donbass front, where the war is intensifying, Odessa has gained prominence due to its strategic importance as Ukraine's major port on the Black Sea. Catalina Gómez Ángel tells us from the disputed city how the residents of the town are living the fact that their town is under constant attack from Russia which, for the moment, has not managed to make them retreat

07:55 Russia denounces that a civilian has been killed in a border town by gunfire from Ukraine The governor of the Russian region of Belgorod, Vyacheslav Gladkov, has denounced on Thursday that one person has been killed and seven others have been wounded by Ukrainian infantry fire from the border. The events occurred in the municipality of Soloji, part of the Russian Federation and very close to the Ukrainian border, where the bodies were found with bullet wounds as a result of an alleged shooting by Ukrainian troops. This attack is the umpteenth that Russia has denounced on its own territory since the beginning of the war, and is added to others in which the shelling of a fuel depot by helicopter stands out

07:46 Amnesty International denounces purges of those who speak out against the war in Ukraine in Russian universities The director of Amnesty International for Eastern Europe and Central Asia, Bruce Millar, has denounced that the Russian educational system is carrying out purges of those who criticize the war in Ukraine. According to Millar, "Academic freedoms are also being trampled. Educators are forced to spread anti-Ukrainian propaganda and glorify the Russian special operation in Ukraine." The NGO has collected several reports of teacher arrests, fines and dismissals for making anti-invasion comments in their classes, as in the case of Roman Melnichenko, an associate professor at Volgograd State University who was dismissed for denouncing 'fake news' about the war. On the other hand, Millar has also warned of the constant carrying out of acts of "indoctrination of children and young people" in favor of the national spirit

07:37 96,000 Ukrainians have asked for refuge in Spain since the beginning of the war The Ministry of the Interior has announced that some 96,000 Ukrainians have asked for temporary protection in Spain since last February 24 as a result of the war started by Russia in their country. Of these, one out of three refugees coming from Ukraine have made their situation official in Barcelona and Madrid, while Alicante and Malaga are the other two cities where the permits have been most frequently requested. Marina Sarmiento explains in La Vanguardia how this reception process is going and what awaits the Ukrainians who arrive here under the protection of the Council of Europe, which grants stays from one to three years.

07:28 ???? Shelling with 15 Russian missiles leaves one dead and three wounded near Zaporiyia The head of the Zaporiyia Regional Military Administration, Oleksandr Starukh, reported this morning that at least one person has been killed and three others wounded in a shelling with Russian missiles in a locality of the region. Specifically, he speaks of an attack with 15 Russian rockets that fell on residential neighborhoods in the Komyshuvaja municipality in the Zaporiyia region. "Today, May 11, the village of Komyshuvaja, Zaporiyia region, was subjected to merciless shelling. About 15 missiles exploded in residential neighborhoods. Dozens of buildings were damaged. One person was killed by the occupants," Starukh explained after the assault.

07:19 Kyiv denounces that Russia has cut off gas in Donetsk and Luhansk regions The head of the Ukrainian gas transmission system (GTS), Sergiy Makogon, has denounced a few hours ago that Russia has cut off gas supplies in Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Makogon assured that the Russian authorities who have ordered this shutdown of the energy supply will be "responsible" for the consequences it may have on the affected areas on the Donbass front. Specifically, Makogon detailed that the Gazprom energy company has blocked a connection point in Sokhranivka, which would have caused the gas flow of almost 100 million cubic meters to 72

07:10 Ukraine has already managed to recapture five enclaves in its counteroffensive from Kharkiv The Ukrainian army is moving ever closer to the border with Russia on the front northeast of Kharkiv, where the counteroffensive ordered by Kyiv has already succeeded in making Russian troops capitulate in five enclaves. Celebrations have been low-key, as Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky has warned that the population must not put even greater "emotional pressure" on the country's defending soldiers. The main objective of this counteroffensive is to cut the main supply line that serves to supply the Russian army on the Donbass front, the most important of the war in Ukraine and which starts its transport chain in the Russian city of Belgorod. On the other hand, the success of this counterattack is not being so in the south, where the Ukrainian army is still holding in the locality of Posad-Prokovske. To know more: Ukrainian counteroffensive from Kharkiv approaches the Russian border, by Catherine Gomez Angel

07:01 Von der Leyen warns that Russia "is the most direct threat" to the world order European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen warned early this morning from Tokyo that Russia is the "most direct threat" to the world order following its declaration of war on Ukraine. In a meeting with the Japanese Prime Minister, Fumio Kishida, the European representative reiterated that the Kremlin has started a "barbaric war against Ukraine" and warned of the "worrying pact with China" maintained by its president, Vladimir Putin. Along with von der Leyen, the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, has also traveled to Tokyo to discuss the international political situation and the territorial disputes that are emerging in Asia

06:52 The images of the last fighters resisting in Azovstal The Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol has become the symbol of the Ukrainian resistance to the Russian invasion, and in La Vanguardia you can already see the photographs of the fighters who are still resisting in the industrial plant. The poor sanitary conditions, the blood, the disfigured faces and the little military equipment they keep are some of the constants in the snapshots collected in an indispensable photographic report to understand the war in Ukraine. "We call on the UN and the Red Cross to show their humanity and reaffirm the basic principles on which they were created by rescuing civilians. The servicemen you see in the photo and hundreds more at the Azovstal plant defended Ukraine," explain the soldiers still in lockdown

06:43 Practically all the localities of Donbass have been attacked by Russia The governor of the Donbass region Pavlo Kyrylenko has denounced that Russia has already shelled practically all the localities in the territory since the beginning of the war in Ukraine. According to Kyrylenko, there are almost "no communities left" which have not been affected by the bombardments, especially missiles, ordered by Moscow and which have fallen on cities such as Kramatorsk, Sloviansk, Bakhmut and Pokrovsk. In addition, the head of the administration in Donbass has assured that the Russian military does not discriminate between civilian and military infrastructure and continues to hit targets of both categories in its shelling

06:34 Russia and Ukraine fight for control of Snake Island The 0.17 square kilometer islet, known as Snake Island, continues to take the limelight in Black Sea operations these past few days between Russia and Ukraine. Hours after the Kremlin began the "special military operation" on Ukrainian territory, Russian troops quickly seized the island which is still disputed by the Ukrainian Armed Forces today. Since then, Kyiv has been trying to regain control of Snake Island with little success, and especially so in the latest Ukrainian assault which resulted in 27 soldiers killed and 2 helicopters shot down at the hands of the Russian army. Military analysts already warned a few days ago that this island was yet another step by Russia to establish its Black Sea dominance, and for the moment it seems that it will continue to defend it from Ukrainian attacks.

06:25 The war in Ukraine has already left 3,496 civilians dead, according to the UN The latest report from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) indicates that 3,496 people have already died as a result of the war in Ukraine. Of these almost 3,500 civilians killed by the conflict, 238 children have reportedly lost their lives, according to the data handled by the UN, which the UN already assumes to be too low due to the lack of information coming from Ukraine. As for military casualties, Ukraine claims that 1,300 Ukrainian soldiers have died compared to 26,350 Russian soldiers, while Moscow reports that 1,351 Russian soldiers have died compared to 14,000 Ukrainian soldiers.

06:16 Putin, one step away from annexing the Kherson region to Russia The provisional government installed in the Kherson region, located in southern Ukraine, could ask Russian President Vladimir Putin in the next few hours to begin the process to annex this territory to the Russian Federation. This would be the first Ukrainian region since the beginning of the war that the Kremlin claims as an official conquest. This was announced a few hours ago by the Russian official in charge of the region, Kirill Stremousov, who has ruled out holding a referendum among the population and going directly to the incorporation to Russia. Dmitry Peskov, spokesman for the Russian government, has also spoken from Moscow, who has limited himself to commenting that the inhabitants of Kherson "should determine their destiny."

06:07 Gas supplies are "guaranteed" in the EU, according to the German government The deputy spokeswoman for the Ministry of Economics and Climate, Annika Einhorn, made it known yesterday that "the security of supply in Germany is still guaranteed at present", despite sanctions on Russian imports. The war in Ukraine has caused a blockade of a large part of the energy that Russia offered to Europe and especially of gas, which for the moment is reducing its arrival in the West. This is what the German government affirms, from where they assure that they are observing "very closely the situation" regarding this drop in Russian gas. From Berlin they have wanted to reassure the population informing that both the team of the executive and the operators of the transport network are already monitoring the situation and it is not expected that there will be cuts in the arrival of gas to Germany

05:59 The world is waiting for Sweden and Finland to join NATO Russia's invasion of Ukraine has led much of society in Sweden and Finland, until now certainly skeptical about membership, to join NATO in the next few days. In fact, Marina Meseguer tells in La Vanguardia how this very week there could be the official formalization of both states to join the transatlantic alliance. Meseguer recalls that "Sweden has been avoiding military alliances for more than 200 years" and its partner Finland "declared itself neutral after being defeated by the Soviet Union in the Second World War". Even so, this third way that the Nordic nations had opted for is about to crumble in favor of full NATO membership, an act that its secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, is already strongly in favor of making a reality.

05:55 The self-proclaimed Luhansk republic suspends the curfew for the anniversary of independence Since last night at 11 p.m., the localsin the self-proclaimed republic of Luhansk, located in eastern Ukraine, have been able to take to the streets to celebrate the independence anniversary of the pro-Russian separatist territory. Although until now the authorities of the region had applied a curfew due to the war with Ukraine, during these next three days the time restriction will not have to be followed despite the proximity of the conflict. It is already eight years since the self-proclaimed republic became independent in the face of the disagreement of the international community. In fact, this 2022 is the first year that the Day of the Republic is celebrated with the approval of Russia, which hours before the beginning of the war with Ukraine recognized the proper entity of the territory .

05:50 One of the 'Pussy Riot' fled from Putin's Russia speaks in La Vanguardia Esteban Linés, journalist of La Vanguardia, has been able to interview the singer and activist Maria Aliójinam, who has managed to escape from Vladimir Putin's Russia to start a tour with a lot of music and vindication throughout Europe. "It's a war that Putin started and it's the worst thing he's ever done. I have been protesting in Russia for ten years now and I'm not really surprised," Aliójinam says from Reykjavik. Aliójinam was under house arrest by the Russian authorities, but has been able to flee his own country as one of the great symbols of dissent against Vladimir Putin and his government.

05:46 Moldova prevents mercenary groups from entering Ukraine The war in Ukraine is attracting volunteers and mercenaries seeking to participate in the conflict by entering the country, mainly through Turkey and Moldova, with the latter making efforts especially to prevent this transit. From the Moldovan capital, Chisinau, our correspondent Jordi Joan Baños tells us about this delicate situation that the country's authorities maintain with its warring Ukrainian neighbor. With the disputed Odessa only 184 kilometers away, many soldiers like the 'Georgian Rambo' described by Baños have remained at the gates of entering the conflict. This difficult dynamic of containment exercised by Moldova is coupled with tensions between Russian nationalism within the country, the delicate relationship with the breakaway region of Transnistria and the fear of being drawn into the war

05:40 Russia-Ukraine war | Latest news on the conflict and Putin, live. Good morning and welcome to coverage of the latest news and developments in the war between Russia and Ukraine on Thursday, May 12.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220513ei5c000mp


Cardin Leads Bipartisan Ask for Biden to Sanction Russians Responsible for Jailing Opposition Leader Vladimir Kara-Murza
748 字
2022 年 5 月 12 日
Congressional Documents and Publications
CONGDP
英文
(c) 2022 Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc.
May 12, 2022

Cardin Leads Bipartisan Ask for Biden to Sanction Russians Responsible for Jailing Opposition Leader Vladimir Kara-Murza

Kara-Murza has used his platform to peacefully protest the war against Ukraine and give a voice to millions more who silently oppose the war

WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.), author of the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act and Chair of the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (Helsinki Commission), along with Helsinki Commission Ranking Member Senator Roger Wicker (R-Miss.) and Commissioners Senators Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) are urging President Joe Biden to publicly sanction "every Russian official and associate involved with the false arrest, detention, and political persecution of Vladimir Kara-Murza." The lawmakers made the plea last week in a letter that also was signed by U.S. Representatives Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.-9), Co-Chair of the Helsinki Commission; Joe Wilson (R-S.C.-2), Ranking Member of the Helsinki Commission; Gerald Connolly (D-Va.-11); John Curtis (R-Utah-3); Brian Fitzpatrick (R-Pa.-1), Ruben Gallego (D-Ariz.-7); Richard Hudson R-N.C.-8); Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-Texas-18); Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio-9); Bill Keating (D-Mass.-9); Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.-16); Tom Malinowski (D-N.J.-7); Peter Meijer (R-Mich.-3); Mike Levin (D-Calif.-49); Gwen Moore (D-Wisc.-4); Burgess Owens (R-Utah-4); Katie Porter (D-Calif.-45); Maria Elvira Salazar (R-Fla.-27); Abigail Spanberger (D-Va.-7); and Marc Veasey (D-Texas-33).

"Kara-Murza is a Russian opposition politician who has long stood up against Russian dictator Vladimir Putin. He embodies what Russia might be one day when it is democratic and free," the lawmakers wrote. "As Russia loses its brutal war of aggression against Ukraine, we must consider what might come next in that country. Kara-Murza offers a vision of a Russia free from imperialist kleptocracy. He has bravely answered the call of many Ukrainians for Russians to take a stand and oppose this bloody and senseless war. He must be immediately freed and allowed to continue his work."

The full letter is below and can be downloaded at this link.

President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.

The White House

1600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW

Washington, DC 20500

Dear President Biden,

We urge you to name and sanction every Russian official and associate involved with the false arrest, detention, and political persecution of Vladimir Kara-Murza. Kara-Murza is a Russian opposition politician who has long stood up against Russian dictator Vladimir Putin. He embodies what Russia might be one day when it is democratic and free. We also urge you to examine whether to sanction those involved in the persecution and imprisonment of other Russian political prisoners.

Kara-Murza is a Russian patriot who has fought for decades for democracy in Russia and a prosperous future for his country. For this, the regime in Russia has poisoned him twice. On April 11, while in Russia, Kara-Murza called this regime "a regime of murderers." He was then arrested, and now faces trumped up charges that may result in years of unjust imprisonment.

Kara-Murza was the key Russian activist behind the passage of the Magnitsky Act and its adoption by our allies. The late Senator John McCain called him "one of the most passionate and effective advocates for the passage of the Magnitsky Act." Kara-Murza himself, like his mentor Boris Nemtsov before him, has called the Magnitsky Act the most "pro-Russian law passed in the United States in the history of our countries." Nemtsov was murdered in front of the Kremlin.

The Magnitsky Act is the appropriate tool to sanction those involved in the persecution of Kara-Murza. We ask that you coordinate with our allies to sanction these individuals at the same time. The European Union, the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia now all have Magnitsky sanctions laws of their own.

As Russia loses its brutal war of aggression against Ukraine, we must consider what might come next in that country. Kara-Murza offers a vision of a Russia free from imperialist kleptocracy. He has bravely answered the call of many Ukrainians for Russians to take a stand and oppose this bloody and senseless war. He must be immediately freed and allowed to continue his work.

Sincerely,

The United States Congress

文件 CONGDP0020220513ei5c0000x


News; Domestic
Ukrainian Battlefield In Flux As Finland Makes Moves To Join NATO; White House Officially Marks 1 Million U.S. COVID Deaths; January 6 Committee Subpoenas Rep. Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), Four Other GOP Lawmakers; Russia Vows Retaliation As Finland Moves To Join NATO; Biden Speaks With Manufacturers As Baby Formula Shortage Grows. Aired 6-7p ET
Wolf Blitzer, Nick Paton Walsh, Nic Robertson, Jamie Gangel, Maggie Haberman, Cedric Leighton, Sam Kiley, Brian Todd
6253 字
2022 年 5 月 12 日
CNN: The Situation Room
CNNTSR
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR (voice over): 1 million Americans gone, so much lost.

[18:00:04]

(END VIDEOTAPE)

TAPPER (on camera): I'm so sorry, may the memories be a blessing.

Our coverage continues now with Wolf Blitzer in THE SITUATION ROOM.

WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Happening now, the battlefield in Ukraine in constant flux tonight as Vladimir Putin's historic miscalculation comes into sharper focus. Finland just took a key step toward joining NATO. Ukrainian President Zelenskyy's chief of staff will join me to discuss this hour.

Here in the United States, President Biden marks a heartbreaking milestone, 1 million Americans dead during the COVID pandemic. 1 million died from COVID. I'll speak live this hour with Dr. Anthony Fauci.

And there are major new developments in the January 6th investigation. The select committee issuing subpoenas just now to five Republican lawmakers, including the House minority leader, Kevin McCarthy.

We want to welcome our viewers here in the United States and around the world. I'm Wolf Blitzer. You're in THE SITUATION ROOM.

We begin our coverage tonight with the latest battlefield developments in Ukraine. CNN's Nick Paton Walsh is standing by in Kharkiv, where Kremlin forces are in retreat, and CNN's Nic Robertson is in the Finnish capital of Helsinki, as that country moves one step closer to joining NATO.

First, let's go to Nick Paton Walsh in Northern Ukraine. Nick, Putin's troops are falling back toward the Russian border where you are and you got a firsthand look at the carnage they left behind. NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR: Yes, Wolf. Startling, frankly, to imagine that now, what, three weeks into this supposed second phase Russian reset of his campaign in the east, to the north of Kharkiv, a Russian-speaking city so close to its actual borders, they are rapidly in retreat and leaving behind them some devastatingly ugly scenes.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

WALSH (voice over): The quiet pines around the east of Kharkiv are slowly revealing their trauma. The Kremlin is being pushed back so fast we are only nine miles from their border. But being closer to the mother land that Russia absurdly claims it is offered no mercy to these civilians.

As they liberate village after village, pushing Russian forces back towards their own border, this sort of atrocity, frankly, that they keep coming across. This car hit by a tank shell as the convoy fled. The troops from the Kharkiv city territorial defense tell us the intensity of the fire no match for the innocence of those on board.

A 13-year-old girl and three adults killed by Russian troops here in early May, said Ukrainian officials.

Are you saying the concentration of bullets is on the driver's side and the passenger door behind showing gunmen who knew what they were doing?

Just up the road, two Russian corpses that lay here now buried, but for days, they sat with their prayer books and sleeping bags and grenades in the spring sun. Their aging armored derailed by a single rocket propelled grenade, we're told.

This fresh convoy fleeing of village of Ravishne up the river further evidence Ukraine is pushing towards Russia's fragile supply lines from across the border.

Up on the hill, a rare sight, a modern Russian T-90 tank. These drone images show its destruction.

One of Russia's newest tanks, kind of the pride, really, of this invading force, what was left of it. But the big concern here is they're hearing a drone above us. And while we don't know if that's Ukrainian or Russian, we got to keep moving.

You could not be much closer to Russia here. Yet still these tiny pine idles feel brutalized, trapped in an endless fight. Some of those who remain seem unaware of the details of their occupation and liberation. That does not mean they are unshaken.

[18:05:00]

Disbelief here that Russian savagery from across the border now eclipsed by how fast it has retreated back towards it.

(END VIDEOTAPE) WALSH (on camera): Now, Ukrainian official said today what we saw evidence of there and those people fleeing that they have reclaimed villages further north of where we were standing, further northeast, in fact, towards vital parts of Russia's supply line into its troops into Ukraine.

Conversely, I should point out, too, that Ukrainian officials have said further south in the east, they are losing territory in some areas to Russia. But, frankly, this is not the big successful reset Putin was hoping for by any stretch of the imagination. In fact, the progress is devastatingly slow if not nonexistent in most of its front lines here. And yet more bad news today, Snake Island, from where the phrase, Russian ship go yourself, which has become so common amongst Ukrainians here, emerged the defiant statements against a Russian ship that initially obliterated that Ukrainian naval outpost has been overtaken by Russians.

More than bad news, though, Ukrainian officials claiming that a Russian supply ship there, the Vsevolod Bobrov, has been seen on fire and is now being towed to Sevastopol. Remember, that's all part of the broad pattern of devastating blows it seems against Russia's naval forces there. Although they're unclear at this stage what's happened to that particular ship.

But, Wolf, this is not a successful reset, and certainly north of Kharkiv, Russia is being pushed back fast towards its own border where, frankly, its resupply and replenishing resources should be so easy. Wolf?

BLITZER: Nick Paton Walsh on the scene for us in Kharkiv, in Ukraine, Nick, thank you very much.

Let's go to CNN's Nic Robertson right now. He's on the scene for us in Helsinki, Finland. Nick, the Finnish president and the Finnish prime minister, they both announced their support for joining NATO today. This move by Finland and potentially Sweden as well would be a major expansion of the NATO alliance. Russia says it's a threat and Russia says it's vowing to retaliate. Give us the latest.

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes. What the prime minister and the president said today was that if Finland joins NATO, that makes -- gives Finland more security, that when Finland joins NATO, that will give greater strength to NATO and that the government should move without delay. And the government is expected to recommend to parliament on Sunday that the parliament goes ahead and votes. So, this is very much this huge geopolitical shift under way.

Russia is threatening to watch the military moves Finland makes along the border and is vowing to take retaliatory action, military action if they feel the need to do that. The president of Finland has said, however, that what Vladimir Putin is witnessing happening in Finland, this move towards NATO, is something of its own making. This is how the Finnish president framed it.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SAULI NIINISTO, FINNISH PRESIDENT: Well, if that would be the case that we join, what my response would be that you caused this. Look at the mirror.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ROBERTSON: Well, one of the M.P.s, the members of parliament in the prime minister's party told us yesterday that if the 200 parliamentarians who will get to vote, next week, he expects more than 180 to vote in favor of joining NATO. So, this seems very much a foregone conclusion and Sweden expected to follow in very short order as well. Indeed, the Finnish president is going to Sweden on Tuesday and the announcements could come from both countries on the same day, Wolf.

BLITZER: Very significant developments, indeed. Nic Robertson on the scene for us in Helsinki, Finland, Nic, thank you.

Just ahead, a milestone that one seemed unimaginable. We'll speak one- on-one with Dr. Fauci about the White House today marking 1 million American COVID deaths here in the United States. We'll be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:10:00]

BLITZER: Just a short time ago, the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, led 15 House Democrats along with staff in a moment of silence marking 1 million American deaths from COVID.

Let's discuss this grim milestone, the chief medical adviser to President Biden, Dr. Anthony Fauci, is joining us. He's the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Dr. Fauci. Thank you so much for joining us.

Did you ever think you'd see this moment, the flag at the White House flying half-staff marking 1 million Americans dead from this virus over the past two years?

DR. ANTHONY FAUCI, DIRECTOR, NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ALLERGY AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES: Well, the answer to that, Wolf, is, no. I mean, this is really unimaginable but unfortunately true. You know, back about a year or more ago when we were talking about the potential for this catastrophic pandemic, I had mentioned that I was concerned that we would have 200,000 deaths. And I was being criticized for being too alarmist at the time. And now look at that, we have five times that and that's a landmark that is really truly tragic.

[18:15:03]

BLITZER: Yes. These are mothers and fathers, brothers and sisters, sons and daughters, grandparents. It's so heartbreaking to think about this. And what's also still very heartbreaking, Dr. Fauci, more than 300 Americans are still dying every day from COVID. The risk of dying is about five times higher, we're told, for the unvaccinated. But there are still growing numbers of deaths among people who were vaccinated but not boosted.

Is it time for the CDC to officially change the definition of fully vaccinated here in the United States to three shots, not two?

FAUCI: Well, Wolf, the one thing that I can say for sure, whether you change the definition or not, that everybody should get the booster shot. I mean, if you've had two doses of an mRNA, absolutely, no matter who you are, whatever your age, if you're eligible for it, you should get it.

You know, you talk about the difference in deaths among unvaccinated versus vaccinated people and now as vaccination immunity is waning, the need for a boost is even more compelling. You know, what is estimated, Wolf, that we would have had about 250,000 less deaths had people gotten vaccinated who should have been vaccinated.

We have got to hopefully make this terribly sad and tragic landmark spur us on to realize that there is no reason not to get vaccinated and if you are vaccinated, to get boosted if your time comes up. We can avoid deaths by vaccination.

BLITZER: We certainly can. People have to get vaccinated. They have to get boosted. We've been saying that for so long, yet there are some out there who still refuse to do so and it is so, so dangerous.

CNN has learned, Dr. Fauci, that the White House projection from the COVID coordinator, Dr. Ashish Jha, took some other officials by surprise. As you know earlier in the week, he projected 100 million new COVID cases this coming fall and winter. First of all, do you agree with that assessment or is it too early to say that?

FAUCI: You know, well, first of all, it's difficult to agree or disagree with it because it's a projection based on modeling. One of the things that we have learned is that models are only as good as the assumptions that you put into the model. And those assumptions can change.

It was not unreasonable for Dr. Jha to make that kind of projection as long as we realize, which he absolutely does, that that could be the worst case scenario and it could be much less. That's the point. I think we've got to be careful. You try to model out to make a projection. The bottom line of it all, Wolf, is the point he was trying to make, and that's something we should emphasize, is that we need to be prepared. We can't let our guard down.

You know, during the massive omicron surge, it was estimated that about 30 percent of the population got infected. So, we know what these variants can do. We know how it can spread so rapidly. So, to the point Dr. Jha was making, more than just the number was that we've got to be prepared and we can't leave our guard down.

And in that regard, I have to say it, Wolf, we do need the resources which we don't have to better prepare ourselves with more vaccines, with vaccines trials to get us a better booster, whatever that booster might be. We need drugs. We need to get drugs that we already have available and we need to develop even better antiviral drugs. We can't do that without resources that we need.

BLITZER: A lot of parents are really worried about their kids five and under. When are they going to start getting vaccine?

FAUCI: Well, I can assure you of one thing, that the FDA is not going to delay the decision on this. Once they get all of the data from the companies who have submitted it for the application for an emergency use authorization, they'll analyze the data as quickly and expeditiously as possible and then we'll get a decision. I think we've got to disabuse people to think that the FDA is just hanging on to data, they're not making the decision. When they get the data they need and time they need to make that decision, they will make it in a timely fashion.

BLITZER: Dr. Anthony Fauci, as usual, thanks so much for joining us and thanks for all the critically important work that you and your team are doing. We really are grateful.

Coming up, as Russia and Ukraine each claim success on the battle field, who has the upper hand right now? We're taking a closer look with President Zelenskyy's chief of staff. He's standing by. We'll discuss when we come back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:20:00]

BLITZER: Tonight, Russia and Ukraine are both claiming strategic victories with Kremlin forces making gains in the east and Ukraine retaking territory near its northern border.

And joining us now, Andriy Yermak, the chief of staff to Ukrainian President Volodymry Zelenskyy. Andriy, thank you so much for joining us. We know how busy you are.

Let me get first to the state of the battlefield in Ukraine tonight. Where is Ukraine making the most progress and where has Russia seen advances recently?

ANDRIY YERMAK, CHIEF OF STAFF TO UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY: Yes. This situation in the front is still very difficult and -- but we really have some success especially in the Kharkiv region.

[18:25:00]

Then our army is pushing the enemies back but this battle continues especially in the east south region in Donbas, in Luhansk, in Donetsk, and, of course, we still have the terrible, catastrophic situation in Mariupol, when thousands of people blocked in Azovstal plant and the rations they have.

I'd like to use this opportunity to say the world of our great appreciation of United Nations and personally Mr. Guterres, who is, after meeting President Zelenskyy personally, and they have the opportunity to create some group of these civilians, but still bound (ph) our military and still the military, it's blocked. They have non- stopping bombing in the plants and, of course, we now using all our opportunities speaking with many world leaders and try to supply our people. For us, it's very important and President Zelenskyy personally, 24 hours, seven days, working for this issue.

BLITZER: As you know, Andriy, Finland today announced plans to join NATO. Is it hard to see Finland promise what's called a smooth and swift process when Ukraine, your country, has been trying to join NATO for more than a decade?

YERMAK: Yes. I get this information that Finland decided to change its decades-long neutral status and join NATO to the Russian aggressions against Ukraine. And we consider that this situation, it's a test of alliance.

We are very happy for our friends in Finland. And, of course, it's absolutely logical steps, but in the same time, it shows the double standard of the alliance because all the world now see how long period of time Ukraine decided to go to the alliance, but we still have not any concrete answer.

And, of course, now our brave and heroic nation showed to all the world that participation and membership of Ukraine in NATO absolutely will strengthen this organization because we show that it's possible, not afraid. It's possible at practically 80 days, fighting against one of the biggest, one of the most strongest army in the world. And, of course, it's -- once again, it's a test.

BLITZER: Does the United States need to impose even more sanctions against Russia right now?

YERMAK: Yes. Yes, you're absolutely right, because, logically, if this war, terrible war continues, and every day the Russians killed Ukrainians and continue to destroy our city, its existing sanctions, it's not enough. It's why we're working with our partners and insist it's necessary to continue the sanction policy.

It's why sometimes ago, based on the initiative of President Zelenskyy, we created the group, which now called like group (INAUDIBLE) in the large least of the international and Ukrainian experts who is working, analyzing of existing and already issued sanctions and making proposals for the new sanctions.

We made it -- this group made already some very detailed documents the plan, the recommendation. And a couple of the days ago, the group issued the energy sanctions map, because we consider and we assure that especially full embargo in the energy of the oil, first of all, of Russia, it will be very strong instrument.

[18:30:06]

These sanctions issued by United States and, of course, by European Union, because from the moment of the starting of this war, Russia received by the official figures, about $65 billion. It means its cost, its contribution for military machine of Russia continue this terrible war in Ukraine. BLITZER: I know you've got to run Andriy. One final question before I let you go. When you hear Putin say he's sent troops into Ukraine to fight Ukrainian Nazis, what's your message to Putin?

YERMAK: You know, I think that what Russia done, especially Russian- speaking city, in Kharkiv, in Mariupol, what happened in Babi Yar, in Oman (ph), I think that and absolutely everything which happened in Ukraine (INAUDIBLE) of the Ukrainian nation. And we appreciate that we saw how many parliaments started and recognized this war like it cannot see.

I think the picture of Bucha, of Irpin, of Mariupol, it's absolutely clear answer who is continuing Nazi practice from the Second World War and who defends the lands, our country and we will fight up to our victory.

And I'm absolutely sure, I'd like to say very great thanks to the administration of President Biden and for American people because this support shows that we are friends, we are strategic partners, we never forget how Americans helped Ukraine, and it will be -- I'm sure it will be our mutual victory because Ukraine defends not just Ukraine but democracy in all free worlds.

BLITZER: Andriy Yermak, thank you so much for joining us. Good luck to you and good luck to all the people of Ukraine. We're grateful to you for joining us today. Thank you very, very much.

YERMAK: Thank you, thank you.

BLITZER: Just ahead, the house minority leader, Kevin McCarthy, among five Republican lawmakers who have just been subpoenaed by the House select committee investigating the January 6th insurrection.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:35:00]

BLITZER: A major new development tonight in the probe into the January 6th insurrection, the House select committee investigating the Capitol Siege has just issued subpoenas to five Republican lawmakers, including the House minority leader, Kevin McCarthy.

CNN Special Correspondent Jamie Gangel is here with me in THE SITUATION ROOM. She's been working this story. Certainly a very bold move by the select committee, Jamie. Tell our viewers what you're learning.

JAMIE GANGEL, CNN SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT: It's really unprecedented, Wolf, It is a political tsunami for members to do this to other members.

Let's go through the five. You mentioned Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy of California, they were all asked voluntarily. They refused. He had conversations, as we know, with Donald Trump on January 6th, and others at the White House. Congressman Andy Biggs of Arizona, the committee wants to hear about his discussions in planning meeting at the White House. Congressman mo Brooks of Alabama, he spoke at the rally on January 6th. Congressman Jim Jordan, staunch ally of President Trump, he spoke to Trump that day also in planning meetings. And congressman Scott Perry of Pennsylvania, his text messages to Mark Meadows really show pushing conspiracy theories. He's also considered to be the person who was pushing the White House to make Jeff Clark acting attorney general to help overturn the election.

These are all firsthand fact witnesses who know Trump's state of mind, the planning that was going on and talked to him throughout.

BLITZER: Do we know why it took so long to issue these subpoenas to these members of Congress?

GANGEL: I don't think this was an easy decision. I'm told they debated it for months. It's never been done before in this kind of a situation. And they knew it was going to have political ramifications. That said, I'm told they felt it is so important to the hearings and to history that they had to lay this marker down.

BLITZER: Yes, thanks for the reporting, Jamie Gangel here in THE SITUATION ROOM.

Let's dig deeper right now with CNN Political Analyst Maggie Haberman, the Washington Correspondent for The New York Times.

Maggie, how do you expect these Trump alleys to react to these congressional subpoenas? Any chance any of them will actually appear?

MAGGIE HABERMAN, CNN POLITICAL ANALYST: I think, Wolf, there's certainly a chance that they will negotiate some kind of voluntary appearance, but I think it is not likely. I think that we're much likelier to see them either ignore the subpoenas and then have the committee go to court and try to get them enforced then run out the clock and/or the court won't weigh in. Because as we have seen increasingly during this committee process, you have a number of witnesses who have decided they're not going to comply, they're going to force the committee to go to court and that has dragged things out.

[18:40:02]

I don't expect anything to be different, I think especially for McCarthy in the wake of the tape by my colleagues, Alex Burns and Jonathan Martin, that was made public of Kevin McCarthy talking about possibly asking Donald Trump to resign after January 6th. I think that McCarthy is going to have to dig in here politically in his mind. He -- McCarthy clearly knows a lot and he doesn't want to talk about it and I don't expect a lot of voluntary cooperation.

BLITZER: This certainly does put Congress in some uncharted territory. As Jamie just said, it's unprecedented what they're doing. Will the select committee have to make some very tough choices about how hard to pursue their testimony?

HABERMAN: I think they will, Wolf. I think they're going to have to, you know, look at whether they want to try to keep fighting if these guys resist these subpoenas, which, again, I anticipate is the likeliest outcome. It's not definite but it's the likeliest outcome. If these guys decide to dig in and not comply with subpoenas from their own colleagues, the own body they serve in, then the committee is going to have to decide how hard they want to push it.

As Jamie said, this was not a decision that was reached lightly. We know that it took the committee a long time to get here. But I think you are seeing across several fronts, this committee as well as the Department of Justice, you are seeing a slow ratcheting up in processes that we might not have seen previously. And I think that goes to the unprecedented nature of the moment we're in and of the things that people around Donald Trump and that Donald Trump are alleged to have been involved with.

BLITZER: You have some important new reporting tonight, as you often do. Is the Justice Department, Maggie, potentially going after former President Trump for the classified documents found at his Mar-a-Lago estate down in Florida?

HABERMAN: They are certainly looking at what documents were taken. They are talking to people who were working in the White House and the Justice Department is talking to people who were working in the White House and who would have visibility into how the documents got into the residence, how they got taken out of the White House. Those are two of the questions that they are trying to ask.

Whether it ends up ultimately impacting former President Trump remains to be seen, but, certainly, I think some of the questions they're going to be asking and have asked are going to relate to him, and that's an open question where this goes.

BLITZER: Important new reporting from Maggie. Thank you very much, Maggie Haberman, for joining us.

Coming up, with the shortage of baby formula here in the United States growing worse and worse, does the Biden administration have a plan to help parents feed their infant children?

Stay with us. We've got new important information here in THE SITUATION ROOM.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:47:01]

BLITZER: Tonight, Russia is vowing to retaliate against Finland after that country took a major step today towards joining NATO.

Let's dig deeper right now with retired Air Force Colonel Cedric Leighton, He's a CNN military analyst.

Colonel Leighton, Finland shares, as you know, an 800-mile border with Finland. Tell our viewers why today's move by Finland and NATO potentially could be so historic and significant.

COL. CEDRIC LEIGHTON (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Yes, Wolf. It is really a big deal because when you look at the border, it's an 800- mile long border between Russia and Finland. One of the key things that you have to look at here is exactly where this border is.

These are the northern reaches of one of the old Soviet Union and now modern day Russia. This peninsula right here, and this peninsula is responsible for a lot of the naval activity that the Russians have, especially their submarine fleet as well as their missile fleet. So this is a very big portion of this.

It also gives NATO an intelligence window on to this area and it ties up potentially a lot of the Russian forces that are stationed right here, which is St. Petersburg, Russia's second major city.

BLITZER: You know, it's very interesting because instead of weakening NATO, which, of course, was Putin's goal, he thought by invading Ukraine, that would divide the NATO alliance, it has actually strengthened NATO, hasn't it?

LEIGHTON: It has, Wolf. And that's what's really interesting about this. Because when you look at the entire map of NATO, you see that Finland is right here. Not yet a NATO member, but it's right next to Sweden, which is also a potential NATO member and then it has, we have the Baltic states right here, with Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania right here. All of these are former members of the Soviet Union, these three countries.

We have Ukraine right here, which is, of course, where all the fighting is going on that we're talking about over the last few months. Then you have the NATO countries. Once you add Finland and Sweden, it really strengthens the capacity of NATO to guard against the northern areas and it also may have significant impact on the Arctic, which is also an area of contention between NATO and the West.

BLITZER: A lot of analysts as you know, Colonel, believe that Finland's military would bring a very significant boost to the NATO alliance from a military point of view.

LEIGHTON: It certainly would, Wolf. Here's one of the things I'd like to show you. This is a, these are some videos from exercises that the Finnish military has engaged in. They also do combined exercises with countries like Estonia, United States, Germany, Great Britain, all of the NATO countries.

So the Finns have interoperable equipment. They fly the FA-18, which is an American Navy aircraft which they fly for their air force and they're picking up the F-35. So the Finns are ready to join NATO. They're extremely compatible and are ready to go this almost in a way no other country is. That gives you an idea of how important the Finnish equation actually is to NATO and to the rest of the alliance.

[18:50:03]

BLITZER: Bottom line, this is a pretty bad day for Russia right now.

LEIGHTON: It is, absolutely, Wolf. And this is -- as you said at the top, this is one of the key things that Putin was trying to avoid, now it is coming into fruition and it's really making it very difficult for Russia to achieve its goals and to achieve any other aspects of its war aims in Ukraine.

BLITZER: Good point, Colonel Leighton, thank you very, very much.

The frontlines in Ukraine are shifting once again tonight, as Russian forces are pushed out of the north and intensify their assault on the east.

Our senior correspondent Sam Kiley has the latest from the eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Wolf, the air raid sirens, once again, on here in Kramatorsk. That's following a day in which there was quite a lot of aviation in the sky above us, and, of course, surface to air missiles being fired up at their aviation, as the rumble of artillery continues in the near distance, with the Russians continuing their efforts to breakthrough the Ukrainian lines, almost constant now thudding in the distance of those artillery exchanges.

But for now, the Ukrainians are holding the Russians back on this front. Neither side is advancing significantly. It's different around Kharkiv, to the north, where Russian forces have been on the back foot, to such an extent that there have been attacks against Ukrainian forces from inside Russia. And they are now within Russian artillery range from the Russian motherland itself.

And this is coming at a time when the Ukrainian defense ministry is now drawing world attention to something in a sense more sinister, with echoes of the 1932 and 1933 famine in Ukraine, with the effect of huge amounts of grain from Ukrainian farmers that had been captured by the Russians. The Ukrainian Ministry of Defense claims that half 1 million tons of grains have been stolen.

Certainly, CNN has tracked one Russian ship from Sevastopol to the port of Alexandria in Egypt, where it was turned away. And we know that it has been docked now, offloading grain illegally in Syria. That is grain has been stolen from Ukrainian farmers. It was the theft of grain from Ukrainian farmers back in 1930s that resulted in the famine that killed millions here, Wolf. So, that is a bitter echo of history here in Kramatorsk -- Wolf.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BLITZER: Sam Kiley, reporting for -- Sam, thank you very much.

Coming up, a nationwide shortage of baby formula here in the United States is getting worse right now. We will get expert advice for parents who are growing increasingly worried about feeding their infants.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:57:08] BLITZER: The Food and Drug Administration says it is, quote, doing everything in its power to make sure there is enough baby formula available for people who need it here in the United States. But tonight, millions of parents are scrambling as the shortage worsens.

CNN's Brian Todd is joining us with the latest.

Brian, I understand this is a problem across the entire United States.

BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It really is, Wolf, and tonight, the White House is involved as well. We've got new information on the crisis, how it developed, and what new parents can do to deal with it.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

TODD (voice-over): Jusstine Ne has searched far and wide on Oahu for formula for her 7-month-old son.

JUSSTINE NE, NEW MOM IN HAWAII: I wasn't able to breastfeed, you know, depending on the formula to feed babies, it's very stressful.

TODD: About 4,000 miles away, in Ankeny, Iowa, new mom Emma Fynaardt had similar problems, finding formula for her four month old daughter, Poppy.

EMMA FYNAARDT, NEW MOM IN IOWA: I never imagine I would have to look high and low for formula. I never imagined this.

TODD: Millions of families in America confronting that same crisis tonight, a nationwide shortage of baby formula that has just gotten worse. In recent days, more than 50 percent of formula was out of stock in eight states. Nationwide, the out of stock rate is is 43 percent. That's according to Datasembly, an agency that tracks how much product is on store shelves.

BEN REICH, DATASEMBLY: We have never seen numbers like this, let alone in such a critical category like baby formula.

TODD: The reasons for the shortage? Supply chain problems stemming from the pandemic, historic inflation and devastating recall. In February, the company Abbott Nutrition recalled three brands of its formula after some infants got sick from a bacteria and two died.

What should parents do now?

DR. MEGAN RANNEY, ASSOCIATE DEAN OF PUBLIC HEALTH, BROWN UNIVERSITY: Worried parents should go out and buy formula, even if it's not the same formula brand that your baby is used to. Your baby will transition to another formula brand over a day or so.

TODD: Experts say don't stress out the formula you've already got by adding water or something else, that can cause illness, and don't do what many parents reportedly tried, making their own formula.

RANNEY: Formula is a complex mix of nutrients, vitamins, minerals, it is nearly impossible to get the proportions right doing it at home. There are also concerns about bacterial contamination.

TODD: How long will new parents have to deal with the shortage? Datasembly didn't want to estimate weeks or months.

REICH: We don't see this letting up, the issues that have caused this out-of-stock crisis continuing to factor into stocking issues.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

TODD (on camera): The Biden administration just announced it's working with manufacturers to get more baby formula on the shelves faster but in the meantime, new parents have to deal with limited purchases. Chains like CVS, Walgreens, Target and Walmart are limiting the number of cans customers can buy in each transaction, Wolf. It's going to be tough for a while.

BLITZER: It's very tough. It's heartbreaking to even think about it.

TODD: Yeah.

BLITZER: Thanks very much, Brian Todd, for that report.

And to our viewers, thanks very much for watching.

I'm Wolf Blitzer in THE SITUATION ROOM,

"ERIN BURNETT OUTFRONT" starts right now.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNTSR0020220513ei5c00001


News; Domestic
Finland Takes A Step Closer To NATO; Ukrainian Military Targets Russian Pontoon Bridges; Thousands Turn Out For A Memorial Procession For Al Jazeera Journalist Who Was Shot Dead; Ukraine Eliminates Two Pontoon Bridges In The East; Kharkiv Attack Survivor Recounts Harrowing Ordeal; Saudi Aramco Becomes World's Most Valuable Company; North Korea Declares "Major National Emergency"; Women's Health Protection Act Fails In The Senate. Aired 2-3p ET
Lynda Kinkade, Nic Robertson, Sara Sidner, Hadas Gold, Melissa Bell, Nick Paton Walsh, Richard Quest, Paula Hancocks, Bill Weir
7258 字
2022 年 5 月 12 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[14:00:00]

LYNDA KINKADE, HOST, CNN NEWSROOM: Hello everyone, I'm Lynda Kinkade, you're watching CNN Newsroom live from Atlanta. Tonight, a major policy shift with global impact. Finland takes a major step closer to NATO. I'll speak with Finland's ambassador to NATO about that decision and Russia's reaction.

And inside Ukraine, fighting rages in the east where Ukrainian troops are targeting Russian pontoon bridges to try and slow the advance. Plus, an outpouring of grief in the West Bank. Thousands turning out for a memorial procession for the "Al Jazeera" journalist who was shot dead.

For decades, Finland and Sweden believe that shunning military alliances was the best approach to ensuring their peace and security. Apparently not anymore. Both countries now expected to seek NATO membership within days as Russia's war on Ukraine triggers one of the biggest shifts in European security in generations.

Finland's leaders formally announced their support for the move today, and NATO's chief says they would be warmly welcomed. Our Nic Robertson explains how Russia's battle to prevent NATO expansion will almost certainly backfire.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): In Helsinki, calm as leaders move the nation ever closer to NATO membership. A momentous announcement delivered without fanfare by prime minister and president, a two paragraph joint statement. NATO membership will strengthen Finland. Finland will strengthen NATO. Finland must apply without delay. On the eve of the historic announcement, Finland's president explaining why it's not a threat to Russia. But Russia is to blame.

SAULI NIINISTO, PRESIDENT, FINLAND: We increase our security and we do not take it away from anybody. ROBERTSON (on camera): The Kremlin's response, this doesn't make the world any safer. Russia's foreign ministry doubling down, saying they'll take military action if their national security is under threat.

(voice-over): In parliament, where the historic vote will happen, routine business continues. But unless Russia escalates tensions, calls for speed --

JOHANNES KOSKINEN, PARLIAMENT MEMBER, FINLAND: Joining to NATO should be as short as possible.

ROBERTSON: When the moment comes, likely early next week, Koskinen; a member of the PM's party, is sure the vote to join will carry easily.

KOSKINEN: The results may be around 180 out of 200 in favor of membership.

ROBERTSON: Politicians and public now, for the most part in lock- step, wanting to join NATO.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: People of course support especially when Russia have attacked Ukraine.

ROBERTSON: Not just the invasion of Ukraine, but a history of rocky relations with Russia sparing many here to re-assess decades of neutrality.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I have a very old father, he's 96, so he was here when we had our wars in Finland with Russia. And he's been talking about, you know, the Russians could come anytime. And as you know, my father, you're back in the '40s and take it easy and they're not -- yes, you never know what the Russians think, they can always come. I said, take it easy. And now, I just have to say to him, well, you were right.

ROBERTSON (on camera): In a way, Finland has been preparing for this moment for more than a generation. They've been involved in plenty of NATO and other international military operations from Iraq to Afghanistan to Kosovo, Bosnia, Lebanon.

(voice-over): Just last week, British troops were training here with Finnish, Americans and other NATO soldiers. Finland's assertion is expected to be fast-tracked, nevertheless, the Nordic nation pressing its case with allies, mindful Russia is watching.

PEKKA HAAVISTO, FOREIGN MINISTER, FINLAND: Finland holds solid democratic credentials that meets NATO's membership criteria, and has a strong and credible national defense that is interoperable with NATO.

ROBERTSON: No panic here, and according to officials, no new Russian threat either.

[14:05:00]

The starting gun though clearly fired in a massive geopolitical shift.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

KINKADE: An our Nic Robertson joins us now live from Helsinki with more. Good to see you, Nic. So, the Kremlin says Finland joining NATO is a threat to Russia, and it will respond. The question is, how will it respond? What's your assessment?

ROBERTSON: Russia is very much focused on Ukraine at the moment, and they've indicated as well, that it's Ukraine where their biggest concerns are of NATO engagement. You know, NATO nations providing weapons to the Ukrainians. And they've said very clearly, if there's any direct engagement of NATO, then that's where their attention is going to be drawn first. They are going to watch, very much so, what Finland does, and whether or not Finland puts more troops along the border and what it does to the border.

And I think we can expect them to match on their side. I don't think in the short term, we should expect belligerent actions along that border from Russia. But this is a new -- this is the same Russian leadership with a new way of thinking and doing business. So I think anyone making any precise calculations about it is taking a little bit of a shot in the dark. So I think any calculation that I or anyone else makes really has to be, you have to shade it and say, be cautious.

KINKADE: Yes, Putin certainly highly unpredictable right now. Nic Robertson for us in Helsinki. Thanks very much. Well, the head of Finland's mission to NATO says Russia has changed the game regarding the future of Europe's security. Ambassador Klaus Korhonen joins us from Brussels. Good to have you with us ambassador.

KLAUS KORHONEN, FINNISH AMBASSADOR TO NATO: Thank you very much, a pleasure to be here.

KINKADE: So, Finland has long held a neutral status when it comes to European conflicts. You are not militarily aligned. But now, your country is set to join NATO. It's a major shift in European security. And your leaders say Putin brought this on himself.

KORHONEN: Yes, absolutely. Of course, I mean, Finland has been a member of the European Union since 1995. For years, we have been a very close partner to NATO. So, in that sense, this step will not be such a major one, and maybe the changes is not as big as people might think. But of course, it is a result of the very drastic change in our security environment after a Russian aggression against Ukraine.

KINKADE: As noted by your prime minister and president, Finland wants membership without delay. Have you been given any indication of a timeframe, and how long could this process take, and how vulnerable is Finland while this happens?

KORHONEN: Yes, you had actually two important questions there, regarding the timeline, of course, it's really up to now political decisions in Helsinki. I think you just interviewed also members of the Finnish parliament, and if they want to have a full debate on this question, of course, it will take a little bit of time, so it's very difficult to predict with -- you know -- yes --

KINKADE: And in terms of vulnerability?

KORHONEN: Yes, absolutely. I think it's important to stick to the facts right now. We don't see any direct military threats against Finland. We don't see any other irregular activity by Russia. Of course, we heard today a little bit acid statements, so the rhetoric, you know, might be a little bit sharper. But at this point, we don't see anything. Finland has a very strong national defense. The level of resilience of our society is at a very high level. And so, I think we are pretty well prepared..

KINKADE: And what exactly are you prepared for? I mean, should the Kremlin respond, what's your expectation of how Russia might react in the coming weeks?

KORHONEN: Well, of course, there has been a lot of media speculation. And I think there is a rather broad -- how should I say, military response is very unlikely. Of course, some sort of cyber harassment, if I may call it that way, other kind of hybrid activities, disinformation campaign, that could be nothing new. This is, of course, possible. But as I said, I mean, this is pure speculation. Right now, we don't say any irregular activity.

KINKADE: Finland, of course, shares a very long land border with Russia, over 1,300 kilometers.

[14:10:00]

Once accepted into NATO, will we see NATO troops along that border? What is NATO willing to offer?

KORHONEN: Well, I think that's a discussion that is in front of us, both nationally and of course with our, I hope, future allies. With NATO, right now, as I said, Finland has a very strong national defense. You could argue that Finland is already protecting the northern flank of the alliance.

And as a member, of course, that protection would be even more effective. We don't have any plans about stationing or receiving new military structures or military personnel to Finland. But I think we should also be very open-minded, openly see what are the ways our membership -- NATO membership could increase our security and defense. But I think this debate will take place in the future.

KINKADE: And just how secure is that border right now?

KORHONEN: Well, I think it's very secure. We have a strong defense. We have a very capable border guards, and I think right now or should I say, we are awake. So, I think the border is very secure.

KINKADE: Support for NATO membership has increased and continues to increase amongst the population in Finland. For those against --

KORHONEN: That's right --

KINKADE: NATO membership, what are their main concerns? And what would you say to them to allay their fears?

KORHONEN: Well, of course, the starting point is that right now, I think the -- in a democracy, the support for NATO membership is as unanimous as it can be. The support right now is over 70 percent, and the declared opposition is not more than 10. So I think there is almost unanimous support for this. But of course, in a democracy, it's natural that we have different opinions also regarding these questions about our possible NATO membership.

I think the reasons for opposition are diverse as far as I have followed the Finnish debate. Some opposition is perhaps a little bit based on misunderstandings. But Finland will somehow lose part of its sovereignty, this of course is not true. NATO is an organization which very strictly respects the sovereignty of its member states. We will take our own decisions, also in the future.

But of course, there are also people who have a very principled objections against any military preparedness and military activities in a way -- how should I say, very principled pacifist attitude, and that of course, might be one reason.

KINKADE: Has Putin's decision to order his country's nuclear forces to move to a heightened alert status raised the risk of nuclear weapons in a confrontation? And NATO allies backing a nuclear power despot into a corner.

KORHONEN: Well, I think experts might debate whether the recent statements by the Russian leadership actually mean truly heightened alertness. But of course, nuclear rhetoric is always part of Russian security policy narrative, and at this time. But personally, I think we are very far away from any nuclear situation, if you want to put it that way. And of course, the use of nuclear weapons, or threats of use of nuclear weapons, I mean, that would open an entirely new chapter in the Euro-Atlantic landscape.

KINKADE: Ambassador Klaus Korhonen, good to have you with us, we really appreciate your time today. Thanks so much.

KORHONEN: Glad to be here, thank you.

KINKADE: Well, we have some news just in to us. Ukrainian military official say a Russian Naval ship is on fire in the Black Sea. It's a support ship and it's now being towed to the area of Snake Island. Officials say they don't know why the ship caught fire. And meanwhile, the Ukrainian officials say Russia has made advances in the east, though it's hard to tell how much ground they've captured. They say Russian forces are shelling towns and villages along the way.

[14:15:00]

And In Mariupol, a very difficult negotiations underway to evacuate wounded fighters from the Azovstal Steel plant. The U.N. Human Rights Commissioner estimates that thousands of civilian casualties are in that city. In the Kyiv region, she says Russians appear to have killed civilians intentionally. We have some new surveillance video obtained by CNN which appears to show Russian soldiers shooting two unarmed Ukrainian civilians in the back.

And as CNN's Sara Sidner reports, it's already being investigated as a possible war crime. And we need to warn you, what you're about to see is graphic and difficult to watch.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SARA SIDNER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is a stark example of a potential war crime perpetrated by Russian forces, an example the world has not yet seen, Russian soldiers shooting two civilians in the back. CNN obtained the surveillance video taken from this vehicle dealership that sits along the main highway to Kyiv. The video is from the beginning --

(EXPLOSION)

As Russians tried and failed to shell their way to the capital. The fight along this road was clearly fierce. But what happened outside this business was not a battle between soldiers or even soldiers and armed civilians. It was a cowardly, cold-blooded killing of unarmed men by Russian forces. The soldiers show up and begin breaking in. Inside of a guard shack, two Ukrainian men prepare to meet them.

We tracked down the men's identities, one is the owner of the business whose family did not want him named, the other was hired to guard it.

YULIA PLYATS, FATHER KILLED BY RUSSIANS: My father's name is Leonid Oleksiyovych Plyats(ph).

SIDNER: His daughter, Yulia, wanted the world to know his name, and what the Russians did to him. Both civilians, both unarmed, we know this, because the video shows them greeting and getting frisked by the Russian soldiers, and then casually walking away. Neither seems to suspect what was about to happen. That is what a member of the civilian fighting force who talked to the men a couple of days before the attack told CNN. He did not want to be identified for security reasons.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): We came there earlier, warned people to leave that place. We also hope for the humanity of Russian soldiers. But, unfortunately, they have no humanity.

SIDNER: You see the two men walking in the shadows towards the camera. Behind them, the soldiers they were just talking to emerged, a few more steps and their bodies dropped to the ground. Dust shoots up from the bullets, hitting the pavement. The soldiers have opened fire. Minutes later, the guard, Leonid(ph), gets up, limping but alive. He manages to get inside the guard booth to make a call to the local guys for help, this is one of those guys, a Ukrainian truck driver turned civilian soldier.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: First of all, we felt a big responsibility, we knew we should go there because a man needed our help. He was still alive.

SIDNER: He's the commander of a ragtag team of civilians who took up arms to fight for Ukraine and tried to save the men. When the guard called them, he explained what transpired with the soldiers. He said the soldiers asked who they were, and asked for cigarettes, then let them go before shooting them in the back. When his men finally got to Leonid(ph), he had lost massive amounts of blood.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: One man from our group went there, and the guy was still alive. He gave him bandages, tried to perform first aid, but the Russians started shooting.

SIDNER: They tried to fight back but were unsuccessful. They didn't have the firepower to save their countrymen.

(on camera): Yulia, have you seen the video?

PLYATS: I can't watch it now. I will save it in the cloud and leave it for my grandchildren and children. They should know about this crime and always remember who our neighbors are.

SIDNER (voice-over): Her neighbors to the north, these Russian soldiers, showed just how callous they are. Drinking, toasting one another and looting the place minutes after slaying the two men.

(on camera): What were the last words that you remember he said to you?

PLYATS: Bye-bye, kisses, say hello to your boys.

SIDNER (voice-over): Her boys will be left with a terrible lasting memory, the death of their grandfather now being investigated as a war crime by prosecutors. Sara Sidner, CNN, Kyiv.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

KINKADE: Well, still to come tonight, Palestinians turn out to mourn a slain journalist who was killed covering an Israeli operation in the West Bank.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[14:20:00]

KINKADE: Welcome back. In the West Bank, thousands of mourners turned out Thursday for a memorial procession honoring "Al Jazeera" journalist Shereen Abu Aqleh. She was shot and killed Wednesday while covering an Israeli military raid in the city of Jenin. The Palestinian authority says Israeli forces killed her and is rejecting Israel's offer of a joint investigation. Israel says it's too early to determine who killed Abu Aqleh. Hadas Gold reports.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

HADAS GOLD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): As mourners chant nearby, friends and family console one another as a casket carrying their slain loved one and colleague arrives in Ramallah, Thursday. Soon after the memorial procession of Shereen Abu Aqleh begins, thousands gathering here to commemorate the veteran Palestinian-American journalist fatally shot in the head, Wednesday, while covering an Israeli-military operation in the West Bank. Now, Palestinian leaders vowing that justice will be served to those responsible for her death.

MAHMOUD ABBAS, PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY PRESIDENT (through translator): This crime is not the first of its kind. Tens of Palestinian journalists have fallen before Shereen. We hold the Israeli-occupying forces fully accountable for her killing. We will not let them hide behind their crime, and we'll not let it go unpunished.

GOLD: The Palestinian Authority President rejecting Israeli government calls for joint investigation into her death. Instead, he promises to bring a case to the International Criminal Court. Israeli officials initially accused Palestinian militants of likely being the ones who killed Abu Aqleh in crossfire. But has since clarified that the circumstances of her death are unclear. The "Al Jazeera" correspondent had reported for decades from the region, plagued by violence that ultimately claimed her life.

Disturbing video from the immediate aftermath shows Abu Aqleh lying on the ground in full protective gear including flak jacket and helmet with insignia that clearly identifies her as a member of the press. Abu Aqleh's producer was also shot, but is now in stable condition.

ALI AL-SAMUDI, JOURNALIST (through translator): We were going in to film the army operation, suddenly one of them shot at us. They didn't tell us to leave, they didn't tell us to stop. They shot us. The first bullet hit me, the second bullet hit Shereen. They killed her in cold blood because they are killers specialized in the killing of Palestinians.

GOLD: The Israel defense forces say they were in the area to conduct counterterrorism operations after a series of attacks on Israelis, carried out by assailants from the Jenin area, prompted the military raids Abu Aqleh and her team were covering. In a statement, the IDF chief of staff says they have set up a special team to investigate her death.

[14:25:00]

Her death causing outrage among Palestinians, the tensions still high Thursday as protesters scuffled with Israeli police in Jerusalem. As Abu Aqleh's death adds yet another tragedy to an enduring conflict she covered for so many years.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

KINKADE: That was our Hadas Gold reporting there. Well, still to come, we return to developments in Ukraine. We'll be live in Kyiv as we hear new reports on the escalating violence. Stay with us for that. Plus, Apple is no longer the world's most valuable company. We'll see what firm took the number one spot, and why?

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

KINKADE: Hello, you're watching CNN Newsroom, I'm Lynda Kinkade, good to have you with us. I want to return now to developments from the war in Ukraine. And in the past few hours, we've heard that Kramatorsk; an industrial city in central Ukraine has been targeted. A refinery there hit with a barrage of missiles and other infrastructure also impacted. People there are being told to stay indoors.

The U.N. is calling on all parties in the conflict to remove barriers blocking access to humanitarian staff so that life-saving aid can be delivered. And it comes as the United Nations says more than 6 million people have been forced to flee Ukraine since Russia's invasion. And fighting still rages in eastern regions like Luhansk. Ukrainian forces there have stopped Russian advances by blowing up to pontoon bridges.

Our Melissa Bell is covering all the developments and joins us now live from Kyiv. Good to see you, Melissa. So, let's start with what's happening in the east. Ukrainian forces say they've destroyed some pontoon bridges in Luhansk. How significant is that blow?

MELISSA BELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, this was important to Ukrainian forces because of the strategic importance of the river that they were defending, the Seversky Donets River. This is the river that Russian forces have been trying to cross repeatedly over the course of the last few days to move eastwards from their positions -- westwards, sorry, from their positions east of that river in Luhansk.

Their aim had been to cross it twice. Ukrainian forces said they managed to blow up the pontoon bridges. A third time, they said they managed to do it again.

They now acknowledged that Russian forces have managed to cross the river and are heading toward the town. That's important because strategically, if they get enough forces across, they can make more progress.

Ukrainian forces say they are now regrouping. The fact that they've crossed the river, though, very important and bad news for Ukrainian forces trying to prevent that westward expansion.

They've been defending it as well as they could but those forces really making their way across that river. It's because Russian forces have been concentrating on expanding westward. The Ukrainians say they've been distracted, which has allowed that counteroffensive to make the progress that it has.

So a lot of attention paid to that front line along the river in Luhansk to see what happens. Good news for the Russian forces, that they have managed to get across. The important thing for them will be to get enough forces across so they can continue westward.

That's what precisely Ukrainian forces are going to try to prevent. But they have acknowledged that that river has been crossed, Lynda.

KINKADE: And Melissa, I want to ask you about some news just in to us, Ukraine says another Russian navy ship is on fire in the Black Sea.

What can you tell us?

BELL: We are talking about is the little island, Snake Island. You'll remember it's a tiny little island, it's 0.6 square miles entirely in surface, very small indeed but strategically very important.

You'll remember, on the very first day of the Russian invasion, the border guards that had been guarding it for Ukraine had achieved worldwide fame by their determination not to surrender.

Since then, there's been a lot of information coming from one side and on the other on exactly what's been happening, specifically, in the last few days, where the fight for this island has been intensified.

Moscow claiming one thing, Kyiv another. The latest that we're hearing is that a Russian naval ship is on fire just off the island. We don't know what's causing that, according to the Ukrainian side.

It's strategically important because you're talking about an island that, although extremely small, is close to Ukraine's sea border with Romania. If Russia manages to take it, it'll be strategically important in establishing its control on the northwestern portion of the Black Sea.

For the time being that doesn't appear to be the point. On the contrary, that second naval ship on fire does not bode well for Russia. It's important for Ukraine in maintaining its control.

That's the latest from the island that's been in the center of a great deal of to and fro. It will be important to determine whether Russia will be able to establish their dominance in that part of the Black Sea.

KINKADE: Melissa Bell, staying across a lot of developing stories for us, thanks very much.

Some of the survivors of Russia's brutal assault on Ukraine are eager to tell their stories. CNN's Nick Paton Walsh reports from Kharkiv.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR (voice-over): Sometimes places that speak only of death throw up a jewel of life.

This is the first time Ayuna has stood in this spot since 72 days ago, she was dragged out from the rubble here. Her husband, Andrey, had been scouring it, looking for her, for three hours.

She remembers the cupboard.

AYUNA MOROZOVA, MISSILE ATTACK SURVIVOR (through translator): That's where I was standing.

WALSH (voice-over): The multiple-rocket attack on this, the Kharkiv regional administration, was an early sign of the ferocious, cowardly brutality Russia would unleash on civilian targets.

This is Ayuna then. She had been serving coffee and cookies to soldiers, saw a flash and curled into a ball.

MOROZOVA (through translator): I feel a physical manifestation of fear. I don't like cookies anymore. The box fell on me and I remember the smell.

WALSH (voice-over): She asked to step away, saying she's sick with butterflies like she hasn't felt since before races, when she used to swim professionally.

Andrey picks up the story.

ANDREY MOROZOV, AYUNA'S HUSBAND (through translator): When I heard her voice, I was crawling across the rubble. And the emergency services were trying to kick me out. I pulled a man out and then heard her. I did not plan to leave her here.

WALSH (voice-over): The soldiers waiting in the corridor outside from her died. Three young woman in the basement below her died.

[14:35:00]

Their bodies not found for three weeks. Yet somehow, the concrete here fell, shielding Ayuna.

MOROZOVA (through translator): I knew I was alive, in pain but nothing broken but was worried I would be left and never be heard. The first time they heard me, they started to get me out and the second missile came and I was properly trapped.

WALSH (voice-over): A rescuer eventually heard her.

MOROZOVA (through translator): Andrey got closer and I said it was me and he cried. They said they shouldn't lift the baton on me but Andrey did alone. It got easier to breathe. I was surprised, as I thought I was still at ground level. The ambulance guy said, It's your second birthday. You're alive.

WALSH (voice-over): Fragments of the Kharkiv now passed pepper this shell. Cleaning up and trying to sweep away its trauma.

MOROZOVA (through translator): I sleep with the lights on and when there's a loud car or, God forbid, a jet plane, I brace. The nightmares that I'm again lying there in shivering cold and that nobody hears my cries, that also stops me from sleeping.

WALSH (voice-over): Ayuna was born in Russia but can no longer talk to her relatives there. She says they believe Russian state media's absurd claims this is a limited operation against Nazis.

MOROZOVA (through translator): They say it was my stupidity and that I don't need to be here. I hope when time passes, our children can talk but I can't talk to them now. Russia has lost its mind and cannot control its president. They are all each responsible, every citizen.

WALSH (voice-over): The story here not of ruins lost or burial in dust but instead, of a feverish energy that burns through the building's bones as Kharkiv gets to decide where its pieces fall now -- Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Kharkiv, Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE) KINKADE: Well, Russian forces are accused of stealing farm equipment and grain in the territories they now occupy. The volumes are said to be huge. Ukraine says one ship carrying 30,000 tons of stolen wheat is now in a Syrian port. It had been turned away from ports in Egypt and Lebanon before that.

CNN has identified the carrier and these are satellite images we've obtained. It's one of three bulk carriers registered to a company based in Russia that's not under international sanctions.

Ukraine's ministry of defense says at least 400,000 tons of grain have been stolen since the start of the war in Ukraine.

Saudi Aramco has overtaken Apple as the world's most valuable company once again. Oil prices jumped to more than $139 a barrel in March, the highest they've been since 2008.

Richard Quest, good to see you, as always. So tech stocks are sliding, commodity prices are swelling. Saudi Aramco and Apple have traded places in the past. Talk to us about how the markets are shifting right now.

RICHARD QUEST, CNN HOST: They're not good. And Saudi Aramco might be benefiting from a higher oil price, which brings in more money. But Apple's is sharply lower, has been. It lost 5 percent yesterday. Apple is one of those stocks that doesn't usually have dramatic moves.

As for the day overall, that picture tells its own story. We have been around 150 points lower on the Dow and we're heading down, we've got around 90 minutes left to trade on the day.

This is this crucial point where investors decide -- the market decides where it wants to be overnight.

What does it think the safest place to be overnight for the next day's trading?

As a result, we've seen the Nasdaq sharply lower, then come back. It's what you expect, this, Lynda. This volatility, there you see, we're down 2 percent on the Nasdaq now. This volatility should be expected, because no one knows what's going to happen next. And there are so many variables, Lynda, and inflation remains high.

KINKADE: So many variables, Richard. In terms of energy, major concerns that Russia could use energy to threaten NATO countries. We've already heard from Germany's vice chancellor that Russia is already using energy as a weapon.

[14:40:00]

We are seeing a number of disruptions. No doubt that only means we're going to continue see this impact on prices.

QUEST: Yes, Russia has the whip hand, let's be honest. Certainly Russia knows that Europe may be about to sanction its oil. But there is no danger of it sanctioning its gas. And that's about $400 million to $500 million a day going to Russia.

So to the extent that, A, yes, Russia needs the money but also, B, Russia has Europe exactly where it wants on the question of energy. If Russia were to suddenly turn off the taps to Germany, while it would hurt Russia's budget, it would send the German economy into reverse and, with that, the rest of Europe.

One other point, you've got China locked down; therefore, the demand for oil isn't as great in China. But if and when China starts to open up again, those productive factories will once again demand energy and prices will go back up again.

So wherever you look, the real question is what's the reason the oil would go down?

And at the moment, there isn't one.

KINKADE: Richard, thanks so much.

And, of course, will tune in to "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" at the top of the hour.

Still to come tonight, COVID-19 in North Korea. The country reports its first case more than two years since the start of the pandemic. We will have the latest on that, next.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(MUSIC PLAYING)

KINKADE: Welcome back.

U.S. President Joe Biden says that 1 million Americans have now died from COVID-19. The White House marked the moment during a virtual global COVID-19 summit aimed at fighting future variants.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOE BIDEN (D), PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: This pandemic isn't over. Today we mark a tragic milestone here in the United States, 1 million COVID deaths, 1 million empty chairs around the family dinner table, each irreplaceable losses.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KINKADE: President Biden also urged Congress to provide more funding for testing, treatments and vaccines.

North Korea has reported its first ever COVID-19 case.

[14:45:00]

More than two years since the start of the pandemic. It comes as the country fired three short range ballistic missiles in a move condemned by its neighbors. CNN's Paula Hancocks reports.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

PAULA HANCOCKS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): This is likely the first time we've seen North Korean leader Kim Jong-un wear a mask in public since the pandemic began, ordering all cities to lock down after admitting the first COVID-19 case in Pyongyang.

MASON RICHEY, HANKUK UNIVERSITY: There have probably been cases before but they haven't admitted them.

HANCOCKS (voice-over): The number of cases of Omicron are unknown but North Korea is only one of two countries in the world believed to have delivered zero COVID-19 vaccinations.

BRIAN WAHL, JOHNS HOPKINS BLOOMBERG SCHOOL: Even in other settings, there would be higher levels of prior exposure. So this is unique in North Korea.

HANCOCKS (voice-over): COVAX has moved to a needs-based vaccine allocation, saying it's currently not committed any to North Korea.

China now says it's ready to provide its full support. The level of testing is low. Just 64,000 have been tested of over 25 million. The health infrastructure is fragile at best.

WAHL: I would imagine the high levels of malnutrition may be an additional risk factor.

HANCOCKS (voice-over): It's a population under lockdown in a country not set up for the deliver of food and survival items. Food supply is already at a crisis in the country.

RICHEY: It could affect agriculture and harvest, interior commerce, the ability for public distribution.

HANCOCKS: Many experts wondered whether an outbreak would halt North Korea's run on missile and weapons tests. Pyongyang answered with another launch -- Paula Hancocks, CNN, Seoul.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

KINKADE: Well, still to come tonight, wildfires sweep through southern California. Homes destroyed and residents forced to flee. A roaring sign of what is to come, as fire season approaches.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[14:50:00]

(MUSIC PLAYING)

KINKADE: Welcome back. A fast moving wildfire is sweeping across southern California. At least 20 homes in Orange County, some described as mansions, have been destroyed, with residents ordered to evacuate in some neighborhoods.

Well, the fire broke out on Wednesday afternoon and grew about 200 acres in just a few hours. Thankfully, no injuries have been reported. Drought conditions continue to deepen in California, with displays a devastating preview of the coming fire season.

So let's broaden out the wider climate conversation with CNN's chief climate correspondent, Bill Weir.

Good to see you, Bill. So we've stopped talking about bush fire seasons. That is the word from California's chief of communications at the fire department, because these out of control fires are happening all the time, every season.

BILL WEIR, CNN CHIEF CLIMATE CORRESPONDENT: Exactly. To imply that there is a fire season would be to imply that there is a season where there is no fire, he says, and that in California just does not exist anymore.

Yes, this time of year, this should not happen. It should not happen that quickly in these places. It does not have to be big. It does not have to be one of these big, you know, hundred thousand acre hectare fires. It could be small and contained in a place like Laguna, California.

You are talking about a lot of losses in terms of property values. But what is concerning to is that CAL FIRE and the state at whole is a mutual aid state, which means that if you come help put out my town, I will come help put out yours.

But when both towns are on fire, what do you do?

So it's making people rethink it. More insurance companies are hiring private firefighters to watch after expensive properties. And after this one in Orange County, that will continue to be a booming profession.

KINKADE: And of course, Bill, one of the big issues is that extreme drought in California, which, of course, is expanding. U.S. drought monitor says it now covers 60 percent of the state.

And I saw scientists recently noting in the NATO climate study that this mega drought is now considered the worst in some 1,200 years.

WEIR: Yes, yes. They can go back and look at really old tree rings and figure out the last time it was this dry, this long. But this could be a once every half century event now. This is now a 22-year megadrought. It's after 150 years of fire suppression in the West, as we built log cabins in wilderness areas there and then tried to protect them now.

So there is a buildup of all this fuel. That plus this drought and you are just seeing what is happening now. So the thinking is, rather than fight wilderness fires out where there are no people, use that money and resources and try to harden your homes and your businesses and towns against what is certain to eventually come.

KINKADE: I know it was interesting, listening to the Orange County fire chief officials, saying that climate change is turning what would typically be a pretty small fire that would be manageable and contained into these extreme threats.

When do you typically see these wildfires peak?

WEIR: Much later in the year, not for a few months right now. You know, these were just 30 mile an hour, 50 kilometer an hour winds, just, still pretty gusty. But in November when the Santa Ana start blowing up those canyons, it gets to 100 kilometers an hour, 50 miles an hour, 60 mile an hour winds.

And so, that is what they worry about. And in the history of California, they've never stopped a Santa Ana driven fire. They just have to wait until the conditions burn it out on its own.

But after this woeful snow season, you know, the Rockies and the Sierras are the water towers of the American West. And there is just not enough water in those towers. The reservoirs, Powell and Mead, are at woeful levels and there is no relief in sight.

KINKADE: No, those firefighters have their work cut out. All right, Bill Weir, good to have you with us as always. Thanks so much.

Well, the U.S. Supreme Court is meeting behind closed doors today, the first time the justices have met since that astonishing leak of a draft opinion that indicated that the court would overturn Roe v. Wade, which of course, guarantees women in the U.S. the right to an abortion.

Well, on Wednesday, Democrats failed to pass a bill that would preserve access to abortion nationwide. The Women's Health Protection Act failed in the Senate after facing strong Republican resistance.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: This legislation would allow abortions for viable babies in the ninth month with no waiting period or informed consent at the hands of a non physician. Taxpayers could be forced to pay for it.

[14:30:00]

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: And Catholic hospitals could be forced to perform it.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

KINKADE: Well, the final tally was 49 to 51, with moderate Democrat, Joe Manchin, of West Virginia, joining the Republicans.

Here's another reminder of just how complicated it is for Democrats to pass their proposals with such a narrow Senate majority.

Well, finally a story that is both otherworldly yet so close to home. For the first time ever, we are getting a look at a supermassive black hole that lies right in the center of our galaxy. It's called Sagittarius A* and it is 27,000 light years from Earth.

Its gravitational pull is so strong that not even light can escape. So what we are seeing here is not the black hole itself but the super hot gases orbiting it. And it's pretty big, too. Astronomers say it's 4 million times larger than the sun.

This is the second time a black hole has been captured on camera like this in three years. And this discovery was made possible by more than 300 researchers from 80 institutions, working with a network of eight different radio telescopes around the globe that comprise the event horizon telescope.

Incredible team effort there. Well, we will leave it there for now. I'm Lynda Kinkade, thanks for joining us tonight. Stay with CNN, "QUEST MEANS BUSINESS" is up next.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220513ei5c000dx


Ukraine crisis puts Europe's autonomy at stake
Ulf Sandmark
1720 字
2022 年 5 月 13 日
China Daily-Global Edition
CDGLED
12
英文
Copyright 2022, China Daily Multimedia Co. Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
The Western strategic mobilization in the wake of the intensifying Russia-Ukraine conflict has further limited the already shrinking autonomy of Europe. The massive military, media and political pressure has lined up European countries in a common sanction policy against Russia and a common weapons delivery policy for Ukraine.

A most dramatic shift could happen in the Nordic countries of Sweden and Finland if they join NATO, abandoning their policy of non-alignment which represents an important part of Europe's autonomy.

Catastrophic shift in non-alignment policy

In the case of Sweden, it would end a 200-year-old policy of neutrality. As for Finland, the country's policy since the end of World War II has slowly increased its autonomy, from the Friendship Pact with the Soviet Union developing into a bridgehead between the West and the East and promoting peace and development based on its nonaligned diplomatic stance and strong independent industrial development. Not to mention that the Baltic Sea was a region of low tensions even during the Cold War.

It has been a common understanding among coastal nations for most of the time to keep the Baltic Sea free of great power conflicts. This could come to an end if Sweden and Finland joined NATO and helped bring in US, British and other European military forces into this theatre, increasing the great power confrontations.

'Wolfowitz Doctrine' and US hegemony

NATO's expansion in Northern Europe stems from the United States' policy of global hegemony, which has been destabilizing the world and pushing it toward another world war. This policy of curtailing the autonomy of other countries is part of the "Wolfowitz Doctrine".Former US undersecretary of defense Paul Wolfowitz published the initial version of "Defense Planning Guidance" for the 1994-99 fiscal years on Feb 18, 1992, which came to be known as the Wolfowitz Doctrine.

"Our first objective is to prevent the re-emergence of a new rival, either on the territory of the former Soviet Union or elsewhere, that poses a threat on the order of that posed formerly by the Soviet Union. This is a dominant consideration underlying the new regional defense strategy and requires that we endeavor to prevent any hostile power from dominating a region whose resources would, under consolidated control, be sufficient to generate global power." This offensive imperialist formulation had to be revised into the final formulation from April 16 1992, but it still claimed global hegemony.

"The third goal is to preclude any hostile power from dominating a region critical to our interests, and also thereby to strengthen the barriers against the re-emergence of a global threat to the interests of the U.S. and our allies," it said.

If there ever was a clear answer to the question whether the US would fall into the Thucydides trap, this is it. The Wolfowitz Doctrine manifests itself in the doctrine of "rules based order" throwing out international law based on the United Nations Charter of equal rights of every nation for sovereignty and development. The Wolfowitz Doctrine is also seen in the US policy of endless wars which now risks becoming the fate of Northern Europe, too.

Finland is extremely close to Saint Petersburg and other major Russian cities. Finland's border in the north is only 180 kilometers from Murmansk city on the Kola Peninsula, where there are major bases for the strategic nuclear submarine force of the Russian Navy. Sweden is 450 km from Murmansk.

These submarines are continuously patrolling under the Arctic ice cap. NATO's expansion, by including Finland and/or Sweden as members, would threaten these Russian bases and endanger the major part of the Russian second strike capability and therefore disturb the global nuclear balance. As a result, a huge strategic crisis would engulf Northern Europe, like the Cuban missile crisis of 1962.

Already, in peacetime, Sweden as a "partner" to NATO has allowed the strategic B-52 bombers to fly across Sweden toward the Russian border. These flights are huge, insane nuclear provocations against Russia. This provocative policy should stop immediately. But it cannot be backtracked easily if Sweden joins NATO.

Facing a nuclear weapons crisis, the only option to ensure security is the policy for peace and common understanding, of which President Xi Jinping has been the most vocal proponent with his "Initiative for Global Security", but also with the Belt and Road Initiative for peaceful economic cooperation, the Global Development Initiative and other international initiatives for the common good of humankind.

In this context, the Schiller Institute has been getting increasing support to convene a "Conference to Establish a New Security and Development Architecture for All Nations".

Feverish drive to join NATO against Russia

The government of the Social Democratic Party of Sweden, in close cooperation with Finland and NATO member states, has put Sweden on a fast track to join NATO.The governments of both Sweden and Finland are in contact with NATO countries to ensure early security guarantees, "in case of an attack by Russia during the critical period of the application procedures" when all NATO member states are to make a decision of approval in their parliaments.

On Saturday, May 14th, the Social Democratic Party of Finland is expected to make a decision on joining NATO. On May 17-18, Finnish President Sauli Niinist?? will visit Sweden, possibly to announce the common decision of the two countries to apply for NATO membership.

Even if Sweden decides not to join NATO, Finland is expected to do so. In the ongoing debate on NATO in Sweden, some leftist politicians have said this is not the first time the two countries would decide on different military policies. In 1940, during World War II, Finland allied with Nazi Germany, joined Operation Barbarossa to attack the Soviet Union and took part in the long siege of Leningrad (Saint Petersburg). That proved disastrous for Finland, for it had to agree to a separate costly peace treaty, when the war shifted.

Attempt to steamroll decision in Sweden

The domestic opposition to the Swedish government's attempt to join NATO is shaping up mainly because the Swedish people are shocked at the blatant methods used to push through a decision against their wishes. The procedure is like a coup d'etat, overriding the democratic processes for both the nation and the government. The ruling SDP of Sweden has sent out a questionnaire to party organizations and will have a board meeting of the party as early as Sunday, May 15th, to evaluate the answers and decide whether to join NATO, probably overriding the current Social Democrats' policy of non-alignment reaffirmed by their congress last year.

It would also override any debate in the national elections in Sweden scheduled for Sept 11. The one-party minority government also wanted to override the parliament by making the decision an exclusively government affair. The need for at least some parliamentary control was raised by even the pro-NATO nonsocialist opposition, which has ensured a debate on joining NATO takes place in the parliament.

Against this hurried process, Left Party leader Nooshi Dadgostar, in a national public radio interview on April 28, gave a clarion call for mobilizing support against Sweden joining NATO and demanded a national referendum. This turned the Left Party demonstrations on May 1 into a huge rallying point against NATO with a record 25,000 participants in Stockholm and huge turnouts in other cities.

Among the Social Democrats, a sporadic opposition was visible on May 1 when some SDP supporters held posters against joining NATO.The same morning a leading Social Democrat and minister in former prime minister Olaf Palme's government, Pierre Schori, together with Henrik Fritzon, the regional leader of the SDP in their more radical southernmost region, wrote an oped in Aftonbladet newspaper, urging SDP members to "Say No to NATO". They also stressed that the issue of nuclear weapons was not even mentioned in the questionnaire sent out to the members.

Sweden's bid to join NATO is faltering

In the week that followed, the internal control of the party leadership began to crack. The SDP's women's organization along with its leader, Minister of Environment Annika Strandhaell, has come out against Sweden's NATO membership. The SDP's youth organization, too, is opposing NATO. The first local party organization to oppose the NATO membership was the city of Trollh??ttan, which is part of the auto industrial cluster in western Sweden.

The SDP's women and youth organizations are crucial for the party to conduct any election campaign. If the SDP leadership sticks to its pro-NATO line, it will face a huge challenge from the Left Party. And despite its strong position in Sweden, the SDP could face a situation similar to Southern Europe where the Socialist parties have almost disappeared.

There is full mobilization from all Left organizations against NATO, and more demonstrations are being planned across Sweden against NATO membership. Some networks close to the right wing, populist Sweden Democrats are also planning demonstrations against NATO.

Opinions favoring NATO shrinking

Already, the support for NATO membership is shrinking in Sweden, according to polls. In the wake of the intensified Russia-Ukraine conflict, the pro-NATO opinion shot up from the normal 35 percent to 51 percent. This week it is down to 47 percent, although only 25 percent respondents are against NATO, down from 40 percent in normal times. And the undecided have increased 5 percentage points.

Sweden's NATO membership is being challenged by the resistance built up by leftists, and leading SDP activists. They are also reaching out to the non-socialists in the rest of the population traditionally opposed to NATO. They may succeed in the long process it takes for NATO to ratify any new members, a period when Sweden will also have its national parliament and regional elections. The heavy-handed government party measures in coordination with the foreign-controlled military industrial establishment, could backfire both internally and nationally, even if an official decision for Sweden to apply to join NATO is forced through in the coming week.

The author is chairman of the Schiller Institute in Sweden. The views don't necessarily reflect those of China Daily.

China Daily Multimedia Co. Ltd.

文件 CDGLED0020220512ei5d0000t


Front Page
Indian Businesses Take UAE Route for Russia Payments Finland Seeks NATO Membership
Sugata Ghosh & Sutanuka Ghosal
938 字
2022 年 5 月 13 日
The Economic Times - Mumbai Edition
ECTMUM
英文
Copyright © 2022. Bennett, Coleman & Co., Ltd.
RUSSIA CALLS MOVE A DIRECT THREAT, WARNS OF RETALIATION

MECHANISM TO AVOID SANCTIONSMumbai | Kolkata: Some Indian businesses and banks are using an old trade playbook they had relied upon during the US embargo on Iran to sidestep the sanctions on Russia. With New Delhi and Moscow yet to cobble together a kosher mechanism for rupee-rouble trade, exporters and importers are turning to UAE, which offers a flourishing transhipment point and a money market where multiple currencies are freely converted.

Cargo movements and associated trade payments are being routed through outfits and banks in Dubai in transactions that come across like regular bilateral trade between India and UAE, two senior bankers and a few members of trade bodies told ET. Neither the banks handling the payments question the origin or final destination of the goods nor their clients talk about them.

"The payments are processed in a manner as if the Russian leg of the transactions doesn't exist, be it import or export. But banks know the actual nature and purpose of the trades," said an official with a large Indian bank. Finland said on Thursday it would apply to join NATO "without delay", with Sweden expected to follow. Finland's announcement angered the Kremlin, which called it a direct threat to Russia and threatened retaliation. "They just shut their eyes though there's no violation of rules here..

It's happening over the past few months in various items, but not in a very big way. It was common during Iran sanctions," said the official.

The UAE entity that trades with an Indian firm acts on behalf of the original Russian importer or exporter in which the latter ma y be a partner. Payments for imports to India ma y be inv oiced in dollars, though many prefer it in Emirates dirham to avoid any link with the US currency and clearing system. The dirham, which is pegged to the dollar, is convertible into rupees with several banks offering daily quotes.

"Now, the Indian importer is not bothered how the money reaches the Russian seller. There can be different ways. We are told that the dirham is converted into renminbi. But there could be other w ays of settlement using certain Russian banks which are not yet on the sanction list. It's the same for the Indian exp orter who is not bothered how the Russian buyer arranges funds but is happy as long as the Dubai bank of the UAE intermediary releases payments," said another banker. "In the Russian leg of the deal there could be some cash settlement also," he said.

Russian businesses have long enjoy ed a certain clout in the UAE. And though financial in- stitutions in Emirates have tightened their anti-money laundering regulations over the past few ye ars, the UAE is sometimes perceived as a safe haven for the Russian rich.

In international trade, 'bill-to, ship-to' is a regular practice where the party who is making the payment is different from the party to whom the g

oods are shipped. "However, for Russia trades, many would like the goods to be routed through UAE despite a higher transportation cost so that there is no mismatch between the trade documents and pa yment details…The Indian party simply maintains that i t is unaware of any Russian connection the UAE entity ma y have. There can be a new certificate of origin gi v en in the UAE," said a practitioner of foreign exchange regulations. "Shipment to Russia h as begun though not in full force yet. Some payments ar e directly coming from Russia, some are being routed through the UAE," said a tea e xporter f rom the south. Some of the diamantaires who were freely using UAE to buy rough stones from Russia have to change tack now. "All diamond exporters have accounts with banks in the UAE. Therefore, pa yment through the UAE is not an issue at all. Payments have been made in dollars or euro to the Russian miner who shipped the goods to UAE from wher e Indian exporters picked them up. But, post May 7, things have come to a standstill with Alrosa (Russian miner) coming in the sanctions list," said asenior diamond exporter.

RUPEE-ROUBLE TRADE

At a meeting with RBI in March, Russian banks in India had proposed they could run the nodal accounts for a possible rupee-rouble trade and hold the surplus rupee balance (as imports from Russia exceeds exports to the country). "This wa s because an Indian bank offering a nodal account would risk US sanctions. But the Russian bank branch in India would have to use the surplus r upees - either park it with RBI in the reverse repo window or lend it in the inter-bank market or sw

ap it for some non-dollar currency," said a banker. Technically, the Indian branch of the Russian bank can swap the surplus rupees for renminbi with a Chinese bank in India (subject to RBI clearance) while the Chinese banks (which face no sancti on) can swap the rupees into dollar. With decisions on the rupee-rouble trade pending, the UAE channel is being tried out when India's exports to some of the neighbours are taking a hit. Shipments to Sri Lanka have virtually come to a h alt with banks unwilling to discount letters of credit issued by banks in Lanka amid fears the country may not have enough dollars to pay back.

Bennett, Coleman & Co., Ltd.

文件 ECTMUM0020220513ei5d00004


News; International
Villagers Describe Damage from Russia Strikes; Finnish Leaders to Apply for NATO Membership; Russian Military Leader Behind War Crimes Identified; Thousands Attend Memorial Procession for Slain Journalist; Biden Mourns One Million U.S. COVID Deaths. Aired 12-1a ET
John Vause, Nick Paton Walsh, Nima Elbagir, Michael Holmes, Hadas Gold, Sanjay Gupta
6650 字
2022 年 5 月 13 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
JOHN VAUSE, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello. Welcome to our viewers in the United States and all around the world. I'm John Vause.

[00:00:39]

Ahead this hour, from neutral to NATO. With Finland now publicly pushing for rapid membership of the defense alliance, the Kremlin warns that's a direct threat to Russia and will trigger retaliation.

Unprecedented. Five Republican congressman subpoenaed to testify before the House committee investigating the January 6 insurrection on Capitol Hill.

And the staggering toll of COVID in the U.S. one million dead in 843 days.

ANNOUNCER: Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with John Vause.

VAUSE: NATO is now on the eve of an historic expansion with the leaders of Finland publicly pushing for rapid membership of the alliance. An announcement which triggered threats of retaliation from the Kremlin.

Former president Dmitry Medvedev says Russia would seriously strengthen ground, naval and air defenses on the western border. The foreign ministry there said this was a radical change in policy by Finland, as well as a treaty violation.

Finland declared neutrality at the end of World War II, but the brutality of Putin's war in Ukraine has shattered stability in Europe, leaving many feeling vulnerable. Now officials in Finland say there are no direct military threats from Russia, and all is quiet on their 800-mile-long shared border.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PEKKA HAAVISTO, FINNISH FOREIGN MINISTER: We are, of course, at a very bumpy moment because of the Russian attack against Ukraine. I hope that one day there are peace. They also have a peaceful neighbor and cooperation goes around normally. We are not yet there.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: The war in Ukraine, military leaders describe intense shelling along the front lines in the Luhansk region.

New satellite images show plumes of smoke from fighting along a key river separating Ukrainian and Russian forces. Ukraine's military has destroyed several pontoon ridges to try and slow a Russian advance.

Further to the North in Chernihiv, three people reportedly killed and 12 wounded by Russian attacks on schools. Moscow says they were targeting military command posts and ammunition depots. And a number of villages are once again under fire by Russian forces in the Kharkiv region, according to Ukrainian officials.

CNN's Nick Paton Walsh begins our coverage.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The quiet pines around the East of Kharkiv are slowly revealing their trauma. The Kremlin is being pushed back so fast we're only nine miles from their border. Though being closer to the motherland that Russia absurdly claims it is offered no mercy to these civilians.

WALSH: As they liberate village after village, pushing Russian forces back towards their own border, atrocity frankly, that they keep coming across.

WALSH (voice-over): This car, hit by a tank shell as the convoy fled. The troops from the Kharkiv city territorial defense tell us the intensity of the fire, no match for the innocence of those on board.

A 13-year-old girl and three adults killed by Russian troops here in early May, said Ukrainian officials.

WALSH: Are you saying that the concentration of the bullets is on the driver's side and the passenger door behind, showing gunmen who knew what they were doing.

WALSH (voice-over): Just up the road, two Russian corpses that lay here, now buried, but for days, they sat with their prayer books and sleeping bags, and grenades in the spring sun.

WALSH: The RPG hit there, yes?

WALSH (voice-over): Their aging armor derailed by a single rocket- propelled grenade, we're told.

This fresh convoy fleeing the village of Robizhne (ph) up the river, further evidence Ukraine is pushing towards Russia's fragile supply lines from across the border.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

GRAPHIC: We didn't understand what was going on. We just didn't wait to leave. WALSH (voice-over): Up on the Hill, a rare sight, a modern Russian T- 90 tank. These drone images show its destruction.

WALSH: One of Russia's newest tanks. Kind of the pride, really, of this invading force. Here's what's left of it. But the big concern here is they're hearing a drone above us. And while we don't know if that's Ukrainian or Russian, we're going to keep moving.

WALSH (voice-over): You could not be much closer to Russia here. Yet still, these tiny pine idols (ph) feel brutalized, trapped in an endless fight.

Some of those who remain seem unaware of the details of their occupation and liberation. That does not mean they are unshaken.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE]

GRAPHIC: What calm? My heart is about to jump out of my chest. Everything around is exploding. There's a hole in my garden from shelling. The roof was punctured by a shell. The fence is gone. It's amazing I'm alive. It's really difficult. We sleep in our clothes. Because it lands all around us.

WALSH (voice-over): Disbelief here that Russian savagery from across the border now eclipsed by how fast it has retreated back towards it.

Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Starysalte (ph), Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: Angela Stent is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institute and author of "Putin's World: Russia Against the West and with the Rest." She is with us this hour from Washington, D.C.

Angela, thank you for taking the time. It's good to see you.

ANGELA STENT, SENIOR FELLOW, BROOKINGS INSTITUTE: Good to see you, too.

VAUSE: OK, so Finland's foreign minister seemed to have a remain calm and carry on approach with regard to any threat from Russia. Here he is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HAAVISTO: In this kind of situation, of course, you had to be prepared for all kinds of threats and all kinds of action and so forth. We don't expect anything, but we are prepared for everything.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: It would seem very unlikely that they're not expecting any response from Russia. Given the fact that military action is unlikely because they're -- you know, they're bogged down in Ukraine. What will the response from Moscow look like? STENT: Well, the Russians have threatened to deploy more nuclear weapons in the vicinity. You have them coming (ph). But they already have nuclear weapons there anyway.

There could be cyberattacks. There've already been cyberattacks against Finland. There could be more of those, but I would assume that the Fins are prepared for that.

And beyond that, I don't think there's very much more that Russia can do. We do know that, up until now, Russia has respected NATO membership. There is a country in NATO that hasn't been attacked by Russia.

And even though there is concern that in this interim period between the application for NATO membership and the actual ratification of it, the Russians could be up to some mischief.

I really do think that, given the way that they're bogged down in Ukraine, there's a limit to what they can do.

VAUSE: And that seems to be the big takeaway as far as Russian military power goes, is that it's not as fearsome or as effective as it once was thought to be. And this sort of goes all the way back to the war that the Soviets of Finland back in 1939, the winter war.

STENT: Yes, they certainly did, and the Fins resisted valiantly, drove the Soviets back. I mean, in the end, the Soviets at that point prevailed, but they -- the fence put up a very tough fight.

So the Russians should remember that going forward. If they're thinking about provoking Finland into something.

VAUSE: We heard from the former Russian president, Dmitry Medvedev, is also the deputy chairman of Russia's security council. He warned of the increased probability that an ongoing proxy war will turn into an open and direct conflict between NATO and Russia.

There is always the risk of such conflict earning the full-scale nuclear war, a scenario that would be catastrophic for all. Most want to believe that, even for Vladimir Putin, nuclear war is a bridge too far. But is that based on fact or just wishful thinking?

STENT: Well, it's based on the fact that, since 1949, when the Soviet Union first developed its own nuclear weapons, both the United States and the Soviet Union, now Russia, have respected the fact that there is deterrence and that the principle of mutually-assured destruction.

If you strike me, I will strike you back, and it will be totally catastrophic. So you would really have to be suicidal to launch a full-scale nuclear attack.

Of course, the Russians have also hinted that there would be the possibility of using a tactical nuclear weapons, you know, that could reach the United States. But that would cause significant damage, not only in Ukraine, let's say it was detonated in Ukraine, but also to Russia itself with all the fallout. So you really would have to be -- you know, have lost all sense of sort of reason, and be extremely a risk taker to do that. And that's why people are beginning to believe that these threats are being deployed, particularly from Mr. Medvedev, who is having somewhat of a comeback, having been forgotten about for a long time, just to intimidate the West and deter the United States and other NATO countries sort of supplying weapons to Ukraine.

[00:10:15]

VAUSE: And while Finland and Sweden joining NATO bolsters the alliance and the West, the rest of the world seems to be back in Moscow or, at the very least, passive onlookers. And that seems to be quite a big win for Putin. How do we get to this point?

STENT: Well, Putin, I think, is very careful, at least for the past decade, cultivated relations with countries in the Middle East. Russia's gone back to Africa and after withdrawing when the Soviet Union withdrew from there, and even in Latin America.

And of course, he has focused very much on cultivating the relationship with China, particularly since the annexation of Crimea in 2014.

So China has come back to Africa throughout this war. It doesn't condemn Russia. It won't sanction Russia. It may not be comfortable with the scale of violence and brutality in Ukraine, and it has said that it respects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. but still, it hasn't done anything to -- as I said, to criticize Russia.

VAUSE: Angela, we'll leave it there, but a very good point to finish on. Thank you very much. Angela Stent there, senior fellow at the Brookings Institute. Thank you.

STENT: Thank you.

VAUSE: In an unprecedented move, the House committee investigating the January 6th riots on Capitol Hill has subpoenaed five Republican congressman, all thought to have crucial information about events leading up to the insurrection.

All five are expected to refuse to testify, and that includes the top House Republican, Kevin McCarthy, and four others, outspoken supporters of former President Donald Trump and his baseless lie about the 2020 election being stolen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

REP. ADAM SCHIFF (D-CA): These are people who were involved in discussions with the president. They were in communication with White House staff on January 6, leading up to it. They clearly have relevant testimony. They need to do their duty and to uphold their oath, and come in voluntarily and testify. If they don't, we will discuss what's the appropriate remedy is.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: With midterm elections less than six months away and Democrats expected to lose their slim majority in Congress, the committee is running out of time to get results.

Republicans have described the investigation as illegitimate and political theater. They will shut it down if they take the House.

Up next here on CNN, one pandemic, 843 days, 1 million lives. President Biden marks a grim milestone and honors the Americans who lost their lives, when we come back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[00:16:50]

VAUSE: The number is both staggering and heartbreaking. In the days and months since coronavirus was first detected, one million Americans have died from COVID. Claiming far more U.S. lives in both world wars and all major wars since then combined. As Kaitlan Collins reports, the U.S. president, Joe Biden said much of this day honoring pandemic victims.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

KAITLAN COLLINS, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): President Biden marking the staggering number of Americans lost to COVID-19.

JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: One million COVID deaths. One million empty chairs around the family dinner table, each irreplaceable.

COLLINS (voice-over): The president lowering flags at federal buildings to half-staff to commemorate the somber milestone. And highlighting the global toll as he virtually hosted world leaders for another pandemic summit.

BIDEN: Millions of children have been orphaned, with thousands still dying every day. Now is the time for us to act, all of us together.

COLLINS (voice-over): On Thursday, databases used by the CDC and CNN were just shy of one million U.S. deaths but expected to surpass that number soon.

As other nations pledged billions to continue their fight against COVID-19, Biden called on Congress to authorize more funding so he could do the same.

BIDEN: We have to invest now, now. We have to secure political commitments now. We have to start working to prevent the next variant and the next pandemic now.

COLLINS (voice-over): The White House has asked Congress for $22 billion for treatments and vaccines. But the proposal has languished on Capitol Hill amid disagreements over immigration. BIDEN: I continue to call on Congress here at home to take the urgent action to provide emergency COVID-19 funding that is vital to protect Americans.

COLLINS: The president's top aides are warning there will be consequences if Congress fails to pass more funding soon. But they baffled some experts by declining to say which models are behind their infection projections.

DR. ASHISH JHA, WHITE HOUSE COVID-19 RESPONSE COORDINATOR: We're looking at a range of models, both internal and external models. And what they're predicting is that, if we don't get ahead of this thing, we're going to have a lot of waning immunity. This virus continues to evolve. And we may see a pretty sizeable wave of infections, hospitalizations, and deaths this fall and winter.

COLLINS (voice-over): Also on Thursday, lawmakers held a moment of silence to mark the 1 million Americans lost to COVID-19. That comes, of course, as Nancy Pelosi also said --

COLLINS -- they are still negotiating what it is going to look like when they do eventually pass an aid package. Though the parameters as that, while we know it's been scaled back from what the president asked for to about $10 billion. Still far from certain on the size, and of course, when that package actually gets passed.

Kaitlan Collins, CNN, the White House.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: Pyongyang has now announced the first COVID death in North Korea. The reclusive nation reported 18,000 so-called fever cases on Thursday and the death of six people.

So far, the country has identified more than 350,000 fever cases. More than 185,000 people are in isolation.

Leader Kim Jong-un has ordered all cities into lockdown, calling it the most important challenge facing the ruling Communist Party.

Well, evidence of possible war crimes are found everywhere across Ukraine. And now CNN has identified the senior Russian general who ordered some of those atrocities.

[00:20:08]

Our exclusive report in a moment.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VAUSE: Well, the world has watched as Russian artillery has devastated Ukrainian cities and Ukrainian lives, seemingly with impunity. The U.S. and the international community have accused Russia of war crimes.

But what has been difficult is tying specific generals to specific crimes. The key to actually carrying out war crimes prosecutions.

In Kharkiv, CNN has seen the aftermath of attacks using indiscriminate cluster munitions. That's a war crime. In a two month-long investigation, CNN can reveal the commander responsible for these attacks. And the string of atrocities he's committed not just in Russia's latest war in Ukraine but also in the 2014 war in Donbas, as well as the war in Syria.

[00:25:05]

Chief international investigative correspondent Nima Elbagir has this exclusive report, and you may find the images in her report disturbing.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NIMA ELBAGIR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A devastation of civilian homes and lives. Throughout the last two months, we have witnessed atrocities in Ukraine.

ELBAGIR: More mortar strikes very, very close. They want us to start moving.

ELBAGIR (voice-over): While we know these are Russian actions, it's been difficult to draw a direct line from individual atrocities to a specific Russian commander. Until now.

CNN can exclusively reveal that this man, Colonel General Alexander Zhuraviyov, commander of the western military district, is the commander responsible for this. Munitions targeting civilians in the city of Kharkiv, East Ukraine. A war crime under international law.

FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: You can see more artillery rockets apparently be firing from Russian territory towards the territory I would say around Kharkiv. I don't know if you can hear this right now.

ELBAGIR (voice-over): This is the start of the war. CNN senior international correspondent Fred Pleitgen witnessed artillery being fired from inside Russia, within Zhuraviyov's district, towards the city of Kharkiv.

Sam Kiley was in Kharkiv and could hear the shelling moments later.

SAM KILEY, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: You can feel the concussion against the glass.

ELBAGIR (voice-over): We soon learned from experts these were Smerch rockets. Built in the early 80s at the end of the Soviet era, this multiple rocket launch system, scorching the earth as it fires, is a pride and joy of Russia's armaments, as seen here in this propaganda documentary.

This is what they're capable of delivering. Cluster bombs, one Smerch rocket releasing many smaller explosives, scattering bombs amplifying the devastation. These attacks, captured on social media both in Kharkiv and both from the same day, are a clear example of their indiscriminate nature. When used in this fashion against civilians, it's considered a war crime.

The use of Smerch rockets are key in our findings of who's responsible, because they are unique to one unit here, one commander. After months of forensic work, we can reveal the trail of evidence leading to Zhuraviyov.

Using social media videos to guide us, we return to some of the scenes of the attacks, focusing on February 27, when three civilian targets were hit and eight more on February 28.

We start in the Pavlovapula (ph) neighborhood of Kharkiv.

"This is shrapnel from those missiles that fell on our neighborhood she tells us. This shrapnel was found in one of the rooms.

Lilia (Ph) takes us to see a Smerch rocket that fell 200 yards from her apartment block in this once affluent area.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I remember the whistling sounds of the missiles. I know that the missiles were flying, and that they were accompanied by fighter planes, or drones.

ELBAGIR: You can see the hole that it came through. You can see the way the rocket buckled when it hit the car. You can also very clearly see that this is a Smerch.

ELBAGIR (voice-over): It's not the only rocket coming from this direction on this day. Less than a half mile down the road, another hit.

ELBAGIR: Helping to situate us, this kiosk, that water cooler, they're key landmarks. The bodies landed here down this road. Those blue doors you see, that's where the cluster munitions shrapnel embedded.

ELBAGIR (voice-over): This video, filmed moments after the attack, where four people, including a child, were killed. Another Smerch launching cluster bombs. We know this because one of the unexploded bombs was found only 280 yards away.

Notice the date, 2019. Russia stopped selling arms to Ukraine in 2014. This confirms this is a Russian cluster bomb.

One and a half miles away, another strike, more suffering. And no sign of any legitimate military targets.

"People were queuing for food, and then something just hit. People started running here," she says.

This is the exact moment of impact. Look at it again. Frame by frame, you can see the scale of the rocket and proximity to innocent civilians.

We are here in Kharkiv. Notice the five hits along this line from the 28. They are pretty much in a line, apart from three here, which line up with the hits from February 27.

[00:30:03]

We can trace these lines 24 miles to a point of convergence here, across the border in Russia, well within the range of a Smerch rocket.

Where we have a satellite image from the 27th showing the launching position. Notice the plume of smoke and the telltale burn marks of a Smerch. Here, here, and here.

In collaboration with the Center for Information Resilience, we can also tell you who is firing from this position. The 79th Russian Artillery Brigade, part of the Western Military District which borders Ukraine, and is under the command of Zhuraviyov.

According to open-source information reviewed by CNN, military experts and intelligence sources they are the only unit in this district equipped to launch Smerch rockets. And only the commander has the authority to order the 79th artillery brigade to launch the rockets.

And this was just in the two days that we analyzed. These showed exclusively to CNN by Kharkiv prosecutors, show the Russian armaments reigning death. Among them many Smerch remnants. Experts say this is among the heaviest bombardments in recent history.

Alexander Zhuraviyov is no stranger to these brutal tactics. Atrocities targeting civilians. They're very similar to what we saw in Syria, in 2016.

So it shouldn't come as a surprise that Alexander Zhuraviyov also led Russian troops during the siege of Aleppo.

He is the architect of the devastation you see here.

For leveling Aleppo, he was awarded the highest honor granted to Russian officers: Hero of the Russian Federation. Yet, Syrians have documented his war crimes.

Despite the direct line from the impunity the world afforded Russia in Syria, to the atrocities suffered by civilians here today. The question remains: what will the world do to stop this cycle?

Nima Elbagir, CNN, Kharkiv.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: We have asked the Russian ministry a defense for comment, as well as the Kremlin, but we're yet to receive a response.

CNN shared with the U.S. State Department our findings, noting the lack of action taken against the colonel and other Russian generals. They would not comment on those specific acts or other information reviewed, but said they will continue to track or crimes and reports of ongoing violence and human rights abuses. The United Nations now outs [SIC] the number of Ukrainians who have fled the -- counts, rather, the number of Ukrainians who fled the country since the fighting began at more than 6 million, an average of more than 75,000 people a day are seeking emergency refuge in neighboring Poland, Romania, Hungary and other European countries.

Another 8 million people, nearly one-fifth of Ukraine's prewar population, are currently displaced within the country.

The U.N. fears millions more will ultimately be forced to leave Ukraine just to stay alive. Many arriving at border crossings with only the clothes they have and the belongings they can carry.

If you'd like to safely and securely help the people of Ukraine, who are in need of food and shelter, just about everything, please go to CNN.com/impact. There, you'll find a number of ways that you can help.

Still to come here on CNN, thousands gathered to mourn the death of an Al Jazeera journalist killed while covering an Israeli raid in the West Bank. Palestinian leaders now vowing justice.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[00:37:37]

VAUSE: At least 11 people died off the coast of Puerto Rico when a boat, believed to be illegally transferring migrants, capsized. Those in the boat were spotted by U.S. officials late Thursday morning.

None of the passengers appeared to be wearing life jackets.

Crews were able to pull at least 31 survivors from the water. The search-and-rescue operation is ongoing. The nationality of the suspected migrants is not known.

The funeral for slain Al Jazeera journalist Shireen Abu Akleh will be held in Jerusalem in the coming hours. She was fatally shot while reporting an Israeli raid in the West Bank city of Jenin on Wednesday.

On Thursday, thousands gathered in Ramallah to mourn her death and remember her life. CNN's Hadas Gold has our report.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

HADAS GOLD, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): As mourners chant nearby, friends and family console one another, as a casket carrying their slain loved one and colleague arrives in Ramallah Thursday.

Soon after the memorial procession of Shireen Abu Akleh begins, thousands gathering here to commemorate the veteran Palestinian American journalist, fatally shot in the head Wednesday while covering an Israeli military operation in the West Bank.

Now, Palestinian leaders vowing that justice will be served to those responsible for her death. MAHMOUD ABBAS, PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY PRESIDENT (through translator): This crime is not the first of its kind. Tens of Palestinian journalists have fallen before Shireen. We hold the Israeli occupying forces fully accountable for the killing. We will not let them hide behind their crime, and will not let it go unpunished.

GOLD (voice-over): The Palestinian Authority president rejecting Israeli government calls for a joint investigation into her death. Instead, he promises to bring a case to the International Criminal Court.

Israeli officials initially accused Palestinian militants of likely being the ones who killed Abu Akleh in crossfire. They've since clarified that the circumstances of her death are unclear.

The Al Jazeera correspondent had reported for decades from the region, plagued by violence that ultimately claimed her life.

Disturbing video from the immediate aftermath shows Abu Akleh lying on the ground in full protective gear, including flak jacket and helmet, with insignia that clearly identifies her as a member of the press.

Abu Akleh's producer was also shot but is now in stable condition.

ALI AL-SAMUDI, JOURNALIST (through translator): We were going in to film the army operation. Suddenly, one of them shot at us. They didn't tell us to leave. They didn't tell us to stop. They shot us. The first bullet hit me. The second bullet hit Shireen. They killed her with cold blood, because they are killers specialized in the killing of Palestinians.

[00:40:08]

GOLD (voice-over): The Israel defense forces say they were in the area to conduct counter-terrorism operations after a series of attacks on Israelis carried out by assailants from the Jenin area prompted the military raids Abu Akleh and her team were covering.

In a statement, the IDF chief of staff says they have set up a special team to investigate her death. A death causing outrage among Palestinians, the tension still high Thursday, as protesters scuffled with Israeli police in Jerusalem, as Abu Akleh death adds yet another tragedy to an enduring conflict she covered for so many years.

Hadas Gold, CNN, Jerusalem.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: I'm John Vause at the CNN Center in Atlanta. WORLD SPORT is next for our viewers on CNN International. And for those watching in North America.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VAUSE: In Southern California, evacuation orders remain in place for neighborhoods where a fast-moving wildfire has destroyed some expensive real estate.

Dozens of homes have also been damaged, and hundreds of firefighters still trying to bring the fire under control. At last report, the coastal fire was about 15 percent contained.

CNN's Nick Watt has late details.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NICK WATT, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Multimillion-dollar mansions eaten up by fast-moving flames. This is one of California's most affluent neighborhoods.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Feel like it's the end of the world, honestly. And I just hope we can all get through this.

WATT: Hundreds of homes, as well as a luxury golf resort evacuated. Firefighters dousing homes in the hope of saving them. Some using water pulled from the country club pond. Two firefighters injured.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have a fresh group going out today. They're going to be out there for 24 hours.

WATT (voice-over): This is no back-country fire. This is near the beach in densely populated Orange County, just south of L.A. Damage assessment already underway in the ashes.

WATT: Basically, this is what happened. The winds whipped in from the Pacific, across that golf course and then pushed these flames through the canyon, up the hillside, threatening these oceanview ridgetop mansions right here, destroying some of them, including this, a $10 million home.

WATT (voice-over): Winds are gusty, pushing the flames, but the winds aren't terrible or unusual. It's the acres of bone-dry brush that's the major problem.

BRIAN FENNESSY, CHIEF, ORANGE COUNTY FIRE AUTHORITY: With the climate change, the fuels, beds in this county, throughout California, throughout the West, are so dry that, you know, fire like this is going to be more common place.

WATT (voice-over): The fast-moving fire seared through that dry brush, ballooned to roughly 200 football fields in just a few terrifying hours. January, just 1 percent of this state was in extreme drought. Today, it's 60 percent. The January-April 2022 period was the driest on record for California. So says the U.S. Drought Monitor.

T.J. MCGOVERN, ASSISTANT CHIEF OF FIELD OPERATIONS, ORANGE COUNTY FIRE AUTHORITY: This fire is not controlled or contained yet. We still have a lot of work to do. It's very steep terrain out there. We're going to get a little more heat, nothing significant. We are going to get those West winds again.

WATT (voice-over): This fire broke out yesterday afternoon. The cause of the spark, as yet unknown. Nick Watt, CNN, Laguna Niguel, California.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: Forty billion dollars of military and humanitarian aid to Ukraine that easily passed through the U.S. House this week has now stalled in the Senate on Thursday because of one Republican. That's Senator Rand Paul.

He insisted the bill include a special inspector general to oversee how the money is spent. While broadly agreeing it was a good idea, both the Republican and Democratic Senate leaders say time is short and changing the legislation at this point would simply take too long.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. CHUCK SCHUMER (D-NY): For heaven's sake, let's get Ukraine funding done, ASAP. We must keep our promise to the people of Ukraine, and I hope the junior senator from Kentucky does not stand in the way of keeping that promise.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: A procedure vote in the Senate is expected Monday to get the bill moving. Final passage could come later in the week.

The White House says it's working to address the serious supply shortage of baby formula in the United States. Announced limited steps Thursday, such a cracking down on price gouging, importing more formula from overseas.

The White House press secretary described other issues they're hoping to combat.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JEN PSAKI, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: What we are seeing, which is an enormous problem, is hoarding. People hoarding because they're fearful. That is one element of it and people hoarding because they are trying to profit off of fearful parents. So, that is also something we're focused on.

(END VIDEO CLOP)

VAUSE: These measures come after President Joe Biden met with manufacturers and retailers. Various recalls are being blamed for the shortage, along with inflation, as well as supply chain issues.

Manufacturers have said they are producing at full capacity, but still, it's not enough to keep up with demand.

As Joe Biden mourns 1 million Americans who have died in the coronavirus pandemic, the U.S. president is calling on Congress to authorize $10 billion in new funding to fight COVID.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) BIDEN: Today, we mark a tragic milestone here in the United States. One million COVID deaths. One million empty chairs around the family dinner table, each irreplaceable.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: One million dead. One million Americans dead from the coronavirus. By far the highest death toll in the world. A number that was unthinkable two and half years ago when this pandemic began.

CNN's chief medical correspondent, Sanjay Gupta, looks at how we got here.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

[00:50:05]

SANJAY GUPTA, CNN CHIEF MEDICAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Few of us imagined the overwhelming scope of this tragedy. More than 1 million lives lost, far surpassing the 1918 flu pandemic or even America's deadliest conflict, the Civil War.

Across the nation, a time of remembrance. In Los Angeles, Maria Santos Peterson devoted her life to caring for others as an ICU nurse at a V.A. hospital.

Just last year she traveled to Central America on her last medical mission. She leaves behind her husband and teenage son.

In Virginia, Teresa Sperry's parents remember their daughter as an avid reader: smart, beautiful, loving, and always open to taking care of others. At Hillpoint Elementary, the 10-year-old was known to bandage her classmates' cuts and scrapes.

Similar heartaches reverberating all across the country and communities of all creeds and color.

In New York, a Hispanic community hit hard. Two congregations united in grief after losing more than 100 members.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): There are moments we can't explain with reason. We have to walk in faith. Feel our own vulnerability to care for ourselves and care for others.

GUPTA (voice-over): In the border county of Hidalgo, Texas, more than 3,500 deaths deaths in a county of less than a million.

DR. MICHAEL DOBBS, CHIEF MEDICAL OFFICER, UT HEALTH RGV: I'm not sure that everyone has slowed down enough to really understand who's missing and what's missing. What gaps that they've left.

GUPTA (voice-over): Gaps that may never fully heal.

In Maryland, the first black U.S. secretary of state, General Colin Powell, passed away. Powell's leadership in several administrations helped shape American foreign policy at the turn of the century. GEN. COLIN POWELL, FORMER U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: We understood that, even among allies, disagreements arise and what's important is to come back together.

GUPTA (voice-over): In Nashville, the music world lost prolific session drummer Kenny Malone.

(MUSIC: DOLLY PARTON, "JOLENE")

GUPTA (voice-over): In the '70s, Malone's percussion provided the backbone for Dolly Parton's No. 1 hit, "Jolene."

Also gone, legendary D.J. Paul Johnson, a key figure in the Chicago house music scene of the '90s. Johnson's single, "Get Get Down," was a global sensation.

In New Hampshire, William and Carol Stewart died holding hands. Married for 44 years, they had known each other since they were 4 years old. Daughter Melissa Noke believes her parents were soul mates.

MELISSA NOKE, DAUGHTER OF COVID VICTIMS: I love you and I will see you again someday.

GUPTA (voice-over): In Copa, California, a mother and father leave behind five children. Nurse Davy Macias died about a week after giving birth to her fifth child, a baby girl.

Her husband Daniel, died two weeks later. They never met their newborn. The children now live with grandparents.

In Bell Glade, Florida, a family torn apart. Lisa Wilson had gone door to door trying to get people vaccinated as part of her work for the county. Despite her best effort to save lives, she lost six relatives in the span of three weeks, burying her own 89-year-old grandmother, an uncle and four cousins.

In communities everywhere, families, friends and loved ones find symbols of remembrance, with flags at the National Mall, a burning candle at Chicago's Navy Pier, monarch butterflies during Dia de los Muertos in El Paso.

In Belmar, New Jersey, a makeshift beach memorial. Rima Samman wrote her brother Rami's name on a single stone. Soon, there were 3,000 more.

And in Los Angeles, teen Madeline Fugate commemorates her city's fallen through a patchwork quilt that's now a global project of healing.

MADELINE FUGATE, MAKING MEMORIAL QUILT: Behind every single one of these squares is a person. And not just a person who died but a person who lived. They still are in people's hearts and memories.

GUPTA: One of the quilt squares offers a simple message of hope for the future: "Please don't live in fear. There will be a better day."

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: Our thanks to CNN's chief medical correspondent, Dr. Sanjay Gupta, for that report.

Before we go, check out this exciting never-before-seen image astronomers have captured. It's the picture of a super massive black hole at the center of our galaxy.

Astronomists call it Sagittarius A star, describe it as the beating heart of the swirling Milky Way. The black hole is about 27,000 light years away from Earth. It's four million times bigger than our sun.

[00:55:07]

So what was once unseen is now seen, and you saw it here on CNN.

Thank you for joining us. I'm John Vause at the CNN Center here in Atlanta. My friend and colleague Michael Holmes joins you after a short break. We'll have a lot more news. I get to see you right back here on Monday. In the meantime, have a great weekend.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers here in the United States and all around the world. Appreciate your company. I'm Michael Holmes.

Coming up this hour, Russia's latest threat. Kremlin reaction to Finland marching towards NATO as Ukrainian troops make more gains.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220513ei5d000p1


News
Kremlin halts electricity supply pply to Finland over Nato expansion
George Grylls
743 字
2022 年 5 月 14 日
The Times
T
1; Ireland
12,13
英文
© Times Newspapers Limited 2022
Russia will suspend electricity supplies to Finland today as European countries continue to negotiate a deal to end the imports of Russian oil and gas.

RAO Nordic, a subsidiary of the Russian state energy holding Inter RAO, announced the suspension a day after Finland said it would apply to join Nato "without delay".

The Finnish electricity network operator said it was "prepared" for the change, and that it would make up the shortfall with more imports from Sweden and Norway. Less than 10 per cent of electricity consumed in Finland came from Russia, it said.

The European Union has agreed to send a further €500 million of military aid to Ukraine, with Josep Borrell, the EU's head of foreign affairs, promising more tanks and artillery at a meeting of G7 and Nato foreign ministers in Weissenhaus, Germany, yesterday.

Separately, Liz Truss, the foreign secretary, urged European allies to go "further and faster" yesterday as she announced Britain's latest package of sanctions, which will target President Putin's inner circle.

His alleged mistress, the former Olympian rhythmic gymnast Alina Kabaeva, is among those hit with asset freezes and a travel ban. Once dubbed "Russia's most flexible woman", Kabaeva, 39, is believed to have amassed a personal fortune from their relationship.

Britain announced earlier that it would phase out Russian oil imports by the end of the year and stop buying gas "as soon as possible thereafter". EU countries, far more reliant on Russian hydrocarbons, are still negotiating a deal to reduce their dependence amid opposition from Hungary, and initial resistance from Germany. Unanimous agreement is needed from all 27 countries to secure a deal, meaning that Viktor Orban, prime minister of Hungary, could scupper any agreement.

He is seen as an ally of Moscow, and his victory in parliamentary elections last month was hailed by Putin as an opportunity to forge closer ties "despite the difficult international situation".

Borrell, 75, speaking in Weissenhaus, said he was confident that EU countries would reach a deal despite Orban's opposition. The meeting was attended by the Ukrainian and Moldovan foreign ministers amid fears that Russia could raise tensions in the breakaway republic of Transnistria, a pro-Kremlin region between the two countries.

The Russian foreign ministry responded to the new sanctions by advising against all travel to Britain. It said that it had become "virtually impossible" for Russians to get visas and accused the government of "a politically motivated infringement of the rights of Russian citizens".

Lyudmila Ocheretnaya, 64, the former wife of Putin, 69, and his cousins Igor and Mikhail, who hold senior positions in the oil and shipping industries, are among those on the new list.

Truss, 46, said she would continue to target the Russian elite after sanctioning more than a thousand individuals with fortunes totalling £117 billion. "We are exposing and targeting the shady network propping up Putin's luxury lifestyle and tightening the vice on his inner circle," she said.

British officials travelled to Washington recently to discuss the feasibility of selling off oligarchs' frozen assets to fund military aid to Ukraine. That would probably require new legislation.

The US has been reluctant to sanction Kabaeva, a former Duma member of Putin's United Russia party, citing the risk of a reaction from the Kremlin. The US Treasury drew up a package of measures last month, but saw its efforts blocked by President Biden's national security council, according to The Wall Street Journal.

Putin has dismissed rumours of a relationship with Kabaeva but is said to have as many as four children with her. She is now the head of a pro-Kremlin media network and made a rare public appearance in Moscow last month amid rumours that she had been living in Switzerland.

Her grandmother, Anna Zatsepina, who was given luxury flats in Moscow and St Petersburg by Putin's associates, has also been sanctioned, as have Viktor Khmarin, a member of Putin's extended family who has been appointed honorary consul of the Seychelles islands in St Petersburg, and Mikhail Shelomov, a cousin.

Despite the western sanctions against businesses and individuals, there have been signs of resilience in the Russian economy. Thanks to surging gas prices, the rouble is now doing better against the pound than it was just before the invasion of Ukraine.

However, western officials said the recovery was temporary.

News UK & Ireland Limited

文件 T000000020220514ei5e0001t


News
Ukraine says Russian forces withdrawing from Kharkiv — live updates
2419 字
2022 年 5 月 14 日 09:28 GMT
DW English
DEUEN
英文
© 2022. DW
The Ukrainian army says Russian troops are "focused on withdrawing" from Ukraine's second-largest city. Meanwhile, Germany's chancellor condemned the war's impact on global food supplies. Follow DW for the latest.

* Ukraine claims Russian troops withdrawing from Kharkiv

* President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said no-one can predict length of war

* Germany's Scholz condemns war's impact on global food supplies

* G7 warns of looming food crisis, calls on Russia to lift grain blockade

This article was last updated at 13:48 UTC/GMT

Finnish ruling party endorses NATO bid

Finland's ruling Social Democrats have come out in support of joining the NATO alliance following a joint call to join "with delay" by the Finnish president and prime minister.

With a majority of parliamentary support for the move, an official bid is expected soon. NATO officials have previously stated that the membership bid could be completed smoothly and rapidly.

Lavrov says West's 'total hybrid war' against Russia is doomed to fail

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said on Saturday that it was hard to know how long the West's "total hybrid war" against Russia would last, adding that the consequences would be felt by everyone.

He claimed that Russia had done everything possible to avoid a direct confrontation, but that it would accept the challenge from the West.

His comments came as Finland looked to be preparing to seek membership in NATO after decades of military neutrality.

They also follow comments from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy that it is not possible to predict when the war will end.

Finnish President speaks with Putin about NATO membership

Finnish President Sauli Niinisto's office said he spoke with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin about the Nordic country's plans to join NATO.

"The conversation was direct and straight-forward and it was conducted without aggravations. Avoiding tensions was considered important," Niinisto said, according to a statement by his office, adding that Finland had initiated the call.

Niinisto had announced his endorsement to join the alliance, and Finland's ruling party is expected to announce its support this weekend.

The Kremlin said Putin told Niinisto that it would be a mistake for Finland to abandon its neutral status and join NATO.

The Russian president said Helsinki faced no security threats, and a change in its foreign policy could negatively affect its bilateral relations with Moscow, according to the Kremlin's statement.

Moscow had earlier said Finland becoming a NATO member would pose a threat to Russia, warning that it would take "adequate precautionary measures" in response.

Russian jets conduct Baltic Sea drills: report

Russian Su-27 fighter jets took part in military exercises simulating repelling an airstrike on Russia's Kaliningrad exclave, according to the Interfax news agency.

Interfax quoted the Russian Baltic Sea fleet's press service as saying that the jets "destroyed" the planes of the simulated adversary during the drills.

The report came two days after Finland's leadership announced intentions to join NATO, with Sweden also looking likely to follow suit.

Russia has sought to prevent an eastern expansion of NATO and claims to have launched its military operation in Ukraine to stop it from joining the Western alliance.

G7 demands Russia lift grain blockade

Foreign ministers of the Group of Seven (G7) leading economies called on Russia to end a blockade of Ukrainian grain exports, warning of a global food and energy crisis threatening developing countries.

"Russia's war of aggression has generated one of the most severe food and energy crises in recent history which now threatens those most vulnerable across the globe," a G7 statement said after a three-day meeting in Germany.

"We are determined to accelerate a coordinated multilateral response to preserve global food security and stand by our most vulnerable partners in this respect," it added.

German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock, who hosted the meeting Weissenhaus, said the war had become a "global crisis."

Russia is deliberately trying to expand the "grain" war around the world, especially in Africa, Baerbock said.

The top German diplomat said the G7 is examining alternatives to the transport of Ukrainian grain by ship to break the Russian blockade.

The G7 also urged Beijing, a key Moscow ally, not to "not to assist Russia in its war of aggression," whether by undermining Western sanctions or justifying Russia's actions in Ukraine.

Russia to take 'adequate' measures if NATO moves nuclear forces near border

Russian news agencies quoted Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Grushko as saying that the Kremlin will take precautionary measures if NATO deploys nuclear forces near Russian borders.

"It will be necessary to respond... by taking adequate precautionary measures that would ensure the viability of deterrence," the Interfax agency quoted Grushko as saying.

His comments came as Finland and Sweden looked increasingly likely to join NATO.

Grushko said Moscow has no hostile intentions toward Finland and Sweden and does not see "real" reasons for them to join NATO.

Sweden and Finland joining NATO would mark a turning point for the two countries after being militarily neutral for decades.

Ukraine says Russia pulling back from Kharkiv

The Ukrainian military said Russian troops were withdrawing from Ukraine's second-largest city, Kharkiv, after weeks of heavy fighting.

A spokesman for the Ukrainian General Staff said Russia's main efforts "are focused on ensuring the withdrawal of its units from the city of Kharkiv."

The northern city had been a priority target for Russian forces, but after Ukraine's counteroffensive, Kyiv says Moscow was withdrawing from around Kharkiv and focusing on striking the eastern Donetsk region to "deplete Ukrainian forces and destroy fortifications."

The US-based Institute for the Study of War said late Friday that Russia seemed to have decided to withdraw from Kharkiv and focus on the eastern and western parts of Ukraine instead.

"Russian President Vladimir Putin likely intends to annex occupied southern and eastern Ukraine directly... in the coming months," the think-tank said.

US, Russian defense chiefs speak

US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and Russian Minister of Defense Sergei Shoigu spoke for the first time since the war in Ukraine started, US officials said.

The hour-long phone call was the highest-level of US contact with Moscow since Russia invaded Ukraine. A US defense official said it was necessary but did not resolve any "acute issues."

The Pentagon said Austin "urged an immediate cease-fire in Ukraine and emphasized the importance of maintaining lines of communication.''

Ukrainian intelligence chief: 'Most combat actions' will end this year

Ukraine's military intelligence chief Kyrylo Budanov told Sky News that he predicts the war will reach a turning point by mid-August and likely end by the end of the year.

"Most of the active combat actions will have finished by the end of this year," he told the broadcaster.

"As a result, we will renew Ukrainian power in all our territories that we have lost, including Donbas and the Crimea," he said, adding that Russia was already suffering huge losses.

Budanov also claimed that a coup to remove President Vladimir Putin was underway in Russia. He alleged Putin is seriously ill with cancer.

Germany's Scholz sees no change of heart after call with Putin

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said he did not see any change of heart on the part of Russian President Vladimir Putin over his invasion of Ukraine.

Scholz's remarks, part of an interview with news outlet t-online, came after the German leader spoke with Putin on the phone on Friday for more than an hour.

He said it was obvious that Russia had not achieved its stated war goals, including preventing NATO's expansion to the east.

"NATO has not withdrawn, but has actually strengthened its forces on the alliance's eastern flank. And the alliance will become even stronger when Finland and Sweden join NATO," Scholz told t-online.

Scholz also vowed to continue to sanction Russia and support weapons deliveries for Ukraine.

"For Putin's insane idea of wanting to expand the Russian empire, Russia and the whole world are paying a very high price right now," Scholz said, noting the effect of the war on global food supplies that is especially hitting developing countries.

"That's where real hunger is at stake — not just whether there's enough sunflower oil on the supermarket shelves, as is the case here," he added.

UK intelligence: A separatist referendum in Kherson will be rigged

The British Defense Ministry said Russia was "highly likely" to use rigged referendums to impose its rule on Ukrainian regions after separatists announced seeking to join Russia.

Earlier this week, the pro-Moscow leaders of the Russian-occupied region of Kherson in southeastern Ukraine said they plan to ask for the area to become a part of Russia.

"If Russia carries out an accession referendum in Kherson, it will almost certainly manipulate the results to show a clear majority in favor of leaving Ukraine," a British defense intelligence update said.

"Citizens in the Kherson region are likely to continue to demonstrate their opposition to Russian occupation," it added.

Fewer Ukrainian refugees arriving in Germany: interior minister

German Interior Minister Nancy Faeser told the Rheinische Post newspaper's Saturday edition that fewer Ukrainian refugees were arriving in Germany per day compared to two months ago.

"At the moment only around 2,000 people fleeing Ukraine are arriving in Germany per day. In mid-March we were seeing around 15,000 people a day," she said.

Faeser noted that some 20,000 refugees, including some who had been in Germany, were returning to Ukraine via the Polish border, adding that she assumes the majority of arrivals will go back to Ukraine.

"Some will stay if people see the chance to find their feet in the German labor market with their qualifications," she said.

The Interior Ministry has has so far recorded 700,000 people fleeing from Ukraine to Germany, according to data cited by the Welt am Sonntag newspaper.

NATO foreign ministers to meet in Belin

Foreign ministers from the NATO alliance are meeting this weekend in Berlin to discuss their long-term strategy toward Russia amid the war in Ukraine.

They are expected to set out a clarification on further reinforcement of NATO's presence in eastern Europe.

The NATO diplomats will also be joined by Swedish Foreign Minister Ann Linde and her Finnish counterpart Pekka Haavisto.

It comes as Finland said it intended to apply for NATO membership, and a similar decision by Sweden is widely expected to be announced on Sunday.

Russia's invasion entering 'third phase' — Ukrainian official

Ukrainian Interior Ministry advisor Viktor Andrusiv said on Ukrainian television that Russia's invasion is entering its "third phase" which shows that Moscow is planning for a "long war."

The first phase consisted of trying to take Ukraine "in a few days," according to Andrusiv. The second phase saw the Russian military attempt to encircle Ukrainian forces in the east of the country.

In the third phase of the invasion, Moscow is preparing a defense of territories in the east and south of the country that are under its control.

"This shows that they're going to turn this war into a long war," Andrusiv said.

Andrusiv argued that the Kremlin intends to use a drawn-out war to bring Western countries to the negotiating table, who would then push Kyiv to give concessions.

Ukraine preparing dozens of war crime cases

Ukrainian prosecutor general Iryna Venediktova has said that her office is preparing war crimes cases against 41 suspects.

"We have 41 suspects in cases with which we will be ready to go to court. All of them concern Article 438 of the [Ukrainian] criminal code on war crimes, but different types of war crimes. There is the bombing of civilian infrastructure, the killing of civilians, rape and looting,'' Venediktova said on Ukrainian television.

The first war crime trial since the start of the invasion began on Friday in Kyiv. The suspect is a 21-year-old Russian soldier accused of killing a Ukrainian civilian in the northeastern village of Chupakhivka.

Ukraine's security service posted a video of the suspect describing how he shot the civilian. Ukraine has been criticized by rights groups for publishing footage and images of prisoners of war, which the say contravenes the Geneva Conventions.

Venediktova said that two more suspects are likely to face preliminary hearings next week.

Previously, Venediktova had said that her office was looking into more than 10,700 potential war crimes involving more than 600 suspects.

Ukraine's Zelenskyy: no-one can predict how long war will last

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a nightly video address that "no-one today can predict how long this war will last."

"This will depend, unfortunately, not only on our people, who are already giving their maximum," Zelenskyy said. "This will depend on our partners, on European countries, on the entire free world."

Zelenskyy said he was thankful to countries who have imposed sanctions on Russia and given military and financial support to Kyiv.

"This is the only recipe for protecting freedom in the face of the Russian invasion. And for Western countries, this is not simply an expense. This is not about accounting, it's about the future," Zelenskyy said.

Summary of Friday's events in Russia's war on Ukraine

The president of the Georgian breakaway region of South Ossetia, Anatoly Bibilov, announced the territory would hold a referendum on July 17 on whether to become part of Russia.

US President Joe Biden discussed NATO accession with Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson of Sweden and President Sauli Niinisto of Finland.

US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin urged Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoygu to move immediately to implement a ceasefire in Ukraine.

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke on the phone to discuss stalled Ukraine peace talks.

German Agriculture Minister Cem Özdemir, meeting with his G7 and Ukrainian colleagues, said grain theft by Russian forces in eastern Ukraine was "repugnant."

The European Union's foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, announced that the bloc was set to increase military aid to Ukraine with a further €500 million ($520 million).

DW correspondent in Kyiv Fanny Facsar said Ukraine's counteroffensive in the east of the country "seems to be working."

ab, fb, sdi/wmr (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa)

Kharkiv has been the scene of heavy fighting for weeks (Ricardo Moraes/REUTERS)[https://static.dw.com/image/61768740_401.jpg]

Deutsche Welle

文件 DEUEN00020220514ei5e000b9


News
Ukraine says Russian forces withdrawing from Kharkiv — live updates
3278 字
2022 年 5 月 14 日 09:28 GMT
DW English
DEUEN
英文
© 2022. DW
The Ukrainian army says Russian troops are "focused on withdrawing" from Ukraine's second-largest city. Meanwhile, Germany's chancellor condemned the war's impact on global food supplies. Follow DW for the latest.

* Ukraine claims Russian troops withdrawing from Kharkiv

* President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said no-one can predict length of war

* US Senate delegation visits Kyiv in show of support

* Putin says Finland joining NATO would be a mistake

* Germany's Scholz condemns war's impact on global food supplies

* G7 warns of looming food crisis, calls on Russia to lift grain blockade

This article was last updated at 20:25 UTC/GMT

Russia's Medvedev dismisses G7 insistence on Ukrainian territorial integrity

Former Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, a close ally of Vladimir Putin, dismissed the G7's insistence that the integrity of Ukraine's internationally recognized borders be recognized.

"Let's put it mildly: our country does not care at all about the G7 not recognizing the new borders. What is important is the true will of the people living there," he said in an online post. Russian forces currently control parts of eastern Ukraine.

Earlier German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock, who hosted the meeting of G7 foreign ministers on Saturday, said, "We will never recognize border changes that Russia wants to force through military force."

Eurovision opens with 'give peace a chance'

The Eurovision Song Contest 2022 final kicked off with a special version of Give Peace A Chance on Saturday.

More than 1,000 people rocked out to the song in Turin's Piazza San Carlo in Italy where the contest was being held.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sent well wishes to the Ukrainian band Kalush Orchestra, the bookmakers favorite to win.

"The continent and whole world will hear our native word...I believe that, in the end, this word will be victory," he said in a video shared widely on social media.

Slovakia: All NATO allies will back Finland and Sweden joining

Slovakian Foreign Minister Ivan Korcok says he is confident all 30 NATO members will ultimately support plans by Finland and Sweden to join the alliance.

Korcok was attending a meeting with his NATO counterparts in Berlin on Saturday evening.

"Slovakia is absolutely ready to look at this request and support membership of these two countries," he told reporters. He also called for more military aid for Ukraine.

Latvia's foreign minister, meanwhile, said NATO would find a sensible solution to accepting Finland and Sweden, despite concerns from Turkey.

"We have had those discussions in the alliance many times before. I think that we have always found sensible solutions and that we will find one this time also," Foreign Minister Edgar Rinkevics said.

"Swedish and Finnish membership is of paramount importance to the whole alliance, and ultimately also to Turkey."

Top diplomats from Finland, Turkey discuss NATO tensions

The foreign ministers of Finland and Turkey are expected to meet in Berlin later on Saturday to address disagreements over plans for Finland and Sweden to join NATO.

"I am sure we will find a solution," Finnish Foreign Minister Pekka Haavesto said as he arrived for a NATO meeting in the German capital.

Moscow's invasion of Ukraine has prompted Finland and Sweden to rethink their security strategies and consider joining NATO. Both countries have long cooperated with the military alliance and are expected to be able to become members swiftly.

But Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan said on Friday that he did not support enlarging NATO because Finland and Sweden were "home to many terrorist organizations."

On Saturday, Erdogan's spokesman Ibrahim Kalin clarified that Turkey had not shut the door to Sweden and Finland joining but wants negotiations with both countries and action against what it sees as terrorist activities in Europe.

Kalin said the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), was fundraising and recruiting in Europe and its presence was "strong and open" in Sweden in particular. The PKK is designated a terrorist organisation by Turkey, the US and the EU.

US Senate delegation travels to Kyiv

A delegation of US senators has traveled to Ukraine in a show of support amid Russia's invasion.

The group, led by Republican leader Mitch McConnell, met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv.

In a message on Instagram, Zelenskyy said the visit was a powerful sign of bipartisan support from the US Congress and the American people. "Thank you for your leadership in helping us in our fight not only for our country, but also for democratic values and freedoms," he said. "We really appreciate it."

The delegation included Republican senators Susan Collins of Maine, John Barrasso of Wyoming and John Cornyn of Texas.

Their trip came after Kentucky Senator Rand Paul blocked the Senate's approval of an additional $40 billion (€38.4 billion) in US aid for Ukraine. The bipartisan measure is now expected to be approved next week.

Hungary's new president condemns Putin's 'aggression'

New Hungarian President Katalin Novak used her inauguration ceremony on Saturday to condemn Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Novak, a former Fidesz party lawmaker and ally of Prime Minister Viktor Orban, was elected to the largely ceremonial post in March.

"We condemn Putin's aggression, the armed invasion of a sovereign state. We say eternally no to every effort aiming at the restoration of the Soviet Union," she said.

She said her first trip abroad would be to Warsaw, in an apparent gesture to improve bilateral ties with Poland.

While Budapest and Warsaw are long-time allies in the EU, Hungary's decision not to send weapons shipments to neighboring Ukraine has caused relations to sour. Budapest also opposes a planned EU embargo on Russian oil.

Finnish ruling party endorses NATO bid

Finland's ruling Social Democrats have come out in support of joining the NATO alliance following a joint call to join "without delay" by the Finnish president and prime minister.

With a majority of parliamentary support for the move, an official bid is expected soon. NATO officials have previously stated that the membership bid could be completed smoothly and rapidly.

Lavrov says West's 'total hybrid war' against Russia is doomed to fail

Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said on Saturday that it was hard to know how long the West's "total hybrid war" against Russia would last, adding that the consequences would be felt by everyone.

He claimed that Russia had done everything possible to avoid a direct confrontation, but that it would accept the challenge from the West.

His comments came as Finland looked to be preparing to seek membership in NATO after decades of military neutrality.

They also follow comments from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy that it is not possible to predict when the war will end.

Finnish President speaks with Putin about NATO membership

Finnish President Sauli Niinisto's office said he spoke with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin about the Nordic country's plans to join NATO.

"The conversation was direct and straight-forward and it was conducted without aggravations. Avoiding tensions was considered important," Niinisto said, according to a statement by his office, adding that Finland had initiated the call.

Niinisto had announced his endorsement to join the alliance, and Finland's ruling party is expected to announce its support this weekend.

The Kremlin said Putin told Niinisto that it would be a mistake for Finland to abandon its neutral status and join NATO.

The Russian president said Helsinki faced no security threats, and a change in its foreign policy could negatively affect its bilateral relations with Moscow, according to the Kremlin's statement.

Moscow had earlier said Finland becoming a NATO member would pose a threat to Russia, warning that it would take "adequate precautionary measures" in response.

Russian jets conduct Baltic Sea drills: report

Russian Su-27 fighter jets took part in military exercises simulating repelling an airstrike on Russia's Kaliningrad exclave, according to the Interfax news agency.

Interfax quoted the Russian Baltic Sea fleet's press service as saying that the jets "destroyed" the planes of the simulated adversary during the drills.

The report came two days after Finland's leadership announced intentions to join NATO, with Sweden also looking likely to follow suit.

Russia has sought to prevent an eastern expansion of NATO and claims to have launched its military operation in Ukraine to stop it from joining the Western alliance.

G7 demands Russia lift grain blockade

Foreign ministers of the Group of Seven (G7) leading economies called on Russia to end a blockade of Ukrainian grain exports, warning of a global food and energy crisis threatening developing countries.

"Russia's war of aggression has generated one of the most severe food and energy crises in recent history which now threatens those most vulnerable across the globe," a G7 statement said after a three-day meeting in Germany.

"We are determined to accelerate a coordinated multilateral response to preserve global food security and stand by our most vulnerable partners in this respect," it added.

German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock, who hosted the meeting Weissenhaus, said the war had become a "global crisis."

Russia is deliberately trying to expand the "grain" war around the world, especially in Africa, Baerbock said.

The top German diplomat said the G7 is examining alternatives to the transport of Ukrainian grain by ship to break the Russian blockade.

The G7 also urged Beijing, a key Moscow ally, "not to assist Russia in its war of aggression," whether by undermining Western sanctions or justifying Russia's actions in Ukraine.

Russia to take 'adequate' measures if NATO moves nuclear forces near border

Russian news agencies quoted Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Grushko as saying that the Kremlin will take precautionary measures if NATO deploys nuclear forces near Russian borders.

"It will be necessary to respond ... by taking adequate precautionary measures that would ensure the viability of deterrence," the Interfax agency quoted Grushko as saying.

His comments came as Finland and Sweden looked increasingly likely to join NATO.

Grushko said Moscow has no hostile intentions toward Finland and Sweden and does not see "real" reasons for them to join NATO.

Sweden and Finland joining NATO would mark a turning point for the two countries after being militarily neutral for decades.

Ukraine says Russia pulling back from Kharkiv

The Ukrainian military said Russian troops were withdrawing from Ukraine's second-largest city, Kharkiv, after weeks of heavy fighting.

A spokesman for the Ukrainian General Staff said Russia's main efforts "are focused on ensuring the withdrawal of its units from the city of Kharkiv."

The northern city had been a priority target for Russian forces, but after Ukraine's counteroffensive, Kyiv says Moscow was withdrawing from around Kharkiv and focusing on striking the eastern Donetsk region to "deplete Ukrainian forces and destroy fortifications."

The US-based Institute for the Study of War said late Friday that Russia seemed to have decided to withdraw from Kharkiv and focus on the eastern and western parts of Ukraine instead.

"Russian President Vladimir Putin likely intends to annex occupied southern and eastern Ukraine directly... in the coming months," the think-tank said.

US, Russian defense chiefs speak

US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and Russian Minister of Defense Sergei Shoigu spoke for the first time since the war in Ukraine started, US officials said.

The hour-long phone call was the highest-level of US contact with Moscow since Russia invaded Ukraine. A US defense official said it was necessary but did not resolve any "acute issues."

The Pentagon said Austin "urged an immediate cease-fire in Ukraine and emphasized the importance of maintaining lines of communication.''

Ukrainian intelligence chief: 'Most combat actions' will end this year

Ukraine's military intelligence chief Kyrylo Budanov told Sky News that he predicts the war will reach a turning point by mid-August and likely end by the end of the year.

"Most of the active combat actions will have finished by the end of this year," he told the broadcaster.

"As a result, we will renew Ukrainian power in all our territories that we have lost, including Donbas and the Crimea," he said, adding that Russia was already suffering huge losses.

Budanov also claimed that a coup to remove President Vladimir Putin was underway in Russia. He alleged Putin is seriously ill with cancer.

Germany's Scholz sees no change of heart after call with Putin

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said he did not see any change of heart on the part of Russian President Vladimir Putin over his invasion of Ukraine.

Scholz's remarks, part of an interview with news outlet t-online, came after the German leader spoke with Putin on the phone on Friday for more than an hour.

He said it was obvious that Russia had not achieved its stated war goals, including preventing NATO's expansion to the east.

"NATO has not withdrawn, but has actually strengthened its forces on the alliance's eastern flank. And the alliance will become even stronger when Finland and Sweden join NATO," Scholz told t-online.

Scholz also vowed to continue to sanction Russia and support weapons deliveries for Ukraine.

"For Putin's insane idea of wanting to expand the Russian empire, Russia and the whole world are paying a very high price right now," Scholz said, noting the effect of the war on global food supplies that is especially hitting developing countries.

"That's where real hunger is at stake — not just whether there's enough sunflower oil on the supermarket shelves, as is the case here," he added.

UK intelligence: A separatist referendum in Kherson will be rigged

The British Defense Ministry said Russia was "highly likely" to use rigged referendums to impose its rule on Ukrainian regions after separatists announced seeking to join Russia.

Earlier this week, the pro-Moscow leaders of the Russian-occupied region of Kherson in southeastern Ukraine said they plan to ask for the area to become a part of Russia.

"If Russia carries out an accession referendum in Kherson, it will almost certainly manipulate the results to show a clear majority in favor of leaving Ukraine," a British defense intelligence update said.

"Citizens in the Kherson region are likely to continue to demonstrate their opposition to Russian occupation," it added.

Fewer Ukrainian refugees arriving in Germany: interior minister

German Interior Minister Nancy Faeser told the Rheinische Post newspaper's Saturday edition that fewer Ukrainian refugees were arriving in Germany per day compared to two months ago.

"At the moment only around 2,000 people fleeing Ukraine are arriving in Germany per day. In mid-March we were seeing around 15,000 people a day," she said.

Faeser noted that some 20,000 refugees, including some who had been in Germany, were returning to Ukraine via the Polish border, adding that she assumes the majority of arrivals will go back to Ukraine.

"Some will stay if people see the chance to find their feet in the German labor market with their qualifications," she said.

The Interior Ministry has has so far recorded 700,000 people fleeing from Ukraine to Germany, according to data cited by the Welt am Sonntag newspaper.

NATO foreign ministers to meet in Belin

Foreign ministers from the NATO alliance are meeting this weekend in Berlin to discuss their long-term strategy toward Russia amid the war in Ukraine.

They are expected to set out a clarification on further reinforcement of NATO's presence in eastern Europe.

The NATO diplomats will also be joined by Swedish Foreign Minister Ann Linde and her Finnish counterpart Pekka Haavisto.

It comes as Finland said it intended to apply for NATO membership, and a similar decision by Sweden is widely expected to be announced on Sunday.

Russia's invasion entering 'third phase' — Ukrainian official

Ukrainian Interior Ministry advisor Viktor Andrusiv said on Ukrainian television that Russia's invasion is entering its "third phase" which shows that Moscow is planning for a "long war."

The first phase consisted of trying to take Ukraine "in a few days," according to Andrusiv. The second phase saw the Russian military attempt to encircle Ukrainian forces in the east of the country.

In the third phase of the invasion, Moscow is preparing a defense of territories in the east and south of the country that are under its control.

"This shows that they're going to turn this war into a long war," Andrusiv said.

Andrusiv argued that the Kremlin intends to use a drawn-out war to bring Western countries to the negotiating table, who would then push Kyiv to give concessions.

Ukraine preparing dozens of war crime cases

Ukrainian prosecutor general Iryna Venediktova has said that her office is preparing war crimes cases against 41 suspects.

"We have 41 suspects in cases with which we will be ready to go to court. All of them concern Article 438 of the [Ukrainian] criminal code on war crimes, but different types of war crimes. There is the bombing of civilian infrastructure, the killing of civilians, rape and looting,'' Venediktova said on Ukrainian television.

The first war crime trial since the start of the invasion began on Friday in Kyiv. The suspect is a 21-year-old Russian soldier accused of killing a Ukrainian civilian in the northeastern village of Chupakhivka.

Ukraine's security service posted a video of the suspect describing how he shot the civilian. Ukraine has been criticized by rights groups for publishing footage and images of prisoners of war, which the say contravenes the Geneva Conventions.

Venediktova said that two more suspects are likely to face preliminary hearings next week.

Previously, Venediktova had said that her office was looking into more than 10,700 potential war crimes involving more than 600 suspects.

Ukraine's Zelenskyy: no-one can predict how long war will last

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a nightly video address that "no-one today can predict how long this war will last."

"This will depend, unfortunately, not only on our people, who are already giving their maximum," Zelenskyy said. "This will depend on our partners, on European countries, on the entire free world."

Zelenskyy said he was thankful to countries who have imposed sanctions on Russia and given military and financial support to Kyiv.

"This is the only recipe for protecting freedom in the face of the Russian invasion. And for Western countries, this is not simply an expense. This is not about accounting, it's about the future," Zelenskyy said.

Summary of Friday's events in Russia's war on Ukraine

The president of the Georgian breakaway region of South Ossetia, Anatoly Bibilov, announced the territory would hold a referendum on July 17 on whether to become part of Russia.

US President Joe Biden discussed NATO accession with Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson of Sweden and President Sauli Niinisto of Finland.

US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin urged Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoygu to move immediately to implement a ceasefire in Ukraine.

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke on the phone to discuss stalled Ukraine peace talks.

German Agriculture Minister Cem Özdemir, meeting with his G7 and Ukrainian colleagues, said grain theft by Russian forces in eastern Ukraine was "repugnant."

The European Union's foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, announced that the bloc was set to increase military aid to Ukraine with a further €500 million ($520 million).

DW correspondent in Kyiv Fanny Facsar said Ukraine's counteroffensive in the east of the country "seems to be working."

ab, fb, sdi/wmr (AP, AFP, Reuters, dpa)

Kharkiv has been the scene of heavy fighting for weeks (Ricardo Moraes/REUTERS)[https://static.dw.com/image/61768740_401.jpg]

Deutsche Welle

文件 DEUEN00020220514ei5e000e6


CE Noticias Financieras English
Finland confirms power cut from Russia
264 字
2022 年 5 月 14 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
RAO Nordic, the Russian electricity company in Finland, carried out a total shutdown of power supply this Saturday morning, the Finnish head of the sector confirmed.

"We are forced to suspend electricity imports as of May 14," the Helsinki-based operator RAO Nordic, a subsidiary of the Russian state-owned InterRAO group, said in a statement.

The company clarified that the closure is due to the fact that the corresponding payments have not been made by Finland, however, some speculate that it is due to the intention to join NATO.

Russia's exports to Finland "are currently equal to zero. This has been the case since midnight (21:00 GMT), as announced," confirmed Timo Kaukonen, head of operations at Fingrid, the Finnish operator.

Currently 10 percent of the electricity used by Finland comes from Russia.

According to information provided by RAO Nordic, the shutdown was carried out due to non-payment since May 6. However, the Finnish government has not confirmed whether payments were not made as a sanction measure to Russia.

The announcement of the end of power supply to Finland coincides with an increase in tension between the two countries due to the Nordic country's willingness to submit its NATO candidacy in the coming days, probably on Sunday.

The Kremlin immediately warned that a Finnish NAT O membership would "undoubtedly" be a threat to Russia. The two countries have a common border of 1,300 km.

Sweden also intends to initiate steps to join the U. S.-led transatlantic military alliance.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220514ei5e008f6


News; International
Swedish & Finnish Leaders Announce Intent To Join NATO; Russians Accused Of Firing At Severondonetsk Hospital; War Orphans: 18-Year-Old Raising Four Siblings By Himself; One Dead, Five Injured In California Church Shooting; 10 People Killed In Racially Motivated Shooting In Buffalo. Aired 1-2a ET
Paula Newton, Blake Essig, Anna Coren, Ben Wedeman, Rafael Romo, Sam Kiley, Scott Mclean, Brian Todd
7291 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[01:00:39]

PAULA NEWTON, CNN ANCHOR: Live from CNN World Headquarters in Atlanta, a warm welcome to all of you joining us from all over the world. You are watching CNN Newsroom. I'm Paula Newton. Just ahead --

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: My daughter was crouched down in the front end for the entire shooting. No community deserves this and someone came from far away to try to destroy us.

NEWTON: Two communities on opposite sides of the U.S. are grieving this morning hit by a pair of deadly shootings. So what we've learned about the shooter who opened fire at a grocery store in Buffalo.

Plus, Finland and Sweden are inching ever closer to joining NATO, as Russia's invasion of Ukraine continues to rattle security concerns in Europe. And what we know and don't know about North Korea's first reported COVID outbreak more than two years after the pandemic started.

And we begin with a seismic shift for European security as Russia faces the consequences of its war on Ukraine. On Sunday, Finland's government formally announced that it intends to join NATO. Hours later, Sweden's ruling party followed suit.

Now it's a historic policy changed for two countries that have remained neutral for decades. And it is likely to anger Russian President Vladimir Putin who has long considered NATO expansion a threat to Russia. But Finland's president told CNN Sunday, it was no longer possible to sit on the sidelines.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SAULI NIINISTO, FINNISH PRESIDENT: Russia tried to deny any enlargement of NATO. And that changed in a way very much our position here and outwardly and what we see now, Europe, the world, is more divided. There's not very much room for a non-aligned in between. So that was also what we were thinking. (END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: Now, the Swedish Prime Minister echoed those sentiments saying Russia's invasion of Ukraine forced Sweden to radically rethink its security posture.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MAGDALENA ANDERSSON, SWEDISH PRIME MINISTER: Our 200-year long standing policy of military non-alignment has served Sweden well. But the issue at hand is whether military non-alignment will keep serving as well. Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine is not only illegal and indefensible, it also undermines the European security order.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: Now the Finnish and Swedish Parliaments are expected to give the final green light very soon from their NATO leaders have said the approval process could move very quickly. As NATO looks to grow, its Secretary General says Ukraine can win this war.

Jen Stoltenberg says Russia is on the back foot after being pushed back from Kharkiv. Moscow is looking to recover from those losses by pouring troops into Donbas. But they too have hit fierce resistance. Russia is focusing artillery and troops in the area around Severodonetsk.

A Ukrainian official said Sunday the Russians fired at hospital there. There are reports Ukrainian forces have now pulled back from the nearby city of Rubizhne. But Ukraine's President maintained the invaders have hit a dead end.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translation): We are preparing for new attempts by Russia to attack in Donbas to somehow intensify its movement in the south of Ukraine. The occupiers still do not want to admit if they are in a dead end, and their so called special operation has already gone bankrupts.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: Now of course, Ukraine's military is backing up. Mr. Zelenskyy saying Russian forces have suffered significant losses as they tried to advance in the East. CNN's Sam Kiley has more on the fighting in eastern Ukraine from Kramatorsk.

SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: As the third month of the Russian invasion, the war created here in Ukraine by Vladimir Putin approaches. The fighting continues to be intense here in the east with a particular concentration of action around the northern city of Severodonetsk.

[01:05:05]

That is against the backdrop of significant losses by the Russians around the city of Kharkiv, also in the north up close to the Russian border. But with the increasing focus on events here in Kramatorsk, with a strong sense that the Russians may be trying to concentrate their efforts now on one or two axes of advance, thereby dialing down their level of ambition.

A bit, of course, down in the far south of the operational area or effectively around the city of Kherson, there's no sign at all of the Russians reducing their efforts there. And that is because Kherson sits at the headwaters effectively of a canal system that delivers fresh water into the Crimean peninsula, which was illegally annexed by Russia after the 2014 invasion.

So, clearly the pressure is continuing from Russia. But there is an increasing sense among Ukrainians that particularly with these new weapons coming in from NATO allies, that they will be able to get much more on the front foot. And then of course, the question is, where do they stop? As far as President Zelenskyy is concerned, they will not stop until they've driven the Russians out of their country entirely.

Sam Kiley, CNN in Kramatorsk.

NEWTON: On Friday, meantime, Ukraine's defense minister warned the country is entering a long phase of this war. And even as Russian forces move back in some areas, you just heard Sam talk about that the fight is far from over. Here's how one Ukrainian Deputy Minister describe the situation on the ground.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

OLGA STEFANISHYNA, UKRAINIAN DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER: What we see is a certain like a cautious amount of great news. We see that the Russian troops has been moving away from the major parts of the Western Ukraine in Kharkiv and the (Parrhesia) regions, which are just near the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. But we're not like overly optimistic in that regard. We see that Putin has readjusted his strategy, and he goes on the only possible winning scenario for him as the long lasting war.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: Now the recent attack on a hospital and so that'll Donetsk is the latest in a long line of assaults, Ukrainian officials blame on Russian forces. You'll remember, of course, the maternity ward and Children's Hospital that came under fire just over two months ago in Mariupol. And you can see there, the extent of the damage. In this video, windows blown out the surrounding area littered with debris.

Pavlo Kovtonyuk, the co-founder of Ukrainian Health Care Center joins me now from Kyiv to discuss these attacks. Now, you know, I thank you for joining us regarding this issue. It's shocked so many I'm sure there in Ukraine. You say you've recorded 163 hospital attacks by the end of last week. I mean, the number just stopped me cold. What is it like to try and dispense any kind of medical care, let alone treat trauma patients when this is happening?

PAVLO KOVTONYUK, CO-FOUNDER, UKRAINIAN HEALTHCARE CENTER: Yes, we have independently recorded 163 cases. There are some estimations that show also larger numbers. And what's more important is that we do see the pattern behind them. It's not, you know, 163 coincidences. This is a clear strategy of targeting civilian infrastructure, including hospitals, in some areas like Luhansk Oblast, where several Donetsk is, for example, situated there is literally no health care left for the moment, but also Russians had damaged hospitals all across the country.

And I think they have a purpose for that. And that purpose is just to create terror, to create insecurity and to also have some psychological effect aside from physical disruption.

NEWTON: I'm sure the psychological effect is quite profound. You know, early in the conflict, the maternity hospital that we were talking about was hitting Mariupol. It was the first indication not just for Ukraine, but many around the world that there would be no rules of war here. And yet, I do want to talk to you about the evidence that you have that these hospitals are targeted deliberately, because of course, we are used to indiscriminate violence, and the fact that, you know, they might be trying to hit a building next door, or perhaps their aim isn't very good.

What evidence do you have that they're actually targeting the hospitals and mean to hit these vulnerable victims who are obviously helpful and -- helpless in these facilities?

KOVTONYUK: Yes, we are collecting that evidence very thoroughly, because we are also working for our legal team in the international courts. And I think one day or another, this courts will prove that this intention, this pattern. But we clearly see the system here, even now.

[01:10:00]

And we also did see the same tactic earlier. Russia use the exactly the same thing in Syria when they were not only indiscriminately, but also purposely targeting hospitals there. In Ukraine, our air defense systems, prevent them from hitting hospitals directly wherever they want. But they just shelling civilian areas from the range indiscriminately. And this is what we see all around the country right now and trying to build a case and prove that and I think we'll be successful in that.

NEWTON: You know, given what you're telling me, we've seen, you know, even cities like Odesa right now come under attack there. What would you say to people in Odesa right now who are in hospitals, who must be in hospitals? What are they doing to try and prepare for this?

KOVTONYUK: Unfortunately, in the places like Odesa and recently Kharkiv, where Russian troops actually had no intention to seize it or to capture it, but they're staying kind of 40 kilometers from the city and just sharing it, you know, without any military reason. Now, the same happened into Odesa.

And actually the providing health care there is really a heroic thing because health care institutions cannot stop working unlike, for example, schools, or I don't know, shops or whatever. So they work, so they bring people to the shelters, they bring people on the ground, all the whole departments are moved on the ground and continuing to treat people. I think our health care personnel is also the -- in the pantheon of heroes of this war aside from military and volunteers.

NEWTON: Yes, and no doubt, we have already seen several heroic acts. What do you believe will be the lasting legacy of these attacks? I mean, not just to the medical infrastructure, but to Ukrainians as well about what they will begin to understand what this military campaign was all about in the end?

KOVTONYUK: I think Ukraine will have a memory of this barbaric war, right? And this barbarism is already has result, five millions of Ukrainians fled the country, six to seven millions of Ukrainians were internally displaced. And this happens exactly because this feeling of insecurity, but I do hope that there will be consequences for that in Russia, both in the international courts and on other occasions.

For example, next week, the World Health Organization will have the World Health Assembly, they have yearly. And I do believe that the countries, the member states of the WHO will also sanction Russia very firmly. They will suspend the voting rights of Russia and also remove the Russian Minister from the position in the executive board of WHO. This is what we are campaigning for.

So I think it is important that crimes are -- there is no impunity that the justice is being installed. And this is very, very important. This is what Ukrainians are hoping for.

NEWTON: Well, there is no doubt that hitting these medical facilities deliberately would be considered a war crime. And as you said, investigative teams are on the ground right now, trying to get to the bottom of what is going on.

Pavlo Kovtonyuk, thank you so much. Really appreciate your perspective.

KOVTONYUK: Thank you for having me.

NEWTON: Now the families of the soldiers still trapped inside the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol are asking Beijing for help. They want Chinese President Xi Jinping to act as a mediator with Russia to help get their loved ones out.

CNN spoke with one soldier's mother who has not seen her 21-year-old son since February.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TANYA VYCHNYK, MOTHER OF AZOV SOLDIER (through translation): He loves his country very much. And he says if we don't defeat them, they will defeat us. Everyone has to fight for their country. He loves his country. And all the guys who are there now especially Azov, they love their land very much and they will fight for it until the very end. He told me, I am prepared to give my life for it, but I am not prepared for this. (END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: And the family say time is running out for their loved ones who have dwindling medical supplies and almost no food after nearly three months of Russian bombardment. The family has made a similar request to Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan last week.

Now for most 18-year olds, their biggest concerns are obviously usually school, friends, right, but CNN's Scott McLean met a young man who's now raising his four younger siblings, four of them by himself after their mother was killed in eastern Ukraine.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SCOTT MCLEAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Vyacheslav Yalov is barely 18, but he now has a responsibility far beyond his age, raising four kids all on his own.

[01:15:05]

His hometown in Donetsk has been on the front line of conflict since 2014. In mid-March, he and his mother left his four siblings to take shelter at a friend's while they went to get more supplies. Suddenly, two shells landed just a few steps away.

VYACHESLAV YALOV, RAISING FOUR SIBLINGS ON HIS OWN (through translation): I lost consciousness for a few seconds then I saw my mother lying on her side. I turned her over and she said, "I'm fine." I tried to save her. I saw that it was very painful for her to breathe. I ran for help, but there was no more.

MCLEAN (voice-over): Unable to find any, he went back to his mother alone.

YALOV (through translation): I took some clothes from the backpack. I tried to stop the bleeding, to make some bandages, but the wounds were so big.

MCLEAN (on-camera): How long did you stay with her?

YALOV (through translation): I was definitely there for longer than five hours. It took me a long time to believe that my mother had passed away. I still hoped that she was still breathing.

MCLEAN (voice-over): He then had to break the news to his four younger siblings, Danilo, Nicole, Timor and Olivia, just eight years old.

YALOV (through translation): I didn't know what to tell them. I was covered in blood when I entered. They were sitting in the kitchen on the left side and they realized everything. They understood it on their own.

MCLEAN (voice-over): He buried his mother in a shallow grave in a crater left behind by shelling and quickly made plans to get his family out. Their home was already badly damaged. A friend lent him money to take a taxi to Kostyantynivka then by train to Kramatorsk, and eventually on Tel Aviv and Drohobych in the far southwest of Ukraine, where the government put them up in a tiny one bedroom apartment.

MCLEAN (on-camera): Is your brother taking good care of you?

(voice-over): He says since his mom's been gone, the kids have stepped up to help with chores and dishes. He's there to help with their schoolwork. Though he has no extended family and few friends in the city, word of his story has spread through social media. Now total strangers often stop for a hug or to offer help.

They'll need plenty more of it until he can figure out how to balance childcare and work or eventually go back to school. Though nothing will come easily.

YALOV (through translation): I'm very thankful that we all remain together. I believe very much that my mother is nearby and she's helping me, somehow.

MCLEAN (voice-over): Scott McLean, CNN, Drohobych, Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

NEWTON: Up next for us, we're getting troubling new details on the buffalo shooting suspect as authorities looking to his background. We'll have that for you just ahead. And there was another deadly shooting in the United States Sunday, this time at a California church. That and the reason authorities are calling some of those churchgoers heroes.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[01:22:08]

NEWTON: Deadly gun violence erupted once again in the U.S. Sunday a day after a mass shooting in Buffalo, New York. California authority say one person died and five others wounded when a gunman opened fire at Geneva Presbyterian Church in Laguna Woods Sunday afternoon. Four people were critically injured, according to officials, while a fifth person sustained minor injuries.

A suspect is in custody. He's believed to be an Asian man in his 60s and not from the area. Orange County authorities say he was stopped before law enforcement arrived. Thanks to some extraordinary actions by churchgoers. Have a listen to this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JEFF HALLOCK, UNDERSHERIFF, ORANGE COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPT.: We believe a group of churchgoers detain him and hogtied his legs with an extension cord and confiscated at least two weapons from him. He was detained when the deputies arrived. That group of churchgoers displayed what we believe is exceptional heroism and bravery in interfering or intervening to stop the suspect. They undoubtedly prevented additional injuries and fatalities.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: The shooting took place during a lunch reception honoring the former pastor of a Taiwanese congregation that uses the church for its services. In Buffalo, New York, meantime, authorities believe the gunman in the mass shooting at a supermarket was motivated by hate. An official says the 18-year-old suspect told authorities he was targeting the black community.

Now investigators are reviewing a 180-page manifesto posted online and attributed to the suspect which appears to lay out detailed planning for the attack. New York's Attorney General spoke about the importance of uniting and healing that devastated the community.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LETITIA JAMES, NEW YORK ATTORNEY GENERAL: I held in my arms a young lady who worked at Topps, was so afraid that she was about to die, who witnessed the bloodshed.

BYRON BROWN, BUFFALO MAYOR: We're heartbroken. Many people with tears in their eyes. Families that have lost loved ones. I'm telling the community to grieve, but let's stay strong. Let's stay together and let's get through this as a community.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: We're also learning more about the 10 people killed in Saturday shooting including 77-year-old Pearl Young. The longtime substitute teacher is being described as a true pillar in the community. The details are emerging about the Buffalo suspect's background including a disturbing incident last year just before he graduated from high school.

CNN's Brian Todd has more on that.

BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Police and FBI officials have been at the home of Payton Gendron's parents on the street in Conklin, New York behind me collecting evidence and other items that they'll need for the investigation into this case. As we put together some new information on the background of this alleged shooter, we do know from the Police Commissioner of Buffalo Joseph Gramaglia.

[01:25:03]

He told CNN earlier today that last June, June of 2021 that this suspect, 18-year-old Payton Gendron made what he called a generalized threat when he attended Susquehanna Valley Central High School, and not far from here, that was in June of 2021.

The police commissioner said that that threat was not racial in nature. But he said that state police then took the suspect in for a mental health evaluation, that the suspect was held for about a day and a half and then released. And remember, that was about a year ago in June of 2021.

State police also confirming that at that time, they took what was that a 17-year-old person in for a mental health evaluation, but they didn't give any more details than that. We're also getting some other new information about the suspect. I talked to the owner of a place called the Reliable Market here in Conklin, who confirmed to me that the suspect Peyton Gendron worked there for about three or four months, that he left about three months ago on his own accord, on good terms, giving two weeks notice, that he worked in the Deli Counter and a couple of other places in the store.

He was known as a very quiet young man by that owner, but the owner didn't have much else to say about him. That's the kind of picture that we're getting in this neighborhood from neighbors who say that they are shocked because they told us that they believe the parents are nice and friendly people and responsible people. The mother is known to take daily walks around the neighborhood and be a fairly friendly person.

But they too described this alleged shooter, Peyton Gendron, as being a very quiet young man. One neighbor told me that whenever you spoke to Peyton, you'd be lucky to get one or two words out of him. They didn't have a whole lot to say about the young man other than he was known to, on occasion help an older lady next door to them take out her trash every week.

But again, piecing together more details as we go on this alleged shooter in Buffalo, the owner of that store where he worked did tell me, quote, he'll probably pay a huge price for this as he should.

Brian Todd, CNN, Conklin, New York.

NEWTON: Now earlier, I spoke with Randall Blazak, he's the chairman of the Oregon Coalition Against Hate Crime and a professor at the University of Oregon. I asked him about his perspective on how certain platforms are being used to spread hateful and racist ideology online.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

RANDALL BLAZAK, CHAIRMAN, OREGON COALITION AGAINST HATE CRIME: There is an increasing utilization not just of social media and the deep web and the dark web and all the kind of the dark corners of the Internet where we would find white supremacy, but gaming platforms. Because gaming platforms are where young males occupy space, it's where -- it's able to reach them and to kind of pull them into that world and where they're able to communicate and then push out their own activity.

And so we've really seen these gaming platforms become sort of the main currency among the younger elements. So the extreme right-wing movement.

NEWTON: This is incredibly disturbing. And when you see these young men, mostly white, aspiring to be these mass shooters, literally they aspire to this, you also say that they are practicing this gamification, as you call it. What does that entail? I mean, you gave us a little bit of insight there. But what is going on online?

BLAZAK: Yes, there is this larger rhetoric that there is a coming apocalypse or coming race war, or coming civil war and building up to that there is an effort to sort of raise the stakes. We saw this in 2011 with the shooting and the bombing in Oslo, Norway that killed 77 people. Christchurch, El Paso, they keep trying to kind of outdo each other's body counts as a way of almost playing a video game in the real world itself.

The victims are people of color and people who are seen to be the enemies of the white race. And to them, they're just these scores. So these body counts are just sort of scores to compete with each other. But the reality, of course, is incredible amount of trauma that goes out through communities and you have to deal with this.

Yet again, where these young men feel like this violence is going to support towards some end goal, some, you know, race war that they think it's going to save them. But in reality, there are just incredible amounts of people who have been harmed by this thinking.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: North Korea, I won't say exactly how many of its citizens have COVID-19, but Kim Jong-un is sending the military to help with a soaring number of so-called fever cases. We'll have details on that and the live report from the region, next

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[01:32:57]

NEWTON: Welcome back to our viewers from all around the world.

I'm Paula Newton. And this is CNN NEWSROOM.

China is planning for life to return to normal in Shanghai next month. Local officials declared the city's COVID outbreak under control a short time ago. Shanghai's 25 million residents have grown frustrated by more than six weeks in lockdown. Who could blame them?

Meantime, China's neighbor, North Korea, is ramping up efforts to fight hundreds of thousands of what it calls "fever" cases. State media says Kim Jong-un has ordered the military to help stabilize the country's medicine supplies.

Now we have CNN's Anna Coren who's following China's COVID situation from Hong Kong for us. But we want to start with Blake Essig who's monitoring North Korea's situation from Tokyo.

What's the latest on the number of people who have fallen ill, and in terms of how many actually are locked down now in North Korea? and is there any indication that North Korea will accept help? I mean the U.N., South Korea are pledging to do whatever they can.

BLAKE ESSIG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: You know, Paula, just a few days after North Korea identified or admitted its first ever case of COVID 19, these so-called fever cases in North Korea are surging with nearly 400,000 new cases reported this weekend. According to state-run media KCNA the outbreak started in late April and has since resulted in more than 1.2 million people developing symptoms and 50 deaths.

Although at this point it is unclear if those deaths were caused by COVID-19 because of a lack of testing. Now, as a result of the COVID crisis, North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has since declared a major national emergency, ordered all cities nationwide to lock down, and has said the current outbreak is the greatest turmoil to hit North Korea since its founding more than 70 years ago.

[01:34:45]

ESSIG: Now, out of those 1.2 million fever cases, more than 560,000 are still receiving medical care, and are likely being isolated. While the North is now reporting positive cases, it's unclear exactly how widespread the outbreak is. And the reason for that uncertainty and the reason why we're calling these cases fever cases instead of COVID cases is because the level of testing in North Korea is extremely low. And the vast majority of those people, showing symptoms in all likelihood haven't been tested.

Now, according to the World Health Organization, since the pandemic began more than two years ago through the end of March, only 64,000 people have been tested out of a population of more than 25 million in North Korea making matters worse.

Experts say that the country lacks significant health care infrastructure. And it's unlikely able to treat a large number of patients.

And finally, almost none of the country's 25 million people have been vaccinated. And North Korea hasn't secured any vaccines through organizations like COVAX despite being eligible.

As for South Korea offering to provide vaccines, medical supplies, and personnel to help, so far, North Korea hasn't asked for assistance and it's unclear whether or not they're going to take advantage of South Korea's offer, Paula.

NEWTON: Yes. Quite worrying, especially when you consider, in fact, that even if they went on a mass vaccination program right now would not help with this current outbreak.

I want to go to you now Anna for the latest on China' situation in Shanghai. You've been following this for us for weeks now. And we have a mixed picture, right. We're hearing that perhaps some restaurants and stores will reopen. What does that mean for these residents that are still on lockdown?

ANNA COREN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: These residents, 25 million of them Paula, are still in lockdown. They are entering the seventh week. I mean it really is mind-boggling. But the Shanghai government has come out and announced a three-stage plan to return to normalcy.

As you say, reopening supermarkets, shopping malls, barbershops, you know, to get back to normal. This, of course is all conditional on eradicating COVID. Now this plan has been met, as you can imagine with skepticism from the people of Shanghai. You know, I spoke to one resident this morning, Paula, who said, you know, a couple of weeks ago at the beginning of this pandemic, we would've welcomed this news. We would've been excited about the fact that Shanghai was about to reopen.

She said, it's no point, even hoping that this is going to happen. You know, we're talking about the middle of next month. Shanghai, Paula has announced 938 cases on Sunday. I should mention, that's the first time that it's dropped below, you know, that thousand number mark since late March.

Now, compare that to Beijing, which recorded 54 cases on Sunday and we're seeing a ramping up of restrictions there. People talking about a soft lockdown in certain districts. We know that something like 20 million people have already gone through like 15 rounds of mass testing. The government has announced another further three rounds of mass testing this coming week.

And I think, perhaps to really summarize where the government's mindset is in relation to its zero COVID strategy, they Asian Football Confederation Cup which China was supposed to host in June, July of next year, China has now announced that it is canceling those plans. That it won't go ahead with hosting this major event that's held every four years.

It was meant to be held in ten cities across China, but I think it really shows, you know,, how long the government thinks that the pandemic is going to affect China and its people, Paula.

NEWTON: Yes, indeed, and you can't blame those residents in Shanghai (INAUDIBLE) skeptical about what may happen even next month.

Anna Coren in Hong Kong, Blake Essig for us in Tokyo -- appreciate it.

Now, voters in Lebanon went to the polls Sunday on a high stakes parliamentary election. The first since the 2019 popular uprising against the country's ruling elite. Several new political groups rose out of that movement to compete with the establishment parties, but despite widespread discontent, Lebanon's political class and an economy that is just in shambles, some fear voter turnout were still too low.

CNN's Ben Wedeman has our report.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: The lines were long Sunday morning at Beirut's Khaled bin Walid (ph) school as women waited to vote in Lebanon's parliamentary elections. (INAUDIBLE) didn't mind that wait.

"We've hit rock bottom," she says. Like so many here, Fida (ph) she hopes that voters will somehow be able to throw off a political elite that has mismanaged and looted Lebanon for decades depriving its people of the most basic opportunities.

"All our children have emigrated," Samira tells me after voting. Only my husband and I are still here."

[01:39:56]

WEDEMAN: Yet the elite still have the money and resources to win votes in a system described by one analyst as a procedural democracy on paper, an autocracy in practice.

JAD WEHBEH, BEIRUT RESIDENT: I think it's going to be an uphill battle. It's going to take time. It's not going to happen this year. It's not going to happen probably in four years. But I think, we need to show a model that Beirut can change, and if Beirut can change, everybody else can change as well.

WEDEMAN: Voting has ended in Lebanon's 2022 parliamentary elections, and they are now preparing to count the votes.

It's still early, but expectations are that the turnout will be lower than when it was in 2018. Why? Well, many of the people we spoke to attributed it to the fact that the Lebanese economy is effectively collapsed. The GDP is half of what it was three years ago. Inflation is running at more than 200 percent.

The Lebanese leader has lost more than 90 percent of its value against the dollar. And four out of five Lebanese have fallen into poverty. And also many people are angry at the fact that not far from here, on the 4th of August 2020, the Beirut port blast happened, killing more than 200 people, wounding thousands, but still no one within the government has been held accountable.

The feeling of many Lebanese is that not only has the political elites, the people who've ruled this country for decades failed them, the entire political system has failed them as well.

I'm Ben Wedeman, CNN -- reporting from Beirut.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

NEWTON: The value of cryptocurrency has been falling in recent weeks, and the losses are adding up for El Salvador, which invested heavily in bitcoin last year. That story, straight ahead.

[01:41:55]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

NEWTON: It's been a rough few weeks for cryptocurrencies like bitcoin. Recent market fluctuations have cut bitcoins price to half of its all- time high. That's bad news for El Salvador, which last year became the first country to adopt bitcoin as legal tender. Now, it's facing tens of millions of dollars in financial losses.

Rafael Romo has our report more.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

RAFAEL ROMO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It was flashy, loud and colorful. The special effects rival those of a rock concert. That's how El Presidente made his grand entrance, greeting everybody in English, no old fashioned suit or tie needed.

NAYIB BUKELE, EL SALVADORAN PRESIDENT: We demonstrated that bitcoin can do a lot of good things.

ROMO: Nayib Bukele, the 40-year-old millennial president of El Salvador told the crowd he's making his Central American nation of 6.5 million a bitcoin nation. That was back in November, when the market cap for cryptocurrency hit three trillion.

Bukele started promoting bitcoin during the summer.

BUKELE: This would generate jobs and help provide financial inclusion to thousands (INAUDIBLE) the formal economy.

ROMO: And in September, El Salvador became the first country to make bitcoin legal tender, alongside the U.S. Dollar. Two months later, the president announced plans to build a city where bitcoin would rain supreme. But not everyone has jumped on the bitcoin bandwagon.

JULIO SEVILLA, PROFESSOR, UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA: It's supposed to be the currency, right now, bitcoin but people are not using it. It's mostly, you know, businesses -- international businesses like Starbucks, like McDonald's that are accepting bitcoin because, you know, they don't want to be at the fault with policies of the government.

ROMO: And the government has gone all in, buying up more than 2,300 bitcoins since September to the tune of more than $103 million.

The problem is that in the same period, the cryptocurrency has lost more than 35 percent of its value. Meaning the Salvadoran taxpayers are tens of millions of dollars in the red, thanks to their president's investment strategy.

The president's answer, buy the did, words he has posted multiple times on Twitter.

SEVILLA: For an investor, for an individual investor, he may make sense, right, to say buy the dip. But the problem for our country, the risk is way bigger. And we don't know if this is the dip.

ROMO: Georgia University Business professor Julio Sevilla says the risk goes beyond losing money.

SEVILLA: Their own bond market us also suffered a lot, you know. It's up there with Ukraine on the riskier bonds for (INAUDIBLE) countries and Ukraine, it's in a war that they didn't induce. El Salvador is getting into this risk voluntarily.

ROMO: On the one hand, El Salvador is making a risky investment. On the other this small Central American country is counting on help from the International Monetary Fund to repay government bonds worth a 800 million dollars. The bonds are due in January, and this burden is in addition to other financial obligations.

How big is the risk of the fault?

SEVILLA: If the president keeps on buying, as bitcoin goes down, I think the risk of default maybe larger. Because at some point, the IMF is going to say, no, we cannot loan you money, you're not doing things the right way.

ROMO: Sevilla says he still expects El Salvador to get financing, but if its president continues to double down on risky investments. He says default is a very real possibility, and Bukele's dream of make his country a bitcoin nation could become a mirage.

Rafael Romo, CNN -- Atlanta.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

NEWTON: Celebrations for the Buddhist festival of Vesak started in Sri Lankan on Sunday after a week long nationwide curfew was fully lifted.

Buddhists right across the country took to the streets and flocked the temples commemorating the birth, enlightenment and death of Buddha. But some believe it was a bittersweet celebration.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SHAKIB, MALE: We are here to celebrate Buddha's birthday as with last. Irrespective of any religion we do celebrate it. And here, we are supporting the struggle. That means, by the side, we are happy. And the other side, you are silent.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: Sri Lanka is on the midst of an economic and political crisis, more than a month of mostly peaceful anti-government protests turned violent last week. A new prime minister was sworn in on Thursday.

South Asian countries are finding ways to beat a brutal heat wave. One town in northwest India deployed tanker trucks on the streets, giving everyone a welcome sprinkling of water in temperatures that have been above 40 degrees Celsius recently. Pakistan meantime is also struggling in the oppressive heat. And zoo workers in Lahore are spraying the animals with water and putting up shades to help protect them from the searing sun.

[01:49:59]

NEWTON: World number one men's tennis player Novak Djokovic achieved another career milestone over the weekend, becoming just the fifth man to reach 1,000 ATP tour victories. He did it by beating Norway's Casper Ruud in the Italian Open semifinals Saturday. And then for good measure, he went on to win the tournament on Sunday and not dropping a single set along the way. It's the first title for Djokovic since winning the Paris Masters in November. Now, sometimes, you just can't get that song out of your head, right? Gosh, have I been there before. Even if you're on the front lines of war.

Ukraine is still riding an emotional high from winning Eurovision. That ahead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[01:54:56]

NEWTON: Heal my mind. The powerful performance there from Wynonna Judd singing a new song called "River of Time" written by her mother, Naomi Judd during a public celebration on Sunday.

Now, the biggest stars of country and southern gospel music performed moving tributes to the music icon who died by suicide in April at the age of 76. Fans helped fill the legendary Ryman Auditorium in Nashville along with performances from Oprah Winfrey, Morgan Freeman and Reese Witherspoon.

Wynonna Judd announced she still plans to be going on the road in the U.S. later this year for what was meant to be a reunion tour with her mother.

Now, in the midst of war, Ukraine's folk rock group Kalush Orchestra won this year's Eurovision Song contest on a wave of goodwill.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Thank you so much. Thank you for supporting Ukraine. This victory for every Ukrainian. Victory to Ukraine.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: And news of that win made it all the way to the troops hunkered down in the Mariupol steel plant which has been under siege from Russian forces for weeks now.

The sounds of war in the background there. Kalush Orchestra ended their performance with a plea to the world to quote, "Please help Ukraine."

Kalush Orchestra song "Stefania" paid tribute to the front man's mother. She didn't realize the song was even about her thinking it was about -- for some girlfriend.

STEFANIA, MOTHER OF KALUSH ORCHESTRA LEAD SINGER: And Sacha said he wrote a song for you and they (INAUDIBLE) of the song to me and then when he pushed it I heard the full song but I didn't know. He wanted to perform it from the Eurovision's stage but because he had to post thins song on the Internet before the Eurovision so I have heard it sooner.

He wanted also to make a surprise, so I would hear the song for the first time at Eurovision. (END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: Some precious good news there in Ukraine.

And that wraps up this hour of CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Paula Newton, thanks for watching.

My colleague Rosemary Church will be here in just a moment with more news.

[01:57:14]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220516ei5g000jh


Russia expelling 2 Finnish embassy employees in retaliatory move - Foreign Ministry
176 字
2022 年 5 月 17 日 10:28 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS General Newswire
DANWS
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
MOSCOW. May 17 (Interfax) - Russia has declared two employees of the Finnish embassy in Moscow personae non gratae in retaliation to an analogous step made earlier by Helsinki, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday.

"Finnish Ambassador to Russia Antti Helantera was summoned to the Russian Foreign Ministry on May 17. A firm protest was declared to the head of mission over the unwarranted expulsion from Finland of two employees of the Russian embassy in Helsinki as part of the EU's anti-Russian sanction campaign," the ministry said in a statement on its website.

Moscow views supplies of weapons to Ukraine and Finland's confrontational course as unacceptable, it said.

"The ambassador was notified that, in response to those actions by the Finnish authorities, the Russian side decided that the presence of two employees of the Finnish embassy in Moscow in Russia is no longer acceptable," the ministry said.

Va kp ek

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DANWS00020220517ei5h004bl


News; International
Buffalo Shooter Radicalized Via Social Media; Turkey Not Sure to Accept Finland and Sweden Inside NATO; More than 260 People Rescued from Azovstal; Russian Troops Target Military Base Near Poland; Controversies Could Jeopardize a Candidate's Bid; McDonald's Leaving Russia; Afghan Leader Shows His Face on Camera; A Hero Killed in Buffalo Shooting; Pfizer Booster for Kids is On the Way; Baby Formula Shortage Making It Hard to Find for Americans. Aired 3-4a ET
Rosemary Church, Suzanne Malveaux, Nina dos Santos, Clare Sebastian
6639 字
2022 年 5 月 17 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[03:00:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers joining us here in the United States and all around the world. You are watching CNN Newsroom, and I'm Rosemary Church.

Coming up, a mass shooting fueled by racism and hate was months in the making. The latest on the supermarket massacre in Buffalo, as the community begins to mourn the loss of 10 innocent lives.

Plus, the battle for Azovstal appears to be nearing its end in Ukraine as final efforts are being made to rescue those still trapped inside.

And it's a high stakes election day in five U.S. states with Donald Trump's influence looming large over some key primary races. We'll take a look.

UNKNOWN: Live from CNN center, this is CNN Newsroom with Rosemary Church.

CHURCH: Thanks for joining us. U.S. President Joe Biden will travel to Buffalo New York in the coming hours, where he will meet with families of the victims of Saturday's racially motivated shooting.

A White House official tells CNN, the president will make remarks in Buffalo and condemn the shooting as terrorism motivated by a hateful and perverse ideology. And he is expected to call on Americans to quote, "give hate no safe harbor."

This comes as we learn new details about the 18-year-old accused in the attack that killed 10 people.

CNN's Brian Todd has the latest.

JOHN GARCIA, SHERIFF, ERIE COUNTY: This was a straight-up hate crime, pure evil. BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Police revealing details about the meticulous planning that went into the massacre of 10 people at a Buffalo store and how it could have been worse.

JOSEPH GRAMAGLIA, BUFFALO POLICE COMMISSIONER: He had plans, had he gotten out of here, to continue his rampage and continue shooting people. He'd even spoken about possibly going to another store.

TODD: Eighteen-year-old Payton Gendron is accused of murdering several people in the parking lot. He exchanged gunfire with a security guard and shot more people in the store before surrendering to police.

GRAMAGLIA: He was very heavily armed. He had tactical gear. He had a tactical helmet on. He had a camera that he was livestreaming what he was doing.

TODD: CNN obtained a 180-page statement attributed to the suspect, which was posted online just before the attack. The document's author says he was inspired after seeing a clip of another racially motivated attack in New Zealand in 2019, where a gunman livestreamed his murder of 51 people at two mosques.

The document details how the shooter has been radicalized by online message boards, describing the Great Replacement theory, which suggests the false belief that the white race is dying out.

LETITIA JAMES, NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL: They had the "n" word, which unfortunately was carved into one of his weapons. Clearly, he was bent on hate.

TODD: CNN has obtained a photo of two other rifles the gunman brought to the scene that have writing on them, including the phrase "white lives matter." The shooter allegedly wrote he'd chosen the Buffalo store based on the racial makeup of its zip code. And he had been serious about carrying out the attack since January.

GRAMAGLIA: The individual was here a few months ago back in early March.

TODD: He'd been buying ammo, surplus military gear, and shooting irregularly, and had mapped out the store, intending to shoot all black people. The main gun, a bushmaster XM-15 was bought from this gun store before he illegally modified it.

But according to the New York Times, he had no problem purchasing the weapon even after an incident at the Susquehanna Valley High School last June when he was a student, on the honor roll, school documents show.

GARCIA: The gun dealer was able to sell these weapons to this individual because there was no red flags that came up.

TODD: A spokesperson for the school district tells CNN the suspect was interviewed by police after he made an ominous reference to murder/suicide in a school project, although there was no specific threat.

GARCIA: He stated a facility. I'm not sure if it was a hospital or a mental health facility for a day and a half.

TODD: The gunman's neighbors we spoke to didn't want to give their names. They are frustrated.

UNKNOWN: Something got missed. You know, if he was flagged in high school, why didn't he get the mental health care he needed then? And the system failed him that caused this tragedy to occur.

TODD: They say the shooter was quiet and seemed like a normal teenager.

UNKNOWN: Then when I found out it was from (Inaudible) county, I said, I sure as hell hope he isn't from Conklin. So. And then it turned out he was. And then it turns out he's lives on my street. So, we were all totally shocked about this whole thing.

[03:05:06]

TODD: The suspect is currently in custody and on suicide watch.

GARCIA: He's in a segregated unit aside from the rest of the general population, and that's for his safety.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

TODD: The suspect has pleaded not guilty to first degree murder. Law enforcement officials say prosecutors are working to bring possible federal charges against him in addition to the state charges. Officials say the suspect's attorney has withdrawn a request for a mental health forensic examination to be performed on him.

Brian Todd, CNN, Conklin, New York.

CHURCH: In another part of the country, a doctor who was killed in Sunday's church shooting in Southern California is being hailed for his bravery. The gunman opened fire at a Taiwanese church service, wounding five people and killing 52-year-old Dr. John Cheng.

Authorities say Cheng charged at the shooter giving others time to help subdue him. They say Chang's heroic actions helped save lives. Investigators have identified the gunman as 68-year-old David Chou, a U.S. citizen born in China.

They believe the shooting was politically motivated and that Chou was upset between over the tensions between China and Taiwan. They don't feel he had connection to the church or its members.

We are tracking new developments out of Ukraine. Ukraine says there have been casualties from Russian missile strikes on areas north and east of Kyiv and there are reports Russian troops have tried to cross the border with heavy fighting near Sumi east of the capital.

Meanwhile, Ukraine said that combat operations in Mariupol are over for troops holed up at the Azovstal steel plant. More evacuations began Monday, allowing more than 260 people to leave.

Well, elsewhere in Ukraine, officials said earlier a military base had been targeted by Russian missiles near the Polish border.

For the latest on the attacks there, and north of Kyiv, and Azovstal, CNN's Suzanne Malveaux joins me now live from Lviv in Ukraine. Good to see you, Suzanne. So what is the latest on all of this?

SUZANNE MALVEAUX, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Rosemary, it was a very, very active night across the country here in Ukraine. Heavy series of military strikes and attacks from the Russians and really, a very significant uptick when you compare it relatively to the weeks prior here. A very active evening.

If you just take a look around the country we are talking north of Kyiv, that is where Ukrainian authorities say that Russian missiles struck in an area called Desna, it is an area that is just 40 miles from the border of Belarus. They say that there were many casualties that there are many wounded and those dead, they do not know yet what the intended target was. But they will certainly be getting more information and clearly going in to the areas to just see the kinds of loss and devastation to the Ukrainians this morning.

And then, here in Lviv, overnight, we were able to see and hear first- hand some of the explosions that happened here. The sirens we heard from our hotel here in Lviv, going off at about 12.25 just after midnight or so. Everyone getting to the bunker to the basement for a while and it was about 20 minutes after that, that is when we started to hear for ourselves a series of explosions.

Some on our CNN team were able to actually see some of the lights in the sky from the anti-aircraft defenses that had been put in motion. It was about 1.15 in the morning local time here that the final all- clear had been done.

It was not until this morning that we learned from Ukrainian forces that the intended target, the target that was hit was a railway infrastructure here in Lviv. And so, military analysts when they take a look and they see what is going on here inside of the country, they believe that the reason you are seeing this uptick and these missile attacks, as well as the cross-border fighting is because the Russians are trying to really occupy these Ukrainian forces and keep them from being deployed in the east.

So that they have things to fight and follow as opposed to really engage in the east where the Russians ss want to make further progress. Rosemary?

CHURCH: And Suzanne, there have also been significant developments overnight in the battle for the steel plant in Mariupol. What can you tell us about that?

MALVEAUX: Well, yes, it's a very significant development because the question becomes and Mariupol a symbolic, strong symbol of Ukrainian resistance. Is it going to fold? Are we going to see that city collapse under the Russian authorities and regime as the troops move in?

[03:10:04]

This is the last stand here. That steel plant, of course, and hundreds and hundreds of Ukrainian military soldiers had been wounded inside of that plant. No food, no water, no supplies for many, many weeks, left to die.

And what we understand, and it is, it is as different sides describe it differently. The Ukrainians are calling it a victory as they actually took them out of -- out of that plant to hospital area -- hospitals, the Russians are calling it a victory on their side, that this was some sort of political or diplomatic win as a result of negotiations.

The question still remaining of course, there are still soldiers inside that area. There are still some ongoing talks. And where does that city, that town stand now that it looks like their military says they have completed that combat mission. Rosemary?

CHURCH: All right, Suzanne Malveaux joining us live from Lviv, many thanks and take good care there.

Well, Russia's war is driving a historic change in European security. On Monday, Sweden announced that it would join neighboring Finland and seek NATO membership. They would reverse decades of military non- alignment and mark a major expansion of the NATO alliance.

But those plans are already hitting roadblocks. Turkey's president is doubling down on his objections, accusing Finland and Sweden of housing terrorist groups. NATO leaders have said they are confident that Turkey won't block the bids but membership decision requires unanimous consent from all 30 NATO states.

Meanwhile, Russian President Vladimir Putin said Monday, that the expansion wouldn't be an immediate threat but he warned that moving weapons on to Finnish or Swedish territory would provoke a response.

And for more, we want to bring in CNN's Nina dos Santos who joins us live from Stockholm. So, this is fascinating really, isn't it? Because in the first instance, we know that Vladimir Putin, part of the reason why he went in and invaded Ukraine was because he felt that NATO was infringing and encroaching upon Russian soil, now of course this will become a reality if it goes forward.

But talk to us about Turkey's attempt to block this, and of course, now, Sweden joining behind Finland to want to be a member of NATO. Talk to us about that whole process too?

NINA DOS SANTOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, this is a huge political decision for a country like Sweden and also, it's neighbor next door, Finland, and it will redraw the security map in this part of Europe where right on the Baltic Sea, which of course is an area that Vladimir Putin also has a foothold in, with his enclave of Kaliningrad on the Baltic Sea, which is only about 200 kilometers away from parts of Sweden.

So, this really is significant. It expands NATO's border with Russia, hugely doubling it, and in fact and it will have political ramifications going forward. Because remember that Sweden and Finland are relatively rich, profligate, Democratic countries with big military might as well.

But there is another country that has big military might inside NATO as you pointed out that is being a bit awkward about this. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the president of Turkey reiterating yesterday his concerns and even stronger language said before about Sweden and Finland harboring individuals from the Kurdish community.

Kurdish separatists, members of the PKK and also the other organizations, the YPG that he deems as terrorists and he is trying exert some political leverage over these talks.

And Antony Blinken, the U.S. Secretary of State over the course of the weekend had some meetings with his Turkish counterparts in Berlin when there was an informal NATO members meeting there, and appeared to come out confident that he would be able to assuage Turkey's concerns. But then just a few days later we have another reiterated statement from Turkey.

It's unclear where the diplomatic negotiations are likely to go from here this week. We've got a delegation from Sweden heading to Ankara to meet with their Turkish counterparts to talk them down from this kind of rhetoric. Recep Tayyip Erdogan saying don't bother even sending your diplomats.

So, he is clearly making it clear that he is going to play hardball over this. But in the meantime, that hasn't stopped Sweden from proceeding and Finland as well.

So let me give you an idea of what's happening here today. We've just seen in the last hour or so, Ann Linde, the foreign secretary of Sweden signed the paper work for NATO accession. This is a huge moment. She said it felt a very big moment, a very serious moment.

Finland is expected to hate a vote later on today, and to do so perhaps as early as tomorrow. The Finnish president, Sauli Niinisto is in town here for a state visit. He'll be addressing the Swedish parliament in a few hours' time. And then he'll be addressing the world's media alongside the prime minister of Sweden here in Stockholm. Rosemary?

[03:15:06]

CHURCH: Yes, it is an extraordinary move and the world is watching this very closely. Nina dos Santos joining us live from Stockholm, Sweden, many thanks.

A U.S. House Republican with a long list of scandals and gaffes is seeking reelection. Many in his party want him gone. But can the backing of Donald Trump give Madison Cawthorn a last-minute boost. We'll take a look. (COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[03:19:58]

CHURCH: Later today, voters in five U.S. states will choose their candidates for November's midterm election. And one of the most closely watched races is in North Carolina where a Republican House freshman with a history of misconduct is at risk of losing his party's nomination.

But as Dianne Gallagher reports, he has a very powerful ally insisting on a second chance.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The mountainous tree covered landscape of western Carolina has become an ugly political battleground.

UNKNOWN: Cawthorn will lie about anything.

GALLAGHER: As Republicans wage an all-out war on embattled but trump- endorsed congressman, Madison Cawthorn. He faces off against seven GOP challengers in Tuesday's primary who cast the scandal plague representative as absent, fame hungry, even dangerous.

WENDY NEVAREZ (R), NORTH CAROLINA HOUSE CANDIDATE: A lot of things that he said and done recently has aired in other countries as propaganda that goes back to a national security issue.

GALLAGHER: Pitching themselves to the very red district as more serious, less destructing alternatives.

CHUCK EDWARDS (R), NORTH CAROLINA HOUSE CANDIDATE: Instead of talking about what lingerie that our congressman might like to wear in his spare time, we need to be talking about inflation and real issues.

GALLAGHER: Republicans have rallied around the other candidates like state Senate Chuck Edwards who has the backing of North Carolina's most powerful players, including Senator Tom Tillis.

UNKNOWN: Putin used Cawthorn's claims.

GALLAGHER: And the six figures that Tillis connected super PAC has dropped on attack ads.

REP. MADISON CAWTHORN (R-NC): I've really never seen the swamp launch such a coordinated attack against any individual politics except for Donald Trump.

GALLAGHER: Former President Donald Trump endorsed the 26-year-old Cawthorn more than a year ago, though he's generally stayed away from the race. But on the eve of the primary, Trump posted on his Truth Social platform, rehashing Cawthorn's background while adding, recently he made some foolish mistakes which I don't believe he'll make again. Let's give Madison a second chance. And we found plenty of voters in Cawthorn's hometown of Hendersonville who plan to do just that.

UNKNOWN: I think he is a good kid. It's political. Everybody is trying to do what they can to make themselves look good and make the opponent look bad.

UNKNOWN: A lot of it is made up, fabricated stuff.

GALLAGHER: But for others between the unflattering headlines, four congressional attendants and fights over whether he shut down district offices, it's just too much drama.

UNKNOWN: He is a narcissistic and I'm just not into that.

GALLAGHER: North Carolina's 11th district is massive and rural, making voters both physically and digitally hard to reach. But one Cawthorn misstep that did seem to reach the entire district, his move late last year when new maps were drawn to leave it behind.

CAWTHORN: I will be running for Congress in the 13th congressional district. This move is not an abandonment.

GALLAGHER: But a lot of people took it that way.

UNKNOWN: So, when Madison Cawthorn decided to leave the congressional district and run in Charlotte, he asked me to step in and run as the America first candidate.

GALLAGHER: And when the court redrew the maps, Cawthorn came back.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

GALLAGHER: Now adding to the unpredictability of Tuesday's race here are the unaffiliated voters. Those are voters who are not affiliated with either party but can choose which primary race to participate in. More than 40 percent of all of the ballots that have been cast in the Republican primary here in this district are from those unaffiliated voters.

Adding to this, in North Carolina, a candidate must get at least 30 percent of the vote during a primary in order to avoid another run-off election. Experts say that could bode well for Congressman Cawthorn as this fractured large field of Republicans could give him that 30 percent.

Dianne Gallagher, CNN, Hendersonville, North Carolina.

CHURCH: And last hour, I asked political analyst Michael Genovese about the power of Trump's support, and what he expects to happen in the race.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MICHAEL GENOVESE, POLITICAL ANALYST: In this race, you need a 30 percent threshold to win. And in a crowded race, which is what it is, a known candidate with name recognition has a bit of an advantage also the Trump endorsement might help.

But here's an example of Trump endorsing someone who was thought to be a rising star in the Republican Party, but who has fallen from grace and who's support has been disappearing faster than cupcakes in a pot party.

He is an embarrassment to the party, monumentally flawed. He has been -- he's accused other Republicans of inviting him to sex orgies and cocaine parties. He's been pictured -- we've seen pictures of him in women's lingerie. There are videos that are embarrassing floating around.

And so, Trump has picked an odd person to put his reputation on. It may help Cawthorn. He may be able to pull it through. But it's a really long shot because the Republican establishment really doesn't like this guy.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHURCH: And the polls are open in North Carolina in just a few hours from now.

[03:24:59]

Still to come, one country stands in the way of the E.U.'s plan to ban Russian oil imports. The latest on those efforts and how Russia's economy is fairing when we return.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. Well, Russia may have avoided another blow to its economy, at least for now.

[03:30:02]

E.U. leaders were unable to convince Hungary to lift its veto of a proposed ban on Russian oil imports, a move which would be the group's harshest sanction yet over Vladimir Putin's war in Ukraine.

Meanwhile, McDonald's is pulling out of Russia for good and will permanently close and sell its more than 800 restaurants there, making it one of the biggest global brands to exit the country since the war began.

And CNN's Clare Sebastian joins me now from London with more. Good morning to you, Clare. What impact will the departure of McDonald's and other foreign businesses have on Russia's economy? And what has been the real impact so far of sanctions and limited oil import bans?

CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. So, Rosemary, so take first the issue of McDonald's and let's add to that Renault, which is a French car company which announce it was selling both its stake in Lada maker Avtovaz and its shares in Renault Russia on Monday.

Together the two of those companies in Russia employed more than 100,000 people. So, I think the most immediate concern to the Russian authorities with exits like that is unemployment. What to do with all of the people. This is why you see the Moscow mayor coming out. The city of Moscow, by the way, bought the shares in Renault Russia from Renault.

He says they are now going to turn Renault's Moscow factory around and start producing Soviet era cars under the Moskvich brand, a very Soviet, very sort of iconic car brand there but clearly an effort to try to prevent mass unemployment from these foreign companies leaving.

This is why you see other companies like Ikea, for example, that continues to pay its staff in Russia. They say they are going to continue to do that through August. But on the flip side, Rosemary, the Russian economy has shown remarkable resilience in the face of sanctions.

The ruble, for example, is at its strongest against the U.S. dollar right now since February 2020. So even before the pandemic and this is why the oil embargo to the E.U. you're discussing is so crucial. Because while they fail to reach consensus, they continue to find it difficult to reach consensus on that, Russia is still making money from its energy exports.

And in fact, it's making more money from them because of the disruption to the market and then the resulting higher prices. So, this is why this issue is so crucial, because until they can reach consensus on this issue, the E.U. of course being the biggest customer for Russian energy, the Russian economy will still be able to afford this war in Ukraine and will still be able to cushion itself against the sanctions.

CHURCH: What would it take to change the situation? When you look at it, it's just astounding that Russia has been able to survive with those sorts of sanctions?

SEBASTIAN: Yes, look, I mean, so far, it's been able to survive largely due to the efforts of the Russian Central Bank, which, by some orthodox measures including raising rates to 20 percent, it's now by the way cut them down to 14 percent and various capital controls.

They manage to sort of protect the ruble and the financial system and avoid a collapse. But things like import bans, exits of foreign companies, the risks are mounting every day, Rosemary.

CHURCH: All right. Clare Sebastian joining us live from London. Many thanks for that analysis. I appreciate it.

Well, there is a $10 million bounty on the head of a deputy leader of the Taliban. The U.S. calls him a specially designated global terrorist, with blood on his hands and he's never spoken with a western journalist, or shown his face in a TV interview until now.

[03:35:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CHURCH: Well, now to a CNN exclusive, one of Afghanistan's top leaders under Taliban rule says they want good relations with the U.S. Sirajuddin Haqqani is the Afghan acting interior minister and a deputy leader of the Taliban. He has never spoken on camera with a western journalist until now.

CNN's Christiane Amanpour sat down with him in Kabul.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: I do have to ask you, Mr. Haqqani, because, you know very well that you are under personal sanctions by the United States which also has a multi- million-dollar bounty on your head.

This is what a top western official told me just before I got here. He said we are in a new world. The guy, that's you, has a huge amount of American blood on his hands. He's got in the Taliban the tightest ties to extremist movements. He was also one of the first to put women back to work in his ministry. We have seen his ministry take promising steps to contain terrorism. To call it a paradox is an understatement. This is not just my opinion. It's the opinion of every single envoy who works on these issues.

So, on the one hand, they belief you are a terrorist. I'm sorry to say, that's "they" who say that, and on the other hand, they think they can work with you. What do you say to that?

SIRAJUDDIN HAQQANI, AFGHAN ACTING INTERIOR MINISTER (through translator): I would say that this is a judgment that they should make. I have mentioned this before that they have fought us intensely and in order to defend the country and ourselves, our response was the same.

[03:40:04]

But the commitment and the form of governance in order to create secure Afghanistan we send a positive message to the world and send a positive message to our nation. While the previous situation had concealed our real picture and currently, praise God, and that the conditions of freedom, our conduct is being revealed gradually to the international community. And also, this is being revealed to certain circles within the country who are thinking negatively about us.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CHURCH: And you can watch part two of that exclusive interview with the deputy Taliban leader Sirajuddin Haqqani Tuesday on Amanpour. Tune in at 6 p.m. in London right here on CNN.

And thanks for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. For our international viewers, African Voice Changemakers is next, and for those of you here in the U.S. and Canada, I'll be back with more news in just a moment.

[03:45:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK) CHURCH: More on our top story now. The racially motivated mass shooting in Buffalo, New York where 10 innocent people were gunned down inside a supermarket. One of those victims was a courageous security guard named Aaron Salter.

CNN's Jason Carroll has his story.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

JASON CARROLL, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: He died while trying save others, that's how those knew Aaron Salter say he should be remembered.

MAYOR BYRON BROWN, BUFFALO, NEW YORK: He was a strong individual. He was a warm individual, a real caring person, cared about the community, someone who devoted a lot of his life to public safety to keeping the community safe.

CARROLL: Buffalo's Mayor Byron Brown knew Salter for years back when Salter was a Buffalo police officer.

BROWN: I remember first meeting him through his parents, Aaron and Carol Salter very warm people. They had a business in the community. And I saw him as a loving son, always trying to take care of his parents. Make sure his parents were OK. That's the kind of person that he was. He had a caring spirit, and a desire to take care of other people.

CARROLL: That desire helped Salter rise through the ranks in the police department, he eventually became a lieutenant, his love of community and law enforcement was one of the reasons he went to work as a security guard at the Tops supermarket after he retired from the force. Saturday, armed only with a handgun, he engaged the shooter.

JOSEPH GRAMAGLIA, BUFFALO POLICE COMMISSIONER: He went down fighting. He went towards the gunfire and he went towards the fight. He shot the individual, but because of his armored plating vest, it had no affect on him.

CARROLL: Law enforcement officials say it is clear he saved many lives.

UNKNOWN: My daughter was crouched down in the front end for the entire shooting.

CARROLL: His actions it gave Fragrance Harris Stanfield (Ph) who works at the market with her daughter the time they needed to take cover.

UNKNOWN: Everyone started running, I grabbed my daughter and kept running and kept running until I got all the way to the back door.

CARROLL: Those who knew Salter say even though he retired from the force he never stopped being a police officer.

BROWN: I think he would want to be remembered as someone who cared about his community. Who cares about -- cared about his family. And someone that did his job and stood up when other people were in danger trying to keep others safe.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CARROLL: Salter was 55 years old, and even though he was not a police officer at the time of his death. And due to his actions, there is a movement in Buffalo to have a formal funeral for Salter as if he was an active duty police officer killed in the line of duty. The mayor says he is behind that idea. He is simply waiting to hear from the family to do what is best.

Jason Carroll, CNN, New York.

CHURCH: The United States is about to reach a devastating milestone. The country is less than 200 deaths away from reaching one million killed by the pandemic. That is according to Johns Hopkins University.

Meanwhile, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is expected to authorize a booster doze of Pfizer's COVID vaccine for kids ages 5 to 11 as early as Tuesday. Now this comes as the number of new cases among children in the U.S. grew nearly 76 percent last week from two weeks prior, that is according to the American Academy of Pediatrics.

And this is the fifth consecutive week in which child cases have increased. And now, kids make up about 18 percent of all the weekly reported cases in this country. The CDC also updated some of their travel guidelines and are now encouraging all domestic travelers to consider getting tested as close to their departure as possible, as well as getting tested after their travels.

[03:50:06]

Well, earlier, I spoke to Dr. Jorge Rodriguez, internal medicine specialist and viral researcher and I asked him about the nearly one million COVID deaths in the U.S.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

JORGE RODRIGUEZ, BOARD CERTIFIED INTERNAL MEDICINE SPECIALIST & VIRAL RESEARCHER: Well, Rosemary, I think so, the number is staggering and tragic and unfortunately, I think so many people have become nun -- I mean, numb to that number, it's more than World War II, the Korean War and the Vietnam War put together almost by double.

And one of the greatest failures that I think we've done is we have been too eager to drop our defenses, thinking that this is over. And it really, and I'm not trying to be a downer, but it is far from over. As we see now, there's surges with this new variant. Certain states are 25 percent higher this week than last. So, we can never, until this is completely gone, let our guard down.

CHURCH: Yes, very true. And of course, good news, at last, for kids, ages 5 to 11 with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration expected to authorize a booster shot of Pfizer's COVID vaccine. A meeting is scheduled today. Once authorized how soon do you expect that booster to be made available to all of those kids and their parents who have been eagerly waiting for this added protection as new cases among children in the U.S. have been increasing significantly in the last five weeks or so?

RODRIGUEZ: Correct. If true for course, it probably will be available within a couple of weeks of the FDA and then the CDC approving it. And I'm just going to put a plug in here, because I have a 1-year-old niece-in-law, we need to move ahead and try to vaccinate those children under five years of age. But this is great news for kids. Great news.

CHURCH: It is great for that age group. But as you say, I mean, there's a lot of parents, they can't do very much in their families --

RODRIGUEZ: Correct.

CHURCH: -- with those younger kiddies who were just so vulnerable at this time. How much longer do you think they would be waiting to get their kiddies the shots?

RODRIGUEZ: I am hoping, because the information is out there, it's been presented. They need to get more data. Because nothing would be more tragic than to give an infant or a child that age something that is detrimental to them. But I am hopeful that it will be within the next three to six months, if not sooner, God willing.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CHURCH: And that was Dr. Rodriguez sharing his perspective with me last hour.

A new deal between baby formula maker, Abbott, and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration could help solve the baby formula shortage here in the United States. Pending court approval Abbott says it could resume baby formula production and have products in stores in six to eight weeks' time.

Abbott closed its Michigan factory early this year after investigators found bacterial contamination at the plant. But other alternatives are available. The American Academy of Pediatrics says cow's milk may be an option for babies over six months old if infant formula continues to be unavailable. Toddlers' formula is also safe for a limited time for babies close to their first birthday.

Well, meantime, the White House says it has been working for weeks now to increase the supply of baby formula from both domestic and international sources, it's launched a new government web site to help parents find formula.

CNN's M.J. Lee puts those resources to the test.

M.J. LEE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Last week the White House was not able to offer clear federal guidance on what exactly parents should do if they are unable to find baby formula. And then on Friday, the White House announced a new hhs.gov/formula web site, they said that it should provide plenty of resources for parents that are looking to get their hands on baby formula.

So, CNN decided to try to try it out, we called some of the 1-800 numbers that were listed on that web site, tried out some of the web chat sessions that they were recommends and this is what we found. When we tried the Abbott's 1-800 hotline, and of course this is the company behind those major recalls we were told that they are not answering any questions by phone. They also have set up a form where pediatrician can fax over a form along with the doctor's order to try to get formula to parents, it's just really unclear how long that would take.

Next, we also tried Reckitt, their 1-800 hotline number. This is the company behind the popular formula Enfamil and the whole time hold there was 72 minutes at the end of which a representative got on the phone and they said that they are completely sold out of everything.

And the third company we tried was Gerber. We tried some of the chat functions and asked if they could recommend certain lines of formula that is similar to a certain line of a Similac formula and they said that they are out of stock as well.

[03:55:06]

Some of the representatives saying my heart does go out to you during this time, clearly trying to show some empathy to parents that are looking for formula. And then when we went on the Gerber web site, we saw over the weekend that 16 of the 24 different formula lines appear to be out of stock.

So, it's worth noting that many of these representatives that we encountered they were pretty apologetic, they said some of these call times have been pretty normal, that it has been very difficult for parents to get their hands on baby formula.

So, this just gives us a little window in to the broad frustration that we are seeing and hearing about across the country during this nationwide baby formula shortage. Back to you.

CHURCH: Thanks for that. And thank you for spending part of your day with me. I'm Rosemary Church. CNN Newsroom with Max Foster is next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[04:00:00]

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220517ei5h000dx


Biden to host leaders of Sweden and Finland at White House as countries look to join NATO
By Kate Sullivan, CNN
452 字
2022 年 5 月 17 日 14:31 GMT
CNN Wire
CNNWR
英文
Copyright 2022 Cable News Network. All Rights Reserved.
President Joe Biden on Thursday will welcome the Prime Minister of Sweden and the President of Finland to the White House[https://www.cnn.com/2022/05/15/europe/finland-nato-membership-russia-ukraine-intl/index.html] in a key show of support days after both countries announced they would seek to join NATO. [https://www.cnn.com/europe/live-news/russia-ukraine-war-news-05-16-22/h_ea85b6de4dbff7fae17f482f88c91cf6]

The leaders are expected to discuss Finland and Sweden's NATO applications,[https://www.cnn.com/2022/05/14/europe/sweden-finland-nato-next-steps-intl/index.html] European security and support for Ukraine amid Russia's invasion, White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre said in a statement.

Both countries are looking to join the military alliance after Russia's assault on Ukraine sparked renewed security concerns across the region. Their historic bids to join NATO represent a dramatic evolution in European security and geopolitics.

The US and other NATO leaders have expressed support for Finland and Sweden joining the military alliance. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken has said the US would "strongly support" their NATO applications.

Both Finland and Sweden already meet many of the requirements to be a NATO member, which include having a functioning democratic political system based on a market economy; treating minority populations fairly; committing to resolve conflicts peacefully; the ability and willingness to make a military contribution to NATO operations; and committing to democratic civil-military relations and institutions.

But the move has been met with resistance by Russia and Turkey. Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Monday that Finland and Sweden's entry into NATO would not create a threat to Russia, but the "expansion of military infrastructure into this territory will certainly cause our response."

The Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Monday that Russia "will be forced to take retaliatory steps, both of a military-technical and other nature, in order to stop the threats to its national security arising in this regard."

Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said this week that he would not approve Sweden and Finland's NATO membership if they sanction Turkey and that delegations from the nations should not bother coming to Turkey to try to convince that nation to approve their country's NATO membership.

The meeting comes the same day the President is set to depart for Seoul, South Korea, for his first trip to Asia as President. Biden is also scheduled to travel to Japan during the trip.

The four-day trip to Asia is meant to underscore Biden's commitment to the region even as international attention is directed toward the crisis in Ukraine. But it also comes as Biden seeks to keep the US and its allies united against Russia's unprovoked war on Ukraine amid mounting civilian casualties and intensifying fighting.

By Kate Sullivan, CNN

Cable News Network LP.

文件 CNNWR00020220517ei5h007sm


Daily Headline News for May 17, 2022
2427 字
2022 年 5 月 17 日 16:00 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS Business and Financial Newswire
DAIBN
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
Digest of headline news as of 7:00 p.m. Moscow time on May 17:

BUSINESS & FINANCE

*** RUSSIA HAD BUDGET SURPLUS OF 1.04 TRILLION RUBLES FOR JAN-APRIL, DEFICIT OF 262.3 BLN RUBLES IN APRIL - MINFIN

Russia had a federal budget surplus of 1.04 trillion rubles for January-April 2022, the Finance Ministry said, quoting preliminary data.

There was an April deficit, the first of the year, of 262.29 billion rubles.

*** PUTIN: ADVANCED OIL REFINING NEEDS TO BE ENCOURAGED, HIGH REVENUES SHOULDN'T PUT COMPANIES OFF

Growth of oil and gas revenues, which is taking place against the backdrop of high energy prices, should not discourage oil and gas companies because it is unlikely that they will be able to do business as before, Russian President Vladimir Putin said, opening a meeting on the oil industry situation.

He said it was necessary not just to extract oil but also to establish the whole chain up to the end consumer, in particular to incentivize advanced oi refining and oil service projects.

*** PUTIN: EUROPE IMPOSING SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIA ON OIL AND GAS MARKETS UNDER U.S. PRESSURE, TO OWN DETRIMENT

European countries are imposing new sanctions against Russia on oil and gas markets under pressure from the United States, President Vladimir Putin said during a meeting on developing the oil industry held via videoconference.

"Today, we see that for absolutely political reasons, owing to their own ambitions and under pressure from the American sovereign, European countries are imposing ever more new sanctions on the oil and gas markets," Putin said during the meeting.

According to Putin, this leads to inflation.

"Instead of admitting their mistakes, they are looking for the guilty elsewhere," Putin said.

*** ENI BEGINS PROCESS OF OPENING ACCOUNTS IN GAZPROMBANK AS TEMPORARY MEASURE

Italy's Eni has begun the process of opening two "K" type settlement accounts with Gazprombank (one in euros, the other in rubles) as a precautionary measure, as the deadline for payments for gas will arrive in several days, the company said in a statement.

"This follows Gazprom Export's unilateral request to amend the existing contracts between the parties in accordance with the new gas payment procedure established by the Russian Federation," the statement said.

Eni has declined these amendments, but is preparing to temporarily open two accounts without damage to its contractual rights, which still stimulate payments in euros.

*** FINLAND'S GASUM REFUSES TO PAY FOR RUSSIAN GAS IN RUBLES, READY TO HALT SUPPLIES, GOING TO ARBITRATION

Finland's Gasum has not accepted the demand of the Russian party to switch to the new gas payment system in rubles, according to a press release posted on the Finnish company's website.

Consequently, the company warns that there is an increased risk of natural gas supplies being cut off from Russia to Finland.

Gasum notes that it has been preparing for this situation together with customers and the country's authorities. In the summer of 2022, Finland hopes to supply gas from Estonia via the Balticconnector gas pipeline, though capacity constraints via the pipeline could complicate the task.

*** GAZPROM COMPLETES 93% OF POWER OF SIBERIA PIPELINE FROM KOVYTKA TO CHAYANDINSKOYE FIELD

Gazprom has built more than 93% of the Power of Siberia gas pipeline section from the Kovykta field to the Chayandinskoye field, the company said in a statement after a meeting between Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller and Irkutsk Region Governor Igor Kobzev.

As reported earlier, the Kovykta field in the Irkutsk Region, following the Chayandinskoye field in Yakutia, will become the source of gas supplies to China along the Power of Siberia pipeline. Kovykta gas supplies are scheduled to begin in late 2022.

*** DELIVERY OF IMPORT-SUBSTITUTING ELECTRONIC PARTS TO RUSSIAN MACHINE-BUILDING SECTOR TO BEGIN BY YEAREND - MINISTER

Russian enterprises will begin the delivery of certain radio-electronic products, which substitute imported goods, to the domestic machine-building sector by the end of 2022, Russian Industry and Trade Minister Denis Manturov told reporters, adding that industry actors had recently agreed on the unification of requirements for radio-electronic products.

"We believe that the substitution of imports will be accomplished in new areas by the end of this year and the deliveries to our consumers will begin," Manturov said.

Speaking of a deficit of electronic car parts a year ago, Deputy Industry and Trade Minister Vasily Shpak said that the substitution of imported electronic parts would begin by the end of 2022.

*** RENAULT SHARE IN AVTOVAZ AND MOSCOW PLANT TRANSFERRED TO RUSSIA FOR TOKEN AMOUNT - MANTUROV

The deals for the transfer of French automaker Renault's 68% share in Avtovaz to Russian Federal State Unitary Enterprise "NAMI" and its 100% share in the CJSC "Renault Russia" auto plant (formerly - "Avtoframos") to the Moscow government were conducted for a token amount, Industry and Trade Minister Denis Manturov told reporters.

"It was a compromise decision with our colleagues from Renault, taking into account the fact that today they cannot fully ensure the supply of components, parts to ensure the loading of both the Avtovaz and Avtoframos sites. It was decided to transfer 68% for a symbolic cost to our NAMI specialized institut. As for Avtoframos - it will go to the government of Moscow", the minister said, stressing that in the case of Moscow plant, the deal was also executed for a token amount.

*** MOSCOW EXPECTS TO START ASSEMBLING NEW CARS AT FORMER RENAULT PLANT BY YEAR'S END

The Moscow authorities intend to begin assembling new automobiles by the end of the year at the former Renault plant that has been transferred to the city, Deputy Mayor Maxim Liksutov said.

One of the plant's objectives is to "ensure the start of assembly of a new automobile by the end of the year," Liksutov said in an interview with TV channel Moskva24. The platform needed for this will hopefully be found together with truck maker Kamaz and the NAMI institute, he said.

*** COST OF RUSSIA'S NATIONAL PROJECT TO DEVELOP ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY CUT TO 2.7 TRLN RUBLES TO 2030 - PAPER

The implementation of Russia's national project to develop the country's electronics industry to 2030 will cost 2.74 trillion rubles instead of the previously planned 3.2 trillion rubles.

The project might be funded in part by introducing a recycling fee for electronics, national daily Kommersant reported, citing the latest version of the document. The document was approved by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin on May 12, the paper said, citing government sources.

The government has already allocated 940.7 billion rubles in budget funding for the project; it will need to allocate an additional 901.6 billion rubles and plans to raise another 940 billion rubles from extra-budgetary sources, project materials show.

*** GERMANY'S FRAPORT UNABLE TO SELL PULKOVO STAKE UNTIL 2025, ESTIMATES IT AT 111 MLN EUROS - CEO

German airport holding company Fraport will not be able to sell its 25% stake in the management company of St. Petersburg airport Pulkovo at least until 2025, according to an address by Fraport CEO Stefan Schulte to shareholders, published on the company's website.

After the start of Russia's military operation in Ukraine, Fraport announced its intention to withdraw from Northern Capital Gateway LLC (VVSS, operator of Pulkovo). The company reported that it was mulling over an exit option, while specifying that the concession contract precluded the sale of the stake.

"Fraport will of course do everything in its power to retrieve its assets there and avoid losses to the greatest possible extent. At the same time, we fully support and respect the currently applicable and increasingly severe sanctions. However, due to contractual restrictions it will not be possible for us to sell our share before 2025," Schulte says in the address prepared for the company's upcoming AGM.

*** CZECH PPF SELLING RUSSIAN BANKING ASSETS TO LOCAL INVESTOR GROUP, RETAINS BANK IN KAZAKHSTAN

PPF Group and Home Credit have entered into an agreement on selling their banking assets and subsidiaries in Russia to a group of Russian individual investors led by former head of the RTS, Ivan Tyryshkin, the Czech group said in a statement.

The Kazakh Home Credit bank, a subsidiary of the Russian HCF bank, will be sold to shareholders and several senior managers of PPF and Home Credit as part of the deal.

POLITICS & SOCIETY

*** COUNTRIES UNFRIENDLY TO RUSSIA SHOULD NOW BE DENOTED AS HOSTILE ONES - KREMLIN

The countries unfriendly to Russia could well be denoted as hostile ones now, as they are waging a diplomatic, political, and economic war against Russia, presidential press secretary Dmitry Peskov said.

"It would be incorrect to speak of informational wars without linking everything to a hybrid war context. This is not only American and British military advisors telling Ukrainian nationalists with weapons what they should do and providing them with intelligence. No, this is also a diplomatic war, a political war, and attempts to isolate us in the world, and this is an economic war, too," Peskov said during an educational marathon organized by the Znaniye (Knowledge) society.

"Yes, we still softly call them unfriendly states. But I would say now that these are hostile states, because what they're doing is war," he said.

*** UKRAINIAN FIGHTERS WHO SURRENDERED AT AZOVSTAL ARE GUARANTEED HUMANE TREATMENT - PESKOV

The Ukrainian fighters who came out of the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol are guaranteed humane treatment, consistent with international conventions, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said.

"The topic of release of the militants and servicemen entrenched on the Azovstal grounds has been raised during numerous phone calls of President [Vladimir Putin] by his interlocutors, as well as during in-person contacts," Peskov said.

"The president publicly ordered the defense minister to abstain from storming Azovstal for humanitarian considerations. The president also said that civilians could leave anywhere they wanted and that the servicemen could walk out after they lay down arms," he said.

*** RUSSIA EXPELLING 2 FINNISH EMBASSY EMPLOYEES IN RETALIATORY MOVE - FOREIGN MINISTRY

Russia has declared two employees of the Finnish embassy in Moscow personae non gratae in retaliation to an analogous step made earlier by Helsinki, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday.

"Finnish Ambassador to Russia Antti Helantera was summoned to the Russian Foreign Ministry on May 17. A firm protest was declared to the head of mission over the unwarranted expulsion from Finland of two employees of the Russian embassy in Helsinki as part of the EU's anti-Russian sanction campaign," the ministry said in a statement on its website.

Moscow views supplies of weapons to Ukraine and Finland's confrontational course as unacceptable, it said.

*** ACCESSION OF SWEDEN, FINLAND TO NATO NOT TO MAKE MUCH DIFFERENCE - LAVROV

NATO has long been including the territory of Sweden and Finland in its military plans, and their admission to the North Atlantic Alliance will not make much difference, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Tuesday.

"Finland, Sweden, and other neutral countries have been taking part in NATO military exercises for years, and NATO has been taking their territory into account in the military plans of eastward enlargement. So, from this angle, that probably won't make much difference," Lavrov said at the New Horizons marathon.

*** MOSCOW NOT PLANNING TO QUIT NATO-RUSSIA FOUNDING ACT - DEPUTY FM RYABKOV

Russia is not planning to withdraw from the NATO-Russia Founding Act, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said.

"[Alliance members] have been discussing with each other what the Founding Act is and whether Russia will withdraw from it eventually. No, we will not give them the pleasure," Ryabkov said on the Rossiya-24 television channel (VGTRK) on Tuesday.

*** NO TALKS CURRENTLY TAKING PLACE BETWEEN MOSCOW, KYIV - RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY

No negotiations are currently taking place between Russia and Ukraine, as Kyiv has virtually withdrawn from the negotiating process, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko said on Tuesday.

"No, the negotiations are not continuing. Ukraine has practically withdrawn from the negotiating process," Rudenko told journalists in Nizhny Novgorod on Tuesday.

No negotiations are taking place "in any form," he reiterated.

*** TRANSDNIESTRIA TALKS AT IMPASSE, 5+2 MEETING NOT TO BE HELD - RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY

An international meeting on the Transdniestrian settlement process planned for May in the 5+2 format will not be held, and the negotiations are at an impasse, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko said on Tuesday.

"Regretfully, this negotiating process is also at an impasse. To our knowledge, the meeting in May will hardly take place," Rudenko told reporters in Nizhny Novgorod in response to a question about progress of the 5+2 negotiations.

*** RUSSIAN DEPUTY FM DISCUSSES INTERACTION IN OPPOSING COVID-19 WITH N. KOREAN AMBASSADOR

Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov has discussed interaction in opposing the spread of the coronavirus infection with the North Korean ambassador to Russia, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday.

"Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Morgulov met with DPRK Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Russia Sin Hong Chol on May 17," the ministry said in a statement on its website.

"During the conversation, the parties discussed relevant aspects of bilateral relations, including prospects of Russian-Korean interaction in opposing the spread of the novel coronavirus infection," it said.

*** RUSSIA NOT TO ISOLATE ITSELF FROM GLOBAL INTERNET - MINISTER SHADAYEV

Russia does not want to isolate itself from the global Internet but it would be necessary to build security barriers, Russian Minister of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media Maksut Shadayev said.

"We do not want to isolate ourselves from anyone. Quite the opposite, we believe that Russia should remain a part of the worldwide web," Shadayev said at the New Horizons marathon on Tuesday.

*** SCHOLZ, ZELENSKY AGREE THAT PULLOUT OF RUSSIAN TROOPS FROM UKRAINE ESSENTIAL FOR DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has had a telephone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, German government spokesman Steffen Hebestreit said.

"The chancellor and the Ukrainian president exchanged information on the relevant military and humanitarian situation in Ukraine. They agreed that a negotiated diplomatic solution between Ukraine and Russia requires an immediate cessation of the combat actions on Russia's part and the withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine," Hebestreit said.

*** SWEDEN FORMALLY APPLIES TO JOIN NATO - SWEDISH MISSION TO NATO HQ

The Swedish authorities on Tuesday submitted an application to join NATO, Sweden's mission to the alliance's headquarters said.

"This morning Foreign Minister Ann Linde signed the Swedish application to join NATO," it said on Twitter.

Mo ak

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DAIBN00020220517ei5h007hh


Daily Headline News for May 17, 2022
2427 字
2022 年 5 月 17 日 16:00 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS General Newswire
DANWS
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
Digest of headline news as of 7:00 p.m. Moscow time on May 17:

BUSINESS & FINANCE

*** RUSSIA HAD BUDGET SURPLUS OF 1.04 TRILLION RUBLES FOR JAN-APRIL, DEFICIT OF 262.3 BLN RUBLES IN APRIL - MINFIN

Russia had a federal budget surplus of 1.04 trillion rubles for January-April 2022, the Finance Ministry said, quoting preliminary data.

There was an April deficit, the first of the year, of 262.29 billion rubles.

*** PUTIN: ADVANCED OIL REFINING NEEDS TO BE ENCOURAGED, HIGH REVENUES SHOULDN'T PUT COMPANIES OFF

Growth of oil and gas revenues, which is taking place against the backdrop of high energy prices, should not discourage oil and gas companies because it is unlikely that they will be able to do business as before, Russian President Vladimir Putin said, opening a meeting on the oil industry situation.

He said it was necessary not just to extract oil but also to establish the whole chain up to the end consumer, in particular to incentivize advanced oi refining and oil service projects.

*** PUTIN: EUROPE IMPOSING SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIA ON OIL AND GAS MARKETS UNDER U.S. PRESSURE, TO OWN DETRIMENT

European countries are imposing new sanctions against Russia on oil and gas markets under pressure from the United States, President Vladimir Putin said during a meeting on developing the oil industry held via videoconference.

"Today, we see that for absolutely political reasons, owing to their own ambitions and under pressure from the American sovereign, European countries are imposing ever more new sanctions on the oil and gas markets," Putin said during the meeting.

According to Putin, this leads to inflation.

"Instead of admitting their mistakes, they are looking for the guilty elsewhere," Putin said.

*** ENI BEGINS PROCESS OF OPENING ACCOUNTS IN GAZPROMBANK AS TEMPORARY MEASURE

Italy's Eni has begun the process of opening two "K" type settlement accounts with Gazprombank (one in euros, the other in rubles) as a precautionary measure, as the deadline for payments for gas will arrive in several days, the company said in a statement.

"This follows Gazprom Export's unilateral request to amend the existing contracts between the parties in accordance with the new gas payment procedure established by the Russian Federation," the statement said.

Eni has declined these amendments, but is preparing to temporarily open two accounts without damage to its contractual rights, which still stimulate payments in euros.

*** FINLAND'S GASUM REFUSES TO PAY FOR RUSSIAN GAS IN RUBLES, READY TO HALT SUPPLIES, GOING TO ARBITRATION

Finland's Gasum has not accepted the demand of the Russian party to switch to the new gas payment system in rubles, according to a press release posted on the Finnish company's website.

Consequently, the company warns that there is an increased risk of natural gas supplies being cut off from Russia to Finland.

Gasum notes that it has been preparing for this situation together with customers and the country's authorities. In the summer of 2022, Finland hopes to supply gas from Estonia via the Balticconnector gas pipeline, though capacity constraints via the pipeline could complicate the task.

*** GAZPROM COMPLETES 93% OF POWER OF SIBERIA PIPELINE FROM KOVYTKA TO CHAYANDINSKOYE FIELD

Gazprom has built more than 93% of the Power of Siberia gas pipeline section from the Kovykta field to the Chayandinskoye field, the company said in a statement after a meeting between Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller and Irkutsk Region Governor Igor Kobzev.

As reported earlier, the Kovykta field in the Irkutsk Region, following the Chayandinskoye field in Yakutia, will become the source of gas supplies to China along the Power of Siberia pipeline. Kovykta gas supplies are scheduled to begin in late 2022.

*** DELIVERY OF IMPORT-SUBSTITUTING ELECTRONIC PARTS TO RUSSIAN MACHINE-BUILDING SECTOR TO BEGIN BY YEAREND - MINISTER

Russian enterprises will begin the delivery of certain radio-electronic products, which substitute imported goods, to the domestic machine-building sector by the end of 2022, Russian Industry and Trade Minister Denis Manturov told reporters, adding that industry actors had recently agreed on the unification of requirements for radio-electronic products.

"We believe that the substitution of imports will be accomplished in new areas by the end of this year and the deliveries to our consumers will begin," Manturov said.

Speaking of a deficit of electronic car parts a year ago, Deputy Industry and Trade Minister Vasily Shpak said that the substitution of imported electronic parts would begin by the end of 2022.

*** RENAULT SHARE IN AVTOVAZ AND MOSCOW PLANT TRANSFERRED TO RUSSIA FOR TOKEN AMOUNT - MANTUROV

The deals for the transfer of French automaker Renault's 68% share in Avtovaz to Russian Federal State Unitary Enterprise "NAMI" and its 100% share in the CJSC "Renault Russia" auto plant (formerly - "Avtoframos") to the Moscow government were conducted for a token amount, Industry and Trade Minister Denis Manturov told reporters.

"It was a compromise decision with our colleagues from Renault, taking into account the fact that today they cannot fully ensure the supply of components, parts to ensure the loading of both the Avtovaz and Avtoframos sites. It was decided to transfer 68% for a symbolic cost to our NAMI specialized institut. As for Avtoframos - it will go to the government of Moscow", the minister said, stressing that in the case of Moscow plant, the deal was also executed for a token amount.

*** MOSCOW EXPECTS TO START ASSEMBLING NEW CARS AT FORMER RENAULT PLANT BY YEAR'S END

The Moscow authorities intend to begin assembling new automobiles by the end of the year at the former Renault plant that has been transferred to the city, Deputy Mayor Maxim Liksutov said.

One of the plant's objectives is to "ensure the start of assembly of a new automobile by the end of the year," Liksutov said in an interview with TV channel Moskva24. The platform needed for this will hopefully be found together with truck maker Kamaz and the NAMI institute, he said.

*** COST OF RUSSIA'S NATIONAL PROJECT TO DEVELOP ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY CUT TO 2.7 TRLN RUBLES TO 2030 - PAPER

The implementation of Russia's national project to develop the country's electronics industry to 2030 will cost 2.74 trillion rubles instead of the previously planned 3.2 trillion rubles.

The project might be funded in part by introducing a recycling fee for electronics, national daily Kommersant reported, citing the latest version of the document. The document was approved by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin on May 12, the paper said, citing government sources.

The government has already allocated 940.7 billion rubles in budget funding for the project; it will need to allocate an additional 901.6 billion rubles and plans to raise another 940 billion rubles from extra-budgetary sources, project materials show.

*** GERMANY'S FRAPORT UNABLE TO SELL PULKOVO STAKE UNTIL 2025, ESTIMATES IT AT 111 MLN EUROS - CEO

German airport holding company Fraport will not be able to sell its 25% stake in the management company of St. Petersburg airport Pulkovo at least until 2025, according to an address by Fraport CEO Stefan Schulte to shareholders, published on the company's website.

After the start of Russia's military operation in Ukraine, Fraport announced its intention to withdraw from Northern Capital Gateway LLC (VVSS, operator of Pulkovo). The company reported that it was mulling over an exit option, while specifying that the concession contract precluded the sale of the stake.

"Fraport will of course do everything in its power to retrieve its assets there and avoid losses to the greatest possible extent. At the same time, we fully support and respect the currently applicable and increasingly severe sanctions. However, due to contractual restrictions it will not be possible for us to sell our share before 2025," Schulte says in the address prepared for the company's upcoming AGM.

*** CZECH PPF SELLING RUSSIAN BANKING ASSETS TO LOCAL INVESTOR GROUP, RETAINS BANK IN KAZAKHSTAN

PPF Group and Home Credit have entered into an agreement on selling their banking assets and subsidiaries in Russia to a group of Russian individual investors led by former head of the RTS, Ivan Tyryshkin, the Czech group said in a statement.

The Kazakh Home Credit bank, a subsidiary of the Russian HCF bank, will be sold to shareholders and several senior managers of PPF and Home Credit as part of the deal.

POLITICS & SOCIETY

*** COUNTRIES UNFRIENDLY TO RUSSIA SHOULD NOW BE DENOTED AS HOSTILE ONES - KREMLIN

The countries unfriendly to Russia could well be denoted as hostile ones now, as they are waging a diplomatic, political, and economic war against Russia, presidential press secretary Dmitry Peskov said.

"It would be incorrect to speak of informational wars without linking everything to a hybrid war context. This is not only American and British military advisors telling Ukrainian nationalists with weapons what they should do and providing them with intelligence. No, this is also a diplomatic war, a political war, and attempts to isolate us in the world, and this is an economic war, too," Peskov said during an educational marathon organized by the Znaniye (Knowledge) society.

"Yes, we still softly call them unfriendly states. But I would say now that these are hostile states, because what they're doing is war," he said.

*** UKRAINIAN FIGHTERS WHO SURRENDERED AT AZOVSTAL ARE GUARANTEED HUMANE TREATMENT - PESKOV

The Ukrainian fighters who came out of the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol are guaranteed humane treatment, consistent with international conventions, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said.

"The topic of release of the militants and servicemen entrenched on the Azovstal grounds has been raised during numerous phone calls of President [Vladimir Putin] by his interlocutors, as well as during in-person contacts," Peskov said.

"The president publicly ordered the defense minister to abstain from storming Azovstal for humanitarian considerations. The president also said that civilians could leave anywhere they wanted and that the servicemen could walk out after they lay down arms," he said.

*** RUSSIA EXPELLING 2 FINNISH EMBASSY EMPLOYEES IN RETALIATORY MOVE - FOREIGN MINISTRY

Russia has declared two employees of the Finnish embassy in Moscow personae non gratae in retaliation to an analogous step made earlier by Helsinki, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday.

"Finnish Ambassador to Russia Antti Helantera was summoned to the Russian Foreign Ministry on May 17. A firm protest was declared to the head of mission over the unwarranted expulsion from Finland of two employees of the Russian embassy in Helsinki as part of the EU's anti-Russian sanction campaign," the ministry said in a statement on its website.

Moscow views supplies of weapons to Ukraine and Finland's confrontational course as unacceptable, it said.

*** ACCESSION OF SWEDEN, FINLAND TO NATO NOT TO MAKE MUCH DIFFERENCE - LAVROV

NATO has long been including the territory of Sweden and Finland in its military plans, and their admission to the North Atlantic Alliance will not make much difference, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Tuesday.

"Finland, Sweden, and other neutral countries have been taking part in NATO military exercises for years, and NATO has been taking their territory into account in the military plans of eastward enlargement. So, from this angle, that probably won't make much difference," Lavrov said at the New Horizons marathon.

*** MOSCOW NOT PLANNING TO QUIT NATO-RUSSIA FOUNDING ACT - DEPUTY FM RYABKOV

Russia is not planning to withdraw from the NATO-Russia Founding Act, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said.

"[Alliance members] have been discussing with each other what the Founding Act is and whether Russia will withdraw from it eventually. No, we will not give them the pleasure," Ryabkov said on the Rossiya-24 television channel (VGTRK) on Tuesday.

*** NO TALKS CURRENTLY TAKING PLACE BETWEEN MOSCOW, KYIV - RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY

No negotiations are currently taking place between Russia and Ukraine, as Kyiv has virtually withdrawn from the negotiating process, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko said on Tuesday.

"No, the negotiations are not continuing. Ukraine has practically withdrawn from the negotiating process," Rudenko told journalists in Nizhny Novgorod on Tuesday.

No negotiations are taking place "in any form," he reiterated.

*** TRANSDNIESTRIA TALKS AT IMPASSE, 5+2 MEETING NOT TO BE HELD - RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY

An international meeting on the Transdniestrian settlement process planned for May in the 5+2 format will not be held, and the negotiations are at an impasse, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko said on Tuesday.

"Regretfully, this negotiating process is also at an impasse. To our knowledge, the meeting in May will hardly take place," Rudenko told reporters in Nizhny Novgorod in response to a question about progress of the 5+2 negotiations.

*** RUSSIAN DEPUTY FM DISCUSSES INTERACTION IN OPPOSING COVID-19 WITH N. KOREAN AMBASSADOR

Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov has discussed interaction in opposing the spread of the coronavirus infection with the North Korean ambassador to Russia, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday.

"Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Morgulov met with DPRK Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Russia Sin Hong Chol on May 17," the ministry said in a statement on its website.

"During the conversation, the parties discussed relevant aspects of bilateral relations, including prospects of Russian-Korean interaction in opposing the spread of the novel coronavirus infection," it said.

*** RUSSIA NOT TO ISOLATE ITSELF FROM GLOBAL INTERNET - MINISTER SHADAYEV

Russia does not want to isolate itself from the global Internet but it would be necessary to build security barriers, Russian Minister of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media Maksut Shadayev said.

"We do not want to isolate ourselves from anyone. Quite the opposite, we believe that Russia should remain a part of the worldwide web," Shadayev said at the New Horizons marathon on Tuesday.

*** SCHOLZ, ZELENSKY AGREE THAT PULLOUT OF RUSSIAN TROOPS FROM UKRAINE ESSENTIAL FOR DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has had a telephone call with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, German government spokesman Steffen Hebestreit said.

"The chancellor and the Ukrainian president exchanged information on the relevant military and humanitarian situation in Ukraine. They agreed that a negotiated diplomatic solution between Ukraine and Russia requires an immediate cessation of the combat actions on Russia's part and the withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine," Hebestreit said.

*** SWEDEN FORMALLY APPLIES TO JOIN NATO - SWEDISH MISSION TO NATO HQ

The Swedish authorities on Tuesday submitted an application to join NATO, Sweden's mission to the alliance's headquarters said.

"This morning Foreign Minister Ann Linde signed the Swedish application to join NATO," it said on Twitter.

Mo ak

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DANWS00020220517ei5h009c5


World; Europe
Strongmen in Turkey and Hungary Stall Unity in NATO and the E.U.
By Steven Erlanger and Matina Stevis-Gridneff
1432 字
2022 年 5 月 18 日 18:59 GMT
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
英文
Copyright 2022. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Russia benefits as Turkey slows down Swedish and Finnish applications to NATO and Hungary continues to block an E.U. embargo on Russian oil.

BRUSSELS — Europe’s effort to stand up to Russia and Vladimir V. Putin, its president, is being slowed by two strongmen leaders insisting on the priority of their national interests and playing to domestic audiences.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey on Wednesday blocked a procedural vote on NATO moving ahead quickly[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/15/world/europe/finland-sweden-nato-russia-ukraine.html?searchResultPosition=17] with the membership applications of Sweden and Finland[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/13/world/europe/sweden-finland-nato-putin.html?searchResultPosition=7], handed in with much publicity Wednesday morning, a senior European diplomat said.

And Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary continues to block even a watered-down European Union effort to put an embargo on Russian oil, part of a sixth package of sanctions aimed at Moscow for its war against Ukraine.

While NATO and the European Union have shown remarkable unity in their response to Mr. Putin’s war, the actions of the two authoritarian leaders show the strains building as the war drags on[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/11/world/europe/ukraine-russia-western-solidarity.html?searchResultPosition=1], peace talks appear to go nowhere, and Western sanctions are contributing to economic pain and high inflation at home, as well as in Russia.

Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Orban may be outliers in their organizations, but they are able to use the requirement for consensus in both NATO and the European Union to get their political concerns addressed by blocking the action of all the others, even temporarily.

On Wednesday, a meeting of NATO ambassadors could not reach consensus on a first vote to proceed with the requests for membership because Turkey said it first wanted NATO to address its security concerns. In particular, Ankara wants Finland and especially Sweden to end what Mr. Erdogan has called support for “terrorist organizations” in their countries, primarily the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, as well as to lift export bans on certain arms sales to Turkey.

Turkey’s decision to block consensus came hours before the Turkish foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, was set to meet with Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken in New York; Turkey wants its security concerns to be addressed before NATO’s annual summit meeting in late June.

In an address to his lawmakers in Parliament on Wednesday, Mr. Erdogan criticized at length Western support for Kurdish groups that Ankara sees as a terrorist threat.

“It wouldn’t be wrong to say that we are bittersweet watching the solidarity and cooperation in the region, the sources used, the arms opened, the tolerance shown,” he said. “Because we, as a NATO ally who struggled with terror for years, whose borders were harassed, big conflicts occurred just next door, have never seen such a picture.”

Turkey “asked for 30 terrorists,” he said. “They said: ‘We are not giving them,’” Mr. Erdogan told the Parliament. “You won’t hand over terrorists but you want to join NATO. We cannot say yes to a security organization that is devoid of security.”

The PKK is a Kurdish guerrilla group that has fought a decades-long separatist insurgency in parts of Turkey. It was designated by the United States as a terrorist organization in 1997.

Mr. Erdogan remains angry over support from Washington and Stockholm for a PKK-affiliated militia in Syria, where the group was fighting the Islamic State. His government last year rebuked the United States[https://www.nytimes.com/2021/02/15/world/middleeast/turkey-soldiers-deaths-kurdish-guerrillas.html] and Sweden over the matter. And Turkey has demanded the extradition of six alleged PKK members from Finland and 11 alleged PKK members from Sweden.

Mr. Erdogan has said these issues cause him not to have “favorable thoughts” about the membership of the Nordic countries. But he has not said that he would veto their applications.

On Saturday, Ibrahim Kalin, Mr. Erdogan’s spokesman and foreign-policy adviser, said: “We are not closing the door. But we are basically raising this issue as a matter of national security for Turkey.”

National security is Mr. Orban’s argument, too. Hungary is dependent on Russia for its energy, getting 85 percent of its natural gas and 65 percent of its oil supply from Russia, as well as using Russian technology for its nuclear power plants.

While Hungary has approved all previous sanction packages, including an embargo on Russian coal, Mr. Orban proclaimed that an oil embargo would be the equivalent of an “atomic bomb” for the Hungarian economy.

But like Mr. Erdogan in NATO, Mr. Orban this time is the sole holdout, in his case, in the weekslong E.U. efforts to finalize a gradual embargo on Russian oil, the headline measure in a sixth package of sanctions since the invasion of Ukraine.

Talks began in mid-April. After extensive consultation between E.U. officials and diplomats from the bloc’s 27 member states, a proposal was put on the table incorporating different positions in early May.

But Hungary seemed to be moving the goal posts. The first proposal gave extensions to Hungary and Slovakia so they could find alternative suppliers. While the other 25 E.U. members would have until the end of the year, Hungary and Slovakia would have until the end of 2023.

Then Hungary demanded, and secured, even more time. The latest version of the package would grant it until the end of 2024, but Mr. Orban has insisted that Hungary would need billions from the bloc to shield his nation’s economy. His foreign minister, Peter Szijjarto, said that to use different oil and modernize Hungary’s energy system would cost between 15 billion and 18 billion euros and take five years.

Hungary’s block on an E.U. oil embargo, breaking unprecedented unity in punishing Russia, was well-received in Moscow. Dmitri Medvedev, Russia’s former president who currently serves as deputy chairman of the country’s national security council, said Mr. Orban’s opposition to the oil embargo was “a courageous step for voiceless Europe.”

In a post on his Telegram channel on May 6, Mr. Medvedev wrote: “Apparently, the most sensible leaders of the E.U. countries are tired of moving quietly to the precipice along with the entire sterilized European herd being led to the slaughter by an American shepherd.”

Diplomats said that they expected Mr. Orban eventually to acquiesce to an oil embargo, having secured both a long extension and extra funding for Hungary, but that he could drag the talks out even longer, perhaps until the end of the month when leaders are due to meet in person in Brussels to talk about Ukraine.

NATO officials expressed the same confidence about Mr. Erdogan — that he will eventually agree to back Sweden and Finland joining NATO in return for some concessions that will help him politically at home, with his economy in crisis and new elections only a year away.

Alexander Stubb, a former Finnish prime minister and foreign minister, said that “the Finns are cool and collected and so are the Swedes — this will work out.”

In the end, he said, “this is about security in Europe and about strengthening the alliance, and both Finland and Sweden are strong advocates of Turkish membership in the European Union.”

In 1999, he said, it was the Finnish presidency of the European Union that opened the door for Turkish accession, “and our friends in Ankara will remember that.”

Sauli Niinisto, the president of Finland, said in Stockholm that the Turks “have communicated to us from many sources that Turkey would not block membership.” A fast process is still possible, he said.

Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO secretary-general, said on Sunday, “Turkey has made it clear: Their intention is not to block membership. Therefore, I am confident we’ll be able to address the concerns that Turkey has expressed in a way that doesn’t delay the accession process.”

At least not too much.

Carlotta Gall contributed reporting from Kharkiv, Ukraine; Benjamin Novak from Budapest; and Johanna Lemola from Helsinki, Finland.

Mourners carrying a banner of the imprisoned Kurdish leader of Kurdistan Workers Party Abdullah Ocalan while they attend the burials of Kurdish-led fighters killed fending off ISIS gunmen in a prison siege in February in Syria. | Diego Ibarra Sanchez for The New York Times | Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary in Parliament this month. Mr. Orban continues to block even a watered-down European Union effort to put an embargo on Russian oil. | Attila Kisbenedek/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images | A Hungarian oil plant this month near the town of Szazhalombatta, south of Budapest. | Attila Kisbenedek/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

The New York Times Company

文件 NYTFEED020220518ei5i009q1


Biden to meet with Swedish and Finnish leaders after their nations apply to join NATO
By Maegan Vazquez, CNN
603 字
2022 年 5 月 19 日 04:00 GMT
CNN Wire
CNNWR
英文
Copyright 2022 Cable News Network. All Rights Reserved.
President Joe Biden[https://www.cnn.com/specials/politics/joe-biden-news] is scheduled to meet with the leaders of Finland and Sweden on Thursday[https://www.cnn.com/2022/05/17/politics/biden-sweden-finland/index.html] as part of a show of support by the United States after the two nations submitted their formal applications to become NATO members.

White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan told reporters on Wednesday that the meeting with Finnish President Sauli Niinisto and Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson in Washington will allow the three nations "to coordinate on the path forward" and "compare notes" on the move.

Sweden and Finland's bids to join NATO come in response to Russia's war on Ukraine,[https://www.cnn.com/2022/05/17/politics/biden-sweden-finland/index.html] which sparked security concerns across the region. Their bids to join the alliance mark a dramatic evolution in European security and geopolitics.

Sullivan called Finland and Sweden's applications to join the alliance "a watershed moment in European security."

"Two nations with a long tradition of neutrality will be joining the world's most powerful defensive alliance, and they will bring with them strong capabilities and a proven track record as security partners," he said.

The three leaders are expected to speak in front of the press on Thursday at the White House "to affirm our shared vision for a peaceful and secure Euro-Atlantic region," Sullivan said.

Both Finland and Sweden already meet many of the requirements to be a NATO member, which include having a functioning democratic political system based on a market economy; treating minority populations fairly; committing to resolve conflicts peacefully; the ability and willingness to make a military contribution to NATO operations; and committing to democratic civil-military relations and institutions.

All 30 NATO members must give unanimous approval for a country to be accepted into the alliance.

But while many NATO members have expressed support for Finland and Sweden to join the alliance, the move has been met with resistance by Russia and Turkey -- a NATO member.

Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Monday that Finland and Sweden's entry into NATO would not create a threat to Russia, but the "expansion of military infrastructure into this territory will certainly cause our response." And the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Monday that Russia "will be forced to take retaliatory steps, both of a military-technical and other nature, in order to stop the threats to its national security arising in this regard."

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said this week that he would not approve Sweden and Finland's membership if they sanction Turkey, and that delegations from the nations should not bother coming to Turkey to try to convince that nation to approve their country's NATO membership.

Sullivan said on Wednesday that the White House is "confident" that the applications for membership to NATO will be approved, despite Turkey's concerns.

Both Sweden and Finland are both engaged with Turkey regarding its concerns, as well as top US officials, he said.

Biden on Wednesday also seemed optimistic that Turkey would come around.

When asked how he will convince Turkey to support Finland and Sweden's bids for membership, Biden told reporters, "The leaders of Finland and Sweden are coming to see me on Thursday. I think we're gonna be OK."

Thursday's White House meeting with the two northern European leaders will take place just before Biden is expected to depart for a four-day trip to South Korea and Japan -- his first trip to Asia as President.

CNN's Kate Sullivan, Kevin Liptak, Betsy Klein and Sam Fossum contributed to this report.

Cable News Network LP.

文件 CNNWR00020220519ei5j001p6


Turkey, Hungary leaders delay unity in NATO, EU Objections center on Kurdish group, new energy system
Steven Erlanger; Matina Stevis-Gridneff
796 字
2022 年 5 月 19 日
The Capital (Annapolis)
CPGN
A.2
英文
Copyright (c) 2022 The Capital (Annapolis). Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS - Europe's effort to stand up to Russia and Vladimir Putin, its president, is being slowed by two strongmen leaders insisting on the priority of their national interests and playing to domestic audiences.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey on Wednesday blocked a procedural vote on NATO moving ahead quickly with the membership applications of Sweden and Finland, handed in with much publicity Wednesday, a senior European diplomat said.

And Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary continues to block even a watered-down European Union effort to put an embargo on Russian oil, part of a sixth package of sanctions aimed at Moscow for its war against Ukraine.

While NATO and the EU have shown remarkable unity in their response to Putin's war, the actions of the two authoritarian leaders show the strains building as the war drags on, peace talks appear to go nowhere, and Western sanctions are contributing to economic pain and high inflation at home, as well as in Russia.

On Wednesday, a meeting of NATO ambassadors could not reach consensus on a first vote to proceed with the requests for membership because Turkey said it first wanted NATO to address its security concerns.

In particular, Turkey wants Finland and especially Sweden to end what Erdogan has called support for "terrorist organizations" in their countries, primarily the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, as well as to lift export bans on certain arms sales to Turkey.

Addressing his lawmakers in Parliament on Wednesday, Erdogan criticized at length Western support for Kurdish groups that Turkey sees as a terrorist threat.

Turkey "asked for 30 terrorists," he said. "They said: 'We are not giving them,' " Erdogan told the Parliament. "You won't hand over terrorists but you want to join NATO. We cannot say yes to a security organization that is devoid of security."

The PKK is a Kurdish guerrilla group that has fought a decadeslong separatist insurgency in parts of Turkey. It was designated by the United States as a terrorist organization in 1997.

Erdogan remains angry over support from Washington and Stockholm for a PKK-affiliated militia in Syria, where the group was fighting the Islamic State. And Turkey has demanded the extradition of six alleged PKK members from Finland and 11 alleged PKK members from Sweden.

Erdogan has said these issues cause him to not have "favorable thoughts" about the membership of the Nordic countries. But he has not said that he would veto their applications.

National security is Orban's argument too. Hungary is dependent on Russia for its energy, getting 85% of its natural gas and 65% of its oil supply from Russia, as well as using Russian technology for its nuclear power plants.

While Hungary has approved all previous sanction packages, including an embargo on Russian coal, Orban said an oil embargo would be the equivalent of an "atomic bomb" for the Hungarian economy.

But like Erdogan in NATO, Orban this time is the sole holdout, in his case, in the weekslong EU efforts to finalize a gradual embargo on Russian oil, the headline measure in a sixth package of sanctions since the invasion of Ukraine.

Talks began in April. After consultation between EU officials and diplomats from the bloc's 27 member states, a proposal was put on the table incorporating different positions in early May.

But Hungary seemed to be moving the goal posts. The first proposal gave extensions to Hungary and Slovakia to find alternative suppliers. While the other 25 EU members would have until the end of the year, Hungary and Slovakia would have through 2023.

Then Hungary demanded, and secured, even more time. The latest version of the package would grant it until the end of 2024, but Orban has insisted that Hungary would need billions from the bloc to shield his nation's economy. His foreign minister, Peter Szijjarto, said that to use different oil and modernize Hungary's energy system would cost $15.7 billion to $18.8 billion and take five years.

Diplomats said they expect Orban eventually to acquiesce to an oil embargo, having secured both a long extension and extra funding for Hungary, but that he could drag the talks out even longer, perhaps until the end of the month.

NATO officials expressed the same confidence about Erdogan - that he will eventually agree to back Sweden and Finland joining NATO in return for some concessions that will help him politically at home, with his economy in crisis and new elections only a year away.

Caption: NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg displays documents as Sweden and Finland applied for membership Wednesday in Brussels, Belgium. Johanna Geron/Pool photo via AP

Capital Gazette Communications

文件 CPGN000020220519ei5j0000i


Biden says Finland and Sweden have 'full, total, complete backing' of US as they seek to join NATO
By Maegan Vazquez and Kate Sullivan, CNN
654 字
2022 年 5 月 19 日 15:12 GMT
CNN Wire
CNNWR
英文
Copyright 2022 Cable News Network. All Rights Reserved.
President Joe Biden[https://www.cnn.com/specials/politics/joe-biden-news] on Thursday welcomed the leaders of Finland and Sweden to the White House and said both countries have the "full, total, complete backing" of the US after the two nations submitted their formal applications to become NATO members.

"Today, I am proud to welcome and offer the strong support of the United States for the applications of two great democracies and two close, highly capable partners to join the strongest, most powerful defensive alliance in the history of the world," Biden said while standing alongside Finnish President Sauli Niinisto and Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson.

The US President said, "The bottom line is simple, quite straightforward: Finland and Sweden make NATO stronger. Not just because of their capacity but because of their strong, strong democracies."

Sweden and Finland's bids to join NATO come in response to Russia's war on Ukraine,[https://www.cnn.com/2022/05/17/politics/biden-sweden-finland/index.html] which sparked security concerns across the region. Their bids to join the alliance mark a dramatic evolution in European security and geopolitics.

Sullivan called Finland and Sweden's applications to join the alliance "a watershed moment in European security."

"Two nations with a long tradition of neutrality will be joining the world's most powerful defensive alliance, and they will bring with them strong capabilities and a proven track record as security partners," he said.

The three leaders are expected to speak in front of the press on Thursday at the White House "to affirm our shared vision for a peaceful and secure Euro-Atlantic region," Sullivan said.

Both Finland and Sweden already meet many of the requirements to be a NATO member, which include having a functioning democratic political system based on a market economy; treating minority populations fairly; committing to resolve conflicts peacefully; the ability and willingness to make a military contribution to NATO operations; and committing to democratic civil-military relations and institutions.

All 30 NATO members must give unanimous approval for a country to be accepted into the alliance.

But while many NATO members have expressed support for Finland and Sweden to join the alliance, the move has been met with resistance by Russia and Turkey -- a NATO member.

Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Monday that Finland and Sweden's entry into NATO would not create a threat to Russia, but the "expansion of military infrastructure into this territory will certainly cause our response." And the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Monday that Russia "will be forced to take retaliatory steps, both of a military-technical and other nature, in order to stop the threats to its national security arising in this regard."

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said this week that he would not approve Sweden and Finland's membership if they sanction Turkey, and that delegations from the nations should not bother coming to Turkey to try to convince that nation to approve their country's NATO membership.

Sullivan said on Wednesday that the White House is "confident" that the applications for membership to NATO will be approved, despite Turkey's concerns.

Both Sweden and Finland are both engaged with Turkey regarding its concerns, as well as top US officials, he said.

Biden on Wednesday also seemed optimistic that Turkey would come around.

When asked how he will convince Turkey to support Finland and Sweden's bids for membership, Biden told reporters, "The leaders of Finland and Sweden are coming to see me on Thursday. I think we're gonna be OK."

Thursday's White House meeting with the two northern European leaders will take place just before Biden is expected to depart for a four-day trip to South Korea and Japan -- his first trip to Asia as President.

CNN's Kate Sullivan, Kevin Liptak, Betsy Klein and Sam Fossum contributed to this report.

Cable News Network LP.

文件 CNNWR00020220519ei5j006pp


Biden says Finland and Sweden have 'full, total, complete backing' of US as they seek to join NATO
By Maegan Vazquez and Kate Sullivan, CNN
770 字
2022 年 5 月 19 日 15:45 GMT
CNN Wire
CNNWR
英文
Copyright 2022 Cable News Network. All Rights Reserved.
President Joe Biden[https://www.cnn.com/specials/politics/joe-biden-news] on Thursday welcomed the leaders of Finland and Sweden to the White House and said both countries have the "full, total, complete backing" of the US after the two nations submitted their formal applications to become NATO members.

"Today, I am proud to welcome and offer the strong support of the United States for the applications of two great democracies and two close, highly capable partners to join the strongest, most powerful defensive alliance in the history of the world," Biden said while standing alongside Finnish President Sauli Niinisto and Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson.

The US President said, "The bottom line is simple, quite straightforward: Finland and Sweden make NATO stronger. Not just because of their capacity but because of their strong, strong democracies."

Sweden and Finland's bids to join NATO come in response to Russia's war on Ukraine,[https://www.cnn.com/2022/05/17/politics/biden-sweden-finland/index.html] which sparked security concerns across the region. The historically neutral nations' bids to join the alliance mark a dramatic evolution in European security and geopolitics, and the moves have been met with resistance from Russia and Turkey, a NATO member.

"Let me be clear: New members joining NATO is not a threat to any nation. It never has been. NATO's purpose is to defend against aggression. That's its purpose, to defend," Biden said.

The President argued Russia's war on Ukraine has made the military alliance "stronger" and "more united," and said, "Today, there is no question, NATO is relevant. It is effective. And it is more needed now than ever."

Biden said his administration was submitting reports on NATO accession for both Finland and Sweden so the Senate "can efficiently and quickly move on advising and consenting to the treaty."

He said Finland and Sweden requesting to join NATO is a "victory for democracy in action," and said both nations meet all the requirements to join the alliance.

Both Finland and Sweden already meet many of the requirements to be a NATO member, which include having a functioning democratic political system based on a market economy; treating minority populations fairly; committing to resolve conflicts peacefully; the ability and willingness to make a military contribution to NATO operations; and committing to democratic civil-military relations and institutions.

All 30 NATO members must give unanimous approval for a country to be accepted into the alliance.

"Having two new NATO members in the high north will enhance the security of our alliance and deepen our security cooperation across the board," Biden said.

National security adviser Jake Sullivan on Wednesday called Finland and Sweden's applications to join the alliance "a watershed moment in European security."

"Two nations with a long tradition of neutrality will be joining the world's most powerful defensive alliance, and they will bring with them strong capabilities and a proven track record as security partners," he said.

Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Monday that Finland and Sweden's entry into NATO would not create a threat to Russia, but the "expansion of military infrastructure into this territory will certainly cause our response." And the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement on Monday that Russia "will be forced to take retaliatory steps, both of a military-technical and other nature, in order to stop the threats to its national security arising in this regard."

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said this week that he would not approve Sweden and Finland's membership if they sanction Turkey, and that delegations from the nations should not bother coming to Turkey to try to convince that nation to approve their country's NATO membership.

Sullivan said on Wednesday that the White House is "confident" that the applications for membership to NATO will be approved, despite Turkey's concerns.

Both Sweden and Finland are both engaged with Turkey regarding its concerns, as well as top US officials, he said.

Biden on Wednesday also seemed optimistic that Turkey would come around.

When asked how he will convince Turkey to support Finland and Sweden's bids for membership, Biden told reporters, "The leaders of Finland and Sweden are coming to see me on Thursday. I think we're gonna be OK."

Thursday's White House meeting with the two northern European leaders will took place just before Biden is expected to depart for a four-day trip to South Korea and Japan -- his first trip to Asia as President.

CNN's Kevin Liptak, Betsy Klein and Sam Fossum contributed to this report.

Cable News Network LP.

文件 CNNWR00020220519ei5j0070t


A-Section
Turkey's awkward position in the Ukraine war and the effort to expand NATO
Ishaan Tharoor
1172 字
2022 年 5 月 21 日
The Washington Post
WP
FINAL
A09
英文
Copyright 2022, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved
It was supposed to be quite straightforward. For weeks, Finland and Sweden telegraphed their decision to abandon decades of quasi-neutrality and join the NATO military alliance. The two Nordic countries had long maintained robust defense ties with the alliance, but the shock of Russia's invasion of Ukraine compelled them to finally close the distance.

Sweden and Finland's accession into NATO would mark a historic shift: With the countries officially onboard, NATO's borders with Russia will double in size overnight. The Baltic Sea, a zone of tacit contest with Russia, could effectively become a NATO-patrolled lake. And it will only underscore how much the conflict has become a geopolitical blunder for Russian President Vladimir Putin: Far from checking NATO's eastward expansion, his invasion has only deepened Russian isolation, raised the stakes along the country's western frontier and placed immense pressure on an already ailing economy.

But then Turkey entered the stage. On Wednesday, it used its prerogative as a NATO member to block the start of Finland's and Sweden's accession talks after the two countries formally submitted their applications. The stated reasons mostly had to do with Ankara's anger with Sweden over the latter's diplomatic dealings with rebel Kurdish groups operating in Turkey and Syria and its granting of asylum to members of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, which both Turkey and the United States view as a terrorist organization.

At a meeting of foreign ministers this past weekend, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu reportedly clashed with Swedish counterpart Ann Linde, allegedly raising his voice while critiquing her "feminist" foreign policy.

"We were trying to understand what our Turkish colleague wanted - you know, really wanted," a NATO diplomat speaking on the condition of anonymity told the Reuters news agency. "It was embarrassing."

As is his wont , it's likely Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is using his leverage in a moment of crisis to extract further concessions from the West. "We are one of the countries that give the most support to the activities of the alliance, but this does not mean that we will unquestioningly say yes to every proposal brought before us," Erdogan told members of his political party in Ankara on Wednesday. "The expansion of NATO is meaningful for us, in proportion to the respect that is shown to our sensitivities."

"NATO diplomats still widely believe Turkey will eventually waive its objections and allow the expansion," my colleagues reported. "But a process that was already expected to take months could be slower and more complicated than other alliance members had hoped."

On Thursday, President Biden hosted Finnish President Sauli Niinisto and Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson in the Rose Garden and pledged the "full, total, complete backing of the United States" to the two Nordic NATO bids. He said Finland and Sweden "meet every NATO requirement and then some." In his remarks, Niinisto acknowledged Turkey's position and said he is "open to discussing all the concerns Turkey may have."

Critics of Erdogan's demagogic rule suggest his intransigence now ought to raise questions about Turkey's place within the alliance. "NATO's greatest strategic failure of the past two decades was to play down Putin's malign intent while underestimating its own members' capacity for collective resolve," wrote analysts Joe Lieberman and Mark D. Wallace in the Wall Street Journal's opinion pages. "The alliance runs the risk of repeating the same mistake with Erdogan."

The Turkish president has played a complicated game since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine. His government hosted initial rounds of diplomatic talks between Moscow and Kyiv, but those discussions appear to have hit a dead end even as the war bogs down. Ankara also has resisted joining the Western sanctions regime on Russia and continues to import Russian oil. It has kept its doors open to Russian travelers and is hoping to encourage Russian oligarchs who are under sanction to plow their wealth into Turkey's tanking economy.

At the same time, Turkey has a long-standing historic rivalry with Russia over the Black Sea and allowed the sale to Ukraine of a fleet of lightweight Bayraktar TB2 drones, which have featured prominently in Ukrainian strikes on Russian targets and stoked Russian ire. The Turkish drones have become an instrument of diplomacy by other means for Erdogan: His government has supplied them to a host of countries in its neighborhood, and their efficacy in the Ukraine war has led to glimmers of warmer ties with the West after years of acrimony, not least over Turkey's controversial purchasing of Russian military systems in the past. Last month, the Biden administration gave its tacit approval to a possible sale of F-16 fighter jets to Turkey.

"Erdogan's strategy in Ukraine … is to provide quiet military support to Kyiv even as he seeks to sustain diplomatic channels to Putin and economic profits from Russia," Soner Cagaptay and Rich Outzen wrote in Foreign Affairs. They added that it "is unlikely that the Russian leader will pick a fight with Turkey right now, especially if Erdogan provides him and his oligarchs with an economic lifeline."

Of more pressing concern for Erdogan and his colleagues are the country's mounting economic woes and political pressures ahead of elections next year that may actually be competitive. For them, the sooner the war finds a diplomatic conclusion - and the faster the economic disruption triggered by the conflict stabilizes - the better.

"Senior Turkish officials are quietly concerned that the conflict is now turning into a NATO-Russia war and that the risk of escalation is growing, fueled by greater arms support for Ukraine and the absence of a negotiations framework," wrote Asli Aydintasbas, senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations. "They are also disappointed with the West's reluctance to rally behind Turkish-brokered ceasefire talks. High-level Turkish officials have accused 'some NATO countries' of not wanting the war to end in order to harm Russia."

According to recent polling, a greater portion of the Turkish public blames the United States and NATO - a bloc in which Turkey is a member, after all - for provoking the conflict than Russia. Part of that is due to years of anti-Western rhetoric in the country's media, peddled often by Erdogan himself. But, as Merve Tahiroglu of the Project on Middle East Democracy observed, Erdogan's many opponents also resent the cynicism of Western countries, some of which are mending fences with Erdogan because they view Turkey as crucial to securing Ukrainian victory.

"To many Turkish citizens, such Western efforts to shore up ties with a loathed Turkish autocrat - while trumpeting the cause of democracy in Ukraine, no less - only serve to reaffirm some of the key reasons why they distrust the West's intentions, in Turkey as well as Ukraine, in the first place," Tahiroglu wrote.

http://www.washingtonpost.com[http://www.washingtonpost.com]

WP20220521wv-TurkeyNATO

Washington Post

文件 WP00000020220521ei5l00001


VR Group's Russia-Finland rail closure hits Russian methanol exporters
Eashani Chavda
522 字
2022 年 5 月 23 日
ICIS News
ICISN
英文
© Copyright 2022. Reed Business Information Limited. All rights reserved.
LONDON (ICIS)--Finnish railway company VR Group is preparing a plan to stop the transport of goods between Russia and Finland and has begun to terminate contracts, in yet another blow to the Russian methanol market.

VR says the plan covers its mandatory legislation and other legal matters, customer contracts and security of supply issues, according to a press release.

Tens of customers will be affected, with all raw materials, chemicals, metals, and forestry materials hit by its decision.

A company spokesperson said, "Since the beginning of the war in Ukraine, VR Transpoint’s freight traffic between Russia and Finland has already more than halved due to the sanctions and customers’ own decisions."

"We estimate that traffic will be reduced to about a third of the original level by the end of the summer, and will continue to decrease until the end of the year."

As rail transport between the EU and Russia is not currently sanctioned, each contract termination of VR's freight agreements will "be handled in a manner specified in the contracts and negotiated with the customers."

Some customer contracts have already been terminated, but others could continue until the end of the year, if needed.

Following VR's announcement, one Russian methanol seller said, "There are no alternatives on the Finnish market."

Another added, "We consider [the termination] as mostly artificial so far."

The split in the methanol market's reaction mirrors that of Russian trade flows: Some producers are able to find outlets in Europe but others have had to lower production rates or export to Asia.

"We only have one-and-a-half customers remaining in Europe. One still taking volumes, the other confirmed they will no longer continue once their current contract will finish", said the first seller.

"It's a complete cancellation of Russian-origin," it added.

The second source said, "We are well covered inside EU... keeping supply about 80,000 tonnes per month".

Europe's methanol market was quick to react to news of the Russia-Ukraine war, with spot players choosing to deal with non-Russian origin methanol.

Contractual business continues for some, although interest in Russian methanol has largely dried up.

Although methanol is not sanctioned by the EU, players have chosen to sidestep spot parcels from Russia while monitoring the latest sanction and logistics pressures.

VR Group added, "We don’t carry transport under sanctions. Any sanctions and further restrictions will be decided by the European Union."

"If new sanctions enter into force, the timetable for halting the rest of Russian traffic will accelerate accordingly."

VR Group has also begun negotiations for the sale or liquidation of its Finnish associated companies ContainerTrans Scandinavia (CTS) and Freight One Scandinavia (FOS).

It has also started negotiations to sell its Russian subsidiary Finnlog.

Methanol is primarily used to produce formaldehyde, methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) and acetic acid. Smaller amounts go into production of dimethyl terephthalate (DMT), methyl methacrylate (MMA), chloromethanes, methylamines, glycol methyl ethers, and fuels applications such dimethyl ether (DME), biodiesel and the direct blending into gasoline.

Reed Business Information Limited

文件 ICISN00020220523ei5n000jk


News; International
Nordic Nations' Sea Change On NATO ; Iran's Foreign Minister On The Nuclear Deal; Interview With President Volodymyr Zelenskyy Of Ukraine; Interview With President Andrzej Duda Of Poland. Aired 10- 11a
Fareed Zakaria
6081 字
2022 年 5 月 29 日
CNN: Fareed Zakaria GPS
CNNFZK
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[10:00:21]

FAREED ZAKARIA, CNN ANCHOR: This is GPS, the GLOBAL PUBLIC SQUARE. Welcome to all of you in the United States and around the world. I'm Fareed Zakaria coming to you from Davos, Switzerland.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ZAKARIA (voice-over): Today on the program, I talk with the leaders of four of Russia's neighbors to the West, starting with Ukraine's President Zelenskyy. I ask under what conditions he would be willing to negotiate with Vladimir Putin .

Then President Duda of Poland explains just how much suffering Russia has caused his nation in the past. And top ministers from Finland and Sweden tell me about their nations' historic decisions to apply for NATO membership.

Then, a rare interview with Iran's foreign minister at a critical time in talks for a revived nuclear deal.

ANTONY BLINKEN , SECRETARY OF STATE: To make sure that an Iran that is already acting with incredible aggression doesn't have a nuclear weapon or the ability to produce one on short notice.

ZAKARIA: Will they reach an agreement, or will the talks fall apart?

JOE BIDEN , PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: When in God's name do we do what we all needs to be done?

ZAKARIA: Finally, one more senseless act of violence this time in Texas. I'll give you some of my thoughts on how to end this endless carnage.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

ZAKARIA: But first, here's "My Take." The World Economic Forum in Davos is usually fixated on the future. Most years the attendees are dazzled by some country, company, or technology promising to burst forward, force change, dominate the next decade.

This year the focus was not on the future but the past. People delved back into history to debate what caused Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

The Swedish finance minister explained why his country, which hasn't been at war since the Napoleonic Wars, was breaking its 200-year tradition of neutrality with its bid to join NATO .

The Finnish foreign minister recalled Finland's resistance to Moscow's aggression in the Winter War of 1939 and 1940.

In past years at Davos, companies took storefronts and plastered them with jubilant signs cheering on dynamism, acceleration, and disruption. This time there were far fewer placards and slogans, some of them meekly promising sustainability or progress on climate change.

The one genuinely cheerful sign I saw said, "Will the Saudi GDP now be fueled by YOLO, FOMO, and WYWH?" With oil at over $100 a barrel, the Saudi regime has much to be excited about.

The storefront that dominated attention was one that used to be booked for years by Russians who hosted lavish cocktail parties and caviar tastings there with the country's money de lite.

Now it has a sign in the window that reads in small, clear type, "This used to be the Russian house in Davos, now it's the Russian war crimes house in Davos."

Sponsored by the Ukrainian businessman, Victor Pinchuk, the rooms are filled with striking images and stories of Russia's barbaric actions in its campaign against Ukraine.

Ukraine dominated Davos this year, and most people I spoke to were quite unsure how this war would end. That played into a larger sense of uncertainty about the world that we are heading into, a world of multiplying risks.

Tharman Shanmugaratnam , Singapore's senior minister, said to me we know the risks that are out there are large. They're not about black swan events coming out of the blue.

A pandemic was predicted. Russia's invasion was a known possibility. Another pandemic or more frequent climate crises, these are not just possible but likely.

We can't keep expecting and planning for a return to calm on troubled times.

A former central banker told me that economic policymakers felt that they were in uncharted territory. The old model, when inflation moves up ever so slightly and then you raise rates a tiny bit and all was well, that's dead. We're in a new world and we're all just experimenting.

There is a broader foreboding, a sense that the era we have just lived through, the three decades since 1990 may have been an unusual, perhaps even unique one in which great power politics and geopolitical tensions that normally dominate and define international life were absent. [10:05:06]

The giddy trends of recent times, globalization, the information revolution, even democratization were trends built on an edifice of power, America's super power status.

But that strength has been waning for some years, caused by Iraq, the global financial crisis, COVID. Now it is being challenged first by China and then Russia.

In all this gloom, there's one distinctly hopeful sign, Europe is acting with a greater sense of unity and purpose than I've ever seen before.

Every European leader I spoke with believed that Russia's aggression had sparked a revolution of sorts across the continent.

The E.U. has shown remarkable unity on sanctions and is slowly but steadily coming together on energy policy.

These successes could evolve into greater coordination on foreign and even defense policy. Europeans have realized that at a fundamental level that they were taking peace and stability for granted, that it might now have to be created and sustained by hard work and commitment, in part, by building hard power of their own and deploying it strategically.

There are serious debates about ending the slow consensual process of E.U. decision-making that allows one country like Hungary to veto its efforts.

The most lasting legacy of this crisis could be a new role for Europe as a more purposeful, strategic actor on the world stage.

But for that to happen, this experience in uniting against Russia has to work, only success can breed more success. Failure will doom this experiment.

The founding fathers of the European Union like Robert Schuman and Jean Monnet were steeped in history and determined to ensure that war did not break out again in Europe.

Today's statesmen need to infuse their day-to-day decisions with a similar sense of history.

50 years from now, no one will remember whether growth slowed on the continent for a couple of quarters in 2022 or if Brussels had to pay extra for natural gas from the U.S.

What they will recall is the answer to one question. Who won the war in Ukraine? Putin or the West?

Go to CNN.com/Fareed for a link to my "Washington Post " column this week. And let us get started.

Here in Davos, I had the opportunity to talk to the most important world leader who wasn't here, Volodymyr Zelenskyy .

The interview was part of an event organized by the Victor Pinchuk Foundation which focuses most of its efforts on its home country of Ukraine.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ZAKARIA: Mr. President, a pleasure, once again, to talk to you.

PRES. VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINE (through translator): Yes. Likewise. Glad to see you.

ZAKARIA: Let me begin by asking you, you know, in 1942 Churchill said this is not the end, this is not the beginning of the end, but this may be the end of the beginning.

And what he was trying to steal everyone for was the idea that this was a long war, and he turned out to be right.

Where do you think we are in this conflict between Russia and Ukraine and really Russia and the world?

ZELENSKYY (through translator): Thank you for this question. As far as our war is concerned, the all-out war of the Russian federation against Ukraine, you know, Ukraine is fighting for its independence and freedom.

It has been doing so for years, for decades and centuries and even longer. And I think that today we are speaking about the war for independence, for freedom of the European continent.

Europe whole and united. And we are speaking about the beginning of the peaceful and united Ukraine as well.

As far as my guess when this war might end, that would depend on several things, very specific things.

First of all, they will end the desire of the united West to stay united in supporting Ukraine with weapons, with finance to boost our resilience and political will not to be afraid but fight against the Russian federation.

In this hybrid war not with boots on the ground, of course, but in various other alternative ways.

And it also hinges on the desire of the Russian federation. This war will be over sooner or later. I'm sure there would be some sort of a peaceful process, some sort of talks.

[10:10:07]

And we would be discussing the issues of who Ukraine is going to negotiate with, with what president of the Russian federation that we are going to negotiate with. I hope that would be a different president in the Russian federation. Thank you.

ZAKARIA: Do you believe it is impossible at this point to negotiate with Vladimir Putin an end to this conflict?

ZELENSKYY (through translator): (INAUDIBLE), I think that the incumbent president of the Russian federation does not fully understand what's going on.

He is not keenly aware of what's going on in Ukraine. Ukraine is not going to concede our territory. We are fighting in our country on our land.

So I think that the president of the Russian federation should be actually shoved into the reality of today, not being in this bubble and this alternate reality of his that he has been building for quite a long time.

And he is still in this world of propaganda in the Russian federation. So I can only talk with the president directly with no intermediaries, no brokers.

Once the president is prepared to leave his bubble of this alternative reality into the real world and talk to us, understand that a lot of people are being killed, including civilians, perhaps then will he understand that we should start talking and should put the end to this war that he launched, his country is waging against us.

And perhaps then we will be able to talk unless it is too light to find some diplomatic way off, a way out of this situation.

ZAKARIA: You talked about Ukraine fighting until its territories are recovered, Mr. President. Do you refer in that situation to territories last this year? Or will Ukraine fight until it recovers the territories it lost in 2014?

ZELENSKYY (through translator): You know, when Ukraine says that it will be fighting to regain its territories, it means that Ukraine will be fighting until it gains all its territory back.

So it doesn't mean anything else. It's about our sovereignty, about our territorial integrity, it's about our independence.

ZAKARIA: Would it be fair to say, Mr. President -- and I think you are implying this by what you've said, so far, the Russians are not negotiating seriously at all on any of these issues.

ZELENSKYY (through translator): Yes, you can say so. That would be fair to say. I can't see their willingness, nor can I see any practicality in what we are talking about.

At the beginnings there was an impression that we can move ahead. There would be a certain result or some outcome of those talks. But it all has stalled.

ZAKARIA: Mr. President, what do you need from the world? The United States has voted about $50 billion worth of arms. Do you have what you need? What more do you need?

ZELENSKYY (through translator): Just the confidence of the world that they can do it. The world should be united. Europe, the world at large should be united.

We are as strong as you are united. We understand that technically weapon-wise, Russia is still prevailing.

They outnumber us, they outgun us. And what we need is weapons, of course. And we need to be much more powerful.

We should have much greater firepower than the Russians, not by several units, but by time. Our huge benefit and our huge advantage over Russia would be when we are truly united, when every country is dead sure what side it is on.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

ZAKARIA: Next on GPS, I'll talk to the president of Poland, Ukraine's neighbor to the northwest. Even as Warsaw offers great assistance to Kyiv, it looks wearily at Moscow.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[10:19:10]

ZAKARIA: Poland threw off the yolk of communism in 1989 after nearly half a century in the Soviet sphere of influence. It has now been a NATO member for 23 years and today it's critical to Ukraine's ability to continue to fight against Russia.

Among other help, Poland has taken in the lion's share of refugees from its neighbor to the southeast. And it acts as a way point for Western weapons and aid to Ukraine.

I've been waiting to speak to Polish President Andrzej Duda for years. I got my chance this week in Davos.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ZAKARIA: President Duda, pleasure to have you on, sir.

ANDRZEJ DUDA , POLISH PRESIDENT (through translator): Thank you very much. Thank you for inviting me.

ZAKARIA: Let me ask you right away, there are currently proposals being put in Europe to the Russian government, as far as we understand, an Italian proposal, that offers a kind of settlement, which says Ukraine will be neutral, Crimea and Donbas will essentially stay with Russia, and that we can have a resumption of normal relations, in a sense a kind of negotiated settlement to the end of the war.

[10:20:18]

What is your view about that?

DUDA (through translator): As I understand it, the rule is very simple. There can be no such agreement which would lead to a peaceful settlement of the situation that we are faced with in Ukraine today because Russia attacked Ukraine without any justification, completely without any reason, because all the information about some kind of alleged Nazism in Ukraine, this is just Russian propaganda. It has nothing to do with reality.

That was a brutal aggression. It is a brutal war which is being raged by Russia against Ukraine, against a sovereign and independent state.

Russia wants to expand its sphere of influence. It's as simple as that. It wants to force Ukraine to be subjected to it. This is the only reason.

And we cannot accept the fact that in a free and democratic world, an agreement which would be supposed to put an end to this war could happen without the participation of Ukraine and without the agreement of Ukraine.

If this war is to come to an end, it has to come to an end upon such conditions which Ukraine will agree sitting at the negotiations table.

Let me repeat once again, sitting at the negotiating table. Nothing can happen above the heads of Ukrainian authorities, nothing can happen above the Ukrainian people.

It has to take place with their participation, and such conditions must be taken and agreed on which they accept.

To me, this is a precondition, the basic condition. And only then can we talk about peace, which has been worked out in an honest way and which can be stable peace.

ZAKARIA: A former leader in Poland once said, step one for the Russians is Georgia, step two is Ukraine, step three is Poland. Do you and Poland feel a real threat from Russia?

DUDA (through translator): So there is no doubt whatsoever that Polish society is afraid of Russia. We have got some historical experiences.

Sometimes I'm asked to give them a brief account of Polish history.

Say the truth, if we look at the Polish history, the recent period that we have seen is very few and far between when we have enjoyed peace in Poland, dozens of years of peace.

However, our history extends over 1,000 years of history with Germany and for a hundred years of war with Russia.

We also had partitions in Poland. Poland did not exist on the map for 123 years. A large piece of Poland is occupied by the terrorist Russia then we were invaded by the Soviet in 1920, then again Russia invaded us along with Nazi Germany in September in 1939.

And this was the start of the Second World War precisely.

Polish officers were murdered in 1940 in Katyn where Russians murdered, shooting in the back of their heads, 12,000 Polish officers, whom they took as prisoners of war in breach of all conventions. This is our history.

Then we remained in the Russian sphere of influence. We were behind the iron curtain. So that is a tragic history. All Polish people know it perfectly well, and Polish are afraid.

They do not want to find themselves in the Russian sphere of influence.

Today the Poles are ready to sacrifice a lot from their welfare in order to strengthen our armed forces. We have adopted a new bill.

Not only are we increasing defense spending to the level of more than 2 percent of GDP, according to NATO standards. But next year we are going to raise them to the level of 3 percent of GDP.

And the following years we're going to go above that threshold our army to 250,000 professional soldiers and 50,000 soldiers of territorial defense force volunteers, in other words.

So we want also to strengthen the infrastructure of our armed forces, that is why we are making huge purchases. Of course we are delighted today, and people in Poland can have a good night's sleep.

We're happy that today 10,000 U.S. Army soldiers today are stationed in Poland protecting our land also, under the guarantees of Article 5 of the North Atlantic treaty.

That's very good. But we want to strengthen our armed forces to make sure that the U.S. armed forces are only an auxiliary force, only act as a guarantor.

That's really what we want to do is defend ourselves and I do believe that in the years to come in the near future, also thanks to the heroes of the Ukrainians who have put up such a fierce resistance against Russians.

Russians are breaking their teeth there as we say. I hope thanks to that we will have time to strengthen our armed forces over the next couple of years so that it does not pay off to attack us because we are a brave nation. We have got very valiant soldiers.

I believe they are equally brave as Ukrainian soldiers. Russians know that. And I believe that when we are stronger, they will be afraid to attack us.

[10:25:05]

ZAKARIA: You and your government have taken a very tough stance against the Russians and in favor of the Ukrainians. You are facing enormous cost as a result of all this, probably the most outside of the Ukrainians.

Poland, as you said, has taken two million people. My understanding is there are no refugee camps. These two million people, Ukrainians, are being housed individually almost, for the most part, by Polish citizens in their houses. Do you worry that at some point this cost will become too large for Poland? Because this conflict seems like it's going to go on for a while.

DUDA (through translator): I'm very grateful to my compatriots for their behavior, for their stance because indeed they opened up their hearts and they opened up their homes.

And literally they took more than two million people into their homes, mainly women and children.

To me, it was really amazing, and I'm really moved by this. I could tell the Ukrainian men who are fighting on the frontlines today, I could tell them, listen, your women and children are safe in Poland, don't worry, nothing will happen to them, so you can fight with Russia.

I think that is extremely important every man has a sense of that.

ZAKARIA: President Duda, pleasure to have you on.

DUDA (through translator): Thank you very much.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

ZAKARIA: Coming up in a moment on GPS, I'll talk to top officials from Sweden and Finland. Both applied for membership in NATO last week seeking to increase their own security, but also risking becoming Russia's next targets.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[10:31:04]

ZAKARIA: Last weekend, Russia turned off the tap, halting natural gas exports to Finland. This came just days after Finland and its Nordic neighbor Sweden officially applied for membership to NATO . At the World Economic Forum in Davos this week, I talked to Finland's Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto and Sweden's Finance Minister Mikael Damberg about those paradigm-shifting decisions.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ZAKARIA: Sweden has been neutral for 200 years, maybe more. This is a big deal. Give us a sense of, do Swedes think of it in those historical terms, this is a break with centuries of neutrality?

MIKAEL DAMBERG , SWEDISH FINANCE MINISTER: I think you have to understand that Sweden has been non-aligned for 200 years. Last time we were at war was the Napoleon Wars. That brings some perspectives to it. So no ordinary family in Sweden has experienced war themselves. They might have contacts with Finland, with other countries. People have fled to Sweden with experience in war, but Sweden itself has not experienced war.

So for us the non-aligned politics has been very pragmatic. It's been a way of not getting involved in wars. So for us changing this policy is quite big. It's a huge thing. It's generational Swedes that have grown up, it has not been the same for 200 years but still basically had a political position not getting involved and being non-aligned. So -- but it has changed.

The last couple of decades we joined the European Union , we have a broad corporation not least with Finland, our closest ally but also a very strong partnership with NATO . So, of course, this has changed over the years but this is a big historic event for Sweden.

ZAKARIA: And for you this Russian aggression tells you you're in a new world, you're in a new security environment.

DAMBERG: Yes, totally a new world. And also we think it's a long-term change. It's not just the war right now.

This is a new Russia. This is a new environment. So, for many Swedes, I think this really brought the debate to a different level.

So we had a debate in Sweden, but it was quite cautious, it was quite respectful. You could have different opinion. But, in the end, most people, the population, but most political parties agreed this was the time to see that we are more secure within NATO than outside NATO . And we want to go hand in hand with Finland.

ZAKARIA: From Finland's point of view, you also have a long history here, and it's been one where you've been very careful not to provoke the Russians because you share that border. In a way you're almost a suburb of St. Petersburg. What made you change?

PEKKA HAAVISTO, FINNISH FOREIGN MINISTER: Well, of course we have 1,300 kilometer common border and we want to maintain that border peaceful. And how we in Finland think about Russia is long perspective also. We look 100 years backwards and 100 years forward. And then we look towards the future, we don't know what's coming after Putin. Is it something better, more Democratic, or is it something worse? And we have to be prepared for all different scenarios of Russia.

ZAKARIA: Russia's immediate reaction was to threaten you and then to cut off energy. Do you worry that there will be more Russian actions?

HAAVISTO: Our feeling is that, yes, Russia did not like the idea that there is enlargement of NATO and particularly that NATO is coming closer with the Finnish border, Finnish-Russian border and so forth. They are critical comments on that. But, at the same time, my understanding is that it didn't trigger any military action against Finland or Sweden. It might trigger something on cyber space or on hybrid format and so forth.

[10:35:05]

But, of course, we have been all the time saying that we are not provoking, we want to keep the border peaceful. We want to keep the bilateral corporation what is needed even in these circumstances on the border, on the professional basis. ZAKARIA: One big unpredictable element of this could be that Russia invades Finland. Do you think that's a serious prospect? And are you prepared?

HAAVISTO: We have always, of course, throughout our history been prepared for that. We have been prepared for the military action. We have been prepared for violation of our air space, our land, our territory. We have been prepared for cyber and hybrid threats and so forth. And that has been -- that's in our DNA. And that's a part of our defense mentally, whoever wants to try to harm us will face the consequences from our side.

ZAKARIA: Ministers, thank you so much. Pleasure to have this conversation.

HAAVISTO: Thank you.

ZAKARIA: Thank you.

ZAKARIA: Thank you.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

ZAKARIA: Next on GPS, tensions over Ukraine boiled over into war. Is Iran the next site of international hostilities? I will talk to that nation's foreign minister when we come back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[10:40:27]

ZAKARIA: While the world has been watching Ukraine, another global hot spot has been simmering, Iran. That nation could have enough fissile material for a nuclear weapon in a matter of weeks, according to top officials in the United States and Israel. And on Wednesday the U.S.' special envoy for Iran said the odds are against a nuclear deal being agreed to with the Islamic republic. I had a rare chance to talk to Iran's Foreign Minister Hossein Amir-Abdollahian on Thursday.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ZAKARIA: Let me ask you about the so-called Iran nuclear deal, the JCPOA. Rob Malley , the American official who is in charge of handling that portfolio, said recently that the prospects for the deal being renewed are tenuous at best, fragile, cast doubt that it would happen. Do you share that view that the Iran nuclear deal is unlikely to come back into force?

HOSSEIN AMIR-ABDOLLAHIAN , IRANIAN FOREIGN MINISTER (through translator): Just like the foreign minister of the United States, the foreign secretary and also Mr. Rob Malley , I am facing a lot of pressure coming from my parliament. They are a strong people inside both countries that are against the revival of JCPOA for their own reasons. Of course, we are receiving messages from Rob Malley and some of the officials of the United States at the highest level, Mr. Biden himself, that are a little bit different from what we hear from the public statements that they make.

We think that Mr. Biden is facing some kind of inaction. I hope that the American side will act and behave realistically. The subject is important to us. The most important thing is that in the return of all the parties to JCPOA, we need to -- we need to benefit from the economic gains of JCPOA. The elements of the Trump's maximum pressure policy should be removed.

This is something that Mr. Biden said from the very beginning of his presidential campaign. We cannot return to JCPOA but at the same time Iran will be deprived of its economic gains. We cannot return to JCPOA but the elements and the factories of Trump's maximum pressure policy are still there. Mr. Biden has to choose one of these.

ZAKARIA: Let me ask you about what is reported to be the central issue that is the obstacle now, the designation of the IRGC as a terrorist organization, the Iranian republican guards. It seems to me, from the outside, that this is an issue outside of the nuclear deal. In other words, there are things that Iran or the revolutionary guard have done, which are -- which have triggered this designation, rightly or wrongly, but they have nothing to do with the Iran nuclear deal. So why allow the issue of the revolutionary guard to interfere with whether or not you go ahead with the deal?

AMIR-ABDOLLAHIAN (through translator): As a person who is responsible for our diplomacy team and negotiating team, honestly, what is the hurdle, what has caused the pause or should I say -- or a cessation in the talks is that economic guarantees, we have not come to the point where we can trust the American side.

ZAKARIA: So my understanding is that whether or not the revolutionary guard are designated as foreign terrorist organization makes no difference practically. Iran is, in any case, under sanctions and has been from the United States from the 1980s. There is no additional sanction that comes with that. There is no additional curtailment of activity. It's a purely symbolic issue. So why would you let that distract you from whether or not you can get back into the deal? Is that a fair way to think about it?

AMIR-ABDOLLAHIAN (through translator): I think, first of all, the Americans know very well that if they want to return to JCPOA, what is it that they need to do.

[10:45:03]

They know very well, full well what it is required from them. President Biden knows very well, understands very well.

ZAKARIA: But tell us in case he doesn't understand. What does it -- what does it require? Just the economic --

AMIR-ABDOLLAHIAN (through translator): He knows very well what he should do. The most important thing is that the economic sanctions need to be lifted in an effective way. The most important thing is that the maximum pressure policy of the Trump era, the factors, the elements there, need to be removed. We are not asking for much. But reducing these fundamental things to just one subject and focusing on it I think -- I think this is not a good behavior. This is not a good reaction. The Americans know very well what the realities are, what is happening on the ground, and what they should do.

We have kept a window of diplomacy open. And in order to reach a good and lasting deal, we are determined, we are serious about it. And it has been us, the Iranian side, that has put initiatives on the table and helped the window of diplomacy open.

But let me be frank with you. We have intelligence that the Zionist -- the Zionist regime, they have taken the foreign policy of the U.S. hostage, the interest of the U.S. hostage. Mr. Biden should make the decision, does he really want to kill the time, waste the time, or does he want to be brave and stay true to the commitments, obligations of the United States under JCPOA?

We have been the most serious and most honest, and we have done the most accurate things. But now it is the United States that has to make the decision. And I think if the Zionist lobby distances itself from the national interests of the U.S., just a little, Mr. Biden will be able to make the decision required for reaching a good deal. But if it doesn't happen, you know, in Iran in the last 40 years, we have withstood these pressures, and we have other options on the table as well.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

ZAKARIA: When we come back, I'll bring you the most poignant part of my interview with Ukraine's President Zelenskyy. He made a point to express his sorrow over the terrible school shooting in Texas. I will also give you my thoughts on that tragedy, when we come back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[10:52:41]

ZAKARIA: And now for the "Last Look." When President Zelenskyy spoke to me at Davos, he took time out from worrying about the many tragedies all around him to talk about a tragedy in the United States.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PRESIDENT VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINE (through translator): First of all, I would like to express my condolences to all of the relatives and family members of the children who were killed in an awful shooting in Texas at a school in the USA. This is terrible to have victims of shooters in peaceful time. So if you ask me about my opinion about the protection of the war, it happens everywhere. It happens in the world. It happens within seemingly peaceful societies.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ZAKARIA: For me, the most gut-wrenching aspect of this shooting, as well as all the others, is that what needs to be done is so blindingly obvious. Let me make some points about it that I have made 10 years ago after the Newtown massacre. The most important fact to know about America's gun violence is that it is off the charts compared to any other advanced country in the world.

According to estimates by the University of Washington , we have eight times the rate of gun homicides compared to Canada, 50 times compared to Germany, 100 times compared to the U.K., and a staggering 250 times compared to Japan.

So when people talk about the mental state of the shooter, just keep asking yourself about those numbers. Do we have 50 times the rate of mentally disturbed people as Germany? Or is our level of violence in movies and video games 250 times more than that watched and consumed in Japan? Obviously not.

So what explains our exceptional rates of gun killings? Well, there is one area where we are exceptional, the number of guns that are easily available in America. With 4 percent of the world's population, we have almost 50 percent of the world's guns. There are more guns in people's possession than there are people in the United States. It's easy for an 18-year-old in Texas to buy AR-15 style rifles whose designed purpose is to kill human beings with deadly speed.

[10:55:08]

Gun control works. Japan, Germany, Britain, and Canada all very different countries and cultures, but they have one common thread, strong gun control laws, and that has one common result, low gun violence.

Ten years ago I mentioned an incident that took place in China that's also worth repeating. Just hours before the Newtown shootings, a mentally disturbed man entered a school in China's Henan province. He tried to kill as many children as he could. He injured many, but he did not kill a single one because the only weapon he could get his hands on was a knife.

I will keep saying this. We know what would work. There has rarely been so much evidence pointing in one direction if all of us were just willing to open our eyes.

Thanks to all of you for being part of my special program this week from Davos. I will see you next week.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNFZK0020220530ei5t00001


International
Russia-Ukraine updates: Here’s what happened on Mar. 9th; Also: NATO to decide by June if buildup in eastern Europe becomes permanent; Hundreds of Russians flee their country for Finland amid sanctions’ heavy economic toll
Globe staff
7965 字
2022 年 6 月 9 日
The Globe and Mail (Breaking News)
GMBN
英文
©2022 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.
This digest has now been archived. Find the latest Russia-Ukraine updates here.[https://tgam.ca/ukraine-live-updates]

Here are the latest updates on the war in Ukraine:

* The Biden administration publicly warned Wednesday that Russia might seek to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine as the White House rejected Russian claims of illegal chemical weapons development in the country it has invaded.

* Ukrainian officials said a Russian air strike has left children “under wreckage” at a maternity hospital in Mariupol on Wednesday.[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-ukraine-attempts-more-evacuations-as-heavy-fighting-with-russia/] City authorities say they’re burying their dead in a mass grave as Russia’s bombardment continues.

* Prime Minister Justin Trudeau spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and promised to send more military equipment[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/politics/article-trudeau-speaks-with-zelensky-promises-more-military-aid-for-ukraine/] .

* The UN’s refugee agency now estimates 2.1-2.2 million people have fled Ukraine. Hundreds of Russians are also fleeing their country [https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-hundreds-of-russians-flee-their-country-for-finland-amid-sanctions/] as heavy sanctions bring economic uncertainty[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/international-business/article-russian-ruble-drops-to-record-lows-in-moscow-amid-fresh-sanctions/] and fears of conscription and marital law leave many feeling unsafe.

* Earlier, a Ukraine adviser warned the International Atomic Energy Agency has lost contact with the monitoring systems at the Chernobyl nuclear plant in what is being called “an extremely dangerous situation.”

10:30 p.m. ET

U.S. House approves $13.6-billion aid package for Ukraine

The U.S. House approved a massive spending bill Wednesday night that would rush $13.6-billion in aid to battered Ukraine and its European allies.

The Ukraine aid included $6.5-billion for the U.S. costs of sending troops and weapons to Eastern Europe and equipping allied forces there in response to Russian President Vladimir Putin’s invasion and repeated, bellicose threats. There was another $6.8-billion to care for refugees and provide economic aid to allies, and more to help federal agencies enforce economic sanctions against Russia and protect against cyber threats at home.

In a rare sign of unity on Capitol Hill, both Democrats and Republicans overwhelmingly supported the aid package for Ukraine. Enmity toward Putin and a desire to send assistance to the region is virtually universal in Congress.

-The Associated Press

9:27 p.m. ET

Ukrainian-Canadian musicians finding respite from grief and rage on stage

Ukrainian-Canadian musicians are among those struggling[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/arts/art-and-architecture/article-ukrainian-canadian-musicians-finding-respite-from-grief-and-rage-on/] at this devastating time: watching the news from home, terrified for family and friends, and then going on stage to play nonetheless – an almost surreal respite from the grief and rage.

For Marichka and Mark Marczyk, who form Balaklava Blues, aToronto-based band that performs wildly contemporary renditions of Ukrainian folk songs, it is particularly personal.

Ms. Marczyk has barely slept through this time, she says, trying to help people back home find refuge or shelter. Her sister and family made it to Istanbul; her mother has been in Toronto since January. “I always think, oh my God, thanks God my mom is not in Kyiv.” Many of her friends – musicians, artists – are fighting.

- Marsha Lederman[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/marsha-lederman/]

9:15 p.m. ET

700 civilians evacuated from Kyiv outskirts

Hundreds of Ukrainians living in towns occupied by Russian troops on the outskirts of Kyiv fled Wednesday.

Streams of cars — some fixed with white flags — filed down the road, joined by lines of yellow buses marked with red crosses.

The Interior Ministry said about 700 people were evacuated from Vorzel and Irpin. People from three other Kyiv suburbs were unable to leave. Some who managed to get out said they hadn’t eaten in days.

“I forgot when I ate last,” said an Irpin resident who gave only her first name, Olena. “I’m so scared. I need to keep walking.”

Iuliia Bushinska, a Vorzel resident, said: “Occupiers came to our house and they were ready to shoot us.”

“They took away our house, our car, they took away our documents. So we need to start our life from the beginning. We survived things that I never experienced in my life,” Bushinska said.

-The Associated Press

7:36 p.m. ET

EU leaders to tackle ways to divest from Russian fossil fuels at summit in Versailles

European Union leaders will tackle ways to wean themselves off Russian fossil fuels on Thursday and debate how quickly to ditch their key supplier, with countries split over whether to sanction oil and gas imports as Moscow wages war in Ukraine.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine prompted Brussels to unveil plans this week to reduce reliance on Europe’s top gas supplier this year and end it within the decade.

How to implement those plans, not to mention how to finance them, will be a key topic under discussion at a two-day summit in Versailles, France.

A draft of the summit statement, seen by Reuters, would agree to phase out the EU’s dependency on imports of Russian gas, oil and coal, including by ramping up liquefied natural gas imports and speeding up deployment of renewable energy. It did not set a date for the phase-out.

“Some are asking 2030, some are asking 2027, some are saying now,” an EU official said, referring to the member states.

The 27 countries of the EU rely on Russia for 40 per cent of their collective gas needs, 27 per cent of oil imports and 46 per cent of coal imports.

-Reuters

7:15 p.m. ET

White House warns Russia may use chemical weapons in Ukraine

The Biden administration publicly warned Wednesday that Russia might seek to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine as the White House rejected Russian claims of illegal chemical weapons development in the country it has invaded.

Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova this week, without evidence, accused Ukraine of running chemical and biological weapons labs in its territory, supported by the U.S. White House press secretary Jen Psaki called Russia’s claim “preposterous” and said it could be part of an attempt by Russia to lay the groundwork for itself using such weapons of mass destruction against Ukraine.

“This is all an obvious ploy by Russia to try to justify its further premeditated, unprovoked, and unjustified attack on Ukraine,” Psaki tweeted Wednesday. “Now that Russia has made these false claims, and China has seemingly endorsed this propaganda, we should all be on the lookout for Russia to possibly use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine, or to create a false flag operation using them.”

The U.S. for months has warned about Russian “false flag” operations to create a pretext for the invasion. Wednesday’s warning suggested Russia might seek to create a pretense for escalating the two-week old conflict that has seen the Russian offensive slowed by stronger-than-expected Ukrainian defenders, but not stopped.

Pentagon press secretary John Kirby on Wednesday called the Russian claim “a bunch of malarkey.”

The international community for years has assessed that Russia has used chemical weapons before in carrying out assassination attempts against Putin enemies like Alexey Navalny and former spy Sergei Skripal. Russia also supports the Assad government in Syria, which has used chemical weapons against its people in a decade-long civil war.

Asked by a Russian journalist about the claims, United Nations spokesman Stephane Dujarric said. “At this point have no information to confirm these reports or these allegations about these kinds of labs.”

-The Associated Press

7:00 p.m. ET

Russia’s economy is in chaos. These charts show how the crisis will get worse

As Russian President Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine approaches its third deadly week, a financial counteroffensive unleashed by Western governments across multiple fronts has already sunk[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/article-russias-economy-is-in-chaos-these-charts-show-how-the-crisis-will-get/] his country’s economy into a crisis that it may not recover from for years, if ever.

Evidence of Russia’s economic implosion mounts by the day. On Tuesday Fitch Ratings downgraded Russia’s credit rating to junk status and said a default on Russia’s foreign debt obligations is “imminent.”

The rating change came after U.S. President Joe Biden imposed a ban on imports of Russian oil and gas, a move he said targeted “the main artery of Russia’s economy,” which relies heavily on energy exports to fill its coffers.

Meanwhile, more Western companies pulled out of Russia, part of a widening corporate boycott[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/article-trust-between-western-companies-and-their-russian-counterparts-has/] against the invasion. McDonald’s Corp., Coca-Cola Co. and Starbucks Corp. closed their Russian locations Tuesday. A day later, Canadian e-commerce company Shopify Inc. suspended operations in Russia and Belarus.

All told, more than 300 companies had pulled out of Russia as of Wednesday, according to a running list compiled by Yale School of Management professor Jeffrey Sonnenfeld.

The sanctions imposed on the Russian government, officials, individuals, companies and the country’s central bank have been swift and unprecedented. “While there’s robust debate about whether these sanctions will achieve their political goals and convince Mr. Putin to change his behaviour, their economic impact is far more clear cut,” Neil Shearing, chief economist at Capital Economics, wrote in a note this week.

-The Globe and Mail’s Jason Kirby

6:27 p.m. ET

Zelensky calls on West to impose even tougher sanctions on Russia after air strike on Mariupol hospital

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called on the West to impose even tougher sanctions on Russia after the airstrike on the maternity hospital in Mariupol.

“A genocide of Ukrainians is taking place,” Zelensky said Wednesday in his daily late evening video address to the nation. Wearing his now traditional wartime army green, he said the West should strengthen the sanctions so Russia “no longer has any possibility to continue this genocide.”

He said 17 people were injured in the attack, including pregnant women.

Mariupol has been blockaded by Russian troops for nine days. City officials said Wednesday that about 1,200 residents have been killed.

Zelensky again called on Western leaders to impose a no-fly zone over Ukraine, something NATO members have refused to do for fear of provoking a wider war with Russia. Short of that, Zelensky called for the delivery of more fighter jets to Ukraine, a proposal the Pentagon rejected on Wednesday.

Zelensky said about 35,000 civilians have used humanitarian corridors to flee to western Ukraine to escape the fighting.

-The Associated Press

6:12 p.m. ET

Twitter launches privacy-protected version, bypassing Russia’s block

Twitter has launched a privacy-protected[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/international-business/article-twitter-launches-privacy-protected-version-bypassing-russias-block/] version of its site to bypass surveillance and censorship after Russia restricted access to its service in the country.

Russia has blocked access to Facebook and has limited Twitter in an attempt to try to restrict the flow of information about its war in Ukraine. Both companies have said they are working on restoring access to people inside Russia even as they restrict the country’s state media from their services.

Known as an “onion” service, users can access this version of Twitter if they download the Tor browser, which allows people to access sites on what is also referred to as the “dark web.” Instead of .com, onion sites have a .onion suffix.

While the term “dark web” connotes illegal sites such as the now-defunct Silk Road drug market, it is also often used by people seeking to remain anonymous for their safety and also to access sites censored by repressive governments.

Facebook and other sites such as the BBC also have versions accessible on Tor.

-The Associated Press

5:40 p.m. ET

U.S. slams door on providing Ukraine with MiG fighter jets

The Pentagon slammed the door Wednesday on any plans to provide MiG fighter jets to Ukraine, even through a second country, calling it a “high-risk” venture that would not significantly change the Ukrainian Air Force’s effectiveness.

Pentagon press secretary John Kirby told reporters that Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin spoke with his Polish counterpart on Wednesday and told him the U.S. assessment. He said the U.S. is pursuing other options that would provide more critical military needs to Ukraine such as air defense and anti-armor weapons systems.

Poland had said it was prepared to hand over MiG-29 planes to NATO that could then be delivered to Ukraine, but Kirby said U.S. intelligence concluded that it could trigger a “significant” Russian reaction.

-The Associated Press

5:22 p.m. ET

Russian strike hits children’s hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine

5:15 p.m. ET

Kyiv governor calls fight for city ‘Judgement Day’

4:35 p.m. ET

Russian ruble drops to record lows in Moscow amid fresh sanctions

Russia’s ruble tumbled to record lows [https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/international-business/article-russian-ruble-drops-to-record-lows-in-moscow-amid-fresh-sanctions/] in onshore trading on Wednesday despite measures by Moscow to shore up its battered economy and safeguard hard currency availability amid fresh economic sanctions triggered by its invasion of Ukraine.

Catching up after two days of market closure, the ruble jumped to 120.83 to the dollar on the Moscow Exchange before clawing back some losses to close at 120, or 12.5% softer than its Friday close.

It closed 6.3% weaker against the euro at 127 after hitting a record 131 per euro in early trade. Russia’s financial markets have been thrown into turmoil since its invasion of Ukraine prompted severe economic sanctions.

-Reuters

3:50 p.m. ET

Ukraine can’t negotiate with ‘gun to head,’ says Joly as Trudeau presses allies

Canada’s foreign affairs minister called for a ceasefire in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on Wednesday, arguing the Ukrainian government needs the breathing room as it heads into talks with the Putin regime.

“We need to make sure to support Ukrainians while diplomatic talks are happening by imposing maximum pressure … it’s more than that. Because when we do so, we actually give them a lever to negotiate,” Foreign Affairs Minister Mélanie Joly said in an interview Wednesday.

“Right now, it’s not about a diplomatic solution. It’s about saving lives and so that’s why it’s a humanitarian corridor … and there needs to be a ceasefire,” she added.

“Because you can’t negotiate when you have a gun to your head.”

-The Canadian Press

3:32 p.m. ET

Mariupol buries dead in mass grave

Under steady Russian bombardment, workers in Ukraine’s besieged southern port city of Mariupol are hastily and unceremoniously burying scores of dead Ukrainian civilians and soldiers in a mass grave.

With morgues overflowing and more corpses uncollected in homes, city officials decided they could not wait to hold individual burials.

A deep trench about 25 metres long dug in an old cemetery in the heart of the city is filling up with bodies collected by municipal social service workers from morgues and private homes.

Some are brought wrapped in carpets or plastic bags. Forty came Tuesday, another 30 so far Wednesday. They include civilian victims of shelling on the city and soldiers, as well as civilians who died of disease or natural causes.

Other city workers are also bringing bodies so the numbers being buried are quickly rising and the total in the long grave is now unclear. Workers quickly make the sign of the cross after pushing the bodies into the common grave. No family members or other mourners are present to say their goodbyes.

The work is carried out efficiently, and unceremoniously, as a result of the ever-present danger. Shells landed in the cemetery itself Tuesday, interrupting the burials and damaging a wall. The city plans to close this grave Thursday, if the bombardments stop long enough to allow workers to do so.

-The Associated Press

3:20 p.m. ET

NATO to decide by June if buildup in eastern Europe becomes permanent

NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg says leaders of the military alliance will make a decision[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/canada/article-nato-to-decide-by-june-if-buildup-in-eastern-europe-becomes-permanent/] by June on transforming its massive defence buildup in the Baltics and Eastern Europe into a more permanent presence and boosting its ability for rapid response to crises.

Mr. Stoltenberg, the top civilian at the 30-member North Atlantic Treaty Organization, told an Ottawa defence conference that Russia’s military assault on Ukraine will require longer-term changes at the 72-year-old alliance.

Several years ago, NATO member countries deployed about 5,000 troops plus equipment on NATO’s eastern flank after Moscow’s annexation of Crimea and in recent months this force strength has been doubled in the face of Russia’s menacing of Ukraine.

The secretary general was asked Wednesday at the Ottawa Conference on Security and Defence whether NATO would have to move to a permanent defence of its eastern flank, which includes the Baltic States, Poland, as well as Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania. He said decisions will be made this summer.

-The Globe and Mail’s Steven Chase [https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/steven-chase/] and Robert Fife[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/robert-fife/]

3:00 p.m. ET

Hundreds of Russians flee their country for Finland amid sanctions’ heavy economic toll

The 350-seat Allegro train from St. Petersburg was close to capacity as it pulled into Platform 9 of Helsinki’s main train station a few minutes late Wednesday morning. With Finnish airspace now closed to Russian planes, the train – which has ferried passengers 390 kilometres between the two cities for work or pleasure since 2010 – is one of the few remaining routes out[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-hundreds-of-russians-flee-their-country-for-finland-amid-sanctions/] of Russia for anyone who can’t drive or walk.

International sanctions against Moscow in retaliation for its invasion of Ukraine[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-russia-ukraine-crisis-putin-canada-sanctions-explainer/] have inflicted a heavy economic toll on the country. Energy markets have been plunged into a frenzy as Western countries pivot away from Russian oil and gas, and the Kremlin has accused the United States of declaring an economic war on Russia. Moscow has denied reports that it intends to impose martial law, but broad economic uncertainty and fear of conscription have left some Russians worried about the war and its implications.

Now, the Allegro train’s twice-daily trips to Finland are carrying hundreds of them west.

Natalya, a 22-year-old graphic artist from Moscow, got off the train Wednesday morning wrapped against the cold in a maroon and yellow-striped Gryffindor scarf. She didn’t want to give her last name for fear of government reprisals but told The Globe and Mail she planned to stay in Finland for a few days before moving on to other European countries. Ultimately, she hopes to secure a visa to the United States.

-The Globe and Mail’s Emma Graney[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/emma-graney/]

2:50 p.m. ET

Canada can help Europe turn to renewables instead of Russian oil, environment minister says

Environment Minister Steven Guilbeault says Canada cannot realistically help Europe replace its Russian oil imports with Canadian crude or natural gas, but it can and is looking at ways to[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/article-canada-can-help-europe-turn-to-renewables-instead-of-russian-oil/] export renewable energy like hydrogen.

Europe relies on Russia for about one-third of its oil supplies and more than 40 per cent of its natural gas.

The Russian invasion of Ukraine is pushing the continent to cut off that dependency as soon as possible but finding alternative sources is not simple.

Guilbeault says the infrastructure is not there for Canada to get oil and gas to Europe easily and even if it could, European refineries aren’t set up to process the heavy crude Canada produces.

But he says there are ways Canada can work with Europe quickly on exports of clean and renewable energy like hydrogen, which the continent was already starting to move toward.

-The Canadian Press

2:18 p.m. ET

At least 17 wounded after air strike hits Ukraine maternity hospital

A Russian air strike devastated a maternity hospital Wednesday in the besieged port city of Mariupol and wounded at least 17 people, Ukrainian officials said, amid growing warnings from the West that Moscow’s invasion is about to take a more brutal and indiscriminate turn.

The ground shook more than a mile away when the Mariupol complex was hit by a series of blasts that blew out windows and ripped away much of the front of one building. Police and soldiers rushed to scene to evacuate victims, carrying out a heavily pregnant and bleeding woman on a stretcher.

Another woman wailed as she clutched her child. In the courtyard, mangled cars burned, and a blast crater extended at least two stories deep.

“Today Russia committed a huge crime,” said Volodymir Nikulin, a top regional police official, standing in the wreckage. “It is a war crime without any justification.”

-The Associated Press

1:31 p.m. ET

Opinion: Should we call Putin’s bluff? We already have

As the slaughter in Ukraine continues, the calls have grown for the West to do something to stop it – specifically, to exclude Russian aircraft from the skies over Ukraine, creating, as it is called, “a no-fly zone.”

The latest and most remarkable of these is an open letter from a list of American defence and foreign policy experts,[https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.politico.com%2Ff%2F%3Fid%3D0000017f-6668-ddc5-a17f-f66d48630000%26nname%3Dplaybook%26nid%3D0000014f-1646-d88f-a1cf-5f46b7bd0000%26nrid%3D0000015d-a357-df20-adff-b3ff37130000%26nlid%3D630318&data=04%7C01%7CSEfron%40globeandmail.com%7C6a1e1af0a8e84a25bb4f08da014890ec%7C44376110425e46ab942e26c9518bfd03%7C1%7C0%7C637823708991251519%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=3GLo8%2FOQcFdA2WqUwvZdypvSRqSvZTiN1wC4LEustJ8%3D&reserved=0] including the former Supreme Allied Commander of NATO in Europe, the former U.S. ambassadors to Ukraine, Russia and NATO, former top officials in the Defense and State departments, and so on.

Remarkable, because the idea has already been roundly rejected by every NATO head, and even more vociferously by a coterie[https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.vox.com%2Fpolicy-and-politics%2F2022%2F2%2F27%2F22952220%2Fukraine-russia-no-fly-zone-nuclear-war&data=04%7C01%7CSEfron%40globeandmail.com%7C6a1e1af0a8e84a25bb4f08da014890ec%7C44376110425e46ab942e26c9518bfd03%7C1%7C0%7C637823708991407735%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=XJDJisyKhQGndREWdb4Ib%2FgUu9RCuJ0N9DBIKJbV6vA%3D&reserved=0] of pundits[https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwisdomofcrowds.live%2Fthe-ugly-truth-about-no-fly-zones%2F&data=04%7C01%7CSEfron%40globeandmail.com%7C6a1e1af0a8e84a25bb4f08da014890ec%7C44376110425e46ab942e26c9518bfd03%7C1%7C0%7C637823708991407735%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=ch3x3QBuIvVwEAntABQh9QaJ4N51IZHKr8RMiwyTlHc%3D&reserved=0] online[https://can01.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.theatlantic.com%2Fideas%2Farchive%2F2022%2F03%2Fstay-calm-and-dont-advocate-war-against-putin%2F624169%2F&data=04%7C01%7CSEfron%40globeandmail.com%7C6a1e1af0a8e84a25bb4f08da014890ec%7C44376110425e46ab942e26c9518bfd03%7C1%7C0%7C637823708991407735%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000&sdata=Grndf26M4kvLA4cGveR4l6zbmeGVUP1IPaUf72qX8Rs%3D&reserved=0] . The argument is simple. To enforce a no-fly zone, or NFZ, NATO would have to be prepared to shoot down any Russian aircraft that defied the order. It would also have to be prepared to take out Russian anti-aircraft batteries on the ground. That would risk igniting a wider war between Russia and NATO, and that would risk escalating to nuclear. Read full story[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/opinion/article-should-we-call-putins-bluff-we-already-have/] .

- The Globe and Mail’s Andrew Coyne[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/andrew-coyne/]

12:30 p.m.

Nestle, tobacco groups latest companies to pull back from Russia

Nestle, Philip Morris and Imperial Brands joined the list of multinationals stepping back[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/international-business/article-russia-threatens-to-nationalize-foreign-plants-as-more-companies/] from Russia as pressure mounts from consumers in the West to take a stand against the invasion of Ukraine.

The world’s biggest packaged food group fell into line with rivals Procter & Gamble and Unilever in halting investment in Russia, while cigarette maker Philip Morris said it would scale down manufacturing and Imperial went further and suspended it.

The moves came after Coca-Cola and McDonald’s halted sales in Russia, where a senior member of the ruling party has warned that foreign firms which close down could see their operations nationalized.

–Reuters

11:37 a.m.

Ukraine says Russian air strike hit hospital in Mariupol

Ukraine accused Russia on Wednesday of bombing a hospital in the besieged port of Mariupol during a supposed ceasefire to enable some of the hundreds of thousands of civilians trapped in the city to escape.

Russia had said it would hold fire to let civilians flee Mariupol and other besieged cities on Wednesday. But the city council said the hospital had been hit several times.

“The destruction is colossal,” it said in an online post.

President Volodymr Zelensky called it an “atrocity.”

“Direct strike of Russian troops at the maternity hospital. People, children are under the wreckage,” he said on Twitter.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, asked by Reuters for comment on the reported bombing, said: “Russian forces do not fire on civilian targets.”

The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry posted video footage of what appeared to be the badly damaged building of what it said was the children’s and maternity hospital.

The footage showed holes where windows should have been in a three-story building at the hospital, and huge piles of rubble, some of it smouldering. Officials said they did not yet know any casualty figures. The reports could not immediately be verified.

-Reuters

10:17 a.m. ET

WHO cites attacks on health workers in Ukraine

The World Health Organization says it has documented 18 attacks on health facilities, workers and ambulances since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began.

At a press briefing on Wednesday, WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said the U.N. health agency has delivered 81 metric tons of supplies to Ukraine and is now establishing a pipeline to send further equipment. To date, Tedros said WHO had sent enough surgical supplies to treat 150 trauma patients and other supplies for a range of health conditions to treat 45,000 people.

Dr. Michael Ryan, WHO’s emergencies chief, acknowledged that sending medical supplies to Ukraine was unlikely to make a big difference.

“This is putting bandages on mortal wounds right now,” he said.

WHO chief Tedros said some of the main health challenges officials were facing in Ukraine were hypothermia and frostbite, respiratory disease, heart disease, cancer and mental health issues. He added that WHO staffers have been sent to countries neighbouring Ukraine to provide mental health support to fleeing refugees, mostly women and children.

-The Associated Press

9:54 a.m. ET

9:26 a.m. ET

8:39 a.m. ET

Dozens buried in mass grave in Mariupol

City authorities in the besieged southern Ukrainian port city of Mariupol are burying their dead in a mass grave.

With the city under steady bombardment, officials had been waiting for a chance to allow individual burials to resume. But with morgues overflowing, and many corpses uncollected at home, they decided they had to take action.

A deep trench some 25 meters long has been opened in one of the city’s old cemeteries in the heart of the city. Social workers brought 30 bodies wrapped in carpets or bags Wednesday, and 40 were brought Tuesday.

The dead include civilian victims of shelling on the city as well as some soldiers. Workers with the municipal social services have also been collecting bodies from homes, including some civilians who died of disease or natural causes.

No mourners were present, no families said their goodbyes.

-The Associated Press

8:16 a.m. ET

Kremlin tells United States to await response to “economic war”

The Kremlin accused the United States on Wednesday of declaring an economic war on Russia that was sowing mayhem through energy markets, and put Washington on notice it was considering its response to a ban on Russian oil and energy.

Russia’s economy is facing the gravest crisis since the 1991 fall of the Soviet Union after the West imposed heavy sanctions on almost the entire Russian financial and corporate system following Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov cast the West’s sanctions as a hostile act that had roiled global markets and he said it was unclear how far turbulence on global energy markets would go.

“You see the bacchanalia, the hostile bacchanalia, which the West has sown – and that of course makes the situation very difficult and forces us to think seriously,” Peskov told reporters.

“We see that the situation on energy markets is developing rather turbulently – and we don’t know how far that turbulence will go,” Peskov said.

He declined to outline the exact nature of Russia’s response. President Vladimir Putin, Russia’s paramount leader since 1999, will hold a meeting with the government on Thursday to discuss minimizing the impact of sanctions, the Kremlin said.

The West’s attempt to cut off Russia – one of the world’s biggest exporters of oil, gas and metals – has hit commodity markets and raised the spectre of spiralling inflation across the world.

-Reuters

8:02 a.m. ET

Britain exploring donating anti-air missiles to Ukraine

Britain is exploring donating anti-aircraft missiles made by Thales to Ukraine to help it defend its skies from Russian invasion, defence minister Ben Wallace said, adding the technology fell within the definition of defensive weapons.

“It is vital... that Ukraine maintains its ability to fly and suppress Russian air attack,” Wallace told lawmakers.

“In response to Ukrainian requests, the government has taken the decision to explore the donation of STARStreak high-velocity man-portable anti-air missiles. We believe that this system will remain within the definition of defensive weapons, but will allow the Ukrainian force to better defend their skies.”

-Reuters

7:38 a.m. ET

Power outage at Chernobyl could put cooling systems at risk

Ukrainian authorities say the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, site of the world’s worst nuclear disaster, has been knocked off the power grid. Emergency generators are now supplying backup power.

The state communications agency says the outage could put systems for cooling nuclear material at risk.

The cause of the damage to the power line serving Chernobyl was not immediately clear, but it comes amid Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The site has been under control of Russian troops since last week.

Ukrainian grid operator Ukrenerho said that according to the national nuclear regulator, all Chernobyl facilities are without power and the diesel generators have fuel for 48 hours. Without power the “parameters of nuclear and radiation safety” cannot be controlled, it said.

Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said the grid supplying electricity is damaged and called for a ceasefire to allow for repairs.

-The Associated Press

6:07 a.m. ET

Trudeau speaks with Zelensky, promises more military aid for Ukraine

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Wednesday and promised to send more military equipment to Ukraine.

Mr. Trudeau is in Germany for the third day of his whirlwind tour through Europe and will meet with U.S. Vice-President Kamala Harris in Berlin. He will be joined by Deputy Prime Minister Chrystia Freeland on Wednesday for meetings with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. In the last two days, he has met with the leaders of seven NATO countries.

After the morning call, the Prime Minister’s Office said the military equipment was in addition to past announcements, but it didn’t provide details on what was being sent to Ukraine.

Mr. Zelensky also accepted an invitation to address the House of Commons, which will happen in the short term, the Prime Minister’s Office said.

In a separate statement posted to Twitter, Mr. Zelensky said the two discussed “defence co-operation and how to increase sanctions pressure on Russia.” Read full story[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/politics/article-trudeau-speaks-with-zelensky-promises-more-military-aid-for-ukraine/]

-The Globe and Mail’s Marieke Walsh[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/marieke-walsh/]

6:02 a.m. ET

Ukraine attempts more evacuations as heavy fighting with Russia continues

Ukraine attempted once more to evacuate citizens from its shattered cities on Wednesday, while continuing to plead for NATO to close its skies to Russian air strikes.

Ten humanitarian corridors were supposed to open at 9 a.m. local time, five of them to allow for women and children to leave the war-battered suburbs of Irpin, Hostomel, Bucha, Borzel and Borodyanka, all northwest of Kyiv, and travel to the relative safety of the centre of the Ukrainian capital.

Separate corridors were due to see civilians able to leave the front line cities of Mariupol, Sumy, Enerhodar, Izyum and Volnovakha, all of which are in Eastern Ukraine.

“I appeal to the Russian Federation: You have undertaken official public commitments to cease fire from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. We have had negative experiences when the commitments that were undertaken did not work,” Ukraine’s Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said, referring to previous evacuation efforts that collapsed when Russian forces continued to fire in the direction of fleeing civilians. Read full story[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-ukraine-attempts-more-evacuations-as-heavy-fighting-with-russia/] .

-The Globe and Mail’s Mark MacKinnon[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/mark-mackinnon/]

5:19 a.m. ET

Shunning of Russia strains International Space Station partnership

For nearly a quarter century, the International Space Station has circled the globe unbuffeted by political winds down on Earth. But the orbiting facility has never had to weather a schism as bad as the one that now divides Russia from the rest of the station’s partners, including the United States, Canada, Japan and the 22 member countries of the European Space Agency.

When the invasion of Ukraine began, Dmitry Rogozin, head of Russia’s space agency Roscosmos, blasted Western sanctions in a series of tweets and warned that the U.S. was inviting an uncontrolled deorbit of the 500-tonne International Space Station (ISS) on India or China, among other countries it passes over. Last week, he posted a video of partner countries’ national flags being removed from a Russian rocket and, on Tuesday, he sparred with former NASA astronaut Scott Kelly, adding “the death of the #ISS will be on your conscience.”

The war of words has raised questions[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/canada/article-russian-threats-send-international-space-station-into-uncharted/] about whether the invasion of Ukraine could force adjustments in the station’s operations or even hasten its decommissioning if it ceases to be a symbol of post-Cold War amity. Russia is already looking to China as a preferred partner for its future space endeavours.

In the short term, current events are unlikely to affect the day-to-day running of the station, space policy experts say.

- The Globe’s Ivan Semeniuk[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/ivan-semeniuk/]

5:12 a.m. ET

Russia says it prefers to achieve Ukraine goals via talks

Russia will achieve its goal of ensuring Ukraine’s neutral status and would prefer to do that through talks, Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Wednesday.

Moscow’s aims do not include overthrowing the Kyiv government and it hopes to achieve more significant progress in the next round of talks with Ukraine, Zakharova told a briefing, adding that Russia’s military operation was going strictly in line with its plan.

-Reuters

4:53 a.m. ET

IEA says it will draw up plan to cut oil usage as prices surge

The International Energy Agency (IEA) could release more oil from stocks to ease surging fuel prices and will draw up an action plan to swiftly reduce oil usage, the head of the agency said on Wednesday.

Oil prices rocketed higher after Russia, the world’s second-largest crude exporter, invaded Ukraine and the West toughened sanctions on Moscow, stoking fears of supply disruptions to an already tight market.

“Next week, as we did for gas, we are coming up with a 10-point action plan how to reduce oil in a hurry,” Fatih Birol told an energy conference in Paris.

“In oil markets, the most difficult months are the summer months, the so-called ‘driving season’, when the demand goes up, around June-July,” said Birol, executive director of the Paris-based agency, which represents 31 mostly industrialized nations but not Russia.

The United States imposed an immediate ban on Russian oil and other energy imports on Tuesday.

Members of the IEA agreed last week to release 60 million barrels of oil reserves to compensate for supply disruptions following Russia’s invasion.

-Reuters

3:25 a.m. ET

UNHCR head estimates 2.1-2.2 million people have now fled Ukraine

The number of people fleeing Ukraine since the Russian invasion began has probably now reached 2.1-2.2 million people, the head of the United Nation’s refugee agency UNHCR said on Wednesday.

United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi told a news conference during a visit to Stockholm that “the time is now to try to help at the border,” rather than discussions on the division of refugees between countries.

Grandi added that non-EU-member Moldova in particular was very vulnerable in the current situation.

-Reuters

3:23 a.m. ET

Red Cross hopes evacuation corridors improve

The head of the International Committee of the Red Cross says he hopes that corridors to evacuate civilians from under-fire cities in Ukraine will begin to work better after a sputtering start.

ICRC President Peter Maurer told Germany’s Deutschlandfunk radio on Wednesday that his organization has been working for days to bring the warring parties together and encourage them to hold detailed military-to-military talks on enabling civilians to flee.

Maurer said it’s important that agreements succeed “because the military units stand close to each other and the smallest uncertainty, as we have seen in recent days, leads instantly to exchanges of fire, and that makes the escape routes impossible.”

He added: “We hope that it will work better today; in any case, we are talking to the parties and, above all, the parties are talking to each other – that is the most important thing at the moment.”

But, pressed on how confident he is, he added: “I really can’t speculate. But we hope that today a large number can at least get to safety at least from some cities. I wouldn’t venture to speculate how the day will develop in eastern Ukraine in particular.”

-The Associated Press

2:13 a.m. ET

Ukraine says it’s building up defences of key cities

The general staff of Ukraine’s armed forces says the country is building up its defence of key cities in the north, south and east as Russia’s advance has stalled.

In a statement early Wednesday, it said that forces around Kyiv are resisting the Russian offensive with unspecified strikes and “holding the line.”

The Ukrainian general staff said that in the northern city of Chernihiv, Russian forces are placing military equipment among residential buildings and on farms.

And in the south, it said Russians dressed in civilian clothes are advancing on the city of Mykolaiv.

Meanwhile, the administration of the northeastern border city of Sumy says further civilian evacuations are planned Wednesday.

In a Telegram post, regional administration chief Dmytro Zhyvytskyy says a safe corridor will be open from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. and 22 buses that travelled the day before from Sumy southwest to the city of Poltava would return Wednesday afternoon to pick up more people seeking to flee. Priority will go to pregnant women, women with children, the elderly and the disabled.

Sumy is on the Russian border and has seen deadly shelling in recent days. The Sumy-Poltava route is the only one successfully used so far for humanitarian evacuations, and some 5,000 people, including 1,700 foreign students, were brought out Tuesday. Other evacuation efforts stalled or were thwarted by Russian shelling.

-The Associated Press

1:26 a.m. ET

Kyiv wakes up to air raid sirens

Kyiv residents awoke Wednesday to an air raid alert urging them to get to bomb shelters as quickly as possible over fears of incoming Russian missiles.

Kyiv regional administration head Oleksiy Kuleba issued the air raid alert saying there was a “threat of a missile attack” on the Ukrainian capital. “Everyone immediately to shelters,” he said, later lifting the alert as the all-clear was given.

Air raid alerts are common, though irregular, keeping people on edge. Kyiv has been relatively quiet in recent days, though Russian artillery has pounded the outskirts.

Kuleba said the crisis for civilians was growing in the capital, with the situation particularly critical in the city’s suburbs.

“Russia is artificially creating a humanitarian crisis in the Kyiv region, frustrating the evacuation of people and continuing shelling and bombing small communities,” he said.

-The Associated Press

1:20 a.m. ET

Ukraine’s air defences having success against Russian jets, U.K. says

Britain on Wednesday said Ukraine’s air defences were having success against Russian jets, likely preventing Russia from controlling the airspace.

“Ukrainian air defences appear to have enjoyed considerable success against Russia’s modern combat aircraft, probably preventing them achieving any degree of control of the air,” the Ministry of Defence intelligence update posted on Twitter said.

Britain’s assessment also said Russian forces had failed to make any significant breakthroughs in fighting north west of Kyiv.

-Reuters

12:36 a.m. ET

Harris to face questions around Polish fighter jet deal

Vice President Kamala Harris’ trip to Warsaw to thank Poland for taking in hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians fleeing Russia’s invasion took an unexpected turn before she even left Washington. She’ll be parachuting into the middle of unexpected diplomatic turbulence over fighter jets.

The Polish government on Tuesday came out with a plan to transfer its Russian-made fighter planes to a U.S. military base in Germany, with the expectation that the planes would then be handed over to Ukrainian pilots trying to fend off Russian forces. In turn, the U.S. would supply Poland with U.S.-made jets with “corresponding capabilities.”

But the Poles didn’t run that idea past the Biden administration before going public with it, and the Pentagon quickly dismissed the idea as “not tenable.”

And it meant Harris was flying into fractious terrain Wednesday as she opens a two-day visit to Poland and Romania and tries to patch things up.

-The Associated Press

11:54 p.m. ET

Staff at attacked nuclear plant to become propaganda tools, Ukraine says

Ukraine’s energy minister said Russian forces that now control a Ukrainian nuclear plant are forcing the exhausted staff to record an address that they plan to use for propaganda purposes.

Russian troops have been in control of the Zaporizhzhia plant, the largest in Europe, since seizing it an attack on Friday that set a building on fire and raised fears of a nuclear disaster. It was later determined that no radiation was released.

Energy Minister Herman Halushchenko said on Facebook that about 500 Russian soldiers and 50 pieces of heavy equipment are inside the station. He said the Ukrainian staff are “physical and emotionally exhausted.”

Russia describes the war as a “special military operation” and says it is conducting targeted attacks. Halushchenko’s reference to propaganda appears to refer to Russian efforts to show it is not endangering Ukrainian civilians or infrastructure.

-The Associated Press

10:09 p.m. ET

Russia to extend humanitarian corridors Wednesday

Russia said it is ready to provide humanitarian corridors on Wednesday for people fleeing Kyiv and four other Ukrainian cities, as the number of refugees created by the biggest assault on a European country since World War Two surpassed 2 million.

Mikhail Mizintsev, head of Russia’s National Defence Control Centre, was quoted as saying by the Tass news agency that Russian forces would “observe a regime of silence” from 10 a.m. Moscow time to ensure safe passage for civilians wishing to leave Kyiv, Chernihiv, Sumy, Kharkiv and Mariupol.

It was unclear if the proposed routes would pass through Russia or Belarus, conditions previously opposed by the Ukrainian government.

Ukrainian authorities said ceasefire violations once again scuttled attempts to evacuate Mariupol, the city on the Sea of Azov that has been surrounded by Russian troops.[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-putin-russia-ukraine-invasion-war-maps/]

-Reuters

9:47 p.m. ET

Bosphorus ship spotter traces shifting fortunes in Ukraine conflict

A hobby ship spotter from Istanbul has been photographing ships[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-bosphorus-ship-spotter-traces-shifting-fortunes-in-ukraine-conflict/] on the Bosphorus Strait for years and his hobby has helped him predict important geopolitical events: From his terrace in Istanbul, Yoruk Isik has a clear view of the Strait, a key link between Asia and Europe, connecting the Black Sea to the Sea of Marmara, which in turns joins with the Aegean and Mediterranean.

Last week, Turkey implement parts of the Montreux Convention, a 1936 international pact that allows Turkey to limit the transit of warships in the straits, are closed the Bosphorus and the Dardanelles to military traffic.

- Janice Dickson[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/janice-dickson/] in Istanbul

9:13 p.m. ET

Ambulances in Ukraine have become targets in Russian invasion, say medical personnel

Across Ukraine, medical personnel say ambulances have become targets in a Russian invasion that has fired artillery shells on kindergartens[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-russia-promises-evacuations-from-ukraine-but-warns-it-could-cut/] , bombs on apartment blocks and mortars into civilians. On Tuesday, Russian troops near Mykolaiv fired at a minivan emblazoned with red cross markings. Inside were staff travelling to work at a local orphanage. Three women died, Ganna Zamazeeva, head of the Mykolayiv Regional Council, wrote in an impassioned post on Telegram.

“Every day, on the instructions of their Fuhrer, Russian troops commit crimes against humanity on our land,” she wrote.

Ukraine’s medical system has experienced other serious strains in the war. Sixty-one of the country’s hospitals have been knocked out by attacks, Health Minister Viktor Lyashko said Tuesday. He blamed “terrorists from the aggressor country.”

Russia denies taking aim at civilians, in the face of ample documentary evidence to the contrary.

-Nathan VanderKlippe[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/nathan-vanderklippe/]

8:16 p.m. ET

McDonald’s, Coca-Cola, Starbucks join consumer giants suspending business in Russia

McDonald’s Corp., Starbucks Corp., The Coca-Cola Co., PepsiCo Inc. and packaged-goods giant Unilever PLC are suspending operations in Russia.

McDonald’s, which opened its first location in the Soviet Union on downtown Moscow’s Pushkin Square in 1990[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/article-mcdonalds-coca-cola-starbucks-join-suspension-of-business-operations/] , announced that it would temporarily close 847 locations in Russia. The company said it will continue to pay the salaries of the roughly 62,000 people it employs.

Unilever, which owns hundreds of brands including Dove and Knorr, suspended imports and exports of its products in Russia, and cut off advertising spending there, but did not fully halt operations.

Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and Starbucks all announced they would suspend their business operations in Russia, though PepsiCo said it would continue to sell essentials such as milk, baby formula and baby food. Read full story[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/business/article-mcdonalds-coca-cola-starbucks-join-suspension-of-business-operations/] .

- Susan Krashinsky Robertson [https://secure.tgam.arcpublishing.com/websked/stories?at=642762&slug=-&ps=3&sd=desc&sort=updated&starting=today&ending=tomorrow&content=editorial&websites=tgam&hier=tgam]

7:33 p.m. ET

Women make up vast majority of Ukrainian war refugees in Poland

Shortly after Natali Ticegko crossed the border into Poland from Ukraine on Tuesday, someone gave her a bouquet of pink roses in honour of International Women’s Day. She appreciated the gesture and in normal times, she’d join in the celebration. But not now.

Ms. Ticegko, 30, left her husband in Donetsk and she has no idea if he’s dead or alive. “This day for me, it doesn’t matter,” she said as she clutched her five-year-old son. As she waited to register at a refugee shelter in the Polish border town of Krowica Sama, she scrolled through photos of her husband and came close to tears with the flick of each picture. “I don’t care about women’s day this year, maybe after the war.”

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine brought new meaning to International Women’s Day, given the scale of the conflict and the mass of refugees fleeing for safety.

The Ukrainian government’s decision to ban men aged 18 to 60 from leaving the country has meant that the vast majority of the two million people who have fled the fighting have been women.[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-women-make-up-vast-majority-of-ukrainian-war-refugees-in-poland/]

– Paul Waldie in Krowica Sama, Poland[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/authors/paul-waldie/]

6:50 p.m. ET

Pentagon says Poland’s jet offer for Ukraine ‘not tenable’

Poland’s offer to give its MiG-29 fighter jets to the U.S. so they can be passed to Ukraine[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-poland-ready-to-place-all-its-mig-29-jets-at-the-disposal-of-the-us/] raises serious concerns for the NATO alliance and the plan is not “a tenable one,” Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said in a statement.

The prospect of jets departing from a U.S./NATO base in Germany to fly into airspace contested with Russia in the Ukraine war is concerning and the U.S., Kirby said, will continue to talk to Poland about the matter.

Ukraine has been pleading for more warplanes[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-why-does-ukraine-need-foreign-warplanes/] and Washington has been looking at a proposal under which Poland would supply Ukraine with Soviet-era fighters and in turn receive American F-16s to make up for their loss.

A transfer of the MIGs to Ukraine is fraught with complications as neither NATO nor the European Union want to be seen as directly involved in the transaction, which will significantly raise already extreme tensions with Russia. The U.S. has no plan to directly transfer the planes to Ukraine.

Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said any decision about delivering offensive weapons must be made unanimously by NATO members.

-The Associated Press

Russia-Ukraine war live updates from Tuesday, March 8[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-russia-ukraine-live-updates-russia-dangles-prospect-of-safe-corridors/]

Follow this link to view this story on globeandmail.com: Russia-Ukraine updates: Here’s what happened on Mar. 9th[https://www.theglobeandmail.com/world/article-russia-ukraine-live-updates-poland-mig-29-fighter-jets-oil-prices/] The viewing of this article is only available to Globe Unlimited subscribers.

The Globe and Mail

The Globe and Mail Inc.

文件 GMBN000020220609ei690050m


Denmark now backs EU enlargement, says Macron’s plan still unclear]]
EURACTIV Network
1340 字
2022 年 6 月 21 日 07:43 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

In today’s news from the Capitals:

Marking a change in tune, Copenhagen has now said it supports EU enlargement, particularly that of Ukraine as EU leaders are set to meet in Brussels to decide on the bloc’s future.

“We support the European Commission’s opinion on granting Ukraine candidacy status,” Danish Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod told EURACTIV in Luxembourg. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/denmark-now-backs-eu-enlargement-says-macrons-plan-still-unclear/].

///

EU INSTITUTIONS

Czech presidency to allow treaty change if there is ‘strong will,’ says minister. The Czech Presidency will not prevent a call for a Convention to open the treaties if there is a strong will, EU affairs minister Mikuláš Bek said in a press conference on Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/czech-presidency-to-allow-treaty-change-if-there-is-strong-will-says-minister/].

///

EU says Lithuania acted ‘by the book’ in Kaliningrad standoff with Russia. Lithuania was not acting unilaterally and was only applying EU sanctions when it decided to ban the transit of some goods to Russia’s Kaliningrad exclave, the EU’s chief diplomat Josep Borrell said on Monday (20 June), backing up Vilnius in its new row with Moscow. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-says-lithuania-acted-by-the-book-in-kaliningrad-standoff-with-russia/]

///

PARIS

French parties reject proposal for united left-wing parliamentary group. The Socialist Party (PS), Europe Ecologie-Les Verts (EELV) and the French Communist Party (PCF) rejected Jean-Luc Mélenchon’s proposal to form a joint parliamentary group on Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/french-parties-reject-proposal-for-united-left-wing-parliamentary-group/].

///

BERLIN

Germany seizes property of Russian Duma member. Germany seized the property of a Russian Duma member and Putin supporter on Monday over violations of the EU sanction regime for the first time since the sanctions entered into effect. Read the full story here[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/germany-seizes-property-of-russian-duma-member/].

///

VIENNA

Austria doubles speed of solar panel rollout. More than double the solar panel capacity of 2020 was installed in 2021, making the past year by far the Austrian solar industry’s best, the photovoltaic industry association said on Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/austria-doubles-speed-of-solar-panel-rollout/].

///

BRUSSELS

Belgians strike against rising cost of living. The three largest trade unions organised a national strike in Brussels on Monday to protest against wage legislation and demand more purchasing power for workers, kicking off a series of nationwide strikes this week. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/belgians-strike-against-rising-cost-of-living/].

///

THE HAGUE

Dutch to focus on coal to save gas for winter. The Netherlands will be using coal-fired power plants over the coming months to store gas for the upcoming winter, Dutch News reports. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/dutch-to-focus-on-coal-to-save-gas-for-winter/].

NORDICS AND BALTICS

HELSINKI

Finland shuts down Confucius Institute amid censorship, espionage accusations. A cooperation contract between Helsinki University and the Confucius Institute will be terminated following accusations of spreading Chinese soft power, conducting espionage, and an attempt to block discussions on Tibet. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/finland-shuts-down-confucius-institute-amid-censorship-espionage-accusations/].

///

STOCKHOLM

Sweden, Finland discuss NATO application with Turkey. Turkey’s security concerns were discussed with ministers from Sweden and Finland at a meeting organised by NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg in Brussels on Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/sweden-finland-discuss-nato-application-with-turkey/].

EUROPE’S SOUTH

LISBON

Risk of financial crisis ‘cannot be taken off table’, says Bank of Portugal. The risk of the current economic crisis turning into a financial crisis can not be ruled out, and the ECB’s role is to ensure measures to ward it off, the Bank of Portugal governor said on Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/risk-of-financial-crisis-cannot-be-taken-off-table-says-bank-of-portugal/].

///

ROME

Italian regions to declare state of calamity over drought. The Lazio region announced the forthcoming adoption of a drought state of calamity on Monday and the Po valley’s regions are considering doing the same as Italy faces its worst drought in 70 years. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/italian-regions-to-declare-state-of-calamity-over-drought/].

/// 

MADRID

Spain’s socialists on red alert following historic defeat in Andalusia election. Pedro Sánchez’s PSOE has launched an internal “red alert” after the centre-right PP’s absolute majority in Andalusia, EURACTIV’s partner EFE reported. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/spains-socialists-on-red-alert-following-historic-defeat-in-andalusia-election/].

///

ATHENS

EU leaders to pull Erdogan’s ear over new escalation with Greece, again. EU leaders are expected to again condemn Turkey’s fresh escalation against Greece, according to the upcoming EU summit’s draft conclusions seen by EURACTIV. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/eu-leaders-to-pull-erdogans-ear-over-new-escalation-with-greece-again/].

VISEGRAD 

BRATISLAVA

Gazprom lowers gas exports to Slovakia despite roubles payment. Russian energy giant Gazprom cut gas exports to Slovakia by half over the weekend, with lower exports continuing on Monday, gas supplier SPP announced. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/gazprom-lowers-gas-exports-to-slovakia-despite-roubles-payment/].

///

WARSAW

Ukraine becomes ‘participating partner’ of Three Seas Initiative. The Three Seas Initiative’s (3SI) member states have granted Ukraine participating partner status to the group and supported its efforts to join the EU, Polish President Andrzej Duda announced at Monday’s 3SI summit in Riga. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/ukraine-becomes-participating-partner-of-three-seas-initiative/].

///

PRAGUE

Majority of disabled people face attacks in Czechia. Disabled people are frequent victims of violence in the Czech Republic and only a fraction of those attacked reported it to the police, according to a survey conducted by In IUSTITIA. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/majority-of-disabled-people-face-attacks-in-czechia/].

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

SOFIA

Sofia gives hope for lifting North Macedonia veto. With days to go before EU leaders discuss enlargement at the EU summit, Sofia has given a bit of hope that its veto over North Macedonia opening accession talks could be lifted. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/sofia-gives-hope-for-lifting-north-macedonia-veto/].

///

BUCHAREST

EU Commission approves Romania’s green scheme. The Commission approved a €500 million scheme to support the growth of new forest areas, a part of Romania’s strategy to ensure the protection of forests and biodiversity. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/eu-commission-approves-romanias-green-scheme/].

///

ZAGREB

Croatia eyes major upgrade of Adriatic LNG terminal, PM says. Croatia plans to upgrade the capacity of its floating Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) terminal from the current 2.9 billion cubic metres per year to 6.1 bcm, Prime Minister Andrej Plenković announced at Three Seas Initiative in Riga on Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/croatia-eyes-major-upgrade-of-adriatic-lng-terminal-pm-says/].

///

LJUBLJANA 

Slovenian public broadcaster continues strike amid escalating tensions. Journalists at the broadcaster RTV Slovenija continued striking on Monday amid escalating tensions with the leaders they accused of destroying Slovenia’s largest public media outlet. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/slovenian-public-broadcaster-continues-strike-amid-escalating-tensions/].

///

BELGRADE 

COE observes series of flaws in Serbian electoral process. A series of irregularities and deficits across the electoral process was identified in the 3 April parliamentary and presidential elections in Serbia by a delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/coe-observes-series-of-flaws-in-serbian-electoral-process/]. 

///

PRISTINA

Kosovo cautiously hopeful for visa liberalisation. Kosovo has received signs there may be a reason to hope for visa liberalisation after all as European and Western Balkan leaders prepare for a busy week in Brussels. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/kosovo-cautiously-hopeful-for-visa-liberalisation/].

///

PRISTINA | TIRANA

Kosovo, Albania, sign 19 agreements at eighth bilateral meeting. The governments of Kosovo and Albania have signed 19 new agreements and memoranda concerning the free movement of people and goods, as well as matters of education, trade, and tourism. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/kosovo-albania-sign-19-agreements-at-eighth-bilateral-meeting/].

Agenda:

* EU: European affairs ministers meet ahead of EU Summit, General Affairs Council.

* EU Chief Diplomat Josep Borrell holds a video conference call with G7 Foreign Ministers and participates in EU-Western Balkans leaders’ meetings.

* Home Affairs Commissioner Ylva Johansson and Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders receive Bulgarian Minister of Justice Nadejda Iordanova.

* Vice-President Věra Jourová meets Minister of Justice of the Republic of Moldova Sergiu Litvinenco.

* European Parliament President Roberta Metsola meets Finnish President Sauli Niinistö, and a press conference will follow.

* European Parliament Committee meetings.

* Germany: Chancellor Olaf Scholz hosts Lithuania’s PM Ingrida Simonyte.

* France: Funeral of Frederic Leclerc-Imhoff, BFMTV journalist killed in Ukraine.

* Austria: State parties to the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons hold the first meeting.

* Italy: Prime Minister Mario Draghi addresses parliament ahead of EU Summit.

* Budapest: The parliament will start discussions on a no-confidence vote for the government of Kiril Petkov. It is still unclear whether the cabinet will gain 121 votes to stay in power.

* Serbia: New round of Belgrade-Pristina dialogue at chief negotiator level, focusing on energy agreement.

* Western Sahara: Morocco-Spain Business Forum.

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Vlad Makszimov, Daniel Eck, Benjamin Fox, Zoran Radosavljevic, Alice Taylor, Eleonora Vasques, Sofia Stuart Leeson]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220621ei6l00004


The Impact Of The War In Ukraine On In-house Legal Departments
Katja Hollmén
987 字
2022 年 6 月 22 日
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
英文
(c) 2022 Mondaq Ltd
The war in Ukraine has affected also Finnish businesses in many ways. What kind of legal issues has the war brought to the in-house legal departments and to the General Counsels' desks?

Janne TaalasThese questions were the key topics at our General Counsel luncheon seminar on May 25th, 2022. The seminar began with welcoming words by our Senior Partner Jan Ollila, who invited , Managing Partner of CMI, on stage. In his thought-provoking speech, Taalas encouraged people to practise scenario thinking, and to begin imagining things that we all thought "would never happen". He inspired people to widen their worldviews and to pay close attention to the three main drivers of our future: the climate, the geopolitical situation and the risks and opportunities relating to technological advances.

"Trust and geographical stability gone, the negotiation dynamics between Ukraine and Russia will be defined by the dynamics on the battle field", Taalas said.

"Day-to-day GDPR compliance work and diligent processes are one of the best ways to protect the companies against cyber attacks", says Partner Jukka Lång.

Partner Jussi Lehtinen spoke about the challenges and the possible routes for terminating contractual relationships based on ethical reasons.

Juha HölttäTarja TudorChristian StåhlbergAfter short speeches from Partner Jukka Lång and Partner Jussi Lehtinen, it was time for the live panel discussion moderated by Partner Hanna-Mari Manninen. The panel consisted of legal counsels from large Finnish companies, who had carried out divestments, halted or driven down local business operations and/or ended export to and import from Russia. In the panel , General Councel of Valio, , Compliance Director of Metsä Group and , General Counsel of Neste, shared their insight and experiences on the effects of the war in Ukraine on their legal teams.

Partner Hanna-Mari Manninen served as the moderator of the seminar and the panel.

Q: In times of crisis and major turnarounds, new kind of solutions and actions have been required from your engineers but undoubtedly also from your legal teams. Describe the role of your team during the crisis and the demands you were faced with.

All panelists agreed that legal and compliance functions have been in a central role because the changing rules have caused a constant need for the business areas and other corporate functions - ranging from procurement, logistics, finance and communication - to receive updated information and practical guidance. Juha Hölttä brought up their strong co-operation with the communication function, which proved to be extremely valuable and relevant in their divestment case. Tarja Tudor for her part highlighted the tremendous importance of expertise they already had in international trade and export control, as well as the value of understanding the "know your business partner" -world and having adequate tools for KYBP/KYC processes already in place when this crisis began.

Christian Ståhlberg stressed preparedness. He emphasized the value of holistic thinking and the importance of crisis and continuity plans made in advance. As a newer trend, Ståhlberg spotlighted the role and significance of the companies' own personnel, especially the younger generation, who have an increasingly strong voice in terms of what is mandatory and what is the right way of doing things.

In addition to continuous discussions on corporate responsibility and ethics, the main legal issues related to resolving the trade sanctions and managing the chain reaction effects of the trade sanctions on existing international contracts.

Q: Legal matters and ethics are intermingled. What have been the most demanding issues for you in this respect?

Panelists agreed that being ethical and responsible requires comprehensive, analytical thinking and taking into account many variables, perspectives and consequences, which are not always obvious to the public. Not surprisingly, one of the most demanding issues has been the public pressure versus the internal pressure for making legally solid decisions as a responsible, ethical company.

Q: Have you used outside counsels? Did you organise differently internally?

All panelists have been using their trusted legal advisors where needed, some more and some less. They all agreed that a time of crisis is not the best time to make new connections or trying out a new law firm. "The pre-requisite for an in-house counsel to contact an attorney in a crisis is that the attorney in question has regularly been in contact with the company before the crisis, so that the business and its risks are familiar to her ", said Tarja Tudor.

All panelists emphasized the importance of a well-organised internal communication process so that all relevant information reaches all relevant parties in a timely manner. All companies had set up specific key teams and/or dedicated task forces, such as a "trade sanction task force" in Neste, set up in the beginning of the crisis.

Q: We have entered into an era of uncertainty. How should the legal and compliance functions prepare for the upcoming crisis?

While the panelists admitted, that it is crucial to think about alternative scenarios and plan carefully for the steps and processes to follow in times of crisis, it is also equally important to act and focus on matters that are actually on the table right now. What the past few years have taught is that companies in general need to have adequate resources insourced and to be constantly alert and be ready to recruit also new kind of expertise and knowledge, such as professionals in geopolitics or ethics, to safeguard fast adaptation to changing situations.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2022 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com[http://www.mondaq.com]

Ms Katja Hollmén

Dittmar & Indrenius

Pohjoisesplanadi 25A

Helsinki

00100

FINLAND

Tel: 9681700

Fax: 9652406

E-mail: elina.immonen-seise@dittmar.fi

URL: www.dittmar.fi/[http://www.dittmar.fi/]

Mondaq Limited

文件 BBPUB00020220622ei6m0008u


News
The West rises against Putin: Finland warns Russia it is ready to fight them and US declares NATO's 'ironclad' support for Lithuania as Moscow's fury grows over Kaliningrad blockade
Rachael Bunyan For Mailonline
5905 字
2022 年 6 月 22 日 15:18 GMT
Mail Online
DAMONL
英文
Copyright 2022
* Finland's armed forces chief said the country has been preparing for war against Russia for decades

* Lithuania blocked goods sanctioned by the EU from reaching the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad

* US said it would defend fellow NATO member Lithuania if Russia launched attack

* Russia vowed to retaliate with measures that 'will have a serious negative impact on the Lithuanian population' after country blocked coal and metals from Russia

Finland has warned Russia it is ready for war while the US said any attack on Lithuania would be an attack against all of NATO as the spectre of World War Three looms over the West.

Finnish armed forces chief General Timo Kivinen said the country has been preparing for a Russian attack for decades and would put up stiff resistance should one occur, its armed forces chief said.

The Nordic country has built up a substantial arsenal, but aside from the military hardware, a crucial factor is that Finns would be motivated to fight, Kivinen said.

'The most important line of defence is between one's ears, as the war in Ukraine proves at the moment,' Kivinen said in an interview.

Meanwhile the United States today said its support for Lithuania is 'ironclad' and that any attack on the country would 'constitute an attack on all NATO members'.

It comes after Moscow threatened its neighbour with 'serious repercussions' for blocking EU-sanctioned goods from reaching the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad.

Adding to the heightened global tensions, French armed forces conducted a surprise military exercise in Estonia, Chinese and Russian warships sailed near the Japanese coast, and Germany warned Russia not to seek reprisals over Lithuania.

The US State Department said Washington would defend NATO member Lithuania if Russia decided to launch an assault on the country, threatening a huge escalation of the Ukraine war.

Finland also angered Russia by applying to join NATO in response to concerns over Putin's aggression.

Finland fought two wars in the 1940s against its eastern neighbour, with which it shares a 1,300-km (810-mile) border.

Since World War Two, Helsinki has kept up a high level of military preparedness.

'We have systematically developed our military defence precisely for this type of warfare that is being waged there (in Ukraine), with a massive use of firepower, armoured forces and also airforces,' Kivinen said.

'Ukraine has been a tough bite to chew (for Russia) and so would be Finland.'

Some 100,000 Finns were killed during the two wars Finland fought against the Soviet Union and it lost a tenth of its territory.

The nation of 5.5 million has a wartime troop strength of some 280,000 with 870,000 trained as reservists. It did not abolish military conscription for males as many other western nations did after the end of the Cold War.

It has also built one of Europe's strongest artilleries and has stocked up on cruise missiles with a range of up to 370 km (230 miles). It spends 2% of its GDP on defence, a level higher than many NATO countries.

It is ordering four new warships, as well as 64 F-35 fighter jets from U.S. defence giant Lockheed Martin.

It plans to order up to 2,000 drones, its own high altitude anti-aircraft equipment and is building barriers on its border with Russia.

Some 82 per cent of respondents in a May 18 poll by the defence ministry said they would be willing to participate in national defence if Finland was attacked.

Still, Kivinen welcomed Finland's decision to apply to join NATO. Finland and fellow Nordic country Sweden are in talks with Turkey to discuss the latter's opposition to their applications.

Russian and Chinese warships stalk seas off Japan amid Ukraine and Taiwan tensions

Russian and Chinese warships have been spotted near Japan this week amid soaring tensions over Ukraine and Taiwan.

A five-ship Russian flotilla led by an anti-submarine destroyer were observed by Japanese forces in the Tsushima Strait, separating Japan from South Korea.

The flotilla has been near Japanese islands for a week, moving from Hokkaido in the north to Okinawa in the south.

Two Chinese warships and a supply ship were also seen yesterday in the Izu Islands, 300 miles south of Tokyo.

One appeared to be the Lhasa Type-55 guided-missile destroyer, one of China's most powerful surface ships, CNN[https://edition.cnn.com/2022/06/22/asia/japan-russia-china-warships-intl-hnk-ml/index.html] reported.

James Brown, associate professor of political science at Temple University in Tokyo, said: 'This is an obvious show of force from both Russia and China.

'These activities are a major worry for Japan. Not least, tracking the movements of both Russian and Chinese military forces are a strain on the resources of the Japan Self Defense Forces.'

Japan has not claimed the Russian and Chinese forces were coordinating their actions.

Ankara has been angered by what it says is Helsinki and Stockholm's support for Kurdish militants and arms embargoes on Turkey.

NATO membership would allow Finland to boost its early warning capacity by being part of the alliance's joint airspace control, Kivinen said.

Finland would also benefit from the deterrence of being part of an alliance in which an attack on one member is an attack on all its members, he said.

Nevertheless, he said, 'the main responsibility for Finland's defence will still be borne by Finland'.

Meanwhile, the US State Department spokesman Ned Price said today: 'We stand by our NATO allies and we stand by Lithuania.

'Specifically our commitment to NATO's Article Five - the premise that an attack on one would constitute an attack on all - that commitment on the part of the United States is ironclad,' he said.

Russia has vowed to retaliate against Lithuania with measures that 'will have a serious negative impact on the Lithuanian population' after the country blocked coal, metals, construction materials and advanced technology from mainland Russia to Kaliningrad.

Russia's Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov hit back and warned the West to stop talking about triggering NATO's Article 5 mutual defence clause in a standoff between Lithuania and Russia.

'I would like to warn Europeans against dangerous rhetorical games on the topic of conflict,' the Interfax news agency quoted Ryabkov as saying on Wednesday.

The Kremlin meanwhile said today that the EU sanctions that led Lithuania to block the transit of some goods to Kaliningrad were 'absolutely unacceptable', and that Moscow was working on retaliatory measures.

Lithuania has shut the route to steel and other ferrous metals, which it says it is required to do under EU sanctions that took effect on Saturday, imposed in response to Russia's decision to send its armed forces into Ukraine.

Kaliningrad is connected to the rest of Russia by a rail link through Lithuania, a member of the EU and NATO.

'We are convinced that the illegal sanctions adopted by the European Union are absolutely unacceptable in this situation,' Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said in a call with reporters, adding that countermeasures were being prepared.

But Peskov and Russian officials have remained tight-lipped about the exact nature of Moscow's response.

Earlier on Wednesday, foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said Russia's retaliation would not be exclusively diplomatic but also practical. She also did not elaborate.

Meanwhile, Russia's Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev said on Tuesday: 'Russia will certainly respond to such hostile actions. Relevant measures are being worked out in the interdepartmental format and will be taken in the near future.'

'Their consequences will have a serious negative impact on the population of Lithuania,' Patrushev, a former KGB spy, added.

Asked about Russia's statements, Price said, 'We aren't going to speculate on Russian saber-rattling or Russian bluster and don't even want to give it additional airtime.'

Price added that the US welcomed the 'unprecedented economic measures' taken by Lithuania and other nations against Russia over its invasion.

Germany also warned Russia not to seek reprisals over Lithuania's rail transit ban, saying it 'firmly rejects' the threat of 'serious' consequences for the transit stop, government spokesman Steffen Hebestreit said at a regular press conference.

Russia changes the address of US embassy in Moscow - to include the name of pro-Russian separatists in Ukraine

Authorities in Moscow said on Wednesday that they have changed the official address of the US embassy building in the Russian capital to one named after pro-Kremlin separatists in Ukraine.

'The United States embassy in Russia has a new official address,' Moscow city hall said in a statement, saying it had named a previously unnamed open area in front of the embassy's main entrance.

It said the embassy is now located at 1 Donetsk People's Republic Square, referring to a breakaway region in eastern Ukraine that Moscow recognised as independent shortly before sending troops there.

The embassy's previous address was 8 Bolshoi Devyatinsky Lane.

The statement added that the change was made after Moscow councillors proposed honouring the 'defenders of Donbas' - a majority Russian-speaking region in Ukraine that Russia says it is liberating as part of its military campaign - on the map of Moscow.

The new address was chosen in a public vote in which nearly 280,000 people participated, the city hall said.

In February 2018, a street outside the Russian embassy in Washington was named after Boris Nemtsov, an opposition politician who was shot dead outside the Kremlin in 2015.

Germany called on Russia 'not to take any measures that violate international law', Hebestreit said.

The situation in Lithuania was such that Germany and its NATO partners were offering 'massive support' in the form of 'soldiers, weapons' and 'equipment', German Defence Minister Christine Lambrecht said later on Wednesday.

'We will not give a millimetre' of NATO territory, Lambrecht said.

'That is the strength that we have shown in recent weeks and which (Russian President Vladimir) Putin probably did not expect,' she said.

Germany has pledged to deploy more troops to Lithuania to strengthen NATO's eastern flank, which borders Russia.

Meanwhile, French armed forces conducted a surprise military exercise in Estonia, deploying more than 100 paratroopers in the Baltic country that neighbours Russia, the French defence ministry said.

The airborne operation conducted on Tuesday night and dubbed Thunder Lynx 'enabled, at very short notice, the dropping of about 100 paratroopers' from France's 11th Airborne Brigade 'over an area secured by Estonian soldiers,' the statement said.

The hastily organised exercise in Estonia, a NATO ally, was executed as an act of 'strategic solidarity' amid Russia's war in Ukraine.

'The airborne operation illustrates the ability of the French armed forces to intervene, in emergency, and support an allied country,' a French defence ministry statement said.

France was one of the first countries to send its troops to Europe's eastern flank following Russia's invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24.

France has around 500 soldiers deployed to Romania as part of NATO's Rapid Reaction Force and has been a key player in NATO's bolstering of forces on the alliance's eastern flank since the war started.

In May, France deployed an air defense system to Romania that NATO said 'can ensure protection to the forces operating within the area.' During a recent visit to the French troops stationed in Romania, French President Emmanuel Macron emphasized his country's commitment to 'defend Europe as war is being waged again.'

It comes as retired Russian general Evgeny Buzhinsky urged Putin to send nuclear weapons to Kaliningrad.

The President's spokesman also weighed in, warning Moscow will never trust the West again following the move.

Lt-Gen Evgeny Buzhinsky told Russian state TV that the West is playing with fire after deliveries of coal, metals, construction materials and advanced technology were stopped from entering the Russian territory via NATO state Lithuania.

Buzhinsky said Lithuania's decision to ban the delivery of sanctioned goods to Kaliningrad, a Russian outpost on the Baltic Sea surrounded by EU territory, was a 'threat' to Russia's national security.

Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov meanwhile warned that all trust has now evaporated between the West and Moscow.

'Relations between Russia and the West will not be back to the previous level, because Moscow will never again trust such 'partners',' he told MSNBC. 'It will be a lengthy crisis, but we will never trust the West again.'

The threats come after the Kremlin warned of 'very tough actions' against Lithuania if it did not reverse its 'openly hostile move'.

Patrushev, one of Putin's top allies, arrived in Kaliningrad on Tuesday to discuss national security amid the row with NATO member Lithuania.

RIA said the trip, which included a discussion about transport, was planned before Vilnius banned the transit of goods sanctioned by the European Union through Lithuanian territory to and from the exclave, citing EU sanction rules.

History of Kaliningrad

The latest diplomatic crisis between Moscow and the West is over the Russian territory of Kaliningrad, a port on the Baltic Sea that is home to nearly a million Russians and connected to the rest of Russia by a rail link through EU- and NATO-member Lithuania.

Kaliningrad was formerly the German port city of Koenigsberg, capital of East Prussia, after being founded in 1255.

For centuries, it remained a German city and eventually came under the control of Adolf Hitler's Nazi Germany.

But the city was captured from the Nazis by the Red Army in April 1945 and ceded to the Soviet Union after the Second World War.

The Soviet Union renamed the city Kaliningrad in 1946. The city was rebuilt and became a major industrial and commercial centre.

The German population of Kaliningrad was evicted from the city in 1947 and settled in what was then East and West Germany.

Thousands of people from Russia and Belarus moved to the city, which was designated as a 'closed military zone' by the communist authorities. This meant that the city was closed to foreigners until 1991.

In order to increase investment in Kaliningrad, the Soviet Union created a special economic zone that exempts most imported and exported goods from customs duties. It meant that trade could easily be moved from Kaliningrad to Russia via Lithuania and Belarus.

Russia's foreign ministry on Tuesday also summoned the European Union ambassador to Moscow, Markus Ederer, over the 'anti-Russian restrictions' on the transit of sanctioned goods to Kaliningrad.

'The inadmissibility of such actions, which violate the relevant legal and political obligations of the European Union and lead to an escalation of tensions, was pointed out,' the ministry said in a statement.

In response, Ederer urged Russia on Tuesday to refrain from 'escalatory steps and rhetoric' over what Moscow calls 'anti-Russian restrictions', an EU spokesperson said.

'He conveyed our position on Russia's aggression against Ukraine and explained that Lithuania is implementing EU sanctions and there is no blockade, and asked them to refrain from escalatory steps and rhetoric,' spokesperson Peter Stano said.

The Lithuanian government stressed in a written statement Tuesday that 'the transit of passengers and non-sanctioned goods to and from the Kaliningrad region through Lithuania continues uninterrupted,' and that the ban on transit of sanctioned goods was merely part the fourth package of EU sanctions against Russia.

Top Lithuanian officials decried Russia's reaction to the measure as an attempt by the Kremlin to wind up a propaganda campaign trying to create an image of a 'blockade' mainly for internal consumption.

'It's ironic to hear rhetoric about alleged violations of international treaties from a country which has violated possibly every single international treaty,' Lithuanian Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte told reporters.

'There is no Kaliningrad blockade,' Simonyte said. 'Lithuania is implementing EU sanctions.'

Meanwhile, Buzhinsky said 'Russia won't stop' defending its territory, 'otherwise they'll deprive us of Kaliningrad'.

He also threatened Britain will 'physically cease to exist' if the new standoff in Lithuania triggers a nuclear Third World War.

The Lithuanian chargé d'affaires in Moscow was told that unless cargo transit was resumed to Kaliningrad in the near future, Russia reserves the right to act to protect its national interests.

The Russian foreign ministry said: 'We consider provocative measures of the Lithuanian side which violate Lithuania's international legal obligations, primarily the 2002 Joint Statement of the Russian Federation and the European Union on transit between the Kaliningrad region and the rest of the Russian Federation, to be openly hostile.'

Loyalist senator Andrey Klimov warned it was 'direct aggression against Russia, literally forcing us to immediately resort to proper self-defence'.

Any direct Russian attack on alliance member state Lithuania would be seen as an act of war against NATO and could spark a world war.

Buzhinsky, speaking on the state-owned Russian television channel Russia 1, said the situation is 'deeply serious', and claimed the West had ulterior motives.

'This is a long game to push us out from the Baltic Sea, an attempt to block and cut Kaliningrad off, and finally take it away from us,' he claimed.

The West intended to 'block Kaliningrad economically, completely, until our people howl from destitution', Buzinsky added.

Buzhinsky, who served in senior positions in the Russian defence ministry, said: 'We have to take very decisive steps, starting with diplomatic steps'.

These included nullifying the Soviet recognition of Lithuania's independence.

Putin should 'disavow the 1991 recognition of Lithuania, disavow the agreement with the EU on Lithuania, including on their borders, then switch Lithuania off from energy,' Buzhinsky said.

'And then finally we must take military measures,' he said. He urged the Kremlin to take control of the so-called Suvalkovsky corridor - the supply route across Lithuania from Russian ally Belarus.

'We need to demonstratively move nuclear weapons to Kaliningrad... We've got to do something. We've got to strengthen our military presence at the border with Lithuania as we did in December last year, and January this year at the border with Ukraine.

'Tell the Americans, first via confidential channels, that they are playing with fire.

'You guys will actually play to the point that Russia won't stop, because this is a threat to our national security, an attempt on our sovereign territory. The world will feel it. Ukrainian grain will feel like a joke compared to our decisive steps.'

Pro-Putin TV anchor Yevgeny Popov then asked: 'In other words, this is a war with NATO?'

Buzhinsky responded: 'Yes - what else do we do? Otherwise they'll simply strangle us. We can't stop, otherwise they'll deprive us of Kaliningrad.'

Meanwhile, Gen. Buzhinksy also lashed out at British general Sir Patrick Sanders, who took command of the UK's land forces this week with a rallying call to troops to prepare to fight and beat Russian forces in a Third World War.

'He doesn't understand that as a result of the Third World War Britain will physically cease to exist,' said Buzhinsky.

'The island will vanish, so I've no idea where he or his descendants will live.'

In his message to troops, Gen. Sanders had said: 'I am the first Chief of the General Staff since 1941 to take command of the Army in the shadow of a land war in Europe involving a continental power.

'The scale of the enduring threat from Russia shows we've entered a new era of insecurity.

'It is my singular duty to make our Army as lethal and effective as it can be. The time is now and the opportunity is ours to seize.'

On Tuesday, the UK's foreign minister Liz Truss said the British government is determined to impose further sanctions on Russia, as she promised more support for Ukraine.

'We are determined to provide more weapons, impose more sanctions and back Ukraine in pushing Russia out of their territory,' Truss told parliament.

Truss said she would be travelling to Turkey on Wednesday to discuss options to help get grain out of Odesa, saying that there was only a matter of weeks to find a solution.

Britain, the United States and the European Union have coordinated in imposing massive sanctions on Moscow for what they call an invasion of Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin has termed it a military operation.

'We will continue to impose sanctions, we will continue to stop importing goods from Russia until we see Russia fully withdraw from Ukraine,' Truss said.

Britain has targeted Russian businessmen, politicians, religious leaders and businesses as part of its wide-ranging sanctions on Moscow.

Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova called the West's action against Kaliningrad 'openly hostile'.

'Lithuania must understand that the characterisation of Vilnius's actions on Kaliningrad transit as 'hostile' means the time for talks has gone,' she told pro-Kremlin TV presenter Vladimir Solovyov.

'It is them [the Lithuanian authorities] who behave aggressively.

'They have crossed the line of international law and towards unfriendly, rough actions.

'It is them who behave provocatively, aggressively - hostile.'

Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said his country was simply implementing sanctions imposed by the EU.

He said the measures implemented were taken after 'consultation with the European Commission and under its guidelines.'

'Sanctioned goods (will) no longer be allowed to transit Lithuanian territory,' Landsbergis added.

The country's prime minister, Ingrida Simonyte, also said that any claims about the blockade of Kaliningrad is a product of Kremlin propaganda.

'It's just that EU sanctions have come into force on some of the goods included in the package, namely steel and ferrous metals. The transportation of all other goods that are either unsanctioned or not yet subject to sanctions is continuing, as is the transit of passengers' she said, noting the great irony behind Russia's references to international treaties.

'I don't know if there's any international treaty left that Russia hasn't violated yet,' Simonyte said.

Lithuania had informed Kaliningrad's railways that from June 18 the transit of some goods from Russia was limited due to EU sanctions.

The foreign ministry emphasised it has not imposed 'unilateral, individual or additional' restrictions.

But Russia disagrees, with Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov saying: 'This decision is really unprecedented. It's a violation of everything.'

He warned: 'We consider this illegal. The situation is more than serious... we need a serious in-depth analysis in order to work out our response.'

The Kaliningrad governor Anton Alikhanov said the move was illegal and violated the agreements that the country committed to when joining the EU.

Konstantin Kosachyov, senate deputy speaker, claimed Lithuania was flouting international law in banning goods reaching Lithuania from Russia via Belarus.

The Kaliningrad exclave, home to some 430,000 people, is surrounded by Lithuania and Poland, another EU country, to the south and isolated from the rest of Russia. Trains with goods for Kaliningrad travel via Belarus and Lithuania.

There's no transit through Poland. Russia can still supply the exclave by sea, without falling foul of EU sanctions.

Russian state TV reporter Grigory Yemelyanov, from Channel 1, warned over footage of blocked trains: 'The attempt to isolate the region is - from the point of view of international law - in fact a casus belli, a term meaning a formal reason to declare war.'

Another senator Andrey Klishas stated: 'Lithuania's attempt to establish a virtual blockade of the Kaliningrad region is a violation of Russia's sovereignty over this region and may be the basis for very tough and absolutely legal actions on the part of Russia.'

Putin foe Mikhail Khodorkovsky warned in The Financial Times that the Kremlin leader's 'next step' would be an 'air blockade' of Lithuania.

'It will allow Russian aviation to fly right through between Russia and Kaliningrad. Then Nato will face a question of what to do.'

Former Russian presidential candidate Ksenia Sobchak - a TV presenter - warned: 'After Lithuania banned the transit of sanctioned goods to the Kaliningrad region through its territory, Russian politicians and the media have started talking …the basis for declaring war.'

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba tweeted: 'Russia has no right to threaten Lithuania. Moscow has only itself to blame for the consequences of its unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine.'

Kremlin henchmen were also warning of the threat of war in Kazakhstan after Putin was 'humiliated' by Kazakh leader Kassym-Jomart Tokayev when they shared a platform together on Friday at Russia's major economic summit in St Petersburg.

Tokayev snubbed Putin by refusing to recognise as independent states the Donetsk and Luhansk people's republics.

One account said Putin was 'literally furious' and felt humiliated. He was ready for 'revenge'.

Pro-Putin MP Konstantin Zatulin warned of 'Ukraine-like measures' from Russia in Kazakhstan.

Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov warned Kazakhstan: 'You've got to stand with Russia and show your position, and not be scared of US and EU sanctions.'

Kazakhstan and other ex-Soviet states were 'all silent, fearing the sanctions of America or Europe'.

An oil exporting terminal in Kazakhstan had been disrupted by Russia, according to reports.

In another report General SVR channel claimed Putin has not ruled out a major mobilisation of half a million men in five regions of western Russia close to Ukraine.

This could happen if Ukraine hit civilian and military facilities on a continued basis.

The regions mentioned were Bryansk, Kursk, Belgorod, Voronezh and Rostov.

Ukrainian reports said that Putin is seeking to pressure Belarus dictator Alexander Lukashenko into opening a second front by invading Volyn, Rivne and Kyiv regions.

Elsewhere today, Ukraine claimed a 'significant' victory against Putin's Black Sea forces after pounding the Russian garrison on the strategic Snake Island.

The southern operational command said it had 'aimed strikes with the use of various forces' on the island, causing major losses to Kremlin troops.

Satellite images show the damage wrought by Kyiv forces, with burning vegetation and a tower destroyed in the fight for the island.

The Russian Pantsir anti-aircraft system, a radar station and vehicles were all damaged in the attacks on the island which has been a major battleground throughout the war.

It is just the latest blow for Putin who has suffered 'extraordinary' losses with pro-Russian separatists in Donetsk losing 55 per cent of its troops, British intelligence said today.

The Ministry of Defence said Russia's outdated weapons and equipment have hampered their success, and the Kremlin will now have to deploy reserve units to the Donbas to make up for the losses.

The 100-acre Snake Island outpost has proved to be a valuable strategic position for both sides, sitting some 80 miles off Ukraine's southern coastline in the Black Sea.

Russia seized the island early in the war and has largely managed to maintain control of it, but its forces there have been subject to bombing raids ever since.

In February, Ukrainian border guard Roman Hrybov on Snake Island famously radioed 'Russian warship, go f*** yourself' to Russian officers aboard the Moskva.

Hrybov and his crew were thought dead after the Moskva bombarded the island with artillery fire, but they miraculously survived and were given awards upon being returned to Ukrainian soil in a prisoner transfer last month.

The latest strikes come days after a Russian navy tugboat transporting crew and armaments to Snake Island was destroyed in the Black Sea just with two Harpoon missiles.

It was the first time Kyiv claimed to hit a Russian vessel with the Western-supplied anti-ship rockets.

Ukraine's Armed Forces Strategic Communications Directorate showed the anti-ship missile striking the tug Vasily Bekh at 4am as it delivered soldiers, weapons, and ammunition to hotly-contested island.

Ukrainian sources later claimed ten sailors on the tug were missing presumed dead, and 23 wounded. The crew number was put at 33.

Harpoon missiles are anti-ship ballistics that were first developed by the US and now manufactured by Boeing.

The US has sent Harpoon missiles to Ukraine while the UK and Denmark have said they will consider sending the ballistics. It was not immediately clear where these ballistics had come from.

The Snake Island battle comes as a Ukrainian kamikaze drone today ploughed into a major oil refinery inside Russian territory, sparking a huge fireball explosion.

Footage shows the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) flying at a low-level height towards the Novoshakhtinsk oil refinery in the Rostov region, which borders Ukraine.

Video then shows the drone striking the oil refinery, causing a massive explosion which was heard ten miles away.

Flames engulfed the building and black smoke poured from the key strategic facilities, located some four miles from the pro-Putin puppet state Luhansk People's Republic in Ukraine.

Russian workers, who unwittingly filmed the drone strike, were heard laughing at the sight of the drone as it flew close to them - but they panicked and swore repeatedly after it struck the refinery, with one shouting 'f*****g run away'.

Footage from the scene shows firefighters battling to contain the blaze, as plumes of black smoke billowed into the air.

Russian air defences failed to pick up the incoming drone, initially reported to be Turkish-made Bayraktar, but later said to be a Ukrainian UAV PD-1 or PD-2.

Some reports said the visible drone was one of two which targeted the facility.

It caused the explosion while another lay on the ground between two giant oil tanks.

Workers nearby are heard on a video as they watched the approaching military drone.

Initially they were relaxed as it flew close to them but they swore repeatedly as the unmanned craft struck the oil plant triggering a huge explosion.

One is heard saying: 'It came from the Ukrainian side, didn't it?'

Another answers: 'Yes, yes.'

One asks: 'Do we stop work?'

Another replies: 'The plant is on fire. F***ing run away.'

Novoshakhtinsk refinery is reportedly the largest oil supplier in southern Russia.

It is owned by the Research and Design Institute of Oil and Gas Peton, from Ufa, and previously belonged to offshore companies linked to Viktor Medvedchuk, a close ally of Putin detained by the Kyiv authorities, as had been suggested.

The press service of the regional head office of the Russian Ministry of Emergency Situations acknowledged the blaze. It claimed there was no threat of the fire spreading and said there were no casualties.

The explosion comes as Russian casualties have risen to 55 per cent of the original strength of the Donetsk People's Republic forces, Britain said.

Figures published by the DPR showed that by June 16, 2,128 military personnel had been killed in action, with 8,897 wounded since the beginning of 2022, the British defence ministry said in a daily Twitter update.

Russian authorities have not released the tally of military casualties in Ukraine since 25 March, it added.

The MoD said: 'The DPR casualty rate is equivalent to around 55 per cent of its original force, which highlights the extraordinary attrition Russian and pro-Russian forces are suffering in the Donbas.

It is highly likely that DPR forces are equipped with outdated weapons and equipment.

'On both sides, the ability to generate and deploy reserve units to the front is likely becoming increasingly critical to the outcome of the war.'

Russian forces and separatists in east Ukraine made advances on Tuesday, pushing towards Lysychansk city, the Ukrainian forces' main bastion in the Donbas.

In some of the bloodiest fighting in Europe since World War Two, Russia has made slow progress in the Donbas since April in a conflict that has cost thousands of soldiers' lives on both sides.

Some of the fighting has spanned the Siverskyi Donets river that curls through the Donbas, with Russian forces mainly on the east bank and Ukrainian forces mainly on the west.

But Ukrainian troops - and an estimated 500 civilians - are reportedly still holding out at a chemical plant in the east bank city of Sievierodonetsk.

The governor of Luhansk province, Serhiy Gaidai, said Russians were advancing towards Lysychansk, attacking the buildings of police, state security and prosecutors, taking settlements and attacking the city with aircraft.

Oleskiy Arestovych, an adviser to Zelenskiy, said Russian forces could cut off Lysychansk and Sievierodonetsk from Ukrainian-held territory.

'The threat of a tactical Russian victory is there, but they haven't done it yet,' he said in an online video.

Attacks have picked up in the Kharkiv region in the northeast, with at least 15 civilians killed by Russian shelling, its governor said on Tuesday.

'Russian forces are now hitting the city of Kharkiv in the same way that they previously were hitting Mariupol - with the aim of terrorising the population,' Arestovych said. 'The idea is to create one big problem to distract us.'

Both Russia and Ukraine are today holding a day of commemoration to mark the anniversary of Hitler's invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941.

June 22 is a significant date in Russia - the 'Day of Remembrance and Sorrow' - marking when Hitler's Nazi Germany forces invaded the Soviet Union in World War Two.

It is also commemorated in Ukraine and neighbouring Belarus, then part of the Soviet Union. The war there lasted 1,418 days from June 22, 1941, and historians estimate about 27 million Soviet soldiers and civilians were killed.

Putin is due to lay flowers to honour the dead.

To mark the anniversary, the Russian defence ministry on Wednesday released documents dating back to the beginning of World War Two purporting to show Germany intended to claim the Soviet army was bombing churches and cemeteries to justify its invasion.

'Just as nowadays, in 1941, the Nazis prepared provocations in advance to discredit our state,' Russia's defence ministry said.

Ukraine said Wednesday that the eastern industrial city of Severodonetsk was 'hell' as Russian forces moved to encircle two key cities in the Donbas where Moscow has concentrated its military efforts.

'For four months all our positions have been under fire from everything - and I just want to emphasis this - from all the weapons that the Russian army has,' the Lugansk regional governor Sergiy Gaiday said in a statement on social media.

'It's just hell out there,' he added, referring to Severodonetsk, which has been heavily shelled for weeks by Russian forces who are trying to gain complete control of the city.

'Our boys are holding their positions and will continue to hold on as long as necessary,' he added.

Russian forces in recent days have made territorial gains south of Severodonetsk and moved closer to its sister city of Lysychansk separated by the river Donets.

Gaiday said Russian forces were 'trying to encircle the city' of Lysychansk but that Ukrainian forces still controlled the city.

'Lysychansk is being heavily shelled with heavy calibre weapons,' he added, describing 'colossal destruction.'

Gaiday said that people were steadily being evacuated from Lysychansk and that 'we are slowly taking people out.'

In Severodonetsk however, hundreds of civilians seeking refuge in the Azot chemical plant were unable to leave due to the scale of the fighting, he sai'Evacuation is possible if there is an agreement at the highest level, if there will be a ceasefire and a clearly defined route,' Gaiday said.

DMG Media Limited

文件 DAMONL0020220622ei6m0040s


ANALYSIS - Understanding Türkiye's position on NATO enlargement
Kadir Ustun |
1307 字
2022 年 6 月 27 日
Anadolu Agency
ANATOL
英文
© Copyright Andolu Ajansi
Türkiye's reservations against Finland and Sweden's membership emanate from Ankara's long-standing frustration over Western tolerance and support for the PKK/YPG

The writer is the executive director at the Washington offices of the Ankara-based Political, Economic and Social Research Foundation (SETA).

ISTANBUL

As we fast approach the NATO Summit in Madrid at the end of June, one of the most anticipated agenda items will be Finland and Sweden's membership applications. NATO enlargement to the Baltic region now hinges on whether these two Nordic countries can satisfy Türkiye's concerns about terrorism. ​​​​​​​

NATO’s enlargement is on the agenda

In the context of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the two nations seek fast-track membership after being neutral for decades throughout the Cold War and afterwards. This summit will also finalize the NATO Strategic Concept, which will guide the alliance in the coming years. The enlargement issue has profound implications for the trajectory of the Transatlantic alliance, and Türkiye's position is critically important.

While many analysts will be quick to portray Türkiye as obstructing NATO enlargement and creating fractures within the alliance, it is essential to understand and address Turkish reservations for cohesion within NATO.

NATO is at a crucial turning point

NATO is at its most crucial turning point since the collapse of the Soviet Union, given the war in Ukraine. Eastern Europe and Baltic nations have been alarmed by the prospect of potential Russian aggression, which has led to a significant rethinking of security throughout Europe. As NATO sought to reassure allies via various deployments, Europe is taking a hard look at the existing security architecture while increasing defense spending at unprecedented levels.

Russian aggression has not been deterred by US-led efforts to isolate, sanction, and back Ukraine militarily. However, they have imposed significant costs on Russia and prevented Russian attempts to quickly seize control of the country. Realizing that their decades-old neutrality may not protect them against potential Russian aggression, Finland and Sweden have decided to join NATO, probably one of the unintended consequences from the Russian perspective. Türkiye is aware of this rapidly shifting geopolitical environment and has been one of the leading countries to help Ukraine while trying to broker a cease-fire and peace talks sooner rather than later.

Türkiye’s contributions to NATO

In its more than 70 years as a critical NATO ally, Türkiye participated in NATO missions worldwide while protecting the alliance's southern flank. Following the end of the Cold War, the alliance could not immediately identify a common threat, and many voices argued that it had already lost its raison d'etre. Conducting numerous operations throughout the Balkans in the 1990s, the alliance showed that it still had relevance and a significant role in maintaining international peace and security.

In the two decades after the September 11 attacks, NATO conducted operations in different regions. It extended its area of operations to Afghanistan following the invocation of Article 5 by the US. The organization played a leading role in ending the Qaddafi regime in Libya and conducted border defense missions against threats to Türkiye from Iraq and Syria. While the Russian threat appeared to dissipate over the years, NATO members like Türkiye continued to believe in the benefits and privileges of being part of such an alliance with capabilities in numerous non-European theaters.

Türkiye favors a stronger NATO

Türkiye has supported NATO's open-door policy and membership aspirations of countries like Georgia, Bosnia and Ukraine. Despite significant outstanding issues, a stronger NATO has always been in the Turkish national security interest. Today, however, Türkiye's reservations against Finland and Sweden's NATO membership emanate from Ankara's long-standing frustration over Western tolerance and support for the PKK and its regional offshoots like the YPG in Syria.

The PKK's fundraising and recruitment operations throughout Europe had long been a source of tension. Türkiye registered complaints about the relative freedom with which the PKK operated throughout Europe, spreading its propaganda, raising funds, and even recruiting fighters for terror operations inside Türkiye. Türkiye's concerns were often disregarded based on arguments about democratic freedoms such as free speech and the right to peaceful demonstration, among others. Only when the PKK staged violent demonstrations inside Europe did authorities in some countries like Germany start to act. Even then, some European countries like Sweden remain much more lenient toward PKK's overtly political activities despite formally designating it as a terror group.

Türkiye's concerns over the West's support for PKK/YPG

Since 2014, Western tolerance of the PKK took on an additional geopolitical dimension when the US and European allies started openly supporting the PKK's Syrian branch, the YPG. The justification was the effectiveness of the YPG in the fight against Daesh/ISIS terrorism. Reassuring Türkiye that this would be a temporary, tactical, and transactional relationship, the US policymakers extended the policy of working "by, with, through" local partners to the Syrian offshoot of the PKK.

Despite ongoing Turkish objections to this day, US policymakers promote this relationship as a success and a low-cost alternative to fight Daesh/ISIS with American boots on the ground. Multiple Turkish offers to fight Daesh/ISIS have been turned down by US planners for one reason or another. This issue has been straining the US-Türkiye relationship, sometimes to the breaking point. Pushing the NATO alliance to take a more explicit stance against international terrorism appears to be one of the Turkish goals in raising objections to Finland and Sweden's membership applications.

There is also the question of sanctions imposed against Türkiye's national defense industry as the country acquired the Russian S-400 air defense systems. The US has pushed Türkiye out of the F-35 program and imposed sanctions, while other NATO allies like Canada also refused to sell high-tech cameras to be used in Turkish drones. Other European nations, including Finland and Sweden, have imposed arms exports to Türkiye following the country's military operations against the PKK's Syrian branch, the YPG, in northern Syria.

These formal and informal sanctions targeting Türkiye's national defense industry not only create frictions within NATO but also weaken Turkish defense capacity, thus weakening the southern flank of the alliance. Turkish conditions regarding the Swedish and Finnish bids to join NATO are related to the larger question of arms deals between NATO members and other nations like Russia. Turkish objections are now pushing NATO countries to think more carefully about sanctioning Türkiye, which should create more clarity and cohesion within the alliance.

Enlargement should not be at the expense of a critical NATO ally

The good news for NATO is that Finland and Sweden have shown some willingness to address Turkish concerns. Their initial proposals were not satisfactory for Türkiye, but General Secretary Jens Stoltenberg's approach has been constructive. Affirming the legitimacy of Türkiye's concerns as a country that has suffered the most from terrorism among other NATO nations, Stoltenberg brought Turkish, Finnish, and Swedish delegations together in Brussels to work out their differences.

An immediate breakthrough ahead of the Madrid Summit may not materialize, but it should be remembered that many countries waited years to join the alliance, sometimes for rather frivolous reasons, as in the case of North Macedonia. The more significant question is whether Finland and Sweden's membership will increase NATO's strength and ability to provide security for its members. Many analysts affirm that the alliance would benefit from their membership, but it cannot come at the expense of Turkish security.

* Opinions expressed in this article are the author's own and do not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of Anadolu Agency.

ANALYSIS - Understanding Türkiye's position on NATO enlargement[https://cdnuploads.aa.com.tr/uploads/Contents/2022/06/27/thumbs_b_c_46fc65ec85d5f51480d127aa2ac8f958.jpg]

Anadolu Agency

文件 ANATOL0020220628ei6r0000i


Nokian Renkaat Oyj - Nokian Tyres’ update on the war in Ukraine
Nokian Renkaat Oyj published this content on 28 Jun 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 01 Jul 2022 11:12:32 UTC.
3852 字
2022 年 6 月 28 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/DC51A417349CF5EFFE718498D1F986290A1A04F1]

Nokian Tyres' update on the war in Ukraine

Tue June 28 05:00 pm 2022 in category Articles[https://www.nokiantyres.com/company/publications/releases/2022/articleRelease/]

Nokian Tyres' update on the war in Ukraine

Due to the war in Ukraine and the subsequent, tightening sanctions it is no longer feasible nor sustainable for Nokian Tyres plc to continue operations in Russia. The exit preparations will start immediately, and the company will evaluate different options for the exit. The process will be done with due consideration to local employees and legislation.

Nokian Tyres will update this page as necessary as the situation evolves.

June 28, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES PLC INITIATES A CONTROLLED EXIT FROM RUSSIA

Nokian Tyres' Board of Directors has today decided to initiate a controlled exit from the Russian market. Due to the war in Ukraine and the subsequent, tightening sanctions it is no longer feasible nor sustainable for Nokian Tyres plc to continue operations in Russia. The exit preparations will start immediately, and the company will evaluate different options for the exit. The process will be done with due consideration to local employees and legislation.

As part of the process, Nokian Tyres will record impairments of approximately EUR 300 million related to the Russian assets in the second quarter of 2022. These will be recorded as non-IFRS exclusions. Taking the impairments into account, the value of Nokian Tyres' net assets in Russia and Belarus totalled approximately EUR 400 million on May 31, 2022.

"For the past months, we have witnessed shocking events in Ukraine. We have followed the situation with great sadness and we, along with the whole international community, unequivocally condemn the war, which has caused unspeakable suffering to so many", says Jukka Moisio, President and CEO of Nokian Tyres. "Our short-term focus has been on adapting to the fast-changing, highly uncertain operating environment, and maintaining control of our operations in Russia."

"After a thorough consideration and assessment of various options, we have decided to rebuild Nokian Tyres without a presence in Russia and focus on growth opportunities in our other core markets. This was not an easy decision given we have over 1,600 dedicated employees in Russia whose expertise we highly value as well as many long-standing customer and supplier relations built over the past 17 years", Moisio continues.

To secure supply of its products, Nokian Tyres has continued to increase capacity at its factories in Finland and in the US, and has decided to invest in completely new capacity in Europe. The company announced earlier in the year that it had stopped investments into the Russian facility and started transferring production of selected key product families from Russia to its other factories.

Nokian Tyres has been operating in Russia since 2005. In 2021, approximately 80% of the company's passenger car tires were produced in Russia and the business area Russia and Asia represented approximately 20% of Nokian Tyres' net sales.

As of today, Andrey Pantyukhov, who has been heading Nokian Tyres' business area Russia and Asia, no longer is a member of Nokian Tyres' management team.

April 28, 2022

WAR IN UKRAINE OVERSHADOWED Q1 - OPERATING ENVIRONMENT REMAINS HIGHLY UNCERTAIN

Nokian Tyres held its Annual General Meeting on April 28, 2022. The company published its Q1 results on April 27, 2022.

Jukka Moisio, President and CEO:

"For the past two months, we have witnessed shocking events in Ukraine. We have followed the situation with great sadness and we, along with the whole international community, unequivocally condemn the war, which has caused unspeakable suffering to so many.

The war in Ukraine started to impact our operating environment in late February. However, the year began with good tire demand and in January−March, our net sales with comparable currencies increased by 21.9% and segments operating profit improved. The result was driven by price increases that we implemented in a wide range of markets and products to offset high raw material and other cost inflation.

At these difficult times, our first priority has been to help our Ukrainian colleagues and their families stay safe, and support all Nokian Tyres employees. To secure supply of our products, we immediately activated contingency plans in February, including shipping tires closer to our customers, securing the raw material supply, and transferring production of selected key product lines from Russia to our other factories. To reduce reliance on the Russian production and to diversify our manufacturing footprint, we have continued to increase capacity at our factories in Finland and in the US, and we are expediting our plans to invest in new capacity in Europe.

The war in Ukraine will significantly impact our financial results in 2022, especially starting from the third quarter. Due to high uncertainty and dynamic environment, it is impossible to estimate the ultimate impact on our overall performance at the moment. The sanctions have a significant impact on our ability to manufacture tires in Russia, and thus our ability to sell tires in Russia and in Central Europe.

Our short-term focus will be on adapting to the fast-changing, highly uncertain operating environment, maintaining control of our operations in Russia and securing cash flow. We have a strong product portfolio, and although there will be difficulties in the short term, we will do our utmost to ensure supply of our products to customers. In the mid-term, adding new supply capability to Europe will be one of our key priorities. At the same time, the Board is evaluating long-term strategic paths in the changing operating environment.

I would especially like to thank all Nokian Tyres employees for their perseverance and resilience during this difficult time."

War in Ukraine - Summary of Nokian Tyres' actions

On February 24, Russia started the war in Ukraine, which has caused high uncertainty related to Nokian Tyres' operating environment and manufacturing capacity.

On April 8, the EU announced new sanctions against Russia, which impact Nokian Tyres' business. The sanctions prohibit the import of tires from Russia to the EU, prohibit the export of certain raw materials from the EU to Russia, and limit transportation from and to Russia. The sanctions have a significant impact on Nokian Tyres' ability to manufacture tires in Russia, and ability to sell tires both in Russia and in the EU, specifically in Central Europe.

In 2021, Russia represented approximately 20% of Nokian Tyres' net sales, and approximately 80% of Nokian Tyres passenger car tires were produced in Russia. Of raw materials for tires produced in Russia, approximately half came from outside of Russia. Raw material availability and its logistics will have a significant impact on the company's capability to continue production in Russia.

Nokian Tyres is expediting its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe, and continues to increase production capacity at its factories in Nokia, Finland and Dayton, US. According to the plan, in the future all tires sold in the Nordic countries will be produced in Nokia, and all tires sold in North America will be produced in Dayton and in Nokia.

The Heavy Tyres business of Nokian Tyres plc is not impacted by the ban to import tires from Russia to the EU, as all Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are produced in Finland. Sales and distribution of heavy tires to Russia were stopped due to the war. Nokian Tyres has never sold tires to the Russian army, and the Russian Federation is not a customer of Nokian Tyres.

Nokian Tyres has taken active measures, such as below, to manage the impacts of the war in Ukraine to its personnel and business:

Health and safety actions

* Continuously communicating about the situation in the organization and providing support to Nokian Tyres' employees

* Being in daily contact with the Ukrainian colleagues to help them and their families stay safe

* Donating to humanitarian efforts in Ukraine

Operational response actions

* Ensuring compliance with applicable sanctions regime

* Establishing a crisis management team and activating contingency plans to limit the operational and financial impacts, including shipping tires closer to customers, securing the raw material supply to the factories, and transferring production of selected key product lines from Russia to Finland and the US

* Taking care of the personnel and management in Ukraine and Russia

* Securing control of the asset base in Russia (March 31, 2022: EUR 476.1 million)

* Stopping investments into the Russian production, and stopping all heavy tire sales and distribution to Russia

* Expediting plans to diversify manufacturing footprint by investing in new production capacity in Europe and continuing to increase passenger car tire capacity in the Finnish and US factories

* Implementing cost measures by cutting and delaying activities and reducing discretionary spending

Financial response actions

* On March 30, the Board of Directors decided to change its dividend proposal to the Annual General Meeting to be held on April 28, 2022 from EUR 1.32/share to EUR 0.55/share (2021: EUR 1.20). The new dividend proposal cuts the total dividend payable to shareholders by EUR 106 million to fund the new capacity in Europe

* Taking measures to secure the company's liquidity and financial flexibility

* Leveraging the strong balance sheet to support the company in difficult times

The Interim Report for January-March 2022 can be read here: Interim and Half year financial reports and Financial Statements / Nokian Tyres[https://eur04.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.nokiantyres.com%2Fcompany%2Fpublications%2Finterim-reports%2F&data=05%7C01%7CTarja.Pennanen%40nokiantyres.com%7Ccfa6eacf2af047f3b0ac08da29e5b85e%7C2293b824c7984957856edf1992afab2e%7C0%7C0%7C637868363855296799%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=oT4SHrHq1gKhxFhytGJpIwQsO%2FWNPh3D1%2FKyRFYv1Xs%3D&reserved=0]

April 11, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES PLC: INFORMATION ON EU'S NEWLY IMPOSED SANCTIONS

Nokian Tyres plc Inside information April 11, 2022 at 10:50 a.m.

As communicated on April 9, 2022, the EU has announced new sanctions against Russia, impacting Nokian Tyres' business. The sanctions prohibit the import of tires from Russia to the EU, prohibit the export of certain raw materials from the EU to Russia, and limit transportation from and to Russia. New sanctions will have a significant impact on Nokian Tyres' ability to manufacture tires in Russia, and ability to sell tires both in Russia and in the EU, specifically in Central Europe.

In 2021, Russia represented approximately 20% of Nokian Tyres' net sales, and approximately 80% of Nokian Tyres passenger car tires were produced in Russia. Of raw materials for tires produced in Russia, approximately half came from outside of Russia. Raw material availability and its logistics will have a significant impact on the company's capability to continue production in Russia.

Nokian Tyres is expediting its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe. We continue to increase production capacity at our factories in Nokia, Finland and Dayton, US. According to our plan, in the future all tires sold in the Nordic countries will be produced in Nokia, Finland, and all tires sold in North America will be produced in Dayton, US and in Nokia, Finland.

The Heavy Tyres business of Nokian Tyres plc is not impacted by the ban to import tires from Russia to the EU, as all Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are produced in Finland. Sales and distribution of heavy tires to Russia has been stopped already earlier. Nokian Tyres has never sold tires to the Russian army, and the Russian Federation is not a customer of Nokian Tyres.

According to the sanction regarding specifically tires:

"1. It shall be prohibited to purchase, import, or transfer, directly or indirectly, goods which generate significant revenues for Russia thereby enabling its actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine, as listed in Annex XXI into the Union if they originate in Russia or are exported from Russia.

2. It shall be prohibited to:

(a) provide technical assistance, brokering services or other services related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 and to the provision, manufacture, maintenance and use of those goods and technology, directly or indirectly in relation to the prohibition in paragraph 1.

(b) provide financing or financial assistance related to the goods and technology referred to in paragraph 1 for any purchase, import or transfer of those goods and technology, or for the provision of related technical assistance, brokering services or other services, directly or indirectly in relation to the prohibition in paragraph 1.

3. The prohibitions in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the execution until 10 July 2022 of contracts concluded before 9 April 2022, or ancillary contracts necessary for the execution of such contracts." (Official Journal of the European Union, April 8, 2022)

The company has no further information to provide on the subject at this point but will announce any material direct impacts as appropriate and in a timely manner.

April 9, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES PLC: EU BANNING TIRE IMPORTS FROM RUSSIA TO THE EU

Nokian Tyres plc Company Release April 9, 2022, at 7:45 a.m.

Nokian Tyres plc has received information that the EU has announced new sanctions against Russia, including a ban on tire imports from Russia to the EU. We are currently studying the newly imposed sanctions in detail, and we continue to implement our contingency plans. As we communicated on March 30, 2022, Nokian Tyres plc is expediting its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe.

We continue to increase production capacity at our factories in Nokia, Finland and Dayton, USA. The Heavy Tyres business of Nokian Tyres plc is not impacted by the ban to import tires from Russia to the EU, as all Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are produced in Finland.

April 8, 2022

DIVERSIFYING NOKIAN TYRES' MANUFACTURING CAPACITY - THE BOARD'S NEW DIVIDEND PROPOSAL FUNDS NEW PRODUCTION IN EUROPE BY EUR 106 MILLION

Last week Nokian Tyres announced that the company starts to expedite its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe. Therefore, the Board of Directors changed the proposal to the Annual General Meeting regarding the dividend payment, cutting the total dividend payable to shareholders by EUR 106 million to fund the new capacity.

Because of the war in Ukraine, the company starts to expedite its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe. Nokian Tyres also continues to increase capacity at its factories in Finland and the US, aiming to become geographically more diversified in its manufacturing operations.

In its proposal announced on March 30, 2022, the Board of Directors proposed that a dividend of EUR 0.55 per share be paid from the financial year January 1-December 31, 2021, i.e. approximately EUR 76.1 million in total. The Board of Directors' earlier dividend proposal announced on February 8, 2022 was EUR 1.32 per share.

Comparing to the cost of the Dayton plant, which is around EUR 350-400 million, the dividend reduction would give ~25% of the funds to finance a new plant.

Nokian Tyres is no longer investing into production in Russia. By continuing to operate the passenger car tire factory in Russia, the company wants to make sure that the factory is controlled by Nokian Tyres. Shipments of passenger car tires to Russia have been suspended. All Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are designed and manufactured in Finland. Tires for trucks and buses are designed in Finland and produced in the EU. Sales and distribution of heavy tires to Russia has been stopped. Nokian Tyres has never sold tires to the Russian army, and the Russian Federation is not a customer of Nokian Tyres.

March 30, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES PLC: BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHANGES THE PROPOSAL TO THE AGM REGARDING THE DIVIDEND PAYMENT, PREPARATIONS FOR NEW CAPACITY IN EUROPE STARTING

Nokian Tyres plc, Inside information, March 30, 2022 at 3:40 p.m.

The war in Ukraine has caused high uncertainty related to Nokian Tyres plc's ("Nokian Tyres") operational environment and manufacturing capacity. Consequently, the company starts to expedite its plans to invest in new production capacity in Europe. Therefore, the Board of Directors of Nokian Tyres has decided to change its dividend proposal to the Annual General Meeting to be held on April 28, 2022. The company continues to increase capacity at its factories in Finland and the US.

The Board of Directors proposes that a dividend of EUR 0.55 per share be paid from the financial year January 1-December 31, 2021, i.e. approximately EUR 76.1 million in total based on the total number of outstanding shares of Nokian Tyres at the time of the proposal. The proposed dividend corresponds to the minority dividend pursuant to Chapter 13, Section 7 of the Finnish Companies Act, i.e. eight per cent of the shareholders' equity.

The dividend is proposed to be paid to the shareholders who are registered in the company's shareholder register maintained by Euroclear Finland Oy on the dividend record date of May 2, 2022. The payment date proposed by the Board of Directors is May 11, 2022.

The Board of Directors' earlier dividend proposal from the financial year January 1-December 31, 2021 announced on February 8, 2022 was EUR 1.32 per share payable in two instalments.

According to the financial statements for the financial year January 1-December 31, 2021, the distributable funds of Nokian Tyres amounted to EUR 742.7 million.

Nokian Tyres plc

Board of Directors

Further information:

Päivi Antola, tel. +358 10 401 7327

SVP, Corporate Communications and Investor Relations

Investor relations:

IR@nokiantyres.com[mailto:IR@nokiantyres.com]

Media enquiries:

media@nokiantyres.com[mailto:media@nokiantyres.com]

March 22, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES' UPDATE

As a company, Nokian Tyres has followed the situation in Ukraine with great sadness and we hope for a quick diplomatic solution to this tragedy.

We are in daily contact with our Ukrainian team, and we have helped and continue to help our employees and their families to stay safe. Over half of our Ukrainian employees are male and cannot leave the country, but we assist them in any way possible given the current situation. In addition, Nokian Tyres has made a donation to UNICEF to help the children in the war zone in Ukraine.

We use all possibilities to accelerate the increase of capacity in our factories in Finland and in the US. According to the plan, all tires sold in the Nordic countries in the future will be produced in Nokia, Finland, and all tires sold in North America in the future will be produced in Dayton, US and in Nokia, Finland. The company is actively looking for additional capacity and aims to become geographically more diversified in its manufacturing operations.

All Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are designed and manufactured in Finland. Tires for trucks and buses are designed in Finland and produced in the EU. We don't accept orders for heavy tires from Russia.

By continuing to operate the passenger car tire factory in Russia we want to make sure that the factory is operated and controlled by Nokian Tyres also in the future. We no longer invest into the Russian production.

We do not want to speculate on how the situation in general will evolve. We will announce any material direct impacts to Nokian Tyres as appropriate and in a timely manner. We continue to assess the situation and are prepared for rapid responses when needed.

On Sunday Nokian Tyres was on the spotlight in the media regarding an analyst call. Certain statements were referred to as they would have been Nokian Tyres' statements. Correction to the media have been made.

March 8, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES' UPDATE

As a company, Nokian Tyres has followed the situation in Ukraine with great sadness and we hope for a quick diplomatic solution to this tragedy.

A crisis management team meets daily, and we are prepared for different scenarios. We are also monitoring closely the development of sanctions and potential counter-sanctions. We have activated our contingency plans to mitigate the financial and operational impacts to our business. For example, we are shipping tires closer to our customers, securing the raw material supply to our factories, transferring production of selected key product lines from Russia to Finland and to the US, and securing transport capacity from Russia with existing and new service providers. We continue to increase production in Finland and in the US. All Nokian Tyres' heavy tires are designed and manufactured in Finland. Tires for trucks and buses are designed in Finland and produced in the EU.

Currently, our Russian operations are impacted by transportation capacity availability, and lead-times to our customers have increased. The operations can be further impacted by raw material supply. We have been able to fulfill the customer orders despite the supply chain challenges, and continue to do our best to serve our customers and to deliver as agreed with them.

Our compliance with current sanctions requires that some of our customers and suppliers in Russia need to change their bank. In cross-border transactions, there are delays and volume is small, as the currency trading is not working normally.

For us the safety of our employees is number one priority. We will do everything we can to support our Nokian Tyres team in this situation. We have been operating in Ukraine since 2006, and during those years have built many long-lasting relationships with Ukrainian colleagues and customers. We have some 20 employees in Ukraine. We are in daily contact with our Ukrainian team, and as a first priority, we have taken measures to secure their and their families' safety as best as we can and we will continue our help to them, both on a personal level and as an employer. In addition, Nokian Tyres has donated EUR 100,000 to UNICEF to help the children in the war zone in Ukraine.

We do not want to speculate on how the situation in general will evolve. We will announce any material direct impacts to Nokian Tyres as appropriate and in a timely manner.

February 28, 2022

NOKIAN TYRES PLC WITHDRAWS FINANCIAL GUIDANCE FOR 2022

Nokian Tyres plc, Inside information, February 28, 2022 at 12:00 a.m.

The Russian military actions in Ukraine and the consequent sanctions have caused significant uncertainty related to Russia, to the functionality of the Russian financial and payment system, and to the Russian ruble exchange rate. Therefore the Board of Directors of Nokian Tyres plc has decided to withdraw the Company's financial guidance for 2022 published on February 8, 2022. Due to the prevailing uncertainties, the Board is not in a position to give a new guidance at this moment.

Earlier guidance from February 8, 2022:

In 2022, Nokian Tyres' net sales with comparable currencies are expected to grow significantly and segments operating profit is expected to grow. The global car and tire demand is expected to grow. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to cause uncertainties, including cost inflation and availability challenges, in the whole automotive value chain. In addition, current geopolitical situation causes uncertainties in 2022.

* Original Link[https://www.nokiantyres.com/company/news-article/nokian-tyres-statement-on-our-businesses-in-russia/]

Disclaimer

Nokian Tyres plc published this content on 28 June 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 01 July 2022 11:14:25 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020220701ei6s009kh


Foreign
Turkey drops opposition to Finland and Sweden joining NATO
By Emily RauhalaLoveday MorrisRick NoackMatt Viser
1700 字
2022 年 6 月 29 日
Washington Post.com
WPCOM
英文
Copyright 2022, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved.
MADRID — Turkey agreed on Tuesday to drop its opposition to the NATO bids of Sweden and Finland, paving the way for the alliance to grow and highlighting how Russia's war in Ukraine is reshaping the post-Cold War order and reinvigorating transatlantic ties.

As NATO opened a three-day summit in Madrid, those countries' leaders signed a memorandum confirming that Turkey will support the two Nordic nations' paths to accession. "Welcoming Finland and Sweden into the alliance will make them safer, NATO stronger and the Euro-Atlantic area more secure," NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said at a news conference after the signing ceremony. "This is vital as we face the biggest security crisis in decades."

The question of how to respond to the crisis triggered by Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine is front of mind for President Biden and other heads of state and government who have gathered this week, first in Germany for a Group of Seven meeting and now in Spain with NATO's meeting.

The news of Turkey's turnaround after a month of opposition drew an even greater spotlight to a summit expected to focus on Ukraine's urgent need for more advanced weapons as its fighters are hammered in the east by Russian forces. The leaders here are also expected to address longer-term strategic questions raised by the Kremlin's aggression and China's global ambitions.

The sudden announcement Tuesday evening followed a commitment by G-7 leaders earlier in the day that their countries would "urgently" explore ways to impose price caps on Russian oil and gas to hurt Moscow's ability to finance the war. But those leaders, meeting at Schloss Elmau in southern Germany's Bavarian Alps, stopped short of agreeing to new energy sanctions.

The Madrid summit will be closely watched not only for news on weaponry but as a sign of Western resolve for Ukraine, said retired U.S. Army Lt. Gen. Ben Hodges, a former commander of U.S. Army Europe. "The Russians are just so confident that we cannot stay together, that we can't sustain what we are doing through a long hot summer," he said.

Allies, he added, intend to send a message to the Kremlin that NATO has "an unmistakable commitment to making sure that Ukraine wins, not just survives."

The deal with Turkey adds momentum heading into what officials and diplomats call the most significant NATO summit in many, many years.

"This obviously is just a powerful shot in the arm from the point of view of allied unity," a senior Biden administration official said late Tuesday, speaking on the condition of anonymity under ground rules for a briefing with reporters. "A historic moment for the alliance — two traditionally neutral countries choosing to sign up to NATO and being welcomed by NATO."

Sweden and Finland are both close NATO partners who remained officially military nonaligned until Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine pushed them toward the 30-member military organization. Since they applied last month, Turkey had blocked accession talks over what Ankara said was the two countries' support for Kurdish militant groups.

Weeks of talks appeared to yield little progress — though NATO leaders and officials remained upbeat. On Tuesday, just as the summit got underway, Biden spoke with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Erdogan then met for several hours with the Finnish president and Swedish prime minister, as well as Stoltenberg. The memorandum signing quickly followed.

"I'm pleased to announce that we now have an agreement that paves the way for Finland and Sweden to join NATO," Stoltenberg said, noting that the memorandum addressed both arms exports and the fight against terrorism.

In addition to discussing military support for Ukraine, summit participants on Wednesday and Thursday will debate plans to bolster NATO's eastern flank and release a new strategy document laying out the challenge that both Russia and China pose, diplomats said.

Stoltenberg announced Monday that the number of high-readiness alliance forces will increase sharply — to more than 300,000 troops from 40,000 — in response to Russia's war. The expansion is part of what he called the "biggest overhaul of our collective defense and deterrence since the Cold War."

President Biden met with Spanish leaders soon after arriving in Madrid and stressed a similar point. "As I said before the war started," he told Spanish President Pedro Sánchez, "if Putin attacked Ukraine, the United States would enhance our force posture in Europe and respond to the reality of a new European security environment."

In Germany, the G-7 agreed to contribute $4.5 billion to address global food insecurity, with more than half the money coming from the United States. As promised on Sunday, the U.S. Treasury said it would introduce sanctions on Russian gold, the country's biggest export outside the energy sector, an action that would be joined by Britain, Japan and Canada. European officials said they need to consult with other members of the European Union before making a similar move.

"We all agree that President Putin cannot win this war," German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said in his closing remarks Tuesday. "We will keep the political and economic costs for Putin and his regime high, and further increase them."

Scholz said that decisiveness was important in such a challenging, uncertain period. After days of negotiations, the final communique did not include any new energy sanctions but said G-7 countries would instruct ministers to look for ways to impose caps on the price of Russian oil and gas. The goal is to hurt Russia financially and bring down surging energy prices globally.

While Scholz invited "like-minded countries to consider joining us in our actions," French President Emmanuel Macron said such measures need to be worked through on a technical level before they can be implemented. He called on energy purchasers to better coordinate.

One European official briefed on the talks over price caps said more concrete steps had not been expected since the G-7 is not a "buyers' club" and details also would have to be discussed by the E.U. Yet the political backing for the idea sent an important signal, he said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss the private negotiations.

At the moment, some countries that are arming and backing Ukraine in its defense against Russia are simultaneously sending billions of dollars to Moscow in energy payments.

Surging energy prices have blunted the financial impact of countries cutting their imports from Russia. Moscow earned $66.5 billion from fossil fuel exports during the first two months of the war, according to a study published by the Center for Research on Energy and Clean Air, with Germany alone paying more than $9.5 billion.

"We reaffirm our commitment to phase out our dependency on Russian energy," the final communique read. "In addition, we will explore further measures to prevent Russia from profiting from its war of aggression."

The oil price cap, which was floated by the United States ahead of the meeting, is complicated by the fact that oil is sold on the open market and Russia could look elsewhere for buyers. Negotiators have been considering ways to enforce the cap though Western-dominated insurance and shipping industries, hoping to leverage them to make it difficult to transport Russian oil that has been purchased outside the cap.

G-7 leaders will consider a ban on services that "enable transportation of Russian seaborne crude oil and petroleum products globally, unless the oil is purchased at or below a price to be agreed in consultation with international partners."

Russia delivered the biggest increase in supply among OPEC Plus nations in May, and the country produced more oil again in June. The West has grown increasingly alarmed that E.U.'s oil ban on Russian imports would send prices skyward and ultimately benefit the Kremlin.

Analysts at Barclays, the Wall Street firm, estimated in a report last week that oil prices could rise as high as $150 or $200 per barrel if Russian exports are restricted. An official familiar with the negotiations in Germany, who briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity to describe sensitive discussions, said Western allies hoped a price cap would begin with agreement among G-7 nations but then expand to include the European Union and other key purchasers of Russian energy in Asia.

Still, the idea is a major gamble. Russia could circumvent the effort by taking its oil supply off-market and crashing the world's energy markets. Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen has said the allies have discussed "secondary sanctions" to punish countries that trade with the sanctioned nation, but those could further destabilize a global economy already facing strong head winds.

A cap on natural gas prices is considered easier to implement because the pipeline infrastructure used to move it means Russia cannot sell gas earmarked for Europe to alternative buyers. On gas, leaders agreed to "seek to develop solutions that meet our objectives of reducing Russian revenues from hydrocarbons," the text said.

The U.S. Treasury also said it would sanction "70 entities, many of which are critical to the Russian Federation's defense industrial base, including State Corporation Rostec, the cornerstone of Russia's defense, industrial, technology, and manufacturing sectors, as well as 29 Russian individuals."

Some observers said Ukraine's allies are still falling short at a critical time in the war. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky joined the G-7 summit by video link, with a plea for more modern heavy weaponry that might turn the tide against Russian advances in his country's east. The same day, a Russian strike hit a crowded market in the central Ukrainian city of Kremenchuk. As of Tuesday, at least 18 were confirmed dead. Dozens of others were injured in the attack and the blaze that followed.

Rauhala reported from Brussels and Madrid, Viser from Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, and Morris and Noack from Mittenwald, Germany. Jeff Stein in Washington, Ashley Parker in Telfs, Austria, and Florian Neuhof in Berlin contributed to this report.

Washington Post

文件 WPCOM00020220628ei6s000um


Ice hockey ban on Russia, Belarus upheld on safety grounds
259 字
2022 年 7 月 5 日 14:44 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
ZURICH (AP) — Appeals by Russia and its ally Belarus against bans from the world ice hockey championship following the invasion of Ukraine were rejected by the international governing body.

The decision “was not a sanction but was a safety policy” and also “the safety policy was not discriminatory and was proportionate,” the International Ice Hockey Federation disciplinary board ruled on Tuesday.

The IIHF council argued its decision on Feb. 28, four days after Russian troops surged over the border into Ukraine, was to ensure the safety of players, fans and other tournament participants.

Neither Russia nor Belarus played at the men's world championship in May, which was won by host nation Finland[https://apnews.com/article/sports-zach-whitecloud-canada-hockey-6621d60f379b709d19d5627bfe6f6c29].

Russia was also stripped of the right to host next year's men's world championship[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-sports-europe-st-petersburg-0f2d58354930d2dcebe6c93987118af2], which was due to be played in President Vladimir Putin's home city of St. Petersburg, and a men's world junior championship.

“The independent board supported our view that it would have been an unacceptable safety risk to either host the (world junior championship) and (world championship) in Russia or to have the Russian and Belarusian teams currently participating in IIHF competitions,” IIHF president Luc Tardif said of the appeals on Tuesday.

Russia and Belarus could still take the case to the Court of Arbitration for Sport, as numerous other Russian sports organizations have done.

___

More AP Europe sports: https://apnews.com/hub/sports-europe[https://apnews.com/hub/sports-europe] and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports[https://twitter.com/AP_Sports]

Eds: UPDATES: to add photos. With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220705ei7500cch


CE Noticias Financieras English
The United States, the great athletics superpower, hosts its first World Championships
1553 字
2022 年 7 月 13 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The United States, the great athletics superpower, finally hosts in the renovated Hayward Field stadium in Eugene, after 17 editions, a world championships without Russia - punished by the invasion of Ukraine - which had to be postponed for a year due to the pandemic.

Not since the Atlanta '96 Olympic Games had the United States organized a global outdoor athletics competition. Twenty-six years later, Eugene will become the smallest city (176,000 inhabitants) to host the World Championships.

In the absence of official confirmation, World Athletics reports that more than 1900 athletes from 192 teams will compete in the renovated stadium of the University of Oregon between July 15 and 24, and among them stands out one name: Allyson Felix, the endearing "Chicken Legs", who ends her long career with the opportunity to add a new medal to the 18 she has won in World Championships since Helsinki 2005.

Apart from her 11 Olympic medals (7 gold), the 36-year-old American sprinter, selected here for the mixed 4x400 relay, won her first world medal in the 200m in Helsinki 2005, at the age of 19, and then went on to collect 13 golds, 3 silvers and two bronzes. In total, four more than the next on the list, Jamaica's Usain Bolt.

Felix is the only woman to have won three consecutive 200 world titles (Helsinki 2005, Osaka 2007 and Berlin 2009) and the one who beat Jamaican Veronica Campbell in Osaka 2007 by the biggest margin: 0.53 seconds.

The 43 individual winners of Doha 2019 have enjoyed the longest reign (three years) since the championships began to be held every two years, starting in Tokyo '91. In Eugene, 37 of them will defend their titles.

Also at Hayward Field will be 42 Olympic champions in exercise and great figures of athletics who, despite their consecration with Olympic titles, are still chasing their first world crown. Such is the case of the king of the pole vault, the Swede Armand Duplantis; the Norwegian middle-distance runner Jakob Ingebrigtsen, the Jamaican sprinter Elaine Thompson-Herah and two Americans, the shot putter Ryan Crouser and the 400 hurdler Sydney McLaughlin, who assume a great responsibility in front of their public.

The primacy of world sprinting, vacated by Usain Bolt after his retirement in 2017, remains without a clear owner. The men's 100m final, already on the second day of competition (July 16) is called to be the highlight of the championships. Among the entries there are 16 athletes with marks of the year under 10 seconds, with two Americans, Fred Kerley (9.76) and Trayvon Bromell (9.81) leading the way.

After serving his suspension for not being available for doping tests, the defending champion, Christian Coleman, also American, is a little further down the list, seventh with 9.87, and the 32-year-old Jamaican Yohan Blake, who won gold in Daegu 11 years ago after the disqualification of his teammate Usain Bolt for false start, is again very fast (third with 9.85).

The participation of Olympic champion Marcell Jacobs is still up in the air. The Italian has suffered several physical setbacks since the beginning of the season and has not gone below 10 seconds (10.04), although he is still working on his recovery.

The American dominance in the men's 200 is even greater. The host country comes with the three fastest men of the year: Erriyon Knighton (19.49), Noah Lyles (19.50) and Fred Kerley (19.76).

On the other hand, the predictions in the women's sprint are in favor of the Jamaican side. Reigning champion Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce (10.60), Shericka Jackson (10.76) and Elaine Thompson-Herah (10.79) make up an intimidating trio against Americans Aleia Hobbs (10.81), Melissa Jefferson (10.82) and Twanisha Terry (10.87).

The absence of Russia, second only to the United States in the all-time medal count, will have significant effects in events such as the high jump and pole vault, as the current champions, Mariya Lasitskene and Anzhelika Sidorova, will be absent.

The sanction, World Athletics explained, "is a consequence of the Russian invasion of Ukraine" and affects everyone, including those allowed to compete as neutral athletes.

The United States is fielding a team with 15 world leaders and 33 athletes ranked among the top 3 in the world rankings. In one event, the 110 m hurdles, its four representatives are at the top of the list of the year's marks: Devon Allen (12.84), Trey Cunningham (13.00), Grant Holloway (13.03) and Daniel Roberts (13.03). In throws, he leads in all events. For the hosts, the challenge will be to beat their all-time record of medals (29) and golds (14).

YULIMAR, ALONE AGAINST HER RECORD The Venezuelan Yulimar Rojas, Olympic champion and world record holder in the triple jump (15.74), will not be able to double in Eugene because she lacks the required minimum mark in the long jump, since the deadline to obtain it ended on June 26.

His jump of 6.93 meters performed last June 8 at his Spanish base camp in Guadalajara was not homologated by World Athletics because he did it with triple jump shoes, whose sole (25 mm) exceeds the limit of thickness (20 mm) approved for long jump shoes.

Rojas had intended to double in Eugene, in search of an unprecedented historic double, but according to her coach, Cuban Ivan Pedroso, she decided not to reattempt the minimum in the long jump due to the psoas discomfort she suffered in June, so as not to jeopardize her participation in the World Championships.

The double in horizontal jumps in an outdoor World Championships is an achievement that no one has achieved to date, although Russia's Tatiana Levedeva did it indoors in Budapest 2004.

On July 18, in the triple jump final, if there are no setbacks in the qualification, Yulimar Rojas will find herself alone in front of her own record. In the world list, with her world indoor record of 15.74, she is one meter ahead of the next two, American Keturah Orji (14.79) and Ukrainian Maryna Bekh-Romanchuk (14.74).

AND DUPLANTIS AGAINST HIS OWN

Pole vault king Mondo Duplantis cleared the best outdoor jump of 6.16m in history in Stockholm two weeks ago, beating the 6.14 of Ukraine's Sergey Bubka 28 years ago, but a new world record is surely not what he is most ambitious to achieve in Eugene, but his first outdoor world title.

He has already been world indoor champion earlier this year in Belgrade, and is an Olympic and European champion. He only needs this gold to complete his collection. The world record, a secondary objective for the 22-year-old Swede, is paid with 100,000 dollars, apart from the prize for the victory in each event.

On the other hand, the world record holder in the 400 m hurdles (45.94), the Norwegian Karsten Warholm, who arrives with a limp to the big event of the year, "the biggest challenge" of his sports career, according to his words, has limited options for the record.

With a hamstring injury to his right thigh since the June 5 meeting in Rabat, he was unsure until the last minute whether he would be able to compete in Eugene. The meters Warholm spent racing in the Moroccan capital are the only meters he has raced this year, but he hopes that the work he has done at his base camp in Berkeley, California, will have a positive effect so that he will be ready for the series on July 16.

SEMENIA TURNED LONG-DISTANCE RUNNER BY TESTOSTERONE

South Africa's Caster Semenya, two-time Olympic and three-time world 800m champion, will be able to compete again at a World Championships after a five-year absence, but in the 5,000m event, in which she is officially entered.

Since the London 2017 World Championships, where she won her last gold medal in the double backstroke, Semenya has not been able to compete in her event again. Her excess testosterone, and her refusal to medicate to reduce it to the limits (5 nanomoles per liter of blood) that since 2019 World Athletics requires for women, prevents her from doing so. According to current regulations, athletes have to keep their testosterone levels below that figure for a continuous period of at least six months if they want to compete in distances between 400 meters and the mile (1,609 meters).

Semenya, 31, considered a heroine in South Africa, is the best known case of an athlete with hyperandrogenism. For three years she has been in a legal battle with World Athletics, an organization she accuses of imposing rules that are discriminatory, contrary to human rights and unethical, since they force healthy people to take medication.

To stay on the track without undergoing treatment, Semenya decided to change her running profile and try to adapt to other specialties that are not affected by these regulations, but for the moment she has not managed to stand out in the 200 meters or in the 5,000 meters.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220713ei7d008un


Russian Ice Hockey Federation considers CAS appeal against IIHF ban
Patrick Burke
385 字
2022 年 7 月 14 日
insidethegames.biz
INGAM
英文
© 2022. Dunsar Media Company Limited. All Rights Reserved
The Russian Ice Hockey Federation (FHR) is considering an appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) against the suspension of its national teams from International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) events.

Russia and Belarus have been banned from the IIHF Women's World Championship due to begin next month in Denmark, and the IIHF Annual Congress in May ratified a Council decision to prevent them from competing in World Championships across all age groups for 2023.

This followed both national teams being suspended by the IIHF "until further notice" on February 28 in response to the invasion of Ukraine and in line with International Olympic Committee (IOC) recommendations.

Saint Petersburg had been due to host the men's World Championship next year, but was replaced by Tampere in Finland and Riga in Latvia.

Earlier this month, the IIHF's Disciplinary Board's Deciding Panel dismissed an appeal against the measures implemented against Russia and Belarus, finding that the bans from competition were a "safety policy" rather than a sanction.

However, FHR President Vladislav Tretiak has revealed that the national governing body plans to work with the Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) and Ministry of Sports in a bid to overturn the decisions.

FHR President Vladislav Tretiak has said the organisation plans to coordinate an appeal against the IIHF's measures with the ROC and Russian Ministry of Sports ©Getty Images[https://cdn.dmcl.biz/media/image/245437/o/Vladislav+Tretiak.jpg]

"We will coordinate the decision to file an appeal with higher organisations - the ROC and the Ministry of Sports," he told Russian state news agency TASS.

Russia and Belarus have largely been frozen out of international sport since the invasion of Ukraine, with the majority of International Federations implementing IOC recommendations to move any planned events away from both countries and ban their athletes and officials from competitions.

However, the IOC has not suspended either country's National Olympic Committee, and both countries' National Federations have largely escaped punishment.

According to the United Nations' latest report on Tuesday (July 12), at least 5,024 civilians have been killed in Ukraine since the launch of what Moscow describes as a "special military operation" on February 24, although it is feared that the true figure is far higher.

More than 9.1 million people have also been forced to flee Ukraine.

Dunsar Media Company Limited

文件 INGAM00020220714ei7e000gp


CE Noticias Financieras English
Poland ratifies Sweden and Finland's NATO membership
348 字
2022 年 7 月 20 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Krakow (Poland), 20 Jul. The Polish Senate on Wednesday unanimously approved the accession of Sweden and Finland to NATO, a decision that ratifies the approval already obtained in Parliament on July 7.

The 98 senators present voted in favor of NATO enlargement and now it only remains for the Polish President, Andrzej Duda, to sanction this decision with his signature in the next few days.

The Polish Senate thus confirms Warsaw's support for the inclusion of the two countries which, until now, participate in NATO meetings but do not have the right to vote because they are not full members.

When the vote was taken in Parliament, 440 of the 442 deputies voted in favor, and only two representatives of extreme right-wing formations abstained and later declared that they did not know what the vote was really about.

On both occasions, the conclusion of the votes was greeted with standing ovations from the audience and the Prime Minister, Mateusz Morawiecki, welcomed the news on Wednesday, which he described as a "historic decision".

After the accession of these countries, all nations with a coastline on the Baltic Sea except Russia will belong to NATO and there will now be 30 members of the Alliance.

The Polish government announced a few weeks ago that if Russia attacked Sweden or Finland before NATO membership was completed, Poland would "come to its aid".

For his part, the Polish Minister of Defense, Mariusz Blaszczak, requested a few days ago that an extraordinary session of the Senate be held expressly to hold this vote and to formalize Poland's support for NATO enlargement as soon as possible, but in the end the planned timetable was followed.

The Polish government spokesman, Piotr Müller, recently declared that, "after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization is a guarantee of security in our region, especially in the Baltic Sea, where these two countries play a very important role", in reference to Sweden and Finland. EFE

mag/jam/psh

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220720ei7k009zy


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 10524
Karolis Broga
2468 字
2022 年 7 月 21 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
(c) 2022 Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
NO. 10524 (94930) THURSDAY MORNING, JULY 21

 

NAUSĖDA SIGNED LAWS RATIFYING NATO ACCESSION PROTOCOLS FOR SWEDEN AND FINLAND

 

Vilnius, July 20 (ELTA) – On Wednesday, President Gitanas Nausėda signed the laws adopted by the Seimas on the approval of Sweden and Finland’s accession to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, thus completing the ratification procedure in Lithuania, said the Office of the President.

According to the president, Sweden and Finland’s membership of NATO is a significant step towards strengthening security in the Baltic Sea region and NATO’s eastern flank. Lithuania has therefore consistently supported the Nordic neighbours’ aspiration for joining the Alliance.

"It is both a historic decision and a historic opportunity for NATO to become a stronger and more robust Alliance. Finland and Sweden belong to the Nordic and Baltic family of nations, and I am delighted that our security cooperation will now move to a new level,” the president said.

Gitanas Nausėda underlined that he expected a smooth and swift accession process for Sweden and Finland. The two countries applied for membership at the NATO summit in June. For the accession procedure to be completed, all NATO members need to approve Sweden and Finland’s accession.

 

NAUSĖDA WILL OPEN 16TH LITHUANIAN WORLD YOUTH CONGRESS IN PUŃSK

 

Vilnius, July 20 (ELTA) – On Thursday, 21 July, President Gitanas Nausėda will pay a working visit to the Suwałki Region of Poland, where he will open the 16th World Lithuanian Youth Congress in Puńsk, announced the president’s press service.

President Gitanas Nausėda and First Lady Diana Nausėdienė will also visit Sejny and Puńsk to meet with local authorities and members of the Lithuanian community.

Among the issues to be discussed will be Lithuanian schools and Lithuanian studies, patriotic education, as well as the diaspora’s support for Lithuania in the context of ongoing geopolitical challenges.

 

EU MUST REMAIN PATIENT AND NOT SUCCUMB TO SANCTION FATIGUE – PM

 

Vilnius, July 21 (ELTA) – Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė on Wednesday met with Mairead McGuinness, European Commissioner for Financial Services, Financial Stability and Capital Markets Union. The meeting focused on the implementation of the European Union sanctions against Russia and Belarus, their impact and the Community’s further steps, said the Office of the Government.

"Lithuania has consistently advocated for strong and broad sanctions against Russia and supports their comprehensive implementation. While Russia’s aggression in Ukraine continues, sanctions must be applied resolutely and we must not succumb to sanctions fatigue,” the prime minister stressed.

During the meeting, the effect the sanctions have on the EU countries’ finances, the impact of the energy resources crisis and rising inflation were discussed.

The head of the Government noted that the EU must not succumb to the Russian pressure through its energy resources and must not make concessions that could lead to the loss of Ukrainian territories. Ms Šimonytė said that Europe must realise that relations with Russia will probably never be anything like they were before the war and that Europe must maintain its integrity when it comes to imposing sanctions and preserve unity, since internal disputes are something that Putin wants in particular.

"The EU must remain patient, strengthen communication on sanctions among the European countries and not deviate from its course and long-term solutions such as the implementation of the European Green Deal. I believe that the EU will once again reaffirm that it is able not only to discuss but also to act successfully, as it has already demonstrated both in handling the COVID-19 pandemic and during the Russian war in Ukraine,” the prime minister said.

The meeting also discussed the European Commission’s work on digital finance. Lithuania supports initiatives aimed at promoting digital transformation both in the financial sector and more broadly – to overcome fragmentation in the Single Market, harmonise different regulatory approaches to digital finance and address new risks and challenges.

 

FINLAND’S AND SWEDEN’S NATO MEMBERSHIP WILL SIGNIFICANTLY CONTRIBUTE TO LITHUANIA’S SECURITY – DEFMIN

 

Vilnius, July 21 (ELTA) – On 20 July, the Seimas of Lithuania ratified NATO membership of Finland and Sweden after submission of the decree on the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty ratification from President of Lithuania Gitanas Nausėda. The ratification has to be completed at all parliaments of NATO Allies, stated the Ministry of National Defence.

"Finland’s and Sweden’s NATO membership will significantly strengthen the Alliance and increase the security and stability of the Baltic Sea region. It is also a clear signal to Russia that the Russian military threat to the region is taken seriously and NATO is the only and a reliable collective defence Alliance,” says Minister of National Defence Arvydas Anušauskas.

According to Minister Anušauskas, NATO members of Finland and Sweden is vital to Lithuania in terms of both, deterrence and defence. It will make cooperation with the two countries closer and exercises – more wide-ranging.

"More NATO in the region – more security to Lithuania. Finland’s and Sweden’s membership will strengthen deterrence in the Baltic Sea region in peacetime and in crisis,” says Anušauskas.

Finland and Sweden have developed military capabilities, their air and maritime power will particularly increase the security of the Baltic Sea region.  Anušauskas is certain that the Finish and Swedish militaries will have a significant impact in ensuring regional security. 

"Involvement of such strong armed forces in collective defence will significantly contribute to regional defence – and security of the Baltic states and Lithuania with it,” the minister says.

NATO Partners since 1994, Finland and Sweden officially applied for NATO membership on 18 May earlier this year thus responding to the changes in the security environment brought about by Russia’s war against Ukraine. Both countries were officially invited to become members of the Alliance at the NATO Summit in Madrid in June.

 

LITHUANIA WILL NOT HAVE PROBLEMS IMPLEMENTING EU RECOMMENDATION TO REDUCE GAS USE – ENERGY MIN

 

Vilnius, July 20 (ELTA) – Minister of Energy Dainius Kreivys assured reporters on Wednesday that unlike in other countries there is no risk for Lithuania to experience a shortage of gas in the upcoming heating season.

"We observe a very obvious tendency that gas consumption is decreasing in business because business is shifting to alternative energy resources like biofuel, petroleum gas or other resources,” Kreivys commented on Wednesday.

The minister noted that intense discussions are ongoing in the EU on the proposal for member states to cut gas consumption by 15% in case of an emergency. Kreivys says Lithuania would easily fulfil the recommendation because gas consumption is expected to automatically decrease due to other reasons.

The minister also pointed out that Lithuania's liquefied natural gas consumption volume is equal to the amount delivered by 22 tankers, whereas a 15% reduction would account for three vessels. According to him, it takes gas from one and a half tankers to provide district heating to Vilnius city, whereas gas reduction could be achieved by Vilnius switching to fuel oil for district heating.

What is more, the minister explained that even if Lithuania had to cut gas consumption, first of all non-strategic companies that can easily switch from natural gas to alternative fuels would be asked to stop using gas. Meanwhile, greater importance would be given to strategic companies, whereas gas supply for household consumers would be key.

On Wednesday, the European Commission proposed the European Gas Demand Reduction Plan, whcih would reduce gas consumption in Europe by 15% until next spring. The move comes amid the risk of Russia further cutting gas supply. The "Union Alert” would be triggered in case of a substantial risk of a severe gas shortage or exceptionally high gas demand.

 

AGRIMIN TO ESTABLISH ATTACHÉ POSITION IN BRITAIN

 

Vilnius, July 20 (ELTA) – The Lithuanian Government has approved the proposal to establish a position of the agriculture attaché in the United Kingdom and to eliminate this position in China.

Minister of Agriculture Kęstutis Navickas says the position of Lithuania’s agriculture attaché in China would be eliminated due to the changed geopolitical situation.

Meanwhile, in the United Kingdom, the new attaché would help promote food product export and closer cooperation after Brexit, as well as carry out other activities aimed at consolidating Lithuania’s positions in this market.

 

STATISTICS LITHUANIA BECOMES STATE DATA AGENCY

 

Vilnius, July 20 (ELTA) – Following parliament’s approval of the Law on Official Statistics and State Data Management, the Lithuanian Department of Statistics (Statistics Lithuania) has become the State Data Agency.

The State Data Agency will be responsible not only for preparing official statistics, but also for gathering additional data and for its use when adopting decisions important for the country.

Minister of Finance Gintarė Skaistė notes that from now on all the statistical data will be managed by a single agency, which will expedite provision of data to state institutions.

According to the minister, Statistics Lithuania will now have new tools and tasks becoming a more effective State Data Agency, which will create more opportunities to make data-based political decisions.

Amendments to the law in question reduce administrative burden on data providing entities, ensure flexible use of data in the public sector and faster sharing of data between state databases.

According to the Ministry of Finance, the new state data ecosystem allows to collect, merge and visualise data stored in different registers and information systems more quickly.

The law will enter into force in January 2023.

 

MERKO HAS COMPLETED FIRST PHASE OF DEVELOPMENT OF CONTINENTAL AUTOMOTIVE LITHUANIA PRODUCTION BUILDING IN KAUNAS

 

Kaunas, July 20 (ELTA) – Merko statyba has completed the construction of a modern production plant of automotive electronic components for UAB Continental Automotive Lithuania in Kaunas, which currently meets the highest building standards applicable to the automotive industry, the company said in a press release.

"I would like to express my gratitude to the entire team of Kaunas production plant, as well as our contractors. The first phase of the project was completed successfully, with all the objectives met and a solid foundation laid for future development. The project was completed on time despite the pandemic and disrupted supply chain. We are currently preparing to move forward with the second phase of development,” said Shayan Ali, CEO of Continental Automotive Lithuania.

Merko statyba has completed the first phase of development of Continental Lithuania production plant of electronics. The production area was increased by 5,000 m2, while the additional office space was increased by 1,600 m2. The newly expanded production area will be fully operational in 2023. The product portfolio of Kaunas production plant will remain unchanged, with the primary focus remaining on automotive parts ensuring safety, comfort and autonomous driving functions. Electronic components manufactured in Kaunas production plant will be available in the latest car models.

"We appreciate the trust placed in us and we are pleased with the mutual cooperation and successful completion of the project – after all, new buildings were constructed over the course of a year, as planned. Despite the pandemic, disrupted supply chains and rising material costs, all works were conducted in accordance with the agreed work schedule,” stated Saulius Putrimas, CEO of UAB Merko statyba.

UAB Continental Automotive Lithuania building was designed and built to meet the international LEED Gold standard for sustainable buildings, which requires a high level of attention to construction processes, environmental protection and sustainability. Building Information Management (BIM) was used in the design and construction of this building, as it had been in a number of previous UAB Merko statyba projects. This methodology facilitates in ensuring the high-quality work, reducing operational risks, saving resources and preventing potential errors. The project of the "žContinental Automotive Lithuania building won "the Best Lithuanian BIM projects of 2022” award in the industrial buildings category.

The new building is also an excellent example of a focus on employee comfort and health. The control of factory operating parameters and energy management systems was automated and smart and environmentally friendly engineering solutions were used in the building. They ensure building climate control and more efficient use of energy. The buildings are equipped with intelligent interior lighting solutions, which regulate and control light intensity remotely by selecting the optimal amount of light for employees.

The facilities provide a healthy microclimate, in which temperature, humidity and dustiness are strictly controlled. The floor of the production area was coated with a conductive epoxy coating that does not accumulate static charge and is resistant to friction and the liquid spills.

According to S. Putrimas, these construction works were also one of the more complex challenges faced by UAB Merko statyba team because a new building had to be built and connected to another building, where Continental production plant already operated and where automotive electronic components were produced. The manufacturing process of such equipment is extremely precise and sensitive to external vibrations. Therefore, it was necessary to construct a building adjacent to it without causing any vibrations. It made us wonder if it was even possible. To find it out, it was necessary to first determine which vibration frequencies already affect and may harm the production process.

"We collaborated with scientists from Vilnius Gediminas Technical University (Vilnius Tech) to develop a solution in which we determined the background vibration frequency of the existing equipment in the manufacturing plant and established the limits for possible vibrations that would not endanger the production process. As a result, we had to work in strict compliance with the established requirements,” explained the CEO of UAB Merko statyba.

Another challenge was expanding the production area without interrupting the production process. For this reason, we had to first install a temporary, hermetic partition that met the operational requirements, then begin dismantling the walls, columns and windows of the operating production plant, and only then connect the two areas of production plant.

"We are glad that all of these unusual challenges were successfully overcome, and that works were completed on time while not interfering with the operations of the "Continental Automotive Lithuania” production plant,” said Putrimas.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Thursday, July 21

-- President Gitanas Nausėda:

-- -- to visit Poland’s Suwałki Region.

-- Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen:

-- -- to meet with Mairead McGuinness, European Commissioner for Financial Services, Financial Stability and Capital Markets Union (9:00);

-- -- to meet with young representatives of the Seimas of the World Lithuanian Community (10:00);

-- -- to have dinner with You Si-Kun, President of the Legislative Yuan of Taiwan (19:30).

-- Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė:

-- -- to give an interview to the public radio LRT (8:05);

-- -- to take part in the event marking the start of construction of the longest bridge in the Baltic States (Jonava District, 10:00);

-- -- to hold an internal meeting (14:00);

-- -- to attend a sitting of the working group for the coordination of assistance to groups of people affected by crises (16:00).

-- END.

Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA

文件 ELTA000020220721ei7l0008d


Sanctions hit a brick wall
bne Magazine, 2022 年 8 月 1 日, 1779 字, (英文)
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan got what he wanted. Sweden and Finland agreed to crack down on the various Turkish dissident groups, including the PKK, sheltering in their countries to unblock Turkish objections to their joining ...

CE Noticias Financieras English
Italian Senate ratifies Sweden and Finland in NATO
151 字
2022 年 8 月 3 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
ROME, 3 AUG (ANSA) - The Italian Senate on Wednesday (3) approved the bill ratifying the accession of Finland and Sweden to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).

The text received 202 votes in favor and only 13 against, plus two abstentions. As it had already been approved by the House, the bill now goes to President Sergio Mattarella for sanction.

The accession of Finland and Sweden needs to be ratified by all 30 NATO members, but the only country that threatens to slow down the process is Turkey, which is demanding Helsinki and Stockholm take action against alleged Kurdish "terrorists.

The two Scandinavian countries had a historic policy of military neutrality between the West and Russia, but abandoned this strategy after the invasion of Ukraine.

The post Italian Senate ratifies Sweden and Finland in NATO appeared first on ISTOÉ Independente.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220803ei8300aqa


跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
ROBIT PLC HALF-YEAR REPORT 1 JANUARY–30 JUNE 2022: RECORD NET SALES, PROFITABILITY IMPROVED 
8125 字
2022 年 8 月 9 日 08:00 GMT
Nasdaq / Globenewswire
HUGNEN
英文
© 2022, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
ROBIT PLC STOCK EXCHANGE RELEASE 09/08/2022 at 11:00 am

ROBIT PLC HALF-YEAR REPORT 1 JANUARY–30 JUNE 2022:RECORD NET SALES, PROFITABILITY IMPROVED

In the text, ‘review period’ refers to 1 April–30 June 2022 (Q2), and ‘H1’ refers to 1 January–30 June 2022. Figures from the corresponding time period in 2021 are given in parentheses. All the figures presented are in euros. Percentages are calculated from thousands of euros.

1 April–30 June 2022 in brief

* Net sales EUR 31.0 million (25.1), increase 23.7%

* EBITDA EUR 4.1 million (1.9)

* EBITDA 13.1% of net sales (7.4%)

* EBITA EUR 2.8 million (0.7)

* EBIT 8.4% of net sales (1.8%)

* Review period net income EUR 2.1 million (-0.2)

* Net cash flow from operating activities EUR 1.4 million (-2.4)

1 January–30 June 2022 in brief

* Net sales EUR 57.3 million (48.1), increase 19.2%

* EBITDA EUR 5.0 million (3.4)

* EBITDA 8.7% of net sales (7.2%)

* EBITA EUR 2.6 million (1.0)

* EBIT 3.7% of net sales (1.2)

* Review period net income EUR 1.3 million (0.2)

* Net cash flow from operating activities EUR 1.0 million (-4.1)

* Equity ratio at the end of the review period 45.7% (44.2)

Key financials                         Q2 2022 Q2 2021 Change % H1 2022 H1 2021 Change % 2021
Net sales, EUR 1,000                   31,025  25,088  23.7%    57,328  48,110  19.2%    100,755
EBITDA*, EUR 1,000                     4,062   1,864   118%     4,984   3,441   44.8%    7,595
EBITDA, % of net sales                 13.1%   7.4%    8.7%     7.2%    7.5%
EBITA, EUR 1,000                       2,844   678     319.5%   2,571   1,015   153.4%   2,940
EBITA, % of net sales                  9.2%    2.7%    4.5%     2.1%    2.9%
EBIT, EUR 1,000                        2,619   462     466.6%   2,127   583     264.9%   2,080
EBIT, % of net sales                   8.4%    1.8%    3.7%     1.2%    2.1%
Result for the period, EUR 1,000       2,082   -191    1,188.3% 1,333   224     495.0%   886
Result for the period, % of net sales  6.7%    -0.8%   2.3%     0.5%    0.9%
Earnings per share (EPS), EUR 1,000    0.09    -0.01   0.05     0.01    0.04
Return on equity (ROE), %**            4.5%    0.5%    1.8%
Return on capital employed (ROCE), %** 4.2%    1.5%    2.5%
*No items affecting comparability H1/2022 or H1/2021 **Calculation principles corrected to correspond to the formula defined for key figures

ROBIT’S OUTLOOK FOR 2022

Considering all identified risk factors, Robit estimates the demand in the global mining and construction industry to remain at the current level. The company has identified global factors, such as the war in Ukraine, cost inflation in raw materials and logistics and the potential global decline of economic development. They are unlikely to substantially affect the company's operations in 2022.

Demand in the construction industry is supported by the good work situation in the construction market areas that are relevant to Robit and the significant financing decided globally for the construction industry. General deterioration in the economic situation and high cost inflation may have the effect of suspending construction projects. For the time being, Robit is not accepting any new export orders from Russia and Belarus, which accounted for under 8% of the company’s net sales in the 2021 financial period. To compensate for this revenue, the company seeks revenue growth from other global markets.

GUIDANCE FOR 2022

Robit estimates that net sales in 2022 will increase and comparable EBITDA profitability in euros will improve compared to 2021, assuming that there are no significant changes in the exchange rates from the level at the end of 2021.

CEO ARTO HALONEN:

Robit experienced a record strong Q2 both in terms of growth and profitability. In Q2, for the first time, our net sales exceeded the EUR 30 million mark, with net sales totalling EUR 31 million (25.1). Orders received stood at EUR 26.4 million (26.5). The company’s profitability improved on the comparison period. EBITDA was EUR 4.1 million (1.9), up 118% on the comparison period. A significant step in H1 was also our progress made towards the sustainability goals we have set. We achieved a clear improvement with Robit’s emission intensity.

The company’s priorities for 2022 are improved profitability, profitable growth and strengthening cash flow. We were successful in achieving these goals. To strengthen profitability, the measures will focus on three key areas: pricing management, procurement savings projects and remedial measures for low profitability customers. In all three areas where we seek to strengthen profitability, we succeeded in implementing our action plans. We were able to pass on the rise in costs, we completed a competitive tendering process in one of our key procurement categories and we took forward other procurement savings projects.

In Q2, growth was strong in both business units. Both the Top Hammer and the Down the Hole business unit grew 23.7% over the comparison period. During the quarter, we were able to complete a Top Hammer business investment programme. Our Top Hammer capacity has increased considerably, and we will also be able to adapt to the growth of the business in the future. In addition, we achieved growth in all markets. Growth was strongest in the East region, where we delivered from the existing orderbook. For the time being, we are not accepting any new export orders from Russia or Belarus, which is why H2 sales from these countries will experience a significant decrease. In the course of the review period, we sharpened the implementation of the growth projects to safeguard continued growth despite the effects caused by the war in Ukraine.

Net cash flow from the company’s operating activities improved in the quarter as a result of strong profitability. Managing the company’s working capital, and especially inventories, is key to strengthening cash flow further. In Q2, we did not witness any marked improvement in working capital. During the quarter, we implemented the optimised inventory management parameters and took measures to cut the delivery times. The impacts of the measures taken will be visible in H2.

SUSTAINABILITY

Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) developed negatively in the review period, and further measures to improve safety were added. Our factories are constantly working to increase safety awareness, and a new easy-to-use tool was taken into use for the purpose of reporting safety observations. With regard to emission intensity, clear improvement has been achieved, and in terms of a responsible and sustainable delivery chain we were able to reach our goals.

Emission intensity Waste  Consultative sales hours per year LTIF     Sustainable suppliers Sustainable distributors
06/2022            -21.3% 88%                               362 h    4.1                   92%  76%
12/2021            -0.5%  87%                               921 h    2.1                   79%  38%
Target             -50.0% >90%                              >1,000 h 0.0                   >90% >90%
NET SALES

Net sales by product area

EUR thousand  Q2 2022 Q2 2021 Change % H1 2022 H1 2021 Change % 2021
Top Hammer    17,126  13,848  23.7%    33,594  26,299  27.7%    56,287
Down the Hole 13,899  11,239  23.7%    23,734  21,811  8.8%     44,468
Total         31,025  25,088  23.7%    57,328  48,110  19.2%    100,755
The Group’s net sales in Q2 totalled EUR 31 million (25.1). There was an increase of 23.7% over the comparison period. In constant currencies, the increase was 17.4%.

The Group’s net sales in H1 totalled EUR 57.3 million (48.1). There was an increase of 19.2% over the comparison period. In constant currencies, the increase was 15.5%.

The Top Hammer business continued to grow strongly in Q2, growing 23.7%. In H1, Top Hammer net sales grew by 27.7% to EUR 33.6 million (26.3). The investments made last year in our production capacity continued to improve our delivery capacity, enabling strong growth also in the future.

In Q2, the Down the Hole business also experienced strong growth of 23.7%. In H1, net sales grew 8.8% to EUR 23.7 million. Growth was especially significant in North America. Sales in the East region also developed strongly, driven by sales in the very strong Geotechnical market segment.

Net sales by market area

EUR thousand Q2 2022 Q2 2021 Change % H1 2022 H1 2021 Change % 2021
EMEA         13,154  11,810  11.4%    23,906  22,576  5.9%     45,298
Americas     6,658   4,566   45.8%    13,260  8,274   60.3%    19,960
Asia         3,231   2,643   22.2%    6,083   5,016   21.3%    10,771
Australasia  3,686   3,590   2.7%     6,994   6,792   3.0%     14,001
East         4,296   2,479   73.3%    7,085   5,451   30.0%    10,725
Total        31,025  25,088  23.7%    57,328  48,110  19.2%    100,755
In Q2, the company’s growth was strong in the Americas and the Asia region. In the Americas region, sales especially increased in North America. During Q2, there was a strong increase in sales, 73.3%, in the East region due to a significant number of deliveries made to our contract customers not on the sanction list scheduled on the review period. In Australia, sales increased by 2.7% in the review period. The EMEA region returned to a growth track, and sales increased by 11.4% in Q2.

In H1, all markets experienced growth. Growth was strongest in the Americas region, where net sales grew substantially 60.3%, while market demand remained good. The Asia and East regions also grew strongly in H1 and achieved over 20% growth. The Australasia and EMEA regions experienced growth in the review period.

PROFITABILITY

Key figures

EUR thousand                          Q2 2022 Q2 2021 Change % H1 2022 H1 2021 Change % 2021
EBITDA, EUR 1,000                     4,062   1,864   118%     4,984   3,441   44.8%    7,595
EBITDA, % of net sales                13.1%   7.4%    8.7%     7.2%    7.5%
EBIT, EUR 1,000                       2,619   462     466.6%   2,127   583     264.9%   2,080
EBIT, % of net sales                  8.4%    1.8%    3.7%     1.2%    2.1%
Result for the period, EUR 1,000      2,082   -191    1,188.3% 1,333   224     495.0%   886
Result for the period, % of net sales 6.7%    -0.8%   2.3%     0.5%    0.9%
The company’s profitability in the review period clearly improved. EBITDA for Q2 was EUR 4.1 million (1.9). EBITDA’s share of net sales was at the strategy level, at 13.1% (7.4%). The company’s EBIT was EUR 2.6 million (0.5). EBIT was 8.4% (1.8%) of the review period net sales.

EBITDA for H1 was EUR 5 million (3.4) EBITDA’s share of net sales was 8.7% (7.2%). The company’s EBIT was EUR 2.1 million (0.6). EBIT was 3.7% (1.2%) of the review period net sales.

The improved operating profit was supported by sales that grew strongly as well as by more accurate pricing. The company’s profitability improvement measures systematically progressed in the review period, and the results materialized in Q2. The positive development of profitability was also affected by the successful management of fixed costs.

Financial income and expenses in Q2 totalled EUR -0.5 million (-0.9), of which EUR -0.3 million (-0.3) was in interest expenses and EUR -0.1 million (-0.5) in exchange rate changes. The result for the quarter improved, being EUR 2.1 million (-0.2)

Financial income and expenses in H1 totalled EUR -1.0 million (-0.7), of which EUR -0.7 million (-0.6) was in interest expenses and EUR -0.2 million (0.0) in exchange rate changes. The review period results improved, being EUR 1.3 million (0.2)

CASH FLOW AND INVESTMENTS

Consolidated cash flow statement

EUR thousand                                                          Q2 2022 Q2 2021 H1 2022 H1 2021 2021
Net cash flows from operating activities
Cash flows before changes in working capital                          4,827   1,934   5,581   3,609   7,826
Cash flows from operating activities before financial items and taxes 1,739   -2,110  1,772   -3,271  -2,785
Net cash inflow (outflow) from operating activities                   1,440   -2,370  1,047   -4,084  -4,174
Net cash inflow (outflow) from investing activities                   -371    -492    -805    -1,287  -3,885
Net cash inflow (outflow) from financing activities                   -1,617  -82     -3,111  292     3,091
Net increase (+)/decrease (-) in cash and cash equivalents            -549    -2,944  -2,869  -5,078  -4,968
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year      7,185   12,352  9,525   14,339  14,339
Exchange gains/losses on cash and cash equivalents                    443     -37     422     111     154
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year                          7,079   9,372   7,079   9,372   9,525
The Group’s Q2 cash flow before changes in working capital improved to EUR 4.8 million (1.9). Net cash flow for operating activities was EUR 1.4 million (-2.4). The changes in working capital had an impact of EUR -2.8 million (-4.0). The change in working capital was affected slightly positively by the EUR 0.2 million increase in accounts payable. The growth in account and other receivables had a negative impact of EUR 2.4 million on cash flow, and the growth of inventories had an impact of EUR 0.6 million. Increased invoicing increased the amount of account receivables.

Net cash inflow (outflow) from investing activities for Q2 was EUR -0.4 million (-0.5) Gross investments in production totalled EUR 0.4 million (0.6). The share of investments in net sales was 1.4% (2.3). The investments were mainly directed at the company’s factories in South Korea and Lempäälä, Finland. The investments are aimed at responding to the growth of the Top Hammer business.

Net cash inflow (outflow) from financing activities for Q2 was EUR -1.6 million (-0.1) Net changes in loans totalled EUR -1.9 million (4.0). The change in bank overdrafts was EUR 0.8 million (-3.6). The repayment of lease liabilities reported in net cash flow from financing activities under IFRS 16 totalled EUR 0.5 million (0.5).

Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs totalled EUR 1.4 million (1.4). Of this, EUR 0.2 million related to the amortisation of customer relationships and brand value from business acquisitions.

FINANCIAL POSITION

30 June 2022                                                30 June 2021 31 December 2021
Cash and cash equivalents, EUR thousand                     7,079        9,372  9,525
Interest-bearing liabilities, EUR thousand                  38,805       35,139 41,522
of which short-term interest-bearing financial liabilities: 8,066        3,758  10,500
Net interest-bearing liabilities, EUR thousand              31,726       25,767 31,996
Undrawn credit facility, EUR thousand                       3,397        6,000  2,738
Gearing, %                                                  60.2%        53.8%  65.1%
Equity ratio, %                                             45.7%        44.2%  42.2%
The Group had interest-bearing liabilities amounting to EUR 38.8 million (35.1), of which EUR 7 million (4.8) were IFRS 16 interest-bearing liabilities. The Group’s liquid assets totalled EUR 7.1 million (9.4). Interest-bearing net liabilities amounted to EUR 31.7 million (25.8), and interest-bearing net bank liabilities excluding IFRS 16 liabilities stood at EUR 24.7 million (20.9).

The Group’s equity at the end of the review period was EUR 52.7 million (47.9). The Group’s equity ratio was 45.7% (44.2) and gearing stood at 60.2% (53.8).

PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT

The number of personnel decreased by 4 persons from the end of the comparison period, and at the end of the review period it was 268 (272). At the end of the review period, 72% of the company’s personnel were located outside Finland.

The company’s Management Team at the end of the review period was composed of Arto Halonen (CEO), George Apostolopoulos (VP Global Sales), Adam Baker (VP Down the Hole), Jorge Leal (VP Top Hammer), Ville Peltonen (Interim CFO), Ville Pohja (VP Geotechnical) and Jaana Rinne (Group HR Director).

FINANCIAL TARGETS

Robit’s long-term target is to achieve organic net sales growth of 15% annually and comparable EBITDA profitability of 13%.

Long-term target                  2020 2021 H1 2022
Net sales growth, p.a.            15%  6%   10%  19.2%
Comparable EBITDA, % of net sales 13%  5.6% 7.5% 8.7%
RESOLUTIONS OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2022

Robit Plc’s Annual General Meeting on 22 March 2022 adopted the financial statements presented for 1 January–31 December 2021 and resolved that no dividend would be paid based on the adopted balance sheet for the 2021 financial year.

The General Meeting resolved to discharge the members of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer from liability for the financial year ending 31 December 2021

The General Meeting decided to approve the Remuneration Report for Governing Bodies. The decision was advisory.

The General Meeting resolved that the Board of Directors consists of six (6) members. Kim Gran, Mikko Kuitunen, Anne Leskelä and Harri Sjöholm were re-elected as members of the Board of Directors. Markku Teräsvasara and Eeva-Liisa Virkkunen were elected as new members of the Board of Directors.

The annual remuneration for the Chairman of the Board of Directors is EUR 50,000, of which 40% is paid in shares and the remaining 60% is an advance tax withheld and paid to the Finnish Tax Administration by the company. There is also a meeting fee of EUR 500 per meeting. The fee is paid for meetings attended by the Chairman of the Board. Other costs such as travel, and lodging expenses will also be compensated.

The annual remuneration for the Board members is EUR 30,000, of which 40% is paid in shares and the remaining 60% is an advance tax withheld and paid to the Finnish Tax Administration by the company. There is also a meeting fee of EUR 500 per meeting. The fee is paid for meetings attended by the member of the Board. Other costs, such as travel and lodging expenses, will also be compensated.

Members of the Working Committee, Personnel Committee and Audit Committee are paid a financial compensation of EUR 500 per meeting attended. Other costs such as travel, and lodging expenses will also be compensated.

The annual remuneration of the Chairman of the Board and Board members for the entire term of office will be paid in December 2022. The part of the remuneration paid in shares may be paid by issuing new shares in the company or by acquiring shares by the authorisation given to the Board of Directors by the General Meeting. The receiver of the remuneration pays the transfer tax.

Ernst & Young Oy, an audit firm, was re-elected as the company’s auditor for a term that will continue until the end of the next Annual General Meeting. Ernst & Young Oy has notified the company that Authorised Public Accountant Toni Halonen will serve as the company’s principal responsible auditor.

The General Meeting resolved to pay the auditor’s remuneration in accordance with an invoice approved by the company.

The General Meeting resolved to authorise the Board of Directors to resolve on the acquisition of a maximum of 2,117,990 shares of the company and/or accepting the same number of the company’s shares as a pledge, in one or several tranches by using funds in the unrestricted shareholders’ equity. The maximum total of shares that will be acquired and/or accepted as a pledge corresponds to 10% of all the shares in the company as of the date of the notice to the General Meeting. However, the company cannot, together with its subsidiary companies, own or accept as a pledge altogether more than 10% of its own shares at any point in time. The company’s shares may be purchased under this authorisation solely by using unrestricted shareholders’ equity.

The shares will be acquired other than in proportion to the share ownership of the shareholders via public trading arranged by Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd at the market price on the date on which the acquisition is made or at a price formed on the market. The authorisation is proposed to be used for the purposes of implementing the company’s share-based incentive schemes or for other purposes as decided by the Board of Directors, for example.

It was resolved that the authorisation revokes the authorisation granted by the General Meeting on 25 March 2021 to decide on the acquisition of treasury shares.

The authorisation is valid until the closing of the next Annual General Meeting, but no longer than until 30 June 2023.

The Annual General Meeting resolved to authorise the Board of Directors to resolve on a share issue and on the issuance of special rights entitling to shares as referred to in Chapter 10, Section 1 of the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, in one or more tranches, either against or without consideration.

The number of shares to be issued, including shares to be issued on the basis of special rights, may not exceed 2,117,990, which amounts to 10% of all shares in the company as at the date of the notice to the Annual General Meeting. The Board of Directors may decide to either issue new shares or to transfer any treasury shares held by the company.The authorisation entitles the Board of Directors to decide on all terms that apply to the share issue and to the issuance of special rights entitling to shares, including the right to derogate from the shareholders’ pre-emptive right. The authorisation will be used, for example, for the purposes of strengthening the company’s balance sheet and improving its financial status, implementing the company’s share-based incentive systems or for other purposes as decided by the Board of Directors.

The authorisation is valid until the closing of the next Annual General Meeting, but no longer than until 30 June 2023. The authorisation will revoke all the previously granted, unused authorisations to decide on a share issue and the issuance of options or other special rights entitling to shares.

SHARES AND SHARE TURNOVER

On 30 June 2022, the company had 21,179,900 shares and 4,399 shareholders. Trading volume in January–June was 1,767,980 shares (3,624,890).

The company held 88,464 treasury shares (0.42% of total shares). On 30 June 2022, the market value of the company’s shares was EUR 48.3 million. The closing price of the share was EUR 2.28. The highest price in January–June was EUR 4.55 and the lowest price was EUR 2.13.

RISKS AND BUSINESS UNCERTAINTIES

The geopolitical situation, which is growing tenser, poses a risk to the company’s business. The war in Ukraine and the sanctions imposed on Russia affect the development of net sales and profitability especially in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, which account for under 8% of the company’s sales in the 2021 financial year. The crisis has also significantly increased the prices of raw materials, to which Robit reacted by introducing a premium in customer prices. Furthermore, the effects of the sanctions on the smooth flow of Russian payment transactions pose a risk to the company’s cash flow and treasury management. Robit complies with all the imposed sanctions and continuously monitors the situation.

Robit closely monitors the impact of COVID-19 on demand in the sector. In general, customer operations have returned to normal levels. The effects on Robit’s operations are now limited and only affect individual countries or regions. Robit will continue actions to protect the health of its personnel and to ensure the continuity of the company’s operations. At the time of reporting, all of the company’s factories were operating at the planned capacity. No disruptions in the supply chain have been identified that cannot be managed, for example, with current inventory levels and supplier cooperation.

Other uncertainty factors include exchange rate development, the functioning of information systems, integration of corporate acquisitions, risks related to the security of supply and logistics, and IPR risks. Fully transferring the increase in raw material costs to customer prices may pose a financial risk. Changes in export countries’ tax and customs legislation may adversely impact the company’s export trade or its profitability. Risks related to information security and cyber threats may also have a detrimental effect on Robit’s business. Potential changes in the business environment may adversely impact the payment behaviour of the Group’s customers and increase the risk of litigation, legal claims and disputes related to Robit’s products and other operations.

CHANGES IN GROUP STRUCTURE

There were no changes in the Group structure during the review period.

OTHER EVENTS IN JANUARY–JUNE 2022

On 20 January 2022, the company announced the proposals of Robit Plc’s Shareholders’ Nomination Committee regarding the Board members and Board fees for the Annual General Meeting. The Nomination Committee’s proposals were included in the notice to the General Meeting. Timo Sallinen (Director, Head of Listed Securities, Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company) acted as the Chairman of the Shareholder’ Nomination Committee, with Harri Sjöholm (Chairman of the Board, Five Alliance Oy), Tuomas Virtala (CEO, Asset Management, OP Corporate Bank Plc) and Jukka Vähäpesola (Head of Equities, Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company) as the other members.

On 15 February 2022, Robit Plc’s Board of Directors decided on a performance-based share reward scheme for key personnel. The purpose of the share scheme is to align the owners’ and the key persons’ goals in order to increase the value of the company in the long term, to commit the key persons to the company and to encourage them to achieve the company’s key strategic goals as well as to provide them with a competitive long-term incentive scheme. The share scheme includes earning periods of one and two years. The first earning period of the share scheme comprises the year 2022 and the second earning period comprises the years 2023–2024. The remuneration that may be paid under the share scheme for the 2022 one-year earning period is based on the company’s predetermined net cash inflow target in the 2022 financial statements. The remuneration that may be paid under the share scheme for the 2023–2024 two-year earning period is based on the company’s predetermined average earnings per share in the financial statements for the years 2023 and 2024. The remuneration that may be paid under the share scheme for both earning periods will be paid in May 2025. The share scheme covers a target group of some 30 key persons, members of the Management Team and high-potential employees.

On 15 February 2022, Robit published its financial statements release for 1 January–31 December 2021.

On 15 February 2022, the company sent Robit Plc’s shareholders a notice to the Annual General Meeting of 22 March 2022.

On 25 February 2022, Robit announced that the company’s Annual Report, Corporate Governance Statement and Remuneration Report for 2021 had been published on the company’s website.

Robit Plc CEO Tommi Lehtonen and Robit Plc’s Board of Directors agreed together that Mr Lehtonen will leave his post as CEO on 15 March 2022. The company’s Board of Directors appointed Arto Halonen CEO as of 15 March 2022. Ville Peltonen was appointed Robit Plc’s Interim CFO on 16 March 2022.

The company’s Annual General Meeting was held on 22 March 2022. Robit announced the decisions of the Annual General Meeting in a separate stock exchange release on 22 March 2022.

On 22 March 2022, Robit published the decisions of the constituent meeting of the company’s Board of Directors. At its constituent meeting, the Board of Directors elected by Robit Plc’s Annual General Meeting on 22 March 2022 elected from among its members Harri Sjöholm as Chairman of the Board and Anne Leskelä as Vice Chairman, and members to serve on Robit Plc’s Remuneration Committee, Working Committee and Audit Committee.

On 24 March 2022, Robit Plc announced that the company’s Board of Directors decided to increase the maximum size of the performance-based share reward scheme decided on 15 February 2022 from 180,000 shares to 240,000 shares. This update of the maximum size is due to Robit Plc’s new CEO. It was decided that no other updates would be made to the scheme. Previously, information on the scheme was published in a stock exchange release on 15 February 2022. Following this update, the 2022–2024 share reward scheme is dimensioned in such a way that the relative proportion of the share transfer taking place under all share schemes in force at the company will remain below four per cent of the company’s shares.

On 27 April 2022, Robit published its interim financial reporting for 1 January–31 March 2022.

On 15 June 2022, Robit published the corrected ESEF financial statements including the Report of the Board of Directors.

EVENTS AFTER THE REVIEW PERIOD

No events after review period.

Lempäälä, 9 August 2022

ROBIT PLC Board of Directors

For more information, contact:

Arto Halonen, CEO +358 40 028 0717 arto.halonen@robitgroup.com[https://www.globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=krDVi2Enxz8TIUzz3voBOPIT3GqY-3lAtPCYHH8lVo-QCd-sdnjbgqriOcnswoU_bn7oR28ozHqgvFdARzznSo_TAe7epQ9_Cb8DFPuMNi7NiWC8Rz7GxcKWZuqLOjUS]

Ville Peltonen, Interim CFO+358 40 759 9142ville.peltonen@robitgroup.com[https://www.globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=gEFViCoFJsGnaQsPjPhSE0rMNzRI8OBtAMdQmztURGRku32mgMcQlPNfxXLXBZ0bnArQZcIC2N0D5TlPLP2yS4v4EHU8EC6BJQ7qO9C2W6ghxHL09vsX_AbcwJJIEB_s]

Distribution: Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd Key media www.robitgroup.com[https://www.globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=v88V_PWZ76OJjBAxiCx7ZhU3XN439XFCyagf-VajcmVLqamyWUyC4i896O0IyZuiQzgghXktotLuUBvF0phoQzDhqWy4ckKk9ACn72am9qQ=]

Robit is a strongly international growth company servicing global customers and selling drilling consumables for applications in mining, construction, geotechnical engineering and well drilling. The company’s offering is divided into three product and service ranges: Top Hammer, Down the Hole and Geotechnical. Robit has sales and service points in nine countries as well as an active sales network in more than 100 countries. Robit’s manufacturing units are located in Finland, South Korea, Australia and the UK. Robit’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. Further information is available at www.robitgroup.com[https://www.globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=v88V_PWZ76OJjBAxiCx7ZsXxMNPkA3bTMEqd9Fkhr8-gHgI0i3HiwaoE3GVzn2UL8FMQUdmdvM7r7gtT02KbW544is8gQJR7SxFy1kdeyAYuSHW5uqZWm68E_wNQRDJdxeaHwCBt0rIR7dYJklsn40EmOOwILSrSs3ySnc1vN7VfWH8J_cpCO9VlUWh0qO1E7dz7T_Utk6Ll-hOW-xGB6dbMjSTiOQ1UZ1ixDtgkRffUSfG4ILIehRRPXeldmGknQKHyndbO-MMtaMBHMIAQQA==].

The information presented above includes statements about future prospects. These relate to events or the company’s economic development in the future. In some cases, such statements can be recognised by their use of conditional words (such as “may”, “expected”, “estimated”, “believed”, “predicted” and so on) or other similar expressions. Statements such as these are based on assumptions and factors that Robit’s management have at their disposal and on current decisions and plans. There is always risk and uncertainty attached to any statements regarding future events because they pertain to events and depend on factors that are not possible to predict with certainty. For this reason, future results may differ - even significantly - from the figures expressed or assumed in statements about future prospects.

CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
EUR thousand                              4–6/2022 4–6/2021 1–6/2022 1–6/2021 2021
Net sales                                 31,025   25,088   57,328   48,110   100,755
Other operating income                    1,056    323      2,606    803      1,690
Materials and services*                   -19,280  -16,369  -37,260  -31,241  -65,699
Employee benefit expense                  -4,523   -4,154   -8,790   -8,106   -16,280
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -1,443   -1,401   -2,857   -2,858   -5,514
Other operating expenses*                 -4,217   -3,024   -8,900   -6,125   -12,871
EBIT (Operating profit/loss)              2,619    462      2,127    583      2,080
Finance income and costs
Interest income and finance income        1,139    2        1,561    587      924
Interest cost and finance cost            -1,691   -859     -2,523   -1,247   -2,253
Finance income and costs net              -552     -857     -962     -660     -1,329
Profit/loss before tax                    2,067    -394     1,165    -77      751
Taxes
Income tax                                -144     6        -143     -37      -333
Change in deferred taxes                  159      209      310      338      468
Income taxes                              15       203      168      301      135
Result for the period                     2,082    -191     1,333    224      886
Attributable to:
Parent company shareholders               1,985    -235     1,140    126      843
Non-controlling interest**                97       43       193      98       44
2,082                                     -191     1,333    224      886
Other comprehensive income
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Cash flow hedges                          126      0        367      0        45
Translation differences**                 944      -386     1,826    590      1,003
Other comprehensive income, net of tax    1,070    -386     2,193    590      1,048
Total comprehensive income                3,152    -621     3,526    717      1,934
Attributable to:
Parent company shareholders               3,077    -577     3,321    814      1,892
Non-controlling interest**                74       -43      204      -98      42
Consolidated comprehensive income         3,152    -621     3,526    717      1,934
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share                  0.09     -0.01    0.05     0.01     0.04
*In the condensed income statement, changes in inventories are presented in Materials and services, and manufacture for own use in Other operating expenses.

**Founded in 2015 by Robit SA, Black Employees Empowerment Trust owns 26% of the shares of Robit SA.*** The Group has internal loans that are treated as net investments in foreign entities in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
EUR thousand                                                30 June 2022 30 June 2021 31 December 2021
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill                                                    5,374        5,375        5,487
Other intangible assets                                     2,077        3,185        2,695
Property, plant and equipment                               26,135       23,103       27,396
Loan receivables                                            271          299          287
Other receivables                                           0            3            0
Derivatives                                                 515          0            56
Deferred tax assets                                         2,325        1,848        1,926
Total non-current assets                                    36,697       33,813       37,847
Current assets
Inventories                                                 47,399       40,297       43,538
Account and other receivables                               25,749       24,160       25,337
Loan receivables                                            88           95           100
Current tax assets                                          209          65           57
Cash and cash equivalents                                   7,079        9,372        9,525
Total current assets                                        80,524       73,989       78,557
Total assets                                                117,222      107,801      116,403
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital                                               705          705          705
Share premium                                               202          202          202
Reserve for invested unrestricted equity                    82,570       82,570       82,570
Translation differences                                     21           -2,208       -1,793
Fair value reserve                                          412          -            45
Retained earnings                                           -32,799      -33,814      -33,738
Profit/loss for the year                                    1,140        126          843
Equity attributable to parent company shareholders in total 52,252       47,581       48,833
Non-controlling interests*                                  485          355          281
Capital and reserves in total                               52,737       47,936       49,114
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings                                                  25,443       28,232       25,209
Lease liabilities                                           5,296        3,149        5,813
Deferred tax liabilities                                    937          726          694
Employee benefit obligations                                754          682          725
Total non-current liabilities                               32,431       32,790       32,441
Current liabilities
Borrowings                                                  6,363        2,072        8,619
Lease liabilities                                           1,702        1,686        1,881
Advances received                                           1,624        375          771
Income tax liabilities                                      33           44           259
Account payables and other liabilities                      22,094       22,746       23,278
Other provisions                                            237          153          40
Total current liabilities                                   32,054       27,076       34,848
Total liabilities                                           64,485       59,865       67,289
Total equity and liabilities                                117,222      107,801      116,403
* Founded in 2015 by Robit SA, Black Employees Empowerment Trust owns 26% of the shares of Robit SA.

CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
EUR thousand                                                          4–6/2022 4–6/2021 1–6/2022 1–6/2021 2021
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax                                                     2,067    -394     1,165    -77      751
Adjustments:
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment                             1,443    1,401    2,857    2,858    5,514
Finance income and costs                                              549      857      962      660      1,329
Share-based payments to employees                                     75       -151     89       -161     -178
Loss (+)/Gain (-) on sale of property, plant and equipment            -1       0        -24      -1       -144
Other non-cash transactions                                           693      221      532      330      553
Cash flows before changes in working capital                          4,827    1,934    5,581    3,609    7,826
Change in working capital
Increase (-) in account and other receivables                         -2,438   -3,592   761      -5,255   -6,452
Increase (-)/decrease (+) in inventories                              -579     -2,412   -2,189   -4,803   -8,187
Increase (+) in account and other payables                            227      1,960    -2,083   3,178    4,028
Cash flows from operating activities before financial items and taxes 2,037    -2,110   2,070    -3,271   -2,785
Interest and other finance expenses paid                              -469     -220     -601     -539     -1,046
Interest and other finance income received                            0        58       1        58       22
Income taxes paid                                                     -128     -98      -422     -331     -365
Net cash inflow (outflow) from operating activities                   1,440    -2,370   1,047    -4,084   -4,174
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchases of property, plant and equipment                            -452     -525     -827     -1,317   -4,169
Purchases of intangible assets                                        8        -52      -38      -69      -124
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment               1        32       32       37       279
Proceeds from loan receivables                                        72       53       28       62       129
Net cash inflow (outflow) from investing activities                   -371     -492     -805     -1,287   -3,885
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividend payment*                                                     0        0        0        0        -9
Changes in non-current loans                                          -1,872   4,009    -1,550   4,949    5,385
Change in bank overdrafts                                             725      -3,636   -659     -3,739   -478
Payment of leasing liabilities                                        -470     -455     -902     -918     -1,807
Net cash inflow (outflow) from financing activities                   -1,617   -82      -3,111   292      3,091
Net increase (+)/decrease (-) in cash and cash equivalents            -549     -2,944   -2,868   -5,078   -4,968
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year      7,185    12,352   9,525    14,339   14,339
Exchange gains/losses on cash and cash equivalents                    443      -37      422      111      154
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year                          7,079    9,372    7,079    9,372    9,525
*Dividend paid to the foundation of Robit SA as a minority shareholder in accordance with the agreement

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
A = Share capital
B = Share premium
C = Reserve for invested unrestricted equity
D = Cumulative translation difference
E = Fair value reserve
F = Retained earnings
G = Equity attributable to parent company shareholders
H = Non-controlling interests
I = Capital and reserves in total
EUR thousand                                                  A     B     C      D      E       F       G      H   I
Equity as at 1 January 2021                                   705   202   82,570 -2,798 -33,690 46,989
Profit for the period                                         126   98    224
Other comprehensive income
Translation differences                                       590   17    607
Total comprehensive changes                                   590   126   115    831
Share-based payments to employees                             -124  -124
Change in the share of non-controlling owners                 240   240
Total transactions with owners, recognised directly in equity -124  240   115
Equity as at 30 June 2021                                     705   202   82,570 -2,208 -33,814 126     354    47,936
EUR thousand                                                  A     B     C      D      E       F       G      H   I
Equity as at 1 January 2022                                   705   202   82,570 -1,793 45      -32,846 48,883 281 49,114
Profit for the period                                         1,140 1,140 193    1,333
Other comprehensive income
Cash flow hedges                                              367   367   367
Translation differences                                       1,814 1,814 12     1,826
Total comprehensive changes                                   1,814 367   1,140  3,321  204     3,526
Share-based payments to employees                             47    47    47
Total transactions with owners, recognised directly in equity 47    47    47
Equity as at 30 June 2022                                     705   202   82,570 21     412     -31,659 52,252 485 52,737
NOTESContents

* Scope and principles of the interim report

* Key figures and calculation

* Breakdown of net sales

* Financing arrangements

* Changes to property, plant and equipment

* Given guarantees

* Business acquisitions

* Derivatives

1. SCOPE AND PRINCIPLES OF THE INTERIM REPORTThis interim report has been prepared in accordance with the IAS 34 standard for interim financial reporting and using the same principles as for the annual financial statements. The interim report has not been audited.

All figures in the summarised financial statement have been rounded to the nearest figure; therefore, the sum of reported figures may not exactly match those presented.2.1 KEY FIGURES

Consolidated key figures              Q2 2022    Q2 2021    H1 2022 H1 2021 2021
Net sales, EUR 1,000                  31,025     25,088     57,328  48,110  100,755
EBIT, EUR 1000                        2,619      462        2,127   583     2,080
EBIT, % of net sales                  8.4%       1.8%       3.7%    1.2%    2.1%
Earnings per share (EPS), EUR         0.09       -0.01      0.05    0.01    0.04
Return on equity (ROE), %             4.5%       0.5%       1.8%
Return on capital employed (ROCE), %  4.2%       1.5%       2.5%
Equity ratio, %                       45.7%      44.2%      42.2%
Net gearing, %                        60.2%      53.8%      65.1%
Gross investments, EUR 1,000          445        577        865     1,386   4,293
Gross investments, % of net sales     1.4%       2.3%       1.5%    2.9%    4.3%
Number of shares (outstanding shares) 21,091,436 21,067,436 21,091,436
Treasury shares (owned by the Group)  88,464     112,464    88,464
Percentage of votes/shares            0.42%      0.53%      0.42%
2.2 CONSOLIDATING ALTERNATIVE KEY FIGURES

Robit presents alternative key figures to supplement the key figures given in the Group’s income statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements that have been drawn up according to IFRS standards. Robit considers that the alternative figures give significant extra insight into the result of Robit’s operations, its financial position and cash flows. These figures are often used by analysts, investors and other parties.

Alternative key figures should not be studied apart from the key figures according to IFRS or instead of them. Not all companies calculate their alternative key figures in the same way and, therefore, Robit’s alternative figures may not be directly comparable to those presented by other companies, even if they carry the same headings.

Adjusted EBITDA and EBITA
EUR thousand                              4–6/2022 4–6/2021 1–6/2022 1–6/2021 2021
EBIT (Operating profit)                   2,619    462      2,127    583      2,080
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1,443    1,401    2,857    2,858    5,514
EBITDA                                    4,062    1,864    4,984    3,441    7,595
EBIT (Operating profit)                   2,619    462      2,127    583      2,080
Amortisation of acquisitions              225      216      444      432      859
EBITA                                     2,844    678      2,571    1,015    2,940
2.3 CALCULATION OF KEY FIGURES

EBITDA:
EBIT + Depreciation, amortisation and impairment
EBITA
EBIT + Amortisation of customer relationships
Net working capital
Inventory + Accounts receivables and other receivables – Accounts payables and other liabilities
Earnings per share (EPS), EUR
Profit (loss) for the financial year
Amount of shares adjusted with the share issue (average during the financial year)
Return on equity (ROE), %
Profit (loss) for the financial year                                                    x 100
Equity (average during the financial year)
Return on capital employed (ROCE), %
Profit before appropriations and taxes + Interest expenses and other financing expenses x 100
Equity (average during the financial year) + Interest-bearing financial liabilities (long-term and short-term loans from financial institutions, average during the financial year)
Net interest-bearing financial liabilities
Long-term and short-term loans from financial institutions – Cash and cash equivalents – Short-term financial securities
Equity ratio, %
Equity                                                                                  x 100
Balance sheet total – Advances received
Gearing, %
Net interest-bearing financial liabilities                                              x 100
Equity
3. BREAKDOWN OF NET SALES

Entries are recorded according to IFRS 15 in the same way for each business unit and market area.

NET SALES
Net sales by product area
EUR thousand  4–6/2022 4–6/2021 Change % 1–6/2022 1–6/2021 Change % 2021
Top Hammer    17,126   13,848   23.7%    33,594   26,299   27.7%    56,287
Down the Hole 13,899   11,239   23.7%    23,734   21,811   8.8%     44,468
Total         31,025   25,088   23.7%    57,328   48,110   19.2%    100,755
Net sales by market area
EUR thousand  4–6/2022 4–6/2021 Change % 1–6/2022 1–6/2021 Change % 2021
EMEA          13,154   11,810   11.4%    23,906   22,576   5.9%     45,298
Americas      6,658    4,566    45.8%    13,260   8,274    60.3%    19,960
Asia          3,231    2,643    22.2%    6,083    5,016    21.3%    10,771
Australasia   3,686    3,590    2.7%     6,994    6,792    3%       14,001
East          4,296    2,479    73.3%    7,085    5,451    30%      10,725
Total         31,025   25,088   23.7%    57,328   48,110   19.2%    100,755
4. FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS

The company’s cash and cash equivalents were EUR 7.1 million on 30 June 2022. In addition, the company has EUR 3.5 million undrawn of the financing agreement of EUR 30 million signed on 8 June 2021. In May 2022, the company utilised the first option to extend the agreement according to the original financing agreement. The company’s sufficient liquidity is secured through cash and a loan that has not been drawn down.

The parent company’s covenants are based on the company’s net debt/EBITDA ratio and the company’s equity ratio. The covenants are tested on a quarterly basis. The company met all the covenant conditions in Q2.

BORROWINGS/LOANS/INTEREST-BEARING LOANS
EUR thousand                   30 June 2022 30 June 2021 31 December 2021
Non-current borrowings
Loans from credit institutions 25,430       28,144       25,182
Other loans                    12           12           12
Lease liabilities              5,298        3,226        5,828
Total non-current borrowings   30,740       31,381       31,022
Current borrowings
Loans from credit institutions 3,668        1,849        5,187
Other loans                    0            0            0
Bank overdrafts                2,603        0            3,262
Lease liabilities              1,795        1,909        2,051
Total current borrowings       8,066        3,758        10,500
Total borrowings               38,805       35,139       41,522
5. CHANGES TO PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
EUR thousand                                                       30 June 2022 30 June 2021 31 December 2021
Cost at the beginning of period                                    53,794       47,323       47,323
Additions                                                          961          1,728        6,644
Disposals                                                          -43          -1,390       -282
Reclassification                                                   0            37           -533
Exchange differences                                               124          286          644
Cost at the end of period                                          54,836       47,984       53,794
Accumulated depreciation and impairment at the beginning of period -26,398      -22,682      -22,682
Depreciation                                                       -2,176       -2,090       -3,902
Disposals                                                          34           67           227
Reclassification                                                   -44          -            289
Exchange differences                                               -116         -176         -330
Accumulated depreciation and impairment at the end of period       -28,700      -24,881      -26,398
Net book amount at the beginning of period                         27,396       24,642       24,642
Net book amount at the end of period                               26,135       23,103       27,396
6. GIVEN GUARANTEES
EUR thousand                                 30 June 2022 30 June 2021 31 December 2021
Guarantees and mortgages given on own behalf 48,184       47,774       48,205
Other guarantee liabilities                  49           1,107        80
Total                                        48,232       48,882       48,285
7. ACQUISITIONS

There were no changes in the Group structure during the review period.

8. DERIVATIVES

The company hedges the most significant net currency positions that can be predicted in time and volume and interest rate risk.

There were no open currency derivatives at the end of the review period.

On 8 June 2021, the company concluded a financing agreement of EUR 30 million and, in connection with this, an interest rate swap of EUR 10 million with an interest rate cap in order to hedge part of its exposure to fluctuating interest rates. The interest rate swap subs. The company applies hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9. This effectively leads to the recording of interest expenses on a hedged floating rate loan at a fixed rate.

The company’s main interest rate risk arises from long-term loans with floating interest rates that expose the Group’s cash flow to interest rate risk. The Group’s policy is to use, if necessary, a floating to fixed interest rate swap.

Interest derivatives
EUR thousand  30 June 2022 30 June 2021 31 December 2021
Interest rate swaps
Nominal value 10,000       -            10,000
Fair value    515          -            56
Attachment

* Robit Plc Half-Year Report 1.1.-30.6.2022[https://ml-eu.globenewswire.com/Resource/Download/2dd8866e-3698-4cdf-b61e-b3ce7f973d35]

NASDAQ OMX Corporate Solutions International Limited

文件 HUGNEN0020220809ei890018h


Press Release: ROBIT PLC HALF-YEAR REPORT 1 JANUARY--30 JUNE 2022: RECORD NET SALES, PROFITABILITY IMPROVED
8299 字
2022 年 8 月 9 日 08:00 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
ROBIT PLC STOCK EXCHANGE RELEASE 09/08/2022 at 11:00 am

ROBIT PLC HALF-YEAR REPORT 1 JANUARY--30 JUNE 2022: RECORD NET SALES, PROFITABILITY IMPROVED

In the text, 'review period' refers to 1 April--30 June 2022 (Q2), and 'H1' refers to 1 January--30 June 2022. Figures from the corresponding time period in 2021 are given in parentheses. All the figures presented are in euros. Percentages are calculated from thousands of euros.

1 April--30 June 2022 in brief

   -- Net sales EUR 31.0 million (25.1), increase 23.7% 
 
   -- EBITDA EUR 4.1 million (1.9) 
 
   -- EBITDA 13.1% of net sales (7.4%) 
 
   -- EBITA EUR 2.8 million (0.7) 
 
   -- EBIT 8.4% of net sales (1.8%) 
 
   -- Review period net income EUR 2.1 million (-0.2) 
 
   -- Net cash flow from operating activities EUR 1.4 million (-2.4) 
1 January--30 June 2022 in brief

   -- Net sales EUR 57.3 million (48.1), increase 19.2% 
 
   -- EBITDA EUR 5.0 million (3.4) 
 
   -- EBITDA 8.7% of net sales (7.2%) 
 
   -- EBITA EUR 2.6 million (1.0) 
 
   -- EBIT 3.7% of net sales (1.2) 
 
   -- Review period net income EUR 1.3 million (0.2) 
 
   -- Net cash flow from operating activities EUR 1.0 million (-4.1) 
 
   -- Equity ratio at the end of the review period 45.7% (44.2) 
 
Key 
financials     Q2 2022  Q2 2021  Change %  H1 2022  H1 2021  Change %   2021 
-------------  -------           --------  ------- 
Net sales, 
 EUR 1,000      31,025   25,088     23.7%   57,328   48,110     19.2%  100,755 
EBITDA*, EUR 
 1,000           4,062    1,864      118%    4,984    3,441     44.8%    7,595 
EBITDA, % of 
 net sales       13.1%     7.4%               8.7%     7.2%               7.5% 
EBITA, EUR 
 1,000           2,844      678    319.5%    2,571    1,015    153.4%    2,940 
EBITA, % of 
 net sales        9.2%     2.7%               4.5%     2.1%               2.9% 
EBIT, EUR 
 1,000           2,619      462    466.6%    2,127      583    264.9%    2,080 
EBIT, % of 
 net sales        8.4%     1.8%               3.7%     1.2%               2.1% 
Result for 
 the period, 
 EUR 1,000       2,082     -191  1,188.3%    1,333      224    495.0%      886 
Result for 
 the period, 
 % of net 
 sales            6.7%    -0.8%               2.3%     0.5%               0.9% 
Earnings per 
 share (EPS), 
 EUR 1,000        0.09    -0.01               0.05     0.01               0.04 
Return on 
 equity 
 (ROE), %**                                   4.5%     0.5%               1.8% 
Return on 
 capital 
 employed 
 (ROCE), %**                                  4.2%     1.5%               2.5% 
               -------                     ------- 
 
*No items affecting comparability H1/2022 or H1/2021

**Calculation principles corrected to correspond to the formula defined for key figures

ROBIT 'S OUTLOOK FOR 2022

Considering all identified risk factors, Robit estimates the demand in the global mining and construction industry to remain at the current level. The company has identified global factors, such as the war in Ukraine, cost inflation in raw materials and logistics and the potential global decline of economic development. They are unlikely to substantially affect the company's operations in 2022.

Demand in the construction industry is supported by the good work situation in the construction market areas that are relevant to Robit and the significant financing decided globally for the construction industry. General deterioration in the economic situation and high cost inflation may have the effect of suspending construction projects. For the time being, Robit is not accepting any new export orders from Russia and Belarus, which accounted for under 8% of the company's net sales in the 2021 financial period. To compensate for this revenue, the company seeks revenue growth from other global markets.

GUIDANCE FOR 2022

Robit estimates that net sales in 2022 will increase and comparable EBITDA profitability in euros will improve compared to 2021, assuming that there are no significant changes in the exchange rates from the level at the end of 2021.

CEO ARTO HALONEN :

Robit experienced a record strong Q2 both in terms of growth and profitability. In Q2, for the first time, our net sales exceeded the EUR 30 million mark, with net sales totalling EUR 31 million (25.1). Orders received stood at EUR 26.4 million (26.5). The company's profitability improved on the comparison period. EBITDA was EUR 4.1 million (1.9), up 118% on the comparison period. A significant step in H1 was also our progress made towards the sustainability goals we have set. We achieved a clear improvement with Robit 's emission intensity.

The company's priorities for 2022 are improved profitability, profitable growth and strengthening cash flow. We were successful in achieving these goals. To strengthen profitability, the measures will focus on three key areas: pricing management, procurement savings projects and remedial measures for low profitability customers. In all three areas where we seek to strengthen profitability, we succeeded in implementing our action plans. We were able to pass on the rise in costs, we completed a competitive tendering process in one of our key procurement categories and we took forward other procurement savings projects.

In Q2, growth was strong in both business units. Both the Top Hammer and the Down the Hole business unit grew 23.7% over the comparison period. During the quarter, we were able to complete a Top Hammer business investment programme. Our Top Hammer capacity has increased considerably, and we will also be able to adapt to the growth of the business in the future. In addition, we achieved growth in all markets. Growth was strongest in the East region, where we delivered from the existing orderbook. For the time being, we are not accepting any new export orders from Russia or Belarus, which is why H2 sales from these countries will experience a significant decrease. In the course of the review period, we sharpened the implementation of the growth projects to safeguard continued growth despite the effects caused by the war in Ukraine.

Net cash flow from the company's operating activities improved in the quarter as a result of strong profitability. Managing the company's working capital, and especially inventories, is key to strengthening cash flow further. In Q2, we did not witness any marked improvement in working capital. During the quarter, we implemented the optimised inventory management parameters and took measures to cut the delivery times. The impacts of the measures taken will be visible in H2.

SUSTAINABILITY

Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) developed negatively in the review period, and further measures to improve safety were added. Our factories are constantly working to increase safety awareness, and a new easy-to-use tool was taken into use for the purpose of reporting safety observations. With regard to emission intensity, clear improvement has been achieved, and in terms of a responsible and sustainable delivery chain we were able to reach our goals.

 
                               Consultative 
         Emission              sales hours         Sustainable    Sustainable 
         intensity      Waste  per year      LTIF  suppliers      distributors 
06/2022  -21.3%         88%    362 h         4.1   92%            76% 
12/2021  -0.5%          87%    921 h         2.1   79%            38% 
Target   -50.0%         >90%   >1,000 h      0.0   >90%           >90% 
 
NET SALES

Net sales by product area

 
EUR thousand   Q2 2022  Q2 2021  Change %  H1 2022  H1 2021  Change %   2021 
-------------  -------           --------  ------- 
Top Hammer      17,126   13,848     23.7%   33,594   26,299     27.7%   56,287 
Down the Hole   13,899   11,239     23.7%   23,734   21,811      8.8%   44,468 
Total           31,025   25,088     23.7%   57,328   48,110     19.2%  100,755 
               -------                     ------- 
 
The Group's net sales in Q2 totalled EUR 31 million (25.1). There was an increase of 23.7% over the comparison period. In constant currencies, the increase was 17.4%.

The Group's net sales in H1 totalled EUR 57.3 million (48.1). There was an increase of 19.2% over the comparison period. In constant currencies, the increase was 15.5%.

The Top Hammer business continued to grow strongly in Q2, growing 23.7%. In H1, Top Hammer net sales grew by 27.7% to EUR 33.6 million (26.3). The investments made last year in our production capacity continued to improve our delivery capacity, enabling strong growth also in the future.

In Q2, the Down the Hole business also experienced strong growth of 23.7%. In H1, net sales grew 8.8% to EUR 23.7 million. Growth was especially significant in North America. Sales in the East region also developed strongly, driven by sales in the very strong Geotechnical market segment.

Net sales by market area

 
EUR thousand   Q2 2022  Q2 2021  Change %  H1 2022  H1 2021  Change %   2021 
-------------  -------           --------  ------- 
EMEA            13,154   11,810     11.4%   23,906   22,576      5.9%   45,298 
Americas         6,658    4,566     45.8%   13,260    8,274     60.3%   19,960 
Asia             3,231    2,643     22.2%    6,083    5,016     21.3%   10,771 
Australasia      3,686    3,590      2.7%    6,994    6,792      3.0%   14,001 
East             4,296    2,479     73.3%    7,085    5,451     30.0%   10,725 
Total           31,025   25,088     23.7%   57,328   48,110     19.2%  100,755 
               -------                     ------- 
 
In Q2, the company's growth was strong in the Americas and the Asia region. In the Americas region, sales especially increased in North America. During Q2, there was a strong increase in sales, 73.3%, in the East region due to a significant number of deliveries made to our contract customers not on the sanction list scheduled on the review period. In Australia, sales increased by 2.7% in the review period. The EMEA region returned to a growth track, and sales increased by 11.4% in Q2.

9 Aug 2022 04:00 ET Press Release: ROBIT PLC HALF-YEAR REPORT 1 -2-

In H1, all markets experienced growth. Growth was strongest in the Americas region, where net sales grew substantially 60.3%, while market demand remained good. The Asia and East regions also grew strongly in H1 and achieved over 20% growth. The Australasia and EMEA regions experienced growth in the review period.

PROFITABILITY

Key figures

 
                          Q2     Q2     Change     H1      H1    Change 
EUR thousand             2022   2021       %      2022    2021      %    2021 
-----------------------  -----         --------  ------ 
EBITDA, EUR 1,000        4,062  1,864      118%   4,984   3,441   44.8%  7,595 
EBITDA, % of net sales   13.1%   7.4%              8.7%    7.2%           7.5% 
EBIT, EUR 1,000          2,619    462    466.6%   2,127     583  264.9%  2,080 
EBIT, % of net sales      8.4%   1.8%              3.7%    1.2%           2.1% 
Result for the period, 
 EUR 1,000               2,082   -191  1,188.3%   1,333     224  495.0%    886 
Result for the period, 
 % of net sales           6.7%  -0.8%              2.3%    0.5%           0.9% 
                         -----                   ------ 
 
The company's profitability in the review period clearly improved. EBITDA for Q2 was EUR 4.1 million (1.9). EBITDA's share of net sales was at the strategy level, at 13.1% (7.4%). The company's EBIT was EUR 2.6 million (0.5). EBIT was 8.4% (1.8%) of the review period net sales.

EBITDA for H1 was EUR 5 million (3.4) EBITDA's share of net sales was 8.7% (7.2%). The company's EBIT was EUR 2.1 million (0.6). EBIT was 3.7% (1.2%) of the review period net sales.

The improved operating profit was supported by sales that grew strongly as well as by more accurate pricing. The company's profitability improvement measures systematically progressed in the review period, and the results materialized in Q2. The positive development of profitability was also affected by the successful management of fixed costs.

Financial income and expenses in Q2 totalled EUR -0.5 million (-0.9), of which EUR -0.3 million (-0.3) was in interest expenses and EUR -0.1 million (-0.5) in exchange rate changes. The result for the quarter improved, being EUR 2.1 million (-0.2)

Financial income and expenses in H1 totalled EUR -1.0 million (-0.7), of which EUR -0.7 million (-0.6) was in interest expenses and EUR -0.2 million (0.0) in exchange rate changes. The review period results improved, being EUR 1.3 million (0.2)

CASH FLOW AND INVESTMENTS

Consolidated cash flow statement

 
                                                          Q2      Q2      H1      H1 
EUR thousand                                             2022    2021    2022    2021    2021 
------------------------------------------------------  ------          ------ 
Net cash flows from operating activities 
Cash flows before changes in working capital             4,827   1,934   5,581   3,609   7,826 
Cash flows from operating activities before financial 
 items and taxes                                         1,739  -2,110   1,772  -3,271  -2,785 
Net cash inflow (outflow) from operating activities      1,440  -2,370   1,047  -4,084  -4,174 
Net cash inflow (outflow) from investing activities       -371    -492    -805  -1,287  -3,885 
Net cash inflow (outflow) from financing activities     -1,617     -82  -3,111     292   3,091 
Net increase (+)/decrease (-) in cash and cash 
 equivalents                                              -549  -2,944  -2,869  -5,078  -4,968 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the 
 financial year                                          7,185  12,352   9,525  14,339  14,339 
Exchange gains/losses on cash and cash equivalents         443     -37     422     111     154 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year             7,079   9,372   7,079   9,372   9,525 
                                                        ------          ------ 
 
The Group's Q2 cash flow before changes in working capital improved to EUR 4.8 million (1.9). Net cash flow for operating activities was EUR 1.4 million (-2.4). The changes in working capital had an impact of EUR -2.8 million (-4.0). The change in working capital was affected slightly positively by the EUR 0.2 million increase in accounts payable. The growth in account and other receivables had a negative impact of EUR 2.4 million on cash flow, and the growth of inventories had an impact of EUR 0.6 million. Increased invoicing increased the amount of account receivables.

Net cash inflow (outflow) from investing activities for Q2 was EUR -0.4 million (-0.5) Gross investments in production totalled EUR 0.4 million (0.6). The share of investments in net sales was 1.4% (2.3). The investments were mainly directed at the company's factories in South Korea and Lempäälä, Finland. The investments are aimed at responding to the growth of the Top Hammer business.

Net cash inflow (outflow) from financing activities for Q2 was EUR -1.6 million (-0.1) Net changes in loans totalled EUR -1.9 million (4.0). The change in bank overdrafts was EUR 0.8 million (-3.6). The repayment of lease liabilities reported in net cash flow from financing activities under IFRS 16 totalled EUR 0.5 million (0.5).

Depreciation, amortisation and write-downs totalled EUR 1.4 million (1.4). Of this, EUR 0.2 million related to the amortisation of customer relationships and brand value from business acquisitions.

FINANCIAL POSITION

 
                                  30 June 2022  30 June 2021  31 December 2021 
--------------------------------  ------------ 
Cash and cash equivalents, EUR 
 thousand                                7,079         9,372             9,525 
Interest-bearing liabilities, 
 EUR thousand                           38,805        35,139            41,522 
    of which short-term 
     interest-bearing financial 
     liabilities:                        8,066         3,758            10,500 
Net interest-bearing 
 liabilities, EUR thousand              31,726        25,767            31,996 
Undrawn credit facility, EUR 
 thousand                                3,397         6,000             2,738 
Gearing, %                               60.2%         53.8%             65.1% 
Equity ratio, %                          45.7%         44.2%             42.2% 
                                  ------------ 
 
The Group had interest-bearing liabilities amounting to EUR 38.8 million (35.1), of which EUR 7 million (4.8) were IFRS 16 interest-bearing liabilities. The Group's liquid assets totalled EUR 7.1 million (9.4). Interest-bearing net liabilities amounted to EUR 31.7 million (25.8), and interest-bearing net bank liabilities excluding IFRS 16 liabilities stood at EUR 24.7 million (20.9).

The Group's equity at the end of the review period was EUR 52.7 million (47.9). The Group's equity ratio was 45.7% (44.2) and gearing stood at 60.2% (53.8).

PERSONNEL AND MANAGEMENT

The number of personnel decreased by 4 persons from the end of the comparison period, and at the end of the review period it was 268 (272). At the end of the review period, 72% of the company's personnel were located outside Finland.

The company's Management Team at the end of the review period was composed of Arto Halonen (CEO), George Apostolopoulos (VP Global Sales), Adam Baker (VP Down the Hole), Jorge Leal (VP Top Hammer), Ville Peltonen (Interim CFO), Ville Pohja (VP Geotechnical) and Jaana Rinne (Group HR Director).

FINANCIAL TARGETS

Robit 's long-term target is to achieve organic net sales growth of 15% annually and comparable EBITDA profitability of 13%.

 
                                    Long-term target  2020  2021  H1 2022 
                                                                  ------- 
Net sales growth, p.a.                           15%    6%   10%    19.2% 
Comparable EBITDA, % of net sales                13%  5.6%  7.5%     8.7% 
                                                                  ------- 
 
RESOLUTIONS OF THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2022

Robit Plc 's Annual General Meeting on 22 March 2022 adopted the financial statements presented for 1 January--31 December 2021 and resolved that no dividend would be paid based on the adopted balance sheet for the 2021 financial year.

The General Meeting resolved to discharge the members of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer from liability for the financial year ending 31 December 2021

The General Meeting decided to approve the Remuneration Report for Governing Bodies. The decision was advisory.

The General Meeting resolved that the Board of Directors consists of six (6) members. Kim Gran , Mikko Kuitunen , Anne Leskelä and Harri Sjöholm were re-elected as members of the Board of Directors. Markku Teräsvasara and Eeva-Liisa Virkkunen were elected as new members of the Board of Directors.

The annual remuneration for the Chairman of the Board of Directors is EUR 50,000, of which 40% is paid in shares and the remaining 60% is an advance tax withheld and paid to the Finnish Tax Administration by the company. There is also a meeting fee of EUR 500 per meeting. The fee is paid for meetings attended by the Chairman of the Board. Other costs such as travel, and lodging expenses will also be compensated.

The annual remuneration for the Board members is EUR 30,000, of which 40% is paid in shares and the remaining 60% is an advance tax withheld and paid to the Finnish Tax Administration by the company. There is also a meeting fee of EUR 500 per meeting. The fee is paid for meetings attended by the member of the Board. Other costs, such as travel and lodging expenses, will also be compensated.

Members of the Working Committee, Personnel Committee and Audit Committee are paid a financial compensation of EUR 500 per meeting attended. Other costs such as travel, and lodging expenses will also be compensated.

9 Aug 2022 04:00 ET Press Release: ROBIT PLC HALF-YEAR REPORT 1 -3-

The annual remuneration of the Chairman of the Board and Board members for the entire term of office will be paid in December 2022. The part of the remuneration paid in shares may be paid by issuing new shares in the company or by acquiring shares by the authorisation given to the Board of Directors by the General Meeting. The receiver of the remuneration pays the transfer tax.

Ernst & Young Oy , an audit firm, was re-elected as the company's auditor for a term that will continue until the end of the next Annual General Meeting. Ernst & Young Oy has notified the company that Authorised Public Accountant Toni Halonen will serve as the company's principal responsible auditor.

The General Meeting resolved to pay the auditor's remuneration in accordance with an invoice approved by the company.

The General Meeting resolved to authorise the Board of Directors to resolve on the acquisition of a maximum of 2,117,990 shares of the company and/or accepting the same number of the company's shares as a pledge, in one or several tranches by using funds in the unrestricted shareholders' equity. The maximum total of shares that will be acquired and/or accepted as a pledge corresponds to 10% of all the shares in the company as of the date of the notice to the General Meeting. However, the company cannot, together with its subsidiary companies, own or accept as a pledge altogether more than 10% of its own shares at any point in time. The company's shares may be purchased under this authorisation solely by using unrestricted shareholders' equity.

The shares will be acquired other than in proportion to the share ownership of the shareholders via public trading arranged by Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd at the market price on the date on which the acquisition is made or at a price formed on the market. The authorisation is proposed to be used for the purposes of implementing the company's share-based incentive schemes or for other purposes as decided by the Board of Directors, for example.

It was resolved that the authorisation revokes the authorisation granted by the General Meeting on 25 March 2021 to decide on the acquisition of treasury shares.

The authorisation is valid until the closing of the next Annual General Meeting, but no longer than until 30 June 2023.

The Annual General Meeting resolved to authorise the Board of Directors to resolve on a share issue and on the issuance of special rights entitling to shares as referred to in Chapter 10, Section 1 of the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, in one or more tranches, either against or without consideration.

The number of shares to be issued, including shares to be issued on the basis of special rights, may not exceed 2,117,990, which amounts to 10% of all shares in the company as at the date of the notice to the Annual General Meeting. The Board of Directors may decide to either issue new shares or to transfer any treasury shares held by the company.

The authorisation entitles the Board of Directors to decide on all terms that apply to the share issue and to the issuance of special rights entitling to shares, including the right to derogate from the shareholders' pre-emptive right. The authorisation will be used, for example, for the purposes of strengthening the company's balance sheet and improving its financial status, implementing the company's share-based incentive systems or for other purposes as decided by the Board of Directors.

The authorisation is valid until the closing of the next Annual General Meeting, but no longer than until 30 June 2023. The authorisation will revoke all the previously granted, unused authorisations to decide on a share issue and the issuance of options or other special rights entitling to shares.

SHARES AND SHARE TURNOVER

On 30 June 2022, the company had 21,179,900 shares and 4,399 shareholders. Trading volume in January--June was 1,767,980 shares (3,624,890).

The company held 88,464 treasury shares (0.42% of total shares). On 30 June 2022, the market value of the company's shares was EUR 48.3 million. The closing price of the share was EUR 2.28. The highest price in January--June was EUR 4.55 and the lowest price was EUR 2.13.

RISKS AND BUSINESS UNCERTAINTIES

The geopolitical situation, which is growing tenser, poses a risk to the company's business. The war in Ukraine and the sanctions imposed on Russia affect the development of net sales and profitability especially in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, which account for under 8% of the company's sales in the 2021 financial year. The crisis has also significantly increased the prices of raw materials, to which Robit reacted by introducing a premium in customer prices. Furthermore, the effects of the sanctions on the smooth flow of Russian payment transactions pose a risk to the company's cash flow and treasury management. Robit complies with all the imposed sanctions and continuously monitors the situation.

Robit closely monitors the impact of COVID-19 on demand in the sector. In general, customer operations have returned to normal levels. The effects on Robit 's operations are now limited and only affect individual countries or regions. Robit will continue actions to protect the health of its personnel and to ensure the continuity of the company's operations. At the time of reporting, all of the company's factories were operating at the planned capacity. No disruptions in the supply chain have been identified that cannot be managed, for example, with current inventory levels and supplier cooperation.

Other uncertainty factors include exchange rate development, the functioning of information systems, integration of corporate acquisitions, risks related to the security of supply and logistics, and IPR risks. Fully transferring the increase in raw material costs to customer prices may pose a financial risk. Changes in export countries' tax and customs legislation may adversely impact the company's export trade or its profitability. Risks related to information security and cyber threats may also have a detrimental effect on Robit 's business. Potential changes in the business environment may adversely impact the payment behaviour of the Group's customers and increase the risk of litigation, legal claims and disputes related to Robit 's products and other operations.

CHANGES IN GROUP STRUCTURE

There were no changes in the Group structure during the review period.

OTHER EVENTS IN JANUARY--JUNE 2022

On 20 January 2022, the company announced the proposals of Robit Plc 's Shareholders' Nomination Committee regarding the Board members and Board fees for the Annual General Meeting. The Nomination Committee's proposals were included in the notice to the General Meeting. Timo Sallinen (Director, Head of Listed Securities, Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company ) acted as the Chairman of the Shareholder' Nomination Committee, with Harri Sjöholm (Chairman of the Board, Five Alliance Oy), Tuomas Virtala (CEO, Asset Management, OP Corporate Bank Plc ) and Jukka Vähäpesola (Head of Equities, Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company) as the other members.

On 15 February 2022, Robit Plc 's Board of Directors decided on a performance-based share reward scheme for key personnel. The purpose of the share scheme is to align the owners' and the key persons' goals in order to increase the value of the company in the long term, to commit the key persons to the company and to encourage them to achieve the company's key strategic goals as well as to provide them with a competitive long-term incentive scheme. The share scheme includes earning periods of one and two years. The first earning period of the share scheme comprises the year 2022 and the second earning period comprises the years 2023--2024. The remuneration that may be paid under the share scheme for the 2022 one-year earning period is based on the company's predetermined net cash inflow target in the 2022 financial statements. The remuneration that may be paid under the share scheme for the 2023--2024 two-year earning period is based on the company's predetermined average earnings per share in the financial statements for the years 2023 and 2024. The remuneration that may be paid under the share scheme for both earning periods will be paid in May 2025. The share scheme covers a target group of some 30 key persons, members of the Management Team and high-potential employees.

On 15 February 2022, Robit published its financial statements release for 1 January--31 December 2021.

On 15 February 2022, the company sent Robit Plc 's shareholders a notice to the Annual General Meeting of 22 March 2022.

On 25 February 2022, Robit announced that the company's Annual Report, Corporate Governance Statement and Remuneration Report for 2021 had been published on the company's website.

Robit Plc CEO Tommi Lehtonen and Robit Plc 's Board of Directors agreed together that Mr Lehtonen will leave his post as CEO on 15 March 2022. The company's Board of Directors appointed Arto Halonen CEO as of 15 March 2022. Ville Peltonen was appointed Robit Plc 's Interim CFO on 16 March 2022.

The company's Annual General Meeting was held on 22 March 2022. Robit announced the decisions of the Annual General Meeting in a separate stock exchange release on 22 March 2022.

On 22 March 2022, Robit published the decisions of the constituent meeting of the company's Board of Directors. At its constituent meeting, the Board of Directors elected by Robit Plc 's Annual General Meeting on 22 March 2022 elected from among its members Harri Sjöholm as Chairman of the Board and Anne Leskelä as Vice Chairman, and members to serve on Robit Plc 's Remuneration Committee, Working Committee and Audit Committee.

9 Aug 2022 04:00 ET Press Release: ROBIT PLC HALF-YEAR REPORT 1 -4-

On 24 March 2022, Robit Plc announced that the company's Board of Directors decided to increase the maximum size of the performance-based share reward scheme decided on 15 February 2022 from 180,000 shares to 240,000 shares. This update of the maximum size is due to Robit Plc 's new CEO. It was decided that no other updates would be made to the scheme. Previously, information on the scheme was published in a stock exchange release on 15 February 2022. Following this update, the 2022--2024 share reward scheme is dimensioned in such a way that the relative proportion of the share transfer taking place under all share schemes in force at the company will remain below four per cent of the company's shares.

On 27 April 2022, Robit published its interim financial reporting for 1 January--31 March 2022.

On 15 June 2022, Robit published the corrected ESEF financial statements including the Report of the Board of Directors.

EVENTS AFTER THE REVIEW PERIOD

No events after review period.

Lempäälä, 9 August 2022

ROBIT PLC

Board of Directors

For more information, contact:

Arto Halonen , CEO

+358 40 028 0717

https://www.globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=krDVi2Enxz8TIUzz3voBOPIT3GqY-3lAtPCYHH8lVo-QCd-sdnjbgqriOcnswoU_bn7oR28ozHqgvFdARzznSo_TAe7epQ9_Cb8DFPuMNi7NiWC8Rz7GxcKWZuqLOjUS [https://www.globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=krDVi2Enxz8TIUzz3voBOPIT3GqY-3lAtPCYHH8lVo-QCd-sdnjbgqriOcnswoU_bn7oR28ozHqgvFdARzznSo_TAe7epQ9_Cb8DFPuMNi7NiWC8Rz7GxcKWZuqLOjUS] arto.halonen@robitgroup.com

Ville Peltonen, Interim CFO

+358 40 759 9142

https://www.globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=gEFViCoFJsGnaQsPjPhSE0rMNzRI8OBtAMdQmztURGRku32mgMcQlPNfxXLXBZ0bnArQZcIC2N0D5TlPLP2yS4v4EHU8EC6BJQ7qO9C2W6ghxHL09vsX_AbcwJJIEB_s [https://www.globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=gEFViCoFJsGnaQsPjPhSE0rMNzRI8OBtAMdQmztURGRku32mgMcQlPNfxXLXBZ0bnArQZcIC2N0D5TlPLP2yS4v4EHU8EC6BJQ7qO9C2W6ghxHL09vsX_AbcwJJIEB_s] ville.peltonen@robitgroup.com

Distribution:

Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd

Key media

https://www.globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=v88V_PWZ76OJjBAxiCx7ZhU3XN439XFCyagf-VajcmVLqamyWUyC4i896O0IyZuiQzgghXktotLuUBvF0phoQzDhqWy4ckKk9ACn72am9qQ [https://www.globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=v88V_PWZ76OJjBAxiCx7ZhU3XN439XFCyagf-VajcmVLqamyWUyC4i896O0IyZuiQzgghXktotLuUBvF0phoQzDhqWy4ckKk9ACn72am9qQ]= www.robitgroup.com

Robit is a strongly international growth company servicing global customers and selling drilling consumables for applications in mining, construction, geotechnical engineering and well drilling. The company's offering is divided into three product and service ranges: Top Hammer, Down the Hole and Geotechnical. Robit has sales and service points in nine countries as well as an active sales network in more than 100 countries. Robit 's manufacturing units are located in Finland, South Korea, Australia and the UK. Robit 's shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. Further information is available at https://www.globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=v88V_PWZ76OJjBAxiCx7ZsXxMNPkA3bTMEqd9Fkhr8-gHgI0i3HiwaoE3GVzn2UL8FMQUdmdvM7r7gtT02KbW544is8gQJR7SxFy1kdeyAYuSHW5uqZWm68E_wNQRDJdxeaHwCBt0rIR7dYJklsn40EmOOwILSrSs3ySnc1vN7VfWH8J_cpCO9VlUWh0qO1E7dz7T_Utk6Ll-hOW-xGB6dbMjSTiOQ1UZ1ixDtgkRffUSfG4ILIehRRPXeldmGknQKHyndbO-MMtaMBHMIAQQA [https://www.globenewswire.com/Tracker?data=v88V_PWZ76OJjBAxiCx7ZsXxMNPkA3bTMEqd9Fkhr8-gHgI0i3HiwaoE3GVzn2UL8FMQUdmdvM7r7gtT02KbW544is8gQJR7SxFy1kdeyAYuSHW5uqZWm68E_wNQRDJdxeaHwCBt0rIR7dYJklsn40EmOOwILSrSs3ySnc1vN7VfWH8J_cpCO9VlUWh0qO1E7dz7T_Utk6Ll-hOW-xGB6dbMjSTiOQ1UZ1ixDtgkRffUSfG4ILIehRRPXeldmGknQKHyndbO-MMtaMBHMIAQQA]== www.robitgroup.com.

The information presented above includes statements about future prospects. These relate to events or the company's economic development in the future. In some cases, such statements can be recognised by their use of conditional words (such as "may", "expected", "estimated", "believed", "predicted" and so on) or other similar expressions. Statements such as these are based on assumptions and factors that Robit 's management have at their disposal and on current decisions and plans. There is always risk and uncertainty attached to any statements regarding future events because they pertain to events and depend on factors that are not possible to predict with certainty. For this reason, future results may differ - even significantly - from the figures expressed or assumed in statements about future prospects.

CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE 
 INCOME 
 
 
EUR thousand                               4--6/2022   4--6/2021   1--6/2022   1--6/2021     2021 
Net sales                                     31,025      25,088      57,328      48,110  100,755 
Other operating income                         1,056         323       2,606         803    1,690 
Materials and services*                      -19,280     -16,369     -37,260     -31,241  -65,699 
Employee benefit expense                      -4,523      -4,154      -8,790      -8,106  -16,280 
Depreciation, amortisation and 
 impairment                                   -1,443      -1,401      -2,857      -2,858   -5,514 
Other operating expenses*                     -4,217      -3,024      -8,900      -6,125  -12,871 
EBIT (Operating profit/loss)                   2,619         462       2,127         583    2,080 
 
Finance income and costs 
      Interest income and finance income       1,139           2       1,561         587      924 
      Interest cost and finance cost          -1,691        -859      -2,523      -1,247   -2,253 
---------------------------------------- 
Finance income and costs net                    -552        -857        -962        -660   -1,329 
 
Profit/loss before tax                         2,067        -394       1,165         -77      751 
 
Taxes 
      Income tax                                -144           6        -143         -37     -333 
      Change in deferred taxes                   159         209         310         338      468 
Income taxes                                      15         203         168         301      135 
Result for the period                          2,082        -191       1,333         224      886 
========================================  ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ======= 
 
Attributable to: 
   Parent company shareholders                 1,985        -235       1,140         126      843 
   Non-controlling interest**                     97          43         193          98       44 
                                               2,082        -191       1,333         224      886 
========================================  ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ======= 
Other comprehensive income 
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods: 
   Cash flow hedges                              126           0         367           0       45 
   Translation differences**                     944        -386       1,826         590    1,003 
Other comprehensive income, net of tax         1,070        -386       2,193         590    1,048 
Total comprehensive income                     3,152        -621       3,526         717    1,934 
========================================  ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ======= 
 
Attributable to: 
   Parent company shareholders                 3,077        -577       3,321         814    1,892 
   Non-controlling interest**                     74         -43         204         -98       42 
Consolidated comprehensive income              3,152        -621       3,526         717    1,934 
========================================  ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ======= 
 
Earnings per share 
 
Basic earnings per share                        0.09       -0.01        0.05        0.01     0.04 
 
*In the condensed income statement, changes in inventories are presented in Materials and services, and manufacture for own use in Other operating expenses.

**Founded in 2015 by Robit SA, Black Employees Empowerment Trust owns 26% of the shares of Robit SA.

*** The Group has internal loans that are treated as net investments in foreign entities in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.

 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 
                                                                          31 
                                                     30 June  30 June  December 
EUR thousand                                          2022     2021      2021 
ASSETS 
Non-current assets 
Goodwill                                               5,374    5,375     5,487 
Other intangible assets                                2,077    3,185     2,695 
Property, plant and equipment                         26,135   23,103    27,396 
Loan receivables                                         271      299       287 
Other receivables                                          0        3         0 
Derivatives                                              515        0        56 
Deferred tax assets                                    2,325    1,848     1,926 
Total non-current assets                              36,697   33,813    37,847 
 
Current assets 
Inventories                                           47,399   40,297    43,538 
Account and other receivables                         25,749   24,160    25,337 
Loan receivables                                          88       95       100 
Current tax assets                                       209       65        57 
Cash and cash equivalents                              7,079    9,372     9,525 
Total current assets                                  80,524   73,989    78,557 
---------------------------------------------------  -------  -------  -------- 
Total assets                                         117,222  107,801   116,403 
 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
Equity 
Share capital                                            705      705       705 
Share premium                                            202      202       202 
Reserve for invested unrestricted equity              82,570   82,570    82,570 
Translation differences                                   21   -2,208    -1,793 
Fair value reserve                                       412        -        45 
Retained earnings                                    -32,799  -33,814   -33,738 
Profit/loss for the year                               1,140      126       843 
Equity attributable to parent company shareholders 
 in total                                             52,252   47,581    48,833 
Non-controlling interests*                               485      355       281 
Capital and reserves in total                         52,737   47,936    49,114 
---------------------------------------------------  -------  -------  -------- 
 
Liabilities 
Non-current liabilities 
9 Aug 2022 04:00 ET Press Release: ROBIT PLC HALF-YEAR REPORT 1 -5-

Borrowings                                            25,443   28,232    25,209 
Lease liabilities                                      5,296    3,149     5,813 
Deferred tax liabilities                                 937      726       694 
Employee benefit obligations                             754      682       725 
Total non-current liabilities                         32,431   32,790    32,441 
 
Current liabilities 
Borrowings                                             6,363    2,072     8,619 
Lease liabilities                                      1,702    1,686     1,881 
Advances received                                      1,624      375       771 
Income tax liabilities                                    33       44       259 
Account payables and other liabilities                22,094   22,746    23,278 
Other provisions                                         237      153        40 
Total current liabilities                             32,054   27,076    34,848 
Total liabilities                                     64,485   59,865    67,289 
---------------------------------------------------  -------  -------  -------- 
Total equity and liabilities                         117,222  107,801   116,403 
 
* Founded in 2015 by Robit SA, Black Employees Empowerment Trust owns 26% of the shares of Robit SA.

 
 
  CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 
EUR thousand                                                4--6/2022   4--6/2021   1--6/2022   1--6/2021    2021 
                                                           ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ------ 
Cash flows from operating activities 
Profit before tax                                               2,067        -394       1,165         -77     751 
Adjustments: 
   Depreciation, amortisation and impairment                    1,443       1,401       2,857       2,858   5,514 
   Finance income and costs                                       549         857         962         660   1,329 
   Share-based payments to employees                               75        -151          89        -161    -178 
   Loss (+)/Gain (-) on sale of property, plant and 
    equipment                                                      -1           0         -24          -1    -144 
   Other non-cash transactions                                    693         221         532         330     553 
--------------------------------------------------------- 
   Cash flows before changes in working capital                 4,827       1,934       5,581       3,609   7,826 
 
Change in working capital 
   Increase (-) in account and other receivables               -2,438      -3,592         761      -5,255  -6,452 
   Increase (-)/decrease (+) in inventories                      -579      -2,412      -2,189      -4,803  -8,187 
   Increase (+) in account and other payables                     227       1,960      -2,083       3,178   4,028 
   Cash flows from operating activities before financial 
    items and taxes                                             2,037      -2,110       2,070      -3,271  -2,785 
 
Interest and other finance expenses paid                         -469        -220        -601        -539  -1,046 
Interest and other finance income received                          0          58           1          58      22 
Income taxes paid                                                -128         -98        -422        -331    -365 
Net cash inflow (outflow) from operating activities             1,440      -2,370       1,047      -4,084  -4,174 
---------------------------------------------------------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ------ 
 
Cash flows from investing activities 
Purchases of property, plant and equipment                       -452        -525        -827      -1,317  -4,169 
Purchases of intangible assets                                      8         -52         -38         -69    -124 
Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment             1          32          32          37     279 
Proceeds from loan receivables                                     72          53          28          62     129 
Net cash inflow (outflow) from investing activities              -371        -492        -805      -1,287  -3,885 
---------------------------------------------------------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ------ 
 
Cash flows from financing activities 
Dividend payment*                                                   0           0           0           0      -9 
Changes in non-current loans                                   -1,872       4,009      -1,550       4,949   5,385 
Change in bank overdrafts                                         725      -3,636        -659      -3,739    -478 
Payment of leasing liabilities                                   -470        -455        -902        -918  -1,807 
Net cash inflow (outflow) from financing activities            -1,617         -82      -3,111         292   3,091 
---------------------------------------------------------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ------ 
 
Net increase (+)/decrease (-) in cash and cash 
 equivalents                                                     -549      -2,944      -2,868      -5,078  -4,968 
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the 
 financial year                                                 7,185      12,352       9,525      14,339  14,339 
Exchange gains/losses on cash and cash equivalents                443         -37         422         111     154 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year                    7,079       9,372       7,079       9,372   9,525 
=========================================================  ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========  ====== 
 
*Dividend paid to the foundation of Robit SA as a minority shareholder in accordance with the agreement

 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
A = Share capital 
B = Share premium 
C = Reserve for invested unrestricted equity 
D = Cumulative translation difference 
E = Fair value reserve 
F = Retained earnings 
G = Equity attributable to parent company 
shareholders 
H = Non-controlling interests 
I = Capital and reserves in total 
EUR thousand                                           A    B     C       D      E      F       G      H     I 
Equity as at 1 January 2021                           705  202  82,570  -2,798       -33,690               46,989 
Profit for the period                                                                            126   98     224 
Other comprehensive income 
     Translation differences                                               590                         17     607 
Total comprehensive changes                                                590                   126  115     831 
----------------------------------------------------  ---  ---  ------  ------  ---  -------  ------  ---  ------ 
Share-based payments to employees                                                       -124                 -124 
Change in the share of non-controlling owners                                                         240     240 
Total transactions with owners, recognised directly 
 in equity                                                                              -124          240     115 
----------------------------------------------------  ---  ---  ------  ------  ---  -------  ------  ---  ------ 
 
Equity as at 30 June 2021                             705  202  82,570  -2,208       -33,814     126  354  47,936 
 
EUR thousand                                            A    B       C       D    E        F       G    H       I 
Equity as at 1 January 2022                           705  202  82,570  -1,793   45  -32,846  48,883  281  49,114 
Profit for the period                                                                  1,140   1,140  193   1,333 
Other comprehensive income 
     Cash flow hedges                                                           367              367          367 
     Translation differences                                             1,814                 1,814   12   1,826 
Total comprehensive changes                                              1,814  367    1,140   3,321  204   3,526 
----------------------------------------------------  ---  ---  ------  ------  ---  -------  ------  ---  ------ 
Share-based payments to employees                                                         47      47           47 
Total transactions with owners, recognised directly 
 in equity                                                                                47      47           47 
----------------------------------------------------  ---  ---  ------  ------  ---  -------  ------  ---  ------ 
Equity as at 30 June 2022                             705  202  82,570      21  412  -31,659  52,252  485  52,737 
 
NOTES

Contents

   1. Scope and principles of the interim report 
 
   2. Key figures and calculation 
 
   3. Breakdown of net sales 
 
   4. Financing arrangements 
 
   5. Changes to property, plant and equipment 
 
   6. Given guarantees 
 
   7. Business acquisitions 
 
   8. Derivatives 
1. SCOPE AND PRINCIPLES OF THE INTERIM REPORT

This interim report has been prepared in accordance with the IAS 34 standard for interim financial reporting and using the same principles as for the annual financial statements. The interim report has not been audited.

All figures in the summarised financial statement have been rounded to the nearest figure; therefore, the sum of reported figures may not exactly match those presented.

9 Aug 2022 04:00 ET Press Release: ROBIT PLC HALF-YEAR REPORT 1 -6-

2.1 KEY FIGURES

 
Consolidated key figures  Q2 2022  Q2 2021   H1 2022     H1 2021       2021 
------------------------  -------           ---------- 
Net sales, EUR 1,000       31,025   25,088      57,328      48,110     100,755 
EBIT, EUR 1000              2,619      462       2,127         583       2,080 
EBIT, % of net sales         8.4%     1.8%        3.7%        1.2%        2.1% 
Earnings per share 
 (EPS), EUR                  0.09    -0.01        0.05        0.01        0.04 
Return on equity (ROE), 
 %                                                4.5%        0.5%        1.8% 
Return on capital 
 employed (ROCE), %                               4.2%        1.5%        2.5% 
Equity ratio, %                                  45.7%       44.2%       42.2% 
Net gearing, %                                   60.2%       53.8%       65.1% 
Gross investments, EUR 
 1,000                        445      577         865       1,386       4,293 
Gross investments, % of 
 net sales                   1.4%     2.3%        1.5%        2.9%        4.3% 
Number of shares 
 (outstanding shares)                       21,091,436  21,067,436  21,091,436 
Treasury shares (owned 
 by the Group)                                  88,464     112,464      88,464 
Percentage of 
 votes/shares                                    0.42%       0.53%       0.42% 
                          -------           ---------- 
 
2.2 CONSOLIDATING ALTERNATIVE KEY FIGURES

Robit presents alternative key figures to supplement the key figures given in the Group's income statements, balance sheets and cash flow statements that have been drawn up according to IFRS standards. Robit considers that the alternative figures give significant extra insight into the result of Robit 's operations, its financial position and cash flows. These figures are often used by analysts, investors and other parties.

Alternative key figures should not be studied apart from the key figures according to IFRS or instead of them. Not all companies calculate their alternative key figures in the same way and, therefore, Robit 's alternative figures may not be directly comparable to those presented by other companies, even if they carry the same headings.

 
Adjusted EBITDA and 
EBITA 
EUR thousand              4--6/2022   4--6/2021   1--6/2022   1--6/2021   2021 
                         ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----- 
EBIT (Operating profit)       2,619         462       2,127         583  2,080 
      Depreciation, 
       amortisation and 
       impairment             1,443       1,401       2,857       2,858  5,514 
EBITDA                        4,062       1,864       4,984       3,441  7,595 
 
EBIT (Operating profit)       2,619         462       2,127         583  2,080 
      Amortisation of 
       acquisitions             225         216         444         432    859 
EBITA                         2,844         678       2,571       1,015  2,940 
 
 
2.3 CALCULATION OF KEY FIGURES

 
EBITDA: 
EBIT + Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 
 
EBITA 
EBIT + Amortisation of customer relationships 
 
Net working capital 
Inventory + Accounts receivables and other receivables 
 -- Accounts payables and other liabilities 
 
Earnings per share (EPS), EUR 
Profit (loss) for the financial year 
Amount of shares adjusted with the share issue (average 
 during the financial year) 
 
Return on equity (ROE), % 
Profit (loss) for the financial year                           x 100 
Equity (average during the financial year) 
 
Return on capital employed (ROCE), % 
Profit before appropriations and taxes + Interest              x 100 
 expenses and other financing expenses 
Equity (average during the financial year) + Interest-bearing 
 financial liabilities (long-term and short-term loans 
 from financial institutions, average during the financial 
 year) 
 
Net interest-bearing financial liabilities 
Long-term and short-term loans from financial institutions 
 -- Cash and cash equivalents -- Short-term financial 
 securities 
 
Equity ratio, % 
Equity                                                         x 100 
Balance sheet total -- Advances received 
 
Gearing, % 
Net interest-bearing financial liabilities                     x 100 
Equity 
 
3. BREAKDOWN OF NET SALES

Entries are recorded according to IFRS 15 in the same way for each business unit and market area.

 
NET SALES 
Net sales by product area 
EUR thousand   4--6/2022   4--6/2021  Change %   1--6/2022   1--6/2021  Change %     2021 
Top Hammer        17,126      13,848     23.7%      33,594      26,299     27.7%   56,287 
Down the 
 Hole             13,899      11,239     23.7%      23,734      21,811      8.8%   44,468 
Total             31,025      25,088     23.7%      57,328      48,110     19.2%  100,755 
 
Net sales by market area 
EUR thousand   4--6/2022   4--6/2021  Change %   1--6/2022   1--6/2021  Change %     2021 
EMEA              13,154      11,810     11.4%      23,906      22,576      5.9%   45,298 
Americas           6,658       4,566     45.8%      13,260       8,274     60.3%   19,960 
Asia               3,231       2,643     22.2%       6,083       5,016     21.3%   10,771 
Australasia        3,686       3,590      2.7%       6,994       6,792        3%   14,001 
East               4,296       2,479     73.3%       7,085       5,451       30%   10,725 
Total             31,025      25,088     23.7%      57,328      48,110     19.2%  100,755 
 
4. FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS

The company's cash and cash equivalents were EUR 7.1 million on 30 June 2022. In addition, the company has EUR 3.5 million undrawn of the financing agreement of EUR 30 million signed on 8 June 2021. In May 2022, the company utilised the first option to extend the agreement according to the original financing agreement. The company's sufficient liquidity is secured through cash and a loan that has not been drawn down.

The parent company's covenants are based on the company's net debt/EBITDA ratio and the company's equity ratio. The covenants are tested on a quarterly basis. The company met all the covenant conditions in Q2.

 
BORROWINGS/LOANS/INTEREST-BEARING 
LOANS 
                                                                 31 December 
EUR thousand                        30 June 2022  30 June 2021       2021 
Non-current borrowings 
   Loans from credit institutions         25,430        28,144          25,182 
   Other loans                                12            12              12 
   Lease liabilities                       5,298         3,226           5,828 
Total non-current borrowings              30,740        31,381          31,022 
 
Current borrowings 
   Loans from credit institutions          3,668         1,849           5,187 
   Other loans                                 0             0               0 
   Bank overdrafts                         2,603             0           3,262 
   Lease liabilities                       1,795         1,909           2,051 
Total current borrowings                   8,066         3,758          10,500 
 
Total borrowings                          38,805        35,139          41,522 
 
 
5. CHANGES TO PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
                                                           30 June  30 June 
EUR thousand                                                2022     2021    31 December 2021 
Cost at the beginning of period                             53,794   47,323            47,323 
Additions                                                      961    1,728             6,644 
Disposals                                                      -43   -1,390              -282 
Reclassification                                                 0       37              -533 
Exchange differences                                           124      286               644 
Cost at the end of period                                   54,836   47,984            53,794 
 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment at the beginning 
 of period                                                 -26,398  -22,682           -22,682 
Depreciation                                                -2,176   -2,090            -3,902 
Disposals                                                       34       67               227 
Reclassification                                               -44        -               289 
Exchange differences                                          -116     -176              -330 
Accumulated depreciation and impairment at the end 
 of period                                                 -28,700  -24,881           -26,398 
Net book amount at the beginning of period                  27,396   24,642            24,642 
Net book amount at the end of period                        26,135   23,103            27,396 
 
 
 
6. GIVEN GUARANTEES 
EUR thousand                      30 June 2022  30 June 2021  31 December 2021 
Guarantees and mortgages given 
 on own behalf                          48,184        47,774            48,205 
Other guarantee liabilities                 49         1,107                80 
Total                                   48,232        48,882            48,285 
 
7. ACQUISITIONS

There were no changes in the Group structure during the review period.

8. DERIVATIVES

The company hedges the most significant net currency positions that can be predicted in time and volume and interest rate risk.

There were no open currency derivatives at the end of the review period.

On 8 June 2021, the company concluded a financing agreement of EUR 30 million and, in connection with this, an interest rate swap of EUR 10 million with an interest rate cap in order to hedge part of its exposure to fluctuating interest rates. The interest rate swap subs. The company applies hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9. This effectively leads to the recording of interest expenses on a hedged floating rate loan at a fixed rate.

9 Aug 2022 04:00 ET Press Release: ROBIT PLC HALF-YEAR REPORT 1 -7-

The company's main interest rate risk arises from long-term loans with floating interest rates that expose the Group's cash flow to interest rate risk. The Group's policy is to use, if necessary, a floating to fixed interest rate swap.

 
Interest derivatives 
EUR thousand           30 June 2022  30 June 2021  31 December 2021 
Interest rate swaps 
   Nominal value             10,000             -            10,000 
   Fair value                   515             -                56 
 
Attachment

   -- Robit Plc  Half-Year Report 1.1.-30.6.2022 
       https://ml-eu.globenewswire.com/Resource/Download/2dd8866e-3698-4cdf-b61e-b3ce7f973d35 [https://ml-eu.globenewswire.com/Resource/Download/2dd8866e-3698-4cdf-b61e-b3ce7f973d35] 
 
 
                  
(END) Dow Jones Newswires

August 09, 2022 04:00 ET (08:00 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220809ei89000zu


Travel
EU under pressure to ban Russian tourists from Europe
Jon Henley
593 字
2022 年 8 月 10 日 16:35 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
25
英文
© Copyright 2022. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
Ukrainian president says Russians ‘should live in their own world until they change their philosophy’

The EU has been urged to introduce a travel ban on Russian tourists with some member states saying visiting Europe was “a privilege, not a human right” for holidaymakers.

President Volodymyr Zelenskiy[https://www.theguardian.com/world/volodymyr-zelenskiy] said in an interview with the Washington Post that the “most important sanction” was to “close the borders, because the Russians are taking away someone else’s land”. Russians should “live in their own world until they change their philosophy”, he said.

The Ukrainian president’s call was backed by Estonia’s prime minister, Kaja Kallas, who tweeted that visiting Europe was “a privilege, not a human right”, adding: “Time to end tourism from Russia. Stop issuing tourist visas to Russians.”

Finland’s prime minister, Sanna Marin, has aired the same frustrations, telling public broadcaster YLE that it was “not right that while Russia is waging an aggressive, brutal war of aggression in Europe, Russians can live a normal life, travel in Europe, be tourists.”

Finland has previously said[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/jul/29/finland-stop-tourist-visas-russian-citizens] that increasing numbers of Russians have begun crossing the 830-mile border between the two countries to shop in border stores and travel onwards to other EU destinations since Covid restrictions were lifted.

The EU banned air travel from Russia after Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine in February[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/feb/25/russia-ukraine-invasion-why-invade-attack-what-we-know-so-far] and the last passenger rail link, between St Petersburg and Helsinki, was suspended in March, but Russians can still enter Finland by road.

Finland last week issued a plan to limit tourist visas for Russians, but has questioned its legal right to impose an outright ban, while other Schengen passport-free zone countries that share a border with Russia, such as Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, have already dramatically tightened visa rules.

But all have emphasised the need for an EU-level decision on the matter since a visa issued by one member of the zone cannot be refused by others – meaning that ordinary Russians not targeted by individual sanctions can use their neighbouring countries as transit zones for border-free onward travel across the region.

Bulgaria’s acting tourism minister, Ilin Dimitrov, said on Wednesday that more than 50,000 Russians – mainly property and apartment owners, and often travelling via Istanbul – had visited the country by the end of June. “The obstacles and expensive tickets do not stop them,” he said.

EU foreign ministers are set to discuss the matter when they meet in the Czech Republic at the end of August. “In future European council meetings, this issue will come up even more strongly,” Marin said. “My personal position is that tourism should be restricted.”

Other countries, however, are not so sure. Some with traditionally close ties to Russia, such as Hungary, would be likely to strongly oppose a ban, while member states with large Russian communities such as Germany argue that the move would divide families and penalise opponents of the war who have already left.

The European Commission has also questioned the feasibility of a blanket travel ban, saying certain categories of travellers – including family members, journalists and dissidents – should be granted visas in all circumstances.

The calls from Ukraine and some member states for the EU to impose the blanket ban has drawn an angry response from the Kremlin. “Any attempt to isolate Russia or Russians is a process that has no prospects,” Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said on Tuesday, adding that it displayed an “irrationality of thinking” that was “off the charts”.

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020220810ei8a002bf


Estonia to ban Russians with tourist visas from entering
510 字
2022 年 8 月 11 日 14:55 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
COPENHAGEN, Denmark (AP) — Estonia decided Thursday to bar people from neigboring Russia with tourist visas from entering the northernmost Baltic country as a consequence of the war in Ukraine.

“Russian citizens’ opportunity to visit Estonia in large numbers or to visit Europe through Estonia is incompatible with the meaning of the sanctions we’ve established,” Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu was quoted as saying by the Baltic News Service said.

The European Union, of which Estonia is a member, already has banned air travel from Russia after it invaded Ukraine. But Russians can still travel by land to Estonia and apparently are then take flights to other European destinations.

By imposing the sanction, Estonia wants Russia “to be unable to continue its ordinary international life also at the level of its citizens,” Reinsalu said according to BNS, the region's main news agency. He added that they had observed “a massive growth in the number of Russian citizens transiting through or arriving in Estonia.”

BNS said exceptions to Thursday's sanction included Russian citizens with a long-term residence permit; those coming to visit close relatives; workers involved in the international transport of goods and passengers, as well as people entering the country for humanitarian reasons.

The Estonian sanction applies beginning Aug. 18. Estonia and Russia share a nearly 300 kilometer (186-mile) long border.

“I call on other governments to follow such steps,” Reinsalu wrote on Twitter.

Earlier this week, Estonian and Finnish leaders urged fellow European countries to stop issuing tourist visas to Russian citizens, saying they should not be able to take vacations in Europe while the Russian government carries out a war in Ukraine.

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas wrote Tuesday on Twitter that “visiting Europe is a privilege, not a human right” and that it is “time to end tourism from Russia now.”

A day earlier, her counterpart in Finland, Sanna Marin, told Finnish broadcaster YLE that “it is not right that while Russia is waging an aggressive, brutal war of aggression in Europe, Russians can live a normal life, travel in Europe, be tourists.”

Russian companies reportedly have started offering car trips from St. Petersburg to the airports in Helsinki and Lappeenranta in Finland, which have direct connections to several places in Europe. Russia’s second-largest city is 300 kilometers (186 miles) from the Finnish capital.

Visas issued by Finland and Estonia are valid across most of Europe’s visa-free travel zone, known as the “Schengen area” which is made up of 26 countries: 22 EU nations plus Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland. Normally, people and goods move freely between these countries without border checks. Nineteen other countries outside this travel area allow in foreigners using a Schengen visa.

Because of the war, Latvia has already decided it no longer is issuing visas to Russians. Poland said Wednesday that it was no longer issuing tourist visas to Russians.

___

Follow all AP stories on the war in Ukraine at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine.[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220811ei8b00fa1


'Visiting Europe is a privilege!' EU urged to issue travel ban on Russian tourists
Teresa Gottein Martinez
739 字
2022 年 8 月 11 日 13:40 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
RUSSIAN tourists must be banned from travelling to Europe, some bloc members said as they urged Brussels to act, with one EU leader claiming holidays on the continent are "a privilege, not a human right".

An increasing number of Russians crossing Finland's 830-mile border with Finland, as condemned by Prime Minister Sanna Marin this week, has called into question the extent to which Moscow is being punished for its war on Ukraine, with several nations calling for a tougher stance on travel to the European Union.

Related articles

Ms Marin told public broadcaster YLE that it was "not right that while Russia is waging an aggressive, brutal war of aggression in Europe, Russians can live a normal life, travel in Europe, be tourists".

Her view was backed by Estonia's prime minister, Kaja Kallas, who tweeted: "Stop issuing tourist visas to Russians. Visiting Europe is a privilege, not a human right.

"Air travel from Russia is shut down. It means while Schengen countries issue visas, neighbours of Russia carry the burden."

Finland, Estonia and Latvia, Ms Kallas pointed out, are the "sole access points" for Russian wishing to set foot in the EU.

From there, since Covid restrictions were lifted, they can travel onwards to other destinations across the bloc.

READ MORE: Lid blown off Putin lies in new pics of what REALLY happened in Crimea blast

Bulgaria's acting tourism minister, Ilin Dimitrov, said on Wednesday that more than 50,000 Russians — mainly property and apartment owners many of whom travel via Istanbul — had visited the country by the end of June.

He said: "The obstacles and expensive tickets do not stop them."

EU law does not allow a general ban on issuing visas.

The Border Code, which regulates the rules for issuing permits for travel to the Schengen area, allows at most for visa refusal after individual examination. But even then, a country cannot proceed arbitrarily.

Article 32 of the Visa Code specifically lists which reasons justify an entry rejection – for instance, if an applicant poses a danger to the public.

In addition, applicants must be given the opportunity to appeal the decision.

Without a new — unanimous — decision by the EU, states find themselves in a legal grey area.

EU foreign ministers are set to discuss the matter when they meet in the Czech Republic at the end of the month.

Ms Marin said: "In future European council meetings, this issue will come up even more strongly.

"My personal position is that tourism should be restricted."

Latvian Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs is also in favour of a ban, telling Politico last month the EU should restrict issuing visas for Russians, with an exemption for humanitarian reasons.

DON'T MISS

Putin ally could launch nuclear strikes on three countries [INSIGHT]

Brexit fury over 'grossly irresponsible' sabotage on border talks [REPORT]

Should next PM hold a general election immediately? [POLL]

Related articles

The European Commission has questioned the viability of an outright travel ban, arguing certain categories of travellers such as family members, journalists and dissidents should be granted visas under any circumstances.

Meanwhile, countries with governments tied closely to the Kremlin, such as Hungary, are expected to strongly oppose a ban.

Other members might say the move could divide families or penalise opponents of Vladimir Putin's war who have already left.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in an interview with the Washington Post the "most important sanction" on Moscow was to "close the borders, because the Russians are taking away someone else's land".

Russians should "live in their own world until they change their philosophy", he added.

The calls from Kyiv and some member states for an EU blanket ban have sparked anger at the Kremlin.

Spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said on Tuesday: "Any attempt to isolate Russia or Russians is a process that has no prospects.

Peskov added that the idea of such a ban displayed an "irrationality of thinking" that was "off the charts".

Additional reporting by Monika Pallenberg

Related articles Xi Jinping risks trade nightmare with West if China pursues Taiwan Kim Jong Un was 'seriously ill' during North Korean Covid crisis, India-Pakistan border rocked by dawn attack – five killed in shootout Britsh teen attacked by bison 'stranded' in US in insurance row Macron spotted sunning himself and riding jet ski on holiday in France

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220811ei8b003uy


Estonian PM says visa ban Kremlin's 'Achilles heel'
488 字
2022 年 8 月 12 日 14:58 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2022 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
Text of report in English by ERR News website, operated by Estonian Public Broadcasting, on 12 August

The Russian elite's critical reaction to calls to ban Schengen visas for Russians shows it is an effective sanction tool, Prime Minister Kaja Kallas (Reform) said on Friday. It is also fair, as only three countries shoulder the burden.

Opinion is split within the European Union over a potential Russian Schengen visa ban. On Thursday [11 August], Estonia said it will implement its own ban on August 18.

While Estonia, Latvia and Finland are pushing for the rules to be rolled out across the EU, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said he was against such a move yesterday. Today, Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky came out in support.

"We will continue these negotiations. The foreign ministers have a meeting at the end of August and this topic is very much on the agenda. What must be understood is that only 10 percent of the Russian population travels abroad and it is these people, who are mainly from Moscow and St. Petersburg, whose opinion matters. This is also shown by Russia's very painful reactions to this proposal," Kallas told ERR.

Former Russian president and deputy chairman of its Security Council Dmitry Medvedev attacked Kallas over the move earlier this week after she wrote on social media that "visiting Europe is a privilege, not a human right".

"It shows that this is the Achilles' heel. This is something that they are really afraid of, so it is effective," she said.

"And the fact that they once again attack me personally, that they pay so much attention to me, that Russia did not consider it necessary to pay [much attention to] any Estonian politician before, suggests that we must continue to fight for a just cause," Kallas said.

The prime minister has previously been verbally attacked by the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Maria Zakharova.

Finland, Estonia, Latvia carry visa burden

Estonia, Latvia and Finland carry the biggest burden of Russian tourists travelling to Europe, Kallas said, adding it is fair to stop issuing Schengen visas.

"Europe has banned air travel from Russia to Europe. This means that the only way Russian people can get to Europe is through three countries - Finland, Estonia and Latvia. So it's not quite fair that all the other Schengen countries give out these visas, but actually the three of us carry the burden," said Kallas.

She suggested Finland may also follow Estonia's decision in the future.

"If you look at the Finnish media and public opinion, then these discussions are going on in Finland. It is true that decision-making in Finland generally takes more time, but that's how democracy works, so, yes, these discussions are going on in Finland," said Kallas.

Source: ERR News website, Tallinn, in English 0953 gmt 12 Aug 22

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020220812ei8c001jl


Politics
Consul General Tanner: The demand for Finnish visas in Russia clearly exceeds the supply*** TRANSLATED ***
Tuomas Savonen
723 字
2022 年 8 月 15 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2022. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
The proportion of negative visa decisions has increased significantly.

The demand for Finnish visas in Russia clearly exceeds their supply, says Jussi Tanner, consular manager of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

According to Tanner, Finland has limited the number of applications received to one thousand per day. This amount of one thousand applications is filled every weekday, which, according to Tanner, indicates that the demand for visas is greater than their supply.

According to Tanner, visas were granted in July to about 85 percent of the applicants, so about 15 percent of the applicants had to settle for a negative decision.

- The share of negative decisions has increased significantly, more than tenfold compared to what it was before the Russian attack on Ukraine and the corona pandemic, when we were in normal mode last time, Tanner told STT.

According to Tanner, the increase in the proportion of negative decisions is primarily due to the fact that the applicant has been found to have used Finland as a transit country to the rest of the Schengen area. Another reason is ambiguities in the documents.

850 visas per day

When about 85 percent of a thousand applications are accepted, it means that Finland grants about 850 visas to Russians every weekday. The vast majority of these visas are tourist visas.

According to Tanner, the relatively large number of tourist visas has already become a problem, as they have threatened to overwhelm the applications of special groups, such as those applying for visas due to work, study or family relationships. For this reason, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is considering a quota system, which Foreign Minister Pekka Haavistokin(Green) has spoken about in public.

- In the quota system, the reception of tourist visa applications would be limited more than the reception of applications from other categories, Tanner explains.

The government is scheduled to discuss visas for Russians at its evening school on Tuesday. According to STT's information from government sources, restricting the acceptance of visas does not require a government decision, but the matter can be decided at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Throughput has increased

According to Tanner, the majority of Russians who have received a Finnish visa only travel to Finland, but transit to other Schengen countries also occurs to some extent. According to Tanner, the amount of indirect costs has increased and its share is several tens of percent.

According to visa regulations, the country for which the visa has been applied for should be the traveler's main destination.

- If transit is detected, it is grounds for issuing a negative decision on the visa application in the future. The next visa application will usually have a negative decision if the visa has been used for transit, says Tanner.

Disagreement in the EU

The attitude towards Russians' visas has caused disagreement in the EU. The EU presidency, the Czech Republic, has said that it will propose a visa ban for Russians at an informal meeting of the Union's foreign ministers in Prague at the end of August. According to the Czech Republic, the visa ban would be an effective sanction against Russia, which attacked Ukraine.

The Chancellor of Germany, the largest EU country, Olaf Scholz, on the other hand, has rejected the idea of a visa ban for Russians. Scholz said that since the war in Ukraine is"Putin's war", all Russians should not be denied tourist visas.

There have also been different views on the matter in Finland. Prime Minister Sanna Marin(left) has supported the expansion of sanctions against Russia also to tourism, while, for example, the vice-chairman of the parliament's foreign affairs committee Erkki Tuomioja(left) has said that he supports Germany's line in the matter.

According to Tuomioja, reducing Russian foreign contacts supports President Vladimir Putin's propaganda and takes away one life hole from the Russian opposition.

According to Consul General Tanner, Finland can act alone in the visa issue, but he hopes that the EU will take a unified position on the issue.

- The most effective measures are those where the EU is united. The EU is stronger the more united it appears, says Tanner.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020220815ei8f0008e


Finland is considering limiting Russian tourists' access to tourist visas
261 字
2022 年 8 月 15 日
Nordic Daily
NORDAI
英文
Copyright 2022 SIA Impact Media
Helsinki, Finland: Finland's government will meet on Tuesday to discuss placing restrictions on tourist visas for Russian citizens. Prime Minister Sanna Marin has called for an EU-wide decision on limiting entry into the Schengen area by Russian tourists. She added that she expects the issue to be raised at EU meetings.

The idea of extending EU sanctions to cover tourist visas has been pushed by Finland and the Baltic countries. However, there is not as yet unanimous support among EU member states for restricting travel by Russian citizens. A joint EU decision would be the most effective option, researchers say.

The Estonian border will close to most Russians next week, when the Baltic nation stops accepting visas. Estonia's Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu said that allowing tourists to enter the Schengen area via Estonia is against the principles of the EU's commonly agreed sanctions.

Finnish foreign policy expert Jussi Lassa says large-scale visa bans on Russian tourists would be counterproductive. Lassila is a Senior Research Fellow at the Finnish Institute of Foreign Affairs. Czech officials have called for the abolition of tourist visas as an effective sanction against Russia.

Finnish Foreign Minister Erkki Lassila says he supports the proposal to increase visa fees and redirect the revenue to Ukraine. Restricting travel visas would probably serve Russia's long-term goal of separation from the West, he says. But he thinks it would be important to remind people of the war when they arrive at the Finnish border.

SIA Impact Media

文件 NORDAI0020220901ei8f001j2


CE Noticias Financieras English
Finland cuts visas for Russian tourists as a sanction for Ukraine invasion
515 字
2022 年 8 月 16 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The Finnish authorities informed on Tuesday that the country will limit visa conditions for Russian tourists to 10% of the current number. The measure will take effect from September in retaliation for the invasion of Ukraine.

"Tourist visas will not be completely ended, but their number will be significantly reduced," Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto announced to the press in Helsinki, quoted by the Europa Press news agency.

The Scandinavian country's authorities have drawn up a model under which priority will be given to those who apply for visas for family, work or study reasons, Haavisto added.

Finland accepts around 1,000 applications per day from Russian citizens, which will now be reduced to just 100 starting next month.

At the same time, the Finnish authorities are evaluating the implementation of legislation allowing new sanctions, while a humanitarian visa to facilitate the transfer to Finland of journalists, dissidents and activists is under consideration, according to the public television channel YLE.

Haavisto already confirmed that the Executive headed by Prime Minister Sanna Marin had given the go-ahead to a plan that would restrict applications from Russian citizens, a decision that comes after Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelenski openly called on all countries in the international community to ban Russian citizens from entering their respective territories.

The measure was launched after criticism of what many saw as a way of violating the sanctions imposed by the European Union (EU) against the Kremlin, as thousands of people from Russia continued to enter the EU territory after crossing the border with Finland by car despite the fact that traveling by plane or train to the European bloc is forbidden.

The EU so far adopted six packages of sanctions against Russia.

The European Commission avoided commenting in early August on a possible veto on tourist visas for Russian citizens, leaving it up to the bloc's member states to limit visas for tourists arriving on European territory by land.

Last week, the Czech Republic, which holds the EU's pro tempore presidency, reported that it will propose to the bloc a ban on visas for all Russian travelers, arguing that the measure "could be another very effective sanction."

Czech Republic stopped issuing visas to Russians since February 25, the day after the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

In parallel, Latvia indicated Tuesday that it is abandoning an agreement with Russia to facilitate cross-border travel and visa issuance for citizens of both countries that dates back to 1993.

Although the Baltic nation stopped issuing tourist visas to Russian citizens and only accepts visitors from that country in special circumstances, with the cancellation of the 1993 agreement the formal obligations to favor bilateral freedom of movement will disappear.

Estonia took a similar decision last Thursday: the entry of Russians with tourist visas by land will be prohibited. Thus, those coming from the country ruled by Vladimir Putin will have almost no options to enter the Baltic nations and travel by air to the rest of Europe.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220816ei8g0097t


Europe can't decide if it wants to punish ordinary Russians for Putin's war
Analysis by Luke McGee, CNN
902 字
2022 年 8 月 18 日 04:01 GMT
CNN Wire
CNNWR
英文
Copyright 2022 Cable News Network. All Rights Reserved.
Finland[https://cnn.com/2022/05/14/europe/sweden-finland-nato-next-steps-intl/index.html], a country that shares an 830-mile-long border with Russia[https://cnn.com/videos/world/2022/05/10/finnish-russia-border-joining-nato-dnt-robertson-ovn-intl-ldn-vpx.cnn], announced this week that it is to halve its cap on the number of visa applications from Russian citizens.

Currently, 1,000 Russians can apply for Finnish visas each day, but as of September 1 that number will drop to 500. Jussi Tanner, director general for consular services at Finland's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, told CNN that a maximum of 20% of those slots will be allocated for tourist visas, meaning no more than 100 tourist visas will be available per day.

The move comes after Estonia, another European Union nation country that borders Russia, banned even Russians who already had visas from entering the country. According to Reuters, that amounts to 50,000 people.

The Czech Republic and Latvia have also been supportive of visa bans and have also taken measures to restrict Russians from traveling into the EU.

The proposal was first floated by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who wants to stop Russians from entering the bloc, where they can then travel freely for 90 days in the EU's common travel zone, the Schengen area.

Not everyone agrees. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says that while it is important to sanction those in Russian President Vladimir Putin's inner circle, Europeans need to "also understand that there are a lot of people fleeing from Russia because they disagree with the Russian regime."

A senior German diplomat told CNN that Scholz's argument is not based in fact, "as anyone can apply for a humanitarian visa." The diplomat believes that Scholz is mostly attempting to "balance his own party which is split between those who want dialogue with Russia and those who want to appear hard."

Advocates of limiting Russian visas believe the argument is quite clear.

Alexander Stubb, a former Finnish Prime Minister and foreign minister who had previously advocated for visa liberalization with Russia, told CNN: "It's a sad state of affairs, but the price of war has to be felt by Russian citizens."

He said that "the only way in which the hearts and the minds of the Russian people can be changed is for them to understand what Putin is doing is a blatant violation of international law. That means a total visa ban on Russians."

Rasa Jukneviciene, a former Estonian defense minister and current member of the European Parliament, says that "first and foremost, this is a security issue."

"Russian citizens travel to the EU mainly via Finland and Estonia. The official services of the countries are under enormous pressure. Russia is controlled by KGB legacy structures, which exploit the openness of the Schengen countries for various operations," Jukneviciene told CNN.

It's unlikely that European leaders will reach a full agreement on this issue. While the EU has been largely united since the start of the war and has come together to place serious economic sanctions on Russia, there is a geographical reality that complicates any consensus between 27 countries with vastly different economic and political priorities.

Countries in the west and south of the EU, who are somewhat protected from Kremlin aggression due to sheer distance, are quick to remind hawks that Russia is a very large part of the wider region of Europe.

It is therefore not only extremely difficult, but probably not particularly productive, to simply ignore Russia. Once the war is over, European economies will want to re-establish ties with Russia. Not only is this beneficial to those countries, but it could also prove valuable in a post-conflict propaganda war to convince average Russians of the benefits of European values.

Strategically, most serious figures also agree that any post-war European security plans will have to involve Russia, and it's far better that Moscow is proactively involved and working with its European neighbors.

At the other end of the spectrum, there are those countries such as Poland, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia who have already suffered at the hands of Russia quite a lot, both at the hands of the oppressive dictatorship of the Soviet Union and more recently from the threat of Putin's Kremlin.

These are the competing factors that make handling Putin and Russia so complicated.

Will the EU work with Putin if he remains in power after the war? If not, how different must the regime that follows be from Putin's to satisfy the bloc? What would need to be included in a hypothetical treaty to assure different European leaders that Russia will not provoke further conflict? What might the EU be willing to concede in order to broker a peace? It's worth remembering throughout all of this that Ukraine is now a candidate for EU membership.

All of these big questions create smaller questions, including what should be done during the conflict on visas. And the longer the war goes on, as the West's options for sanctions and retaliation become increasingly limited, the more of these questions will emerge.

The hard reality is that these smaller questions, headaches in themselves, must be balanced against whatever is the best-case, long-term outcome of this bleak period. And the blunt truth is that one thing will never change: Europe cannot simply ignore Russia.

Analysis by Luke McGee, CNN

Cable News Network LP.

文件 CNNWR00020220818ei8i00209


Russia admits it COULD use nuclear weapons in dire warning to the West as tension mounts
Ciaran McGrath
749 字
2022 年 8 月 18 日 16:37 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
RUSSIA has warned it could unleash its nuclear arsenal on the West - if Vladimir Putin is backed into a corner.

With his troops bogged down in a bloody conflict in Ukraine, initiated by his decision to invade on February 24, Putin’s bellicose rhetoric is being monitored carefully by the international community. Russia’s apparent preparedness to step outside the rules of war with the use of cluster bombs and the deliberate targeting of civilians have prompted speculation Putin could sanction the previously unthinkable.

Related articles

Speaking today, Foreign Ministry spokesman Ivan Nechaev downplayed the risks - while conspicuously refusing to rule out the possibility altogether.

He insisted nuclear weapons would only be used as a “response” measure - although he did not specify what circumstances would merit such a response.

He explained: “Russian military doctrine allows a nuclear response only in response to the threat of mass destruction, or when the very existence of the state is threatened.

“That is, the use of a nuclear arsenal is possible only as part of a response to an attack in self-defence and only in emergencies.”

Ukraine LIVE: Putin crisis as ANOTHER Russia HQ wrecked, Chechen base in ruins - FSB deadVladimir Putin has suffered another blow as he loses another Russian HQ, killing "100 soldiers, including 2nd Army commanders and 20 FSB officers" after a Ukrainian rocket strike.

Follow the latest updates on Express.co.uk's live blog HERE.

At a previous briefing on Tuesday, Mr Nechaev described suggestions Russia would deploy nuclear or chemical weapons in Ukraine as “absolute lies”, insisting his country had “no need” to do so.

In an illustration of spiking tensions, Russia’s Defence Ministry today confirmed three MiG-31E warplanes equipped with Kinzhal hypersonic missiles had been relocated to its Kaliningrad enclave wedged between Poland and Lithuania.

State media outlet RIA quoted the ministry as saying the MiG jets would be on round-the-clock duty.

Earlier today, Finland's Defence Ministry claimed two Russian MiG-31 jets had violated its airspace close to the city of Porvoo, on the Gulf of Finland, a mere 90 miles from Russia.

Both Finland and Sweden are on the verge of joining NATO in a move regarded with fear and anger in Moscow.

JUST IN: Russia deploys 'round-clock' fighters with hypersonic missiles

Speaking to Express.co.uk in April, Tobias Ellwood MP, the Tory chairman of Parliament’s defence committee, warned the risk of nuclear conflict should not be “underestimated”.

He said: “There's no doubt about it, that things are escalating, but we need to control the escalatory ladder.

“We need to make sure that we can lean into this in recognising the possible off-ramps to de-escalate but also have the self-confidence that we can step forward without events ratcheting out of control.

DON'T MISS

Brexit: Truss told to scrap Sunak’s ‘global tax stitch-up’ [INSIGHT]

Liz Truss urged to stand up to Brexit-bashing Joe Biden [REACTION]

EU to use IndyRef2 plot to make relations 'more difficult' with UK [REVEAL]

“The noise from the Kremlin is designed to spook us, and to make us think otherwise and effectively encourage us to do nothing, to be scared and for the first month or so, it succeeded.

“We were very timid in our initial response.”

Asked what the West’s long-term strategy should be, Mr Ellwood, the MP for Bournemouth East, said: “It's a really, really good question.

“Because my worry is that we're piling military hardware into the country, increasing the quantity and the quality, but to what end?

“What are our objectives? That is the fundamental question that we need to ask.

“We have the NATO Summit coming up in June, and we need to confirm collectively what success looks like.

"Is it the removal of Russia completely from Ukraine, going back to pre 2014 levels? Or are we in the mindset to allow part of Donbas to remain in Russian hands?

“For me, absolutely it must be that Putin must lose and be seen to lose in Ukraine.”

Related articles Brexit: Truss told to scrap Sunak’s ‘global tax stitch-up’ Brexit Britain to launch legal proceedings with EU Call to remember ordeal of PoWs on VJ Day anniversary Truss sent Brexit ultimatum as EU blame game fuels Labour plot Ireland Brexit panic: Truss sends shockwaves to Dublin

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220818ei8i003kg


Estonian media: Visas for Russians, ties with Finland
1042 字
2022 年 8 月 20 日 18:20 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2022 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

The government's decision to ban Russians with Estonian-issued Schengen visas from entering the country and defence cooperation with Finland were among the main topics discussed by Estonian media on 9-15 August.

Visa ban

Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin told the country's public broadcaster Yle that the EU should expand sanctions to limit travel for Russian citizens. Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas followed up by calling for Schengen area countries to stop issuing them tourist visas. "It is not right that at the same time as Russia is waging an aggressive, brutal war of aggression in Europe, Russians can live a normal life, travel in Europe, be tourists," Marin said. She added that it was essential to determine whether legislation must be amended to allow Finland to decide its own national sanctions in exceptional situations. Kallas tweeted a call to stop issuing tourist visas to Russian citizens altogether: "Stop issuing tourist visas to Russians." (ERR, in Estonian, 9 Aug 22)

Estonia will ban Russians with Estonian-issued Schengen visas from entering the country, the government announced on 11 August. The rule does not affect permanent residents and will enter into effect on 18 August. "This sanction means that the visas will remain valid, but the visa holders will be sanctioned when entering Estonia, they will not be allowed to enter Estonia," Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu said at the government's weekly news conference. The decision does not concern Russian citizens with visas issued by other EU members. But this issue will be raised with the EU later this month, he said. It will also not affect Russian citizens whose homeland is Estonia or who are permanent residents of Estonia, Reinsalu said. The government is now pushing for all EU member states to adopt the rule. (ERR, in Estonian, 11 Aug 22)

The Estonian government has decided to give Russian students studying in Estonia a one year visa extension to complete their studies beyond the nominal period. Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu said that as visas or residence permits are issued for the purpose of completing a degree course within a nominal period, students who require extra time to complete their studies will be granted an extension of one year. "The Ministry of the Interior estimates that the number of students who would need this in the next year is 50," Reinsalu said. Interior Minister Lauri Laanemets added that the sanctions imposed on Russia in the spring had led to an unexpected situation for those Russian students in Estonia who had not been able to complete their studies in the nominal period. "For many of these young people, returning home in the current situation could be dangerous because they have spoken out in defence of Ukraine and criticised Russia's aggression and its regime," said Laanemets. "This is a criminal offence in Russia, and it was therefore deemed necessary to extend the residence permits of these students for one year in order to allow them to complete their studies here," the interior minister added. (ERR, in Estonian, 11 Aug 22)

Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu said ordinary Russian citizens could not be treated as a separate category from that country's leader, Vladimir Putin, the aggressor in the current conflict in Ukraine. Reinsalu was referring to a ban on entry of Russian citizens holding Estonia-issued Schengen visas. The minister made his remarks in an interview with a news show on the ETV channel. "I am not in agreement with an approach whereby we look at "ordinary" Russian citizens and distinguish them from Putin. The war is being prosecuted by the Russian Federation as a state. Without a doubt, Russian citizens, by their passivity, bear moral responsibility for this," Reinsalu said. "This means that Estonia's message is that Europe must impose sanctions, and our message, as the Estonian state, insofar as it is within our competence to impose these sanctions, is that Russian citizens are not welcome with us," he added. (ERR, in Estonian, 11 Aug 22)

MEP Yana Toom called the government's decision to bar entry to Russian citizens holding Estonia-issued Schengen Area visas "absurd". "This is an absurd situation. Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu proposes to ban Russians holding a Schengen visa issued by an Estonian embassy from entering Estonia, while Prime Minister Kaja Kallas supports him, as does Interior Minister Lauri Laanemets," Toom said. "Simultaneously, all other Schengen Area states have to admit Russian citizens with Estonia-issued visas. We cannot make decisions for the entire Schengen Area, but fortunately only for ourselves," she went on. "All we can do is deny entry to the visa holders that were issued just yesterday. I think we might look a little weak-minded in all this," Toom continued. "But that is the intention now," she added. Toom also said she did not think the measure would achieve its proposed goal. "I do not think this idea cannot meet with success, since sanctions have a legislative definition. The purpose is to preserve or restore peace, to preserve democracy. I cannot imagine, in my little head, how a ban on the entry of Russians can restore peace in Ukraine. I cannot get my head round this," she said. (ERR, in Estonian, 12 Aug 22)

Defence

Estonia and Finland's defence plans must be integrated, Estonian Defence Minister Hanno Pevkur said at a meeting with his Finnish counterpart on 10 August. Pevkur met Antti Kaikkos in Helsinki to discuss regional security, bilateral defence cooperation, assistance to Ukraine and Finland's accession to Nato. They also discussed capacity development and Pevkur highlighted cooperation among the Baltic states, including the joint development of multiple launch rocket systems (MLRS). Pevkur said he was happy to see Finland and Sweden join Nato as it will increase the security and stability of the entire Euro-Atlantic region. "Finland's accession changes the potential battle space of the Baltic Sea region and we must treat it as a whole in the defence plans of the region, i.e. as a logical continuation, the defense plans of Estonia and Finland must be integrated," he added. (ERR, in Estonian, 12 Aug 22)

Source: BBC Monitoring 16 Aug 22

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020220820ei8k000ul


World news
Russia-Ukraine war: civilians ‘fleeing Kyiv amid fears of attack’; explosions reported across Dnipro – as it happened
Léonie Chao-Fong (now), Joe Middleton and Samantha Lock (earlier)
10733 字
2022 年 8 月 23 日 18:15 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2022. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
This live blog has now closed, please visit here for our latest coverage

block-time published-time 7.00pm BST

Closing summary

It’s 9pm in Kyiv. Here’s where we stand:

*

The US is expected to announce an additional military aid package for Ukraine of about $3bn (£2.5bn), according to reports. The new package will be announced on Wednesday, the day the war in Ukraine hits the six-month mark, US officials were cited as saying.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-630509a88f082fadccfc7d2d#block-630509a88f082fadccfc7d2d] It would be the largest such assistance package that the US has provided for Ukraine since the start of the war.

*

Many civilians are attempting to leave Kyiv amid fears of a Russian attack on the country’s independence day, according to an adviser to Ukraine’s president. Alex Rodnyansky said people were worried and that there was “certainly some concern” that an attack may strike[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304adb58f08b9ef100dfad7#block-6304adb58f08b9ef100dfad7] the centres of decision-making in the Ukrainian capital on Wednesday.

*

The US has issued a security alert warning that Russia is stepping up efforts to launch strikesagainst Ukraine’s civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days. The warning is the first specific security alert the US embassy in Kyiv has issued in recent months[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/23/russia-to-step-up-strikes-on-civilians-us-says-as-ukraine-independence-day-nears] and comes after a ban by the Ukrainian government on celebrations in the capital to mark Wednesday’s anniversary of independence from Soviet rule because of fears of attack.

*

The head of Ukraine’s security and defence council, Oleksiy Danilov, said he expects Russia’s security services to stage a series of terrorist attacks in Russian cities, resulting in large numbers of civilian casualties. Danilov said that the murder on Saturday of Darya Dugina, the daughter of Russian ultra-nationalist Alexander Dugin, was the first in what he expects to be a number of attacks.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304a8b78f088e8ce8eaeb61#block-6304a8b78f088e8ce8eaeb61]

*

Volodymyr Zelenskiy has vowed a “powerful response” in the event of a Russian attack on Kyiv on or around independence day on Wednesday. There was a daily threat of Russian attacks and Ukrainian intelligence was working with foreign intelligence, Zelenskiy said in a joint news conference[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304bee78f088e8ce8eaecba#block-6304bee78f088e8ce8eaecba] with the visiting Polish president, Andrzej Duda.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-630475648f0865dc43db1d34#block-630475648f0865dc43db1d34]

*

Ukraine’s president said the country will not agree to any proposal to freeze the current frontlines in its conflict with Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] in order to “calm” Moscow, which now controls about 22% of Ukraine including Crimea. Speaking at a news conference in Kyiv today, Zelenskiy urged the world not to show fatigue with the war,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-630501948f08b9ef100dff62#block-630501948f08b9ef100dff62] saying this would pose a big threat to the whole world.

*

Zelenskiy also promised to bring “freedom to Ukraine and citizens in Crimea” and vowed that the Ukrainian flag will fly “where it’s supposed to be” in all occupied parts of Ukraine. The Ukrainian president said Kyiv would restore Ukrainian rule over the Russia-annexed region. “It started in Crimea and it will end in Crimea,”[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304bee78f088e8ce8eaecba#block-6304bee78f088e8ce8eaecba] he told an international conference on Crimea.

*

Boris Johnson has urged world leaders not to allow Vladimir Putin to repeat the annexation of Crimea in other parts of Ukraine. Britain will continue to support Ukraine with military, humanitarian, economic and diplomatic support until Russia “ends this hideous war and withdraws its forces from the entirety of Ukraine”, Johnson said in a remote address to the international Crimea Platform summit[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304e5fd8f082fadccfc7b36#block-6304e5fd8f082fadccfc7b36].

*

Hundreds of people gathered in Moscow for the funeral of Darya Dugina, the daughter of one of Russia’s most prominent nationalist ideologues. Dugina, daughter of ultra-nationalist Alexander Dugin, was murdered on Saturday in a car bomb attack outside Moscow.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-63049f898f088e8ce8eaeb01#block-63049f898f088e8ce8eaeb01] Russia’s FSB security service has accused Ukrainian intelligence agencies of ordering her killing, which Kyiv denies.

*

Russian tourists may be banned from entering Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Finland if the EU does not enact a bloc-wide ban, according to Lithuania’s foreign minister Gabrielius Landsbergis. Russians should not be allowed to enter the EU while their country “is undertaking genocide”,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304b21c8f088e8ce8eaebe6#block-6304b21c8f088e8ce8eaebe6] Landsbergis told reporters in Vilnius. It comes after the US rebuffed Ukraine’s demand for a blanket visa ban on Russians[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/aug/22/us-rejects-russians-visa-ban-ukraine].

*

The UN’s secretary general, António Guterres, has demanded a halt to “nuclear sabre-rattling”, saying the world is at a “maximum moment of danger” and all countries with nuclear weapons must make a commitment to “no first-use”. The UN chief described the situation at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Europe’s largest, as critical.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-63042a2d8f08b582f6a16988#block-63042a2d8f08b582f6a16988] Shelling and fighting in the area continues.

*

The war in Ukraine has pushed people to “a critical breaking point” with “devastating” knock-on effects that will only grow as the conflict drags on, the Red Cross has warned. Soaring inflation and shortages of essential products like fuel and food in Ukraine and neighbouring countries have left people struggling to afford basic supplies,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6305070c8f082fadccfc7d0d#block-6305070c8f082fadccfc7d0d] with the situation becoming more desperate as the weather chills in the weeks ahead.

*

Kyiv has accused Moscow of having organised illegal mass adoptions of Ukrainian children after transferring them from occupied territories to Russia. “More than 1,000 children from Mariupol,” were “illegally transferred to outsiders in Tyumen, Irkutsk, Kemerovo and Altai Krai” in Siberia, a statement by Ukraine’s foreign ministry read.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-630507518f08b9ef100dffb6#block-630507518f08b9ef100dffb6]

*

The UN has said it is “very concerned” about plans by Russian-backed authorities to hold trials for captured Ukrainian soldiers in Mariupol. Pro-Russian officials appear to be installing metal cages in a hall in Mariupol as part of plans to establish what they were calling an “international tribunal”, a UN rights office spokesperson said, adding[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304b8278f082fadccfc78de#block-6304b8278f082fadccfc78de] that such a process could itself amount to a war crime.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304b8278f082fadccfc78de#block-6304b8278f082fadccfc78de]

That’s it from me, Léonie Chao-Fong, and the Russia-Ukraine war blog today. Thanks for reading.

block-time published-time 6.56pm BST

Here’s some more detail [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-630509a88f082fadccfc7d2d#block-630509a88f082fadccfc7d2d] on the US military aid package for Ukraine of about $3bn, which would be the single largest assistance package that the US has provided for Ukraine since the start of the war.

The package will use funds from the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative, appropriated by the US congress, to allow the Biden administration to procure weapons from industry rather than taking weapons from existing US weapons stocks, Reuters reports.

The new weapons do not appear to include types of arms that had not been provided previously to the Ukrainian military, according to a US official.

The amount and mix of weapons could change before the formal announcement, expected to take place tomorrow, the official added.

block-time published-time 6.39pm BST

Kyiv accuses Moscow of mass abduction of Ukrainian children

Kyiv has accused Moscow of having organised illegal mass adoptions of Ukrainian children after transferring them from occupied territories to Russia.

Since the beginning of the war, Kyiv has been accusing Moscow of “deporting” Ukrainians[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/04/hundreds-of-ukrainians-forcibly-deported-to-russia-say-mariupol-women], saying Ukrainians from occupied territories have been forced to go to Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/20/russia-bombed-mariupol-art-school-sheltering-400-people-says-ukraine] rather than other regions of Ukraine.

Ukraine’s foreign ministry said in a statement:

The Russian Federation continues to abduct children from the territory of Ukraine and arrange their illegal adoption by Russian citizens.

“More than 1,000 children from Mariupol,” a southern Ukrainian city occupied by Russian troops, “were illegally transferred to outsiders in Tyumen, Irkutsk, Kemerovo and Altai Krai” in Siberia, the statement read.

Read the full story here.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/23/kyiv-accuses-moscow-of-mass-abduction-of-ukrainian-children]

Related: Kyiv accuses Moscow of mass abduction of Ukrainian children[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/23/kyiv-accuses-moscow-of-mass-abduction-of-ukrainian-children]

block-time published-time 6.23pm BST

Ukrainian members of the honour guard attend a ceremony to mark the Day of the National Flag of Ukraine, in the western city of Lviv. Photograph: Yuriy Dyachyshyn/AFP/Getty Images

block-time published-time 6.10pm BST

US to announce $3bn in new military aid for Ukraine - reports

The US is expected to announce an additional military aid package for Ukraine of about $3bn (£2.5bn), according to reports.

Associated Press cites US officials as saying that the new package will be announced on Wednesday, the day the war in Ukraine hits the six-month mark.

The $3bn weapons assistance package would be the largest such assistance package that the US has provided for Ukraine since the start of the war.

The money will be used to train and equip Ukrainian forces to fight for years to come, as well as fund contracts for drones, weapons and other equipment that may not see the battlefront for a year or two, the sources said.

Unlike most previous aid packages, the new funding will be aimed at helping Ukraine secure its future defence needs, according to officials familiar with the matter. Earlier packages focused on Ukraine’s more immediate needs for weapons and ammunition.

The new package is intended to reassure Ukrainian officials that the US is committed to maintaining its support, regardless of the day-to-day back and forth of the conflict, the officials said.

block-time published-time 5.58pm BST

The war in Ukraine has pushed people to “a critical breaking point” with “devastating” knock-on effects that will only grow as the conflict drags on, the Red Cross has warned.

The organisation said that “even if the conflict were to end tomorrow, it will take years to repair the damage to cities and homes and the impact on families”, AFP reports.

Soaring inflation and shortages of essential products like fuel and food in Ukraine and neighbouring countries have left people struggling to afford basic supplies, with the situation becoming more desperate as the weather chills in the weeks ahead.

Maksym Dotsenko, head of the Ukrainian Red Cross, said in a virtual press briefing:

It will be the hardest winter.

The war, now six months old, has stretched the entire humanitarian system and could lead to lasting impacts on the ability of organisations to tackle emergencies worldwide, the Red Cross added.

block-time published-time 5.35pm BST

Zelenskiy: Ukraine will not freeze frontlines to 'calm' Moscow

Volodymyr Zelenskiy has said Ukraine will not agree to any proposal to freeze the current frontlines in its conflict with Russia in order to “calm” Moscow, which now controls about 22% of Ukraine including Crimea.

Speaking at a news conference in Kyiv today, the Ukrainian president urged the world not to show fatigue with the war, saying this would pose a big threat to the whole world.

Zelenskiy told reporters:

We’ll get back Crimea by any means we deem right, without consulting other countries.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy delivers a press conference after the summit of the Crimea Platform in Kyiv. Photograph: Roman Pilipey/EPA

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.51pm BST

block-time published-time 5.16pm BST

The EU’s foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell, has said Vladimir Putin is betting the bloc’s response to his invasion of Ukraine will fracture as soaring prices hit European voters’ wallets.

Russia’s president sees “the weariness of the Europeans and the reluctance of their citizens to bear the consequences of support for Ukraine”, Borrell said in an interview with AFP.

“We will have to endure, spread the costs within the EU,” Borrell said. He added:

We must give Ukraine support that goes beyond supplying weapons. Faced with someone who refuses to stop the war, we must be able to resist.

Keeping the 27 member states united was a task to be carried out “day by day”, Borrell told the news agency. He also said:

The member states are masters of their foreign policy. We must ensure that their interests reach a common point. We are always in compromise mode.

block-time published-time 4.47pm BST

Ukraine’s prime minister, Denys Shmyhal, said the country expects to receive up to $16bn (£13.5bn) of financial support from its international partners by the end of this year to help it deal with Russia’s invasion.

In a statement, Shmyhal said Ukraine had managed to maintain its financial stability thanks to external assistance, which had already accounted for $14bn.

More than 40% of the Ukrainian government’s spending so far this year – more than $11.5bn (£9.7bn) – had been allocated to military needs, he added.

block-time published-time 4.24pm BST

Hundreds of people have lined up in Moscow to pay tributes to Darya Dugina, the murdered daughter of one of Russia’s most prominent nationalist thinkers, hailing her as a martyr whose death must be avenged with victory in the war in Ukraine.

Dugina, the daughter of ultra-nationalist Alexander Dugin, was killed on Saturday in a car bomb attack outside the capital. Moscow has accused Ukrainian intelligence agencies of masterminding her killing, a claim Kyiv has denied.

Dugina’s death was followed by calls from Moscow’s political elite for renewed strikes on Ukraine. Photograph: Kirill Kudryavtsev/AFP/Getty Images

Her father, Dugin, 60, who for decades pushed for the creation of a new Russian state that would annex the territory of countries including Ukraine, told mourners his daughter “died for the people, died for Russia”.

“The huge price we have to pay can only be justified by the highest achievement, our victory,” a visibly emotional Dugin said.

She lived for the sake of victory, and she died for the sake of victory. Our Russian victory, our truth, our Orthodox faith, our state.

A large black and white portrait of Dugina, 30, who was reportedly close to her father and worked as a nationalist media commentator, hung on a wall behind her coffin.

Read the full story by my colleague Pjotr Sauer here.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/23/senior-russian-politicians-praise-martyr-darya-dugina-at-funeral]

Related: Senior Russian politicians praise ‘martyr’ Darya Dugina at funeral[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/23/senior-russian-politicians-praise-martyr-darya-dugina-at-funeral]

block-time published-time 4.00pm BST

Summary of the day so far

It’s 6pm in Kyiv. Here’s where we stand:

*

Many civilians are attempting to leave Kyiv amid fears of a Russian attack on the country’s independence day, according to an adviser to Ukraine’s president. Alex Rodnyansky said people were worried and that there was “certainly some concern” that an attack may strike[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304adb58f08b9ef100dfad7#block-6304adb58f08b9ef100dfad7] the centres of decision-making in the Ukrainian capital on Wednesday.

*

The US has issued a security alert warning that Russia is stepping up efforts to launch strikesagainst Ukraine’s civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days. The warning is the first specific security alert the US embassy in Kyiv has issued in recent months[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/23/russia-to-step-up-strikes-on-civilians-us-says-as-ukraine-independence-day-nears] and comes after a ban by the Ukrainian government on celebrations in the capital to mark Wednesday’s anniversary of independence from Soviet rule because of fears of attack.

*

The mayor of Dnipro, Borys Filatov, has said Russian rockets are falling on homes in the city and urged residents to stay under cover. Dnipro is located in south-central Ukraine and has been subjected to Russian long-range missile attacks[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-630499b68f0865dc43db1e4b#block-630499b68f0865dc43db1e4b] during the war.

*

The head of Ukraine’s security and defence council, Oleksiy Danilov, said he expects Russia’s security services to stage a series of terrorist attacks in Russian cities, resulting in large numbers of civilian casualties. Danilov said that the murder on Saturday of Darya Dugina, the daughter of Russian ultra-nationalist Alexander Dugin, was the first in what he expects to be a number of attacks.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304a8b78f088e8ce8eaeb61#block-6304a8b78f088e8ce8eaeb61]

*

Hundreds of people gathered in Moscow for the funeral of Darya Dugina, the daughter of one of Russia’s most prominent nationalist ideologues. Dugina, daughter of ultra-nationalist Alexander Dugin, was murdered on Saturday in a car bomb attack outside Moscow.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-63049f898f088e8ce8eaeb01#block-63049f898f088e8ce8eaeb01] Russia’s FSB security service has accused Ukrainian intelligence agencies of ordering her killing, which Kyiv denies.

*

Volodymyr Zelenskiy has promised to bring “freedom to Ukraine and citizens in Crimea” and vowed that the Ukrainian flag will fly “where it’s supposed to be” in all occupied parts of Ukraine. The Ukrainian president said Kyiv would restore Ukrainian rule over the Russia-annexed region. “It started in Crimea and it will end in Crimea,”[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304bee78f088e8ce8eaecba#block-6304bee78f088e8ce8eaecba] he told an international conference on Crimea.

*

The Ukrainian president also vowed a “powerful response” in the event of a Russian attack on Kyiv on or around independence day on Wednesday. There was a daily threat of Russian attacks and Ukrainian intelligence was working with foreign intelligence, Zelenskiy said in a joint news conference[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304bee78f088e8ce8eaecba#block-6304bee78f088e8ce8eaecba] with the visiting Polish president, Andrzej Duda.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-630475648f0865dc43db1d34#block-630475648f0865dc43db1d34]

*

Boris Johnson has urged world leaders not to allow Vladimir Putin to repeat the annexation of Crimea in other parts of Ukraine. Britain will continue to support Ukraine with military, humanitarian, economic and diplomatic support until Russia “ends this hideous war and withdraws its forces from the entirety of Ukraine”, Johnson said in a remote address to the international Crimea Platform summit[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304e5fd8f082fadccfc7b36#block-6304e5fd8f082fadccfc7b36].

*

Russian forces are likely to have started to move barges to construct a floating bridge over the Dnipro River near the Antonivsky bridge, a British intelligence update said. The bridge in Kherson has been targeted repeatedly by Ukrainian forces with missile strikes as it is a key supply route for Russia in the south of the country. If Russia completes the improvised bridge, it will almost certainly increase the capacity of the crossing point compared with the ferry, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) believes.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-630489508f0865dc43db1dd3#block-630489508f0865dc43db1dd3]

*

Russian tourists may be banned from entering Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Finland if the EU does not enact a bloc-wide ban, according to Lithuania’s foreign minister Gabrielius Landsbergis. Russians should not be allowed to enter the EU while their country “is undertaking genocide”,[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304b21c8f088e8ce8eaebe6#block-6304b21c8f088e8ce8eaebe6] Landsbergis told reporters in Vilnius. It comes after the US rebuffed Ukraine’s demand for a blanket visa ban on Russians[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/aug/22/us-rejects-russians-visa-ban-ukraine].

*

The UN’s secretary general, António Guterres, has demanded a halt to “nuclear sabre-rattling”, saying the world is at a “maximum moment of danger” and all countries with nuclear weapons must make a commitment to “no first-use”. The UN chief described the situation at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Europe’s largest, as critical.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-63042a2d8f08b582f6a16988#block-63042a2d8f08b582f6a16988] Shelling and fighting in the area continues.

*

The UN has said it is “very concerned” about plans by Russian-backed authorities to hold trials for captured Ukrainian soldiers in Mariupol. Pro-Russian officials appear to be installing metal cages in a hall in Mariupol as part of plans to establish what they were calling an “international tribunal”, a UN rights office spokesperson said, adding[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304b8278f082fadccfc78de#block-6304b8278f082fadccfc78de] that such a process could itself amount to a war crime.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304b8278f082fadccfc78de#block-6304b8278f082fadccfc78de]

*

Canada’s prime minister Justin Trudeau has announced fresh sanctions against 62 individuals accused of backing Vladimir Putin’s regime and his invasion of Ukraine. The sanctioned individuals include high-ranking Russian government officials, their family members, and senior officials of currently sanctioned defence sector entities[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-6304e1ed8f088e8ce8eaee47#block-6304e1ed8f088e8ce8eaee47], a statement by the Canadian government said.

*

A total of 33 cargo ships carrying around 719,549 tonnes of foodstuffs have left Ukraine under a deal brokered by the United Nations and Turkey to unblock Ukrainian sea ports, the Ukrainian agriculture ministry said. A further 18 vessels were loading or waiting for permission to leave Ukrainian ports, the ministry added.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2022/aug/23/russia-ukraine-war-nuclear-sabre-rattling-must-stop-un-chief-warns-us-predicts-moscow-to-step-up-strikes-live?page=with:block-630486cc8f087a97c2720d3e#block-630486cc8f087a97c2720d3e] Three Black Sea ports were unblocked under the deal signed on 22 July by Moscow and Kyiv.

*

Monthly payments to UK hosts of Ukrainian refugees should double to help them to provide housing for more than six months amid the cost of living crisis, the minister responsible has said. Councils have warned that homelessness could rise[https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2022/aug/23/double-ukraine-refugee-host-payments-to-aid-cost-of-living-says-minister] if refugees’ initial six-month placements with hosts end without alternative options in place.

Good afternoon from London. It’s Léonie Chao-Fong still with you with all the latest from Ukraine. I’m on Twitter[https://twitter.com/leonie_chaofong] or you can email me.[mailto:leonie.chao-fong@theguardian.com]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.25pm BST

block-time published-time 3.37pm BST

Boris Johnson has urged world leaders not to allow Vladimir Putin to repeat the annexation of Crimea in other parts of Ukraine.

Britain will continue to support Ukraine with military, humanitarian, economic and diplomatic support until Russia “ends this hideous war and withdraws its forces from the entirety of Ukraine”, Johnson said in a remote address to the international Crimea Platform summit.

block-time published-time 3.21pm BST

Canada’s prime minister Justin Trudeau has announced fresh sanctions against 62 individuals accused of backing Vladimir Putin’s regime and his invasion of Ukraine.

The sanctioned individuals include “high-ranking Russian government officials, including Russian federal governors and regional heads, their family members, and senior officials of currently sanctioned defence sector entities”, a statement by the Canadian government said.

In addition, the government has imposed sanctions on the Russian defence firm Avtomatika, which makes drones and electronic voting machines.

block-time published-time 3.02pm BST

Monthly payments to UK hosts of Ukrainian refugees should double to help them to provide housing for more than six months amid the cost of living crisis, the minister responsible has said.

About 25,000 offers of accommodation from hosts under the Homes for Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/news/audio/2022/jul/15/is-britains-homes-for-ukraine-scheme-working-podcast] scheme have been taken up so far, with an average of three Ukrainians living in each home, Richard Harrington said.

Six months after the Russian invasion, the government is asking existing hosts to allow Ukrainians to stay for longer than the minimum period of half a year, while also appealing for new sponsors.

The move comes amid soaring living costs, with energy bills expected to rise by 80% going into winter, rocketing inflation and rising interest rates.

Councils have also warned that homelessness could rise if refugees’ initial six-month placements with hosts end without alternative options in place.

Read the full story by my colleague David Batty here. [https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2022/aug/23/double-ukraine-refugee-host-payments-to-aid-cost-of-living-says-minister]

Related: Double Ukraine refugee host payments to aid cost of living, says minister[https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2022/aug/23/double-ukraine-refugee-host-payments-to-aid-cost-of-living-says-minister]

block-time published-time 2.01pm BST

Johnson: UK will never recognise Russia’s annexation of any Ukrainian territory

Boris Johnson has urged world leaders not to allow Vladimir Putin to repeat the annexation of Crimea in other parts of Ukraine.

Britain will continue to support Ukraine with military, humanitarian, economic and diplomatic support until Russia “ends this hideous war and withdraws its forces from the entirety of Ukraine”, Johnson said in a remote address to the international Crimea Platform conference.

The PM called on allies to continue to support Ukraine until Russian forces withdrew from the “entirety” of its territory.

Johnson said:

Putin is planning to do to other parts of Ukraine - indeed all of Ukraine – what he has done to Crimea.

The Russian leader was preparing “more annexations and more sham referendums”, he added.

Russia’s annexation of Crimea “or any other Ukrainian territory” must never be recognised, Johnson urged.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.12pm BST

block-time published-time 1.43pm BST

Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelenskiy and Poland’s president Andrzej Duda hug each other as they meet in Kyiv. Photograph: Polish Presidential Press Service/KPRP/JAKUB SZYMCZUK/Reuters Ukrainian president Zelenskiy and his Polish counterpart Andrzej Duda hold a joint news briefing in Kyiv. Photograph: Viacheslav Ratynskyi/Reuters

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.12pm BST

block-time published-time 1.17pm BST

Scouts in the UK have been praised for setting adults an example on how to welcome refugees after they made hundreds of messages of support for Ukrainian families fleeing the war.

“You are so brave and I hope you like it here,” wrote one scout in a decorated card. Another said: “REMEMBER YOU ARE LOVED.” Among other messages were: “Let us take you to safety” and “You should try fish and chips.”

Welcoming messages for refugees on display. Photograph: Dan Dennsion/Save the Children

The messages from scouts aged 12-15 were made to mark six months since the start of Russia’s invasion. They will be shared with recently settled Ukrainian families in the UK in welcome packs from Save the Children.

Meg Briody, the head of child and youth participation at Save the Children, said the messages showed the best side of the UK’s attitudes towards refugees.

Children and young people are once again setting an example in showing that the UK can be a welcoming place for refugees.

Read the full story by my colleague Matthew Weaver here.[https://www.theguardian.com/society/2022/aug/23/uk-scouts-praised-for-welcoming-ukrainian-refugees-save-the-children]

Related: ‘You should try fish and chips’: UK scouts praised for welcoming Ukrainian refugees[https://www.theguardian.com/society/2022/aug/23/uk-scouts-praised-for-welcoming-ukrainian-refugees-save-the-children]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.13pm BST

block-time published-time 12.53pm BST

Zelenskiy: ‘It started in Crimea and it will end in Crimea’

Volodymyr Zelenskiy has promised to bring “freedom to Ukraine and citizens in Crimea” and vowed that the Ukrainian flag will fly “where it’s supposed to be” in all occupied parts of Ukraine.

In a speech to open an international conference on Crimea, the Ukrainian president said Kyiv would restore Ukrainian rule over the Russia-annexed region.

Zelenskiy said:

To overcome terror, it is necessary to gain victory in the fight against Russian aggression. It is necessary to liberate Crimea. This will be the resuscitation of world law and order.

Therefore, we need to free Crimea from occupation as well. It started in Crimea and it will end in Crimea.

Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelenskiy attends a raising ceremony of the country’s biggest national flag to mark national flag day in Kyiv. Photograph: Ukrainian Presidential Press Service/Reuters

In a separate speech today to mark Ukraine’s national flag day and on the eve of the country’s independence day, Zelenskiy pledged that the Ukrainian flag will fly “where it’s supposed to be” in all occupied parts of Ukraine.

He said:

The blue and yellow flag will flutter again at its home, where it’s supposed to be by right, in all temporarily occupied cities and villages of Ukraine.

Ukraine’s president also spoke in a joint news conference with visiting Polish president, Andrzej Duda, where he was asked about the possibility of a Russian missile strike on Kyiv on or around independence day on Wednesday.

There was a daily threat of Russian attacks and Ukrainian intelligence was working with foreign intelligence, Zelenskiy replied.

The response to an attack on the Ukrainian capital would be the same for any Ukrainian city that comes under attack from Russia, he added.

Zelenskiy said:

If they hit us, they will receive a response, a powerful response. I want to say that each day this response will grow, it will get stronger and stronger.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.56pm BST

block-time published-time 12.38pm BST

Germany has recorded almost a million refugees from Ukraine since the Russian invasion in February, the country’s interior ministry said.

A total of 967,546 people fleeing the war have entered Germany at least temporarily, the ministry said in a statement.

Of those who have left Ukraine for Germany, 36% are children. Among the adults, three in four are women and around 8% are over the age of 64.

Almost 155,000 Ukrainian pupils have been enrolled at German schools, according to the conference of state education ministers in Berlin.

block-time published-time 12.24pm BST

UN ‘very concerned’ about planned trials of captured Ukrainian soldiers in Mariupol

The UN has said it is “very concerned” about plans by Russian-backed authorities to hold trials for captured Ukrainian soldiers in Mariupol, saying that such a process could itself amount to a war crime.

Pro-Russian officials appear to be installing metal cages in a hall in Mariupol as part of plans to establish what they were calling an “international tribunal”, according to Ravina Shamdasani, spokesperson for the UN rights office.

She said:

We are very concerned about the manner in which this is being done. There are pictures in the media of cages being built in Mariupol’s philharmonic hall, really massive cages and apparently the idea is to restrain the prisoners.

She added:

This is not acceptable, this is humiliating.

Willfully depriving a prisoner of war to the right to a fair trial amounts to a war crime by Russia, she said, adding that Ukrainian PoWs were entitled to protection under the Geneva conventions.

Last week, Ukrainian military intelligence said Russian forces were allegedly planning to display captured Ukrainian soldiers in iron cages during a “show trial” in Mariupol on the country’s independence day.

enltrRussians are turning the Mariupol Philharmonic into a prison. In addition to the cages, they are building a special bunker-garage to receive paddy wagons that will transport Ukrainian prisoners. This structure is being built exclusively for one purpose - the "tribunal". pic.twitter.com/BbuANpdYzk[https://t.co/BbuANpdYzk]

— Anton Gerashchenko (@Gerashchenko_en) August 12, 2022[https://twitter.com/Gerashchenko_en/status/1558045881093574656?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

The captured fighters who will reportedly be displayed in the cages in Mariupol’s philharmonic hall are those who were captured while defending the formerly-besieged Azovstal steel plant.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.58pm BST

block-time published-time 11.56am BST

Russian tourists may be banned from entering Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Finland if the EU does not enact a bloc-wide ban, according to Lithuania’s foreign minister Gabrielius Landsbergis.

Volodymyr Zelenskiy has urged the EU to introduce a travel ban on Russian tourists,[https://www.theguardian.com/travel/2022/aug/10/eu-under-pressure-to-ban-russian-tourists-from-europe] arguing that the “most important sanction” was to “close the borders, because the Russians are taking away someone else’s land”.

The Ukrainian president’s call has been backed by several EU leaders including the Finnish prime minister, Sanna Marin, and her Estonian counterpart, Kaja Kallas. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Finland all share a border with Russia.

Russians should not be allowed to enter the EU while their country “is undertaking genocide”, Landsbergis told reporters in Vilnius today.

He said:

I have talked to ministers from all these countries … I don’t see many differences politically.

On Monday, the US rebuffed Ukraine’s demand for a blanket visa ban on Russians[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/aug/22/us-rejects-russians-visa-ban-ukraine], saying the Biden administration had already imposed visa restrictions for Kremlin officials but that its focus would be on identifying those involved in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and holding them accountable.

A US state department spokesperson said:

The US wouldn’t want to close off pathways to refuge and safety for Russia’s dissidents or others who are vulnerable to human rights abuses.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.59pm BST

block-time published-time 11.40am BST

Many civilians leaving Kyiv amid fear of Russian attack, says Zelenskiy adviser

An adviser to Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelenskiy has said many civilians are attempting to leave Kyiv amid fears of a Russian attack on the country’s independence day tomorrow.

Speaking to BBC Radio 4’s Today programme, Alex Rodnyansky said people were worried and that there was “certainly some concern” that an attack may strike the centres of decision-making in the Ukrainian capital on Wednesday.

Rodnyansky said:

People are reacting to the news. They are trying to ensure they have contingency plans, they don’t want to spend too much time near the centre near the buildings of our government.

He added:

There is a risk Russia will try to strike exactly at that time to compensate for their inability to have any success on the battlefield, to have any success in subduing Ukraine and basically all the failures they have run up over the last six months.

Rodnyansky’s comments came after the US warned Russia may “step up” efforts to launch strikes against Ukraine’s civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days.

Ukraine’s defence ministry has advised Ukrainians to be especially careful on independence day, citing the threat of missile attacks and “provocations” from Russia.

Hello everyone. It’s Léonie Chao-Fong here again to bring you all the latest developments from the war in Ukraine. Feel free to drop me a message if you have anything to flag, you can reach me on Twitter[https://twitter.com/leonie_chaofong] or via email.[mailto:leonie.chao-fong@theguardian.com]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.57am BST

block-time published-time 11.19am BST

The head of Ukraine’s security and defence council, Oleksiy Danilov, said he expects Russia’s security services to stage a series of terrorist attacks in Russian cities, resulting in large numbers of civilian casualties.

Danilov said that the murder on Saturday of Darya Dugina, the daughter of Russian ultra-nationalist Alexander Dugin, was the first in what he expects to be a number of attacks.

He also said support for the war in Russia is falling and the Kremlin needs to introduce general mobilisation.

ukltr?? ????? ????? ????????? ?????. ?????? ???????? ?????????? ???????????. ?????????? ??????????? ??? ????? ????????????? ????? ? ?????????? ?????? ? ???????? ???????? ????? ?????????. ?????? – ????? ? ????? ????. ???????, ?? ??????? ??? ?????, ?? ???? ? ?????? ??????????.

— Oleksiy Danilov (@OleksiyDanilov) August 23, 2022[https://twitter.com/OleksiyDanilov/status/1561992562134728704?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.57am BST

block-time published-time 11.08am BST

Summary so far

The time is just after 1pm in Ukraine. Here is what you might have missed:

*

Hundreds of people gathered in Moscow for the funeral of Darya Dugina, the slain daughter of one of Russia’s most prominent nationalist ideologues. Dugina, daughter of ultra-nationalist Alexander Dugin, was murdered on Saturday in a car bomb attack outside Moscow. Russia’s FSB security service has accused Ukrainian intelligence agencies of ordering her killing, which Kyiv denies.

*

Dnipro mayor Borys Filatov has said that Russian rockets are falling on homes and urged Ukrainians in the city to stay under cover. In a post on his Facebook page, he said: “Pls stay under cover. There are already facts of rockets falling on private houses. Details to come later. We are waiting for official information from the Military Administration.”

*

Russian forces are likely to have started to move barges to construct a floating bridge over the Dnipro River near the Antonivsky bridge, a British intelligence update said. The bridge in Kherson has been targeted repeatedly by Ukrainian forces with missile strikes as it is a key supply route for Russia in the south of the country. If Russia completes the improvised bridge, it will almost certainly increase the capacity of the crossing point compared with the ferry, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) believes.

*

A total of 33 cargo ships carrying around 719,549 tonnes of foodstuffs have left Ukraine under a deal brokered by the United Nations and Turkey to unblock Ukrainian sea ports, the Ukrainian agriculture ministry said. Ukraine‘s grain exports slumped after Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] invaded the country on 24 February and blockaded its Black Sea ports. Three Black Sea ports were unblocked under the deal signed on 22 July by Moscow and Kyiv.

*

Deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk reported that 825 people have been evacuated from the Kharkiv region in north-east Ukraine. In a message on her Telegram channel, she said: A successful humanitarian operation: 825 people were evacuated from the uncontrolled part of Kharkiv region today, 238 of them were children.

*

Poland’s president Andrzej Duda has arrived in Kyiv for talks with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy. The duo will engage in talks on the current wartime situation in Ukraine, economic and humanitarian support and bilateral cooperation, according to Duda’s official Twitter channel.

*

The US state department has issued a security alert warning that Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] is stepping up efforts to launch strikes against Ukraine’s civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days. A security alert [https://ua.usembassy.gov/security-alert-u-s-embassy-kyiv-ukraine-6/] issued by the US embassy in Kyiv on Tuesday reads: “The department of state has information that Russia is stepping up efforts to launch strikes against Ukraine’s civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days.”

*

Ukrainian sources are reporting Russian forces struck a boiler plant in Ukraine’s southern city of Mariupol. Adviser to the city’s mayor, Petro Andryushchenko, reported that Russian forces struck the city’s boiler facility in a Telegram post[https://t.me/andriyshTime/2458] early this morning.

*

Monthly payments to British sponsors of Ukrainian refugees should double to help them carry on hosting for longer than six months while the cost of living spirals, the minister responsible has said.

*

The price of achieving fire parity and destroying Russian army logistics is “less than a Russian oligarch’s yacht ”, a senior adviser to the Ukrainian president has said.

*

Russia has accused Ukraine’s intelligence services[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/22/russian-security-service-accuses-ukraine-over-darya-dugina-killing] of carrying out the murder of Darya Dugina[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/21/daughter-of-putin-ally-alexander-dugin-killed-in-car-bomb-in-moscow-reports], the daughter of an ultra-nationalist Russian ideologue. Russia’s FSB security service published information and a video it said showed a Ukrainian woman from the country’s Azov regiment was responsible for the murder. The Guardian reports the claim lacks credibility[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/22/russian-security-service-fsb-claim-to-have-identified-killer-of-darya-dugina-lacks-credibility].

*

The UN’s secretary general, António Guterres, has demanded a halt to “nuclear sabre-rattling”, saying the world is at a “maximum moment of danger” and all countries with nuclear weapons must make a commitment to “no first-use”. The UN chief described the situation at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Europe’s largest, as critical. Shelling and fighting in the area continues.

*

Moscow has requested a UN security council meeting be held on Tuesday to discuss the Zaporizhzhia plant, Russian state-owned news agency RIA reported, citing deputy ambassador to the UN Dmitry Polyanskiy.

*

Ukrainian soldiers who were taken prisoner after the battle for Mariupolhaveaccused Russian forces of torture during their captivity. The soldiers, who were from the Azov regiment and released as part of a prisoner exchange, told reporters they saw soldiers that were beaten until their bones were broken. “Some had needles inserted into their wounds, some were tortured with water,” said Vladyslav Zhaivoronok, who lost a leg. “They undressed us, forced to squat while we are naked. If any of the boys raised their heads, they began to beat them immediately,” added Denys Chepurko.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.00pm BST

block-time published-time 10.51am BST

Darya Dugina's funeral held in Moscow

Hundreds of people gathered in Moscow for the funeral of Darya Dugina, the slain daughter of one of Russia’s most prominent nationalist ideologues.

Dugina, daughter of ultra-nationalist Alexander Dugin, was murdered on Saturday in a car bomb attack outside Moscow.

Russia’s FSB security service has accused Ukrainian intelligence agencies of ordering her killing, something Kyiv denies.

Senior politicians, fellow nationalists and friends filed past Dugina’s dark wooden casket in a hall at Moscow’s TV centre on Tuesday morning to say goodbye, lay flowers, and convey their condolences to her parents who were sitting nearby.

A large black and white photograph of Dugina, 30, who worked as a journalist and nationalist media commentator, hung on a black wall behind her casket as sombre music played, Reuters reports.

Her father, Dugin, 60, who has for years advocated the creation of a new Russian empire that would absorb the territory of countries such as Ukraine, told mourners his daughter had died for Russia.

A visibly distressed Dugin said:

If her tragic death has touched someone, she would have asked them to defend sacred (Russian) Orthodoxy, the people and the Fatherland.

She died for Russia, in the motherland and on the frontline which is not in Ukraine but here.

Alexander Dugin attends a farewell ceremony for his daughter Darya Dugina, who was killed in a car bomb explosion on Saturday. Photograph: Kirill Kudryavtsev/AFP/Getty Images People attend the farewell ceremony of Daruya Dugina. Photograph: Kirill Kudryavtsev/AFP/Getty Images Russian ideologue Alexander Dugin (right) attends a farewell ceremony for his daughter Daria Dugina, who was killed in a car bomb explosion the previous week, at the Ostankino TV centre in Moscow. Photograph: Kirill Kudryavtsev/AFP/Getty Images

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.02pm BST

block-time published-time 10.16am BST

Dnipro mayor confirms explosions in the city

Dnipro mayor Borys Filatov has said that rockets are falling on homes and urged Ukrainians in the city to stay under cover.

In a post on his Facebook page he said:

Pls stay under cover. There are already facts of rockets falling on private houses. Details to come later.

We are waiting for official information from the Military Administration.

Dnipro is located in south-central Ukraine and has been subjected to Russian long-range missile attacks during the war.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.22am BST

block-time published-time 9.51am BST

Porsches, Bentleys and other luxury cars with Russian licence plates are filling up the parking garage at Helsinki’s airport as Finland becomes an important transit country for Russian tourists flying to Europe, reports AFP.

The European Union shut its airspace to Russian planes after Moscow invaded Ukraine, forcing anyone who wants to travel to Europe to drive across the border or take a circuitous route using non-Western airlines.

A quick stroll through the carpark at the Helsinki airport revealed dozens if not hundreds of high-end cars with Russian plates, including a new Mercedes-Benz S-class sedan and Porsche 911 Turbo S.

Finnish foreign minister Pekka Haavisto told AFP that the Nordic nation has become a “transit country” for Russian tourists.

Finland said last week it would limit Russian tourist visas to 10% of current volumes as of 1 September due to rising discontent over Russian tourism amid the war in Ukraine.

But Russians continue to enter Finland with visas issued by other EU countries in the Schengen borderless travel area for their journeys.

Schengen rules do not allow Finland to close the border to specific nationalities, Haavisto said. Such sanctions can only be decided jointly by the EU.

The European Commission acknowledged last week that discussions were under way to see if a “coordinated approach” on Russian visas could be reached.

Luxury cars with Russian plate numbers in the premium parking area of the Helsinki airport on 19 August in Vantaa, Finland. Photograph: Alessandro Rampazzo/AFP/Getty Images Expensive cars with Russian plate numbers in Vantaa, Finland. Photograph: Alessandro Rampazzo/AFP/Getty Images

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.15am BST

block-time published-time 9.40am BST

EU Commission president Ursula von der Leye[https://twitter.com/vonderleyen] n has paid tribute to Ukrainians for “giving their lives to protect the values” on which the European bloc is built.

To commemorate the Europe-wide Day of Remembrance for the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes today, she said in a statement:

On 23 August, we honour the memory of the victims of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, in Europe and beyond. Today, on the 83rd anniversary of the signature of the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, this date carries a special significance. This year, Putin brought the horrors of war back to Europe, along with the reminder that peace cannot be taken for granted.

The painful memory of the past is not just a distant recollection, but has found an echo in Russia’s illegal and unjustified war against Ukraine. We are inspired by the courage of those who then stood up to injustice, and we express our respect and support for the many men and women who are forced to do it again today. Ukrainian people are giving their lives to protect the values on which our Union is built.

Today more than ever, we stand united against the Russian state-controlled propaganda that distorts history, spreads conspiracy and punishes those who oppose it. We will continue with determination our work to counter disinformation. And we will ensure that those who stood against totalitarianism will not be forgotten.

enltrToday we honour the victims of totalitarian regimes.

We are inspired by those who stood up to injustice then and we support those who do it today, as the horrors of war are back in Europe.

Ukrainians are giving their lives to protect the values on which our Union is built.

— Ursula von der Leyen (@vonderleyen) August 23, 2022[https://twitter.com/vonderleyen/status/1561976537259311107?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 9.14am BST

Russian forces are likely to have started to move barges to construct a floating bridge over the Dnipro River near the Antonivsky bridge, a British intelligence update said.

The bridge in Kherson has been targeted repeatedly by Ukrainian forces with missile strikes as it is a key supply route for Russia in the south of the country.

For several weeks, Russian forces and local civilians have relied on a ferry crossing of the waterway, the update said.

If Russia completes the improvised bridge, it will almost certainly increase the capacity of the crossing point compared with the ferry, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) believes.

The update added that the floating bridge would likely still be vulnerable to Ukrainian assaults.

enltrLatest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 23 August 2022

Find out more about the UK government's response: https://t.co/Af2CVZuddF[https://t.co/Af2CVZuddF]

???? #StandWithUkraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithUkraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] ???? pic.twitter.com/Xey2dXYcfp[https://t.co/Xey2dXYcfp]

— Ministry of Defence ???? (@DefenceHQ) August 23, 2022[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1561957400420274176?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.48am BST

block-time published-time 8.55am BST

A total of 33 cargo ships carrying around 719,549 tonnes of foodstuffs have left Ukraine under a deal brokered by the United Nations and Turkey to unblock Ukrainian sea ports, the Ukrainian agriculture ministry said.

The Joint Coordination Centre in Turkey, which monitors implementation of the agreement, put the total amount of grain and foodstuffs exported from three Ukrainian Black Sea ports since the deal was reached at 721,449 tonnes.

Ukraine‘s grain exports slumped after Russia invaded the country on 24 February and blockaded its Black Sea ports, driving up global food prices and prompting fears of shortages in Africa and the Middle East, reports Reuters.

Three Black Sea ports were unblocked under the deal signed on 22 July by Moscow and Kyiv.

In addition to the vessels that have already left Ukraine, the agriculture ministry said a further 18 were loading or waiting for permission to leave Ukrainian ports.

The ministry said Ukrainian grain exports could reach 4m tonnes in August, compared with 3m tonnes in July.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.49am BST

block-time published-time 8.34am BST

Isobel Koshiw reports:

The US state department has issued a security alert warning that Russia is “stepping up” efforts to launch strikes against Ukraine’s civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days.

The warning[https://ua.usembassy.gov/security-alert-u-s-embassy-kyiv-ukraine-6/], issued on Tuesday, is the first specific security alert issued by the US embassy in Kyiv in recent months. It does not say what places it believes Russia plans to target, but advised US citizens to leave Ukraine if safe to do so.

The alert comes a day before Ukraine marks 31 years as an independent state. On 24 August 1991, Ukraine’s parliament voted to separate from the Soviet Union. The day will also mark six months since Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] launched its full-scale invasion. Some restaurants in Kyiv have been closing early this week because of the perceived increased threat.

Read more: Russia to step up strikes on civilians, US says, as Ukraine independence day nears[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/23/russia-to-step-up-strikes-on-civilians-us-says-as-ukraine-independence-day-nears]

Related: Russia to step up strikes on civilians, US says, as Ukraine independence day nears[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/23/russia-to-step-up-strikes-on-civilians-us-says-as-ukraine-independence-day-nears]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.50am BST

block-time published-time 8.11am BST

Deputy prime minister Iryna Vereshchuk reported that 825 people have been evacuated from the Kharkiv region in north-east Ukraine.

In a message on her Telegram channel, she said:

A successful humanitarian operation: 825 people were evacuated from the uncontrolled part of Kharkiv region today, 238 of them were children.

We thank the head of Kharkiv OVA Oleg Sinegubov for organizing the process, as well as volunteer organizations for their dedication and help.

enltr??Vereshchuk: 825 people evacuated from Kharkiv Oblast on Aug. 22.

Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk reported that 238 of the evacuees from the occupied parts of Kharkiv Oblast were children.

— The Kyiv Independent (@KyivIndependent) August 23, 2022[https://twitter.com/KyivIndependent/status/1561934369178124290?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 7.40am BST

Polish president Duda arrives in Kyiv for talks with Zelenskiy

Poland’s president Andrzej Duda has arrived in Kyiv for talks with Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy.

The duo will engage in talks on the current wartime situation in Ukraine, economic and humanitarian support and bilateral cooperation, according to Duda’s official Twitter channel.

Pawel Szrot told reporters:

The visit will include a meeting with President (Volodymyr) Zelenskiy and talks on military support and defence of Ukraine in the economic, humanitarian and political sense,” Pawel Szrot told reporters.

The presidents will discuss the political support Poland could offer to convince other countries to keep helping Ukraine.

Duda has met Zelenskiy five times this year, including on three visits he has made to Ukraine since the start of the invasion in February this year.

plltrPrezydent @AndrzejDuda[https://twitter.com/AndrzejDuda?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] na zaproszenie Prezydenta @ZelenskyyUa[https://twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] przebywa dzis w Kijowie. W czasie wizyty odbeda sie dwustronne rozmowy Prezydentów oraz delegacji poswiecone sytuacji na ????, wsparciu w wymiarze militarnym, ekonomicznym i humanitarnym oraz wspólpracy dwustronnej. pic.twitter.com/isQcEK1gdj[https://t.co/isQcEK1gdj]

— Kancelaria Prezydenta (@prezydentpl) August 23, 2022[https://twitter.com/prezydentpl/status/1561961247775637505?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.49am BST

block-time published-time 7.25am BST

Exports of key Ukrainian agricultural commodities have fallen by almost half since the start of the Russian invasion earlier this year compared with the same period in 2021, data from the agriculture ministry showed late on Monday.

Ukrainian seaports have been blocked since the Russian invasion started in late February, leaving a vast amount of crops either unharvested or destroyed, reports Reuters.

Agricultural exports between 24 February and 15 August this year fell to 10m tonnes from around 19.5m in the same period last year, the ministry data showed.

The 2022 grain harvest in Ukraine is forecast to fall to around 50m tonnes from a record 86m tonnes in 2021.

At the end of July, three Ukrainian Black Sea ports were unblocked under a deal between Moscow and Kyiv, brokered by the United Nations and Turkey.

But even with the ports opened, Ukraine‘s agricultural exports are significantly lower than before the conflict, when Ukraine exported up to 6m tonnes of grain a month.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.19am BST

block-time published-time 7.05am BST

Summary so far

It is 9am in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine]. Here is everything you might have missed:

*

The US state department has issued a security alert warning that Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] is stepping up efforts to launch strikes against Ukraine’s civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days. A security alert [https://ua.usembassy.gov/security-alert-u-s-embassy-kyiv-ukraine-6/] issued by the US embassy in Kyiv on Tuesday reads: “The department of state has information that Russia is stepping up efforts to launch strikes against Ukraine’s civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days.”

*

Ukrainian sources are reporting Russian forces struck a boiler plant in Ukraine’s southern city of Mariupol. Adviser to the city’s mayor, Petro Andryushchenko, reported that Russian forces struck the city’s boiler facility in a Telegram post[https://t.me/andriyshTime/2458] early this morning.

*

Monthly payments to British sponsors of Ukrainian refugees should double to help them carry on hosting for longer than six months while the cost of living spirals, the minister responsible has said.

*

The price of achieving fire parity and destroying Russian army logistics is “less than a Russian oligarch’s yacht ”, a senior adviser to the Ukrainian president has said.

*

Russia has accused Ukraine’s intelligence services[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/22/russian-security-service-accuses-ukraine-over-darya-dugina-killing] of carrying out the murder of Darya Dugina[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/21/daughter-of-putin-ally-alexander-dugin-killed-in-car-bomb-in-moscow-reports], the daughter of an ultra-nationalist Russian ideologue. Russia’s FSB security service published information and a video it said showed a Ukrainian woman from the country’s Azov regiment was responsible for the murder. The Guardian reports the claim lacks credibility[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/22/russian-security-service-fsb-claim-to-have-identified-killer-of-darya-dugina-lacks-credibility].

*

The UN’s secretary general, António Guterres, has demanded a halt to “nuclear sabre-rattling”, saying the world is at a “maximum moment of danger” and all countries with nuclear weapons must make a commitment to “no first-use”. The UN chief described the situation at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Europe’s largest, as critical. Shelling and fighting in the area continues.

*

Moscow has requested a UN security council meeting be held on Tuesday to discuss the Zaporizhzhia plant, Russian state-owned news agency RIA reported, citing deputy ambassador to the UN Dmitry Polyanskiy.

*

Ukrainian soldiers who were taken prisoner after the battle for Mariupolhaveaccused Russian forces of torture during their captivity. The soldiers, who were from the Azov regiment and released as part of a prisoner exchange, told reporters they saw soldiers that were beaten until their bones were broken. “Some had needles inserted into their wounds, some were tortured with water,” said Vladyslav Zhaivoronok, who lost a leg. “They undressed us, forced to squat while we are naked. If any of the boys raised their heads, they began to beat them immediately,” added Denys Chepurko.

*

The sole bridge across the strategic Dnieper River in the Russian-occupied city of Kherson was reportedly hit by US-supplied high-precision Himars rockets injuring 15 people, a source told Russia’s Interfax news agency. The bridge is a key crossing for Russian military transport in the region.

*

Three villages in Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk region were battered by Russian artillery and multiple rocket launchers on Monday. Soledar, Zaytseve and Bilohorivka near the city of Bakhmut were struck, killing at least two civilians, Ukrainian authorities said.

*

Nearly 9,000 Ukrainian military personnel have been killed in the war with Russia, the head of Ukraine’s armed forces, general Valeriy Zaluzhnyi, said on Monday. The office of the UN high commissioner for human rights said on Monday 5,587 civilians had been killed and 7,890 wounded between 24 February and 21 August, mainly from artillery, rocket and missile attacks.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.16am BST

block-time published-time 6.59am BST

The price of achieving fire parity and destroying Russian army logistics is “less than a Russian oligarch’s yacht ”, a senior advisor to the Ukrainian president has said.

Mykhailo Podolyak suggested that 50 US-supplied Himars long-range weapons systems, at the cost of about $200m, would be needed to “completely change the course of this war”.

enltr1 HiMARS system — $4 million. 50 systems — $200 million + ammunition. The price of achieving fire parity and destroying ???? army logistics is less than...ru-oligarch's yacht. It is not an enormous amount of money, but something that would completely change the course of this war.

— ??????? ??????? (@Podolyak_M) August 23, 2022[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1561949974685941761?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 6.33am BST

Russia requests UN meeting to discuss Zaporizhzhia plant

Moscow has requested a UN security council meeting be held later today to discuss the situation at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Russian state-owned news agency RIA reported, citing deputy ambassador to the UN Dmitry Polyanskiy.

The nuclear plant, Europe’s largest, has been taken over by Russian troops and has come under repeated shelling in recent weeks, raising fears of a nuclear disaster.

It is unclear whether the meeting will be going ahead.

block-time published-time 6.18am BST

Monthly payments to British sponsors of Ukrainian refugees should double to help them carry on hosting for longer than six months while the cost of living spirals, the minister responsible has said.

Around 25,000 offers of accommodation from hosts under the Homes for Ukraine scheme have been taken up so far, with an average of three Ukrainians living in each home, PA Media cited Lord Richard Harrington as saying.

Lord Harrington said he has been lobbying the Treasury “very hard” to double the £350-a-month “thank you” payment for sponsors who house refugees for longer than half a year – the minimum period expected of hosts.

He told PA Media:

The costs … they’re paying maybe a big chunk of rent themselves, the mortgage payments have gone up and everything, and I think it’s perfectly reasonable, in my view, to increase the amount that we’re paying them.”

More than 115,000 Ukrainians have arrived in the UK under its visa schemes, according to the latest government figures, including around 81,700 refugees under the sponsorship scheme. Around 4,000-5,000 people are arriving each week, Lord Harrington added.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.59am BST

block-time published-time 5.39am BST

Mariupol boiler plant destroyed in strike - reports

Ukrainian sources are reporting Russian forces struck a boiler plant in Ukraine’s southern city of Mariupol.

Adviser to the city’s mayor, Petro Andryushchenko, reported that Russian forces struck the city’s boiler facility in a Telegram post[https://t.me/andriyshTime/2458] early this morning.

“The Russians made an explosion again. Loud that the whole city could hear.

Just blowing up the boiler room. Instead of preparing the city for winter and building boiler houses, the occupiers destroy even the remains …”

Unconfirmed video footage purportedly showing the moment the facility was struck has circulated online.

enltrAdviser of the mayor of #Mariupol[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Mariupol?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] Petro Andryushchenko reports that the #Russian[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Russian?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] occupiers blew up a boiler house in the city. pic.twitter.com/mOYFO0O3HH[https://t.co/mOYFO0O3HH]

— NEXTA (@nexta_tv) August 23, 2022[https://twitter.com/nexta_tv/status/1561918652751892481?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 5.27am BST

'Nuclear sabre-rattling must stop' UN chief warns

The UN’s secretary-general, António Guterres, has demanded a halt to “nuclear sabre-rattling”, saying the world is at a “maximum moment of danger” and all countries with nuclear weapons must make a commitment to “no first-use”.

The UN chief described the situation at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Europe’s largest, as critical. Shelling and fighting in the area continues.

In a statement[https://news.un.org/en/story/2022/08/1125182] released after ambassadors met at the UN security council on Monday, Guterres stressed:

Nuclear saber-rattling must stop … come to the negotiating table to ease tensions and end the nuclear arms race, once and for all.”

At this moment of “maximum danger for our world”, the secretary-general emphasised that “humanity’s future is in our hands”, insisting that division be replaced with dialogue and diplomacy, to “save succeeding generations from the scourge of war”.

He argued that negotiation, compromise, and accountability are required for the future, attesting that as it represents the nations of the world, the UN is “humanity’s best hope to build a better, more peaceful tomorrow”.

enltrAt this moment of maximum danger for our world, now is the time to recommit to the @UN[https://twitter.com/UN?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] Charter & the ideals it represents.

There is no greater solution to fulfil the Charter’s promise than to replace division with dialogue & diplomacy.

Humanity’s future is in our hands. pic.twitter.com/LS43yEA6Pg[https://t.co/LS43yEA6Pg]

— António Guterres (@antonioguterres) August 22, 2022[https://twitter.com/antonioguterres/status/1561807329389051904?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 5.12am BST

Russia to step up strikes: US intelligence

The US state department has issued a security alert warning that Russia is stepping up efforts to launch strikes against Ukraine’s civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days.

A security alert [https://ua.usembassy.gov/security-alert-u-s-embassy-kyiv-ukraine-6/] issued by the US embassy in Kyiv on Tuesday reads:

The department of state has information that Russia is stepping up efforts to launch strikes against Ukraine’s civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days.”

The US intelligence community on Monday declassified a finding that determined that Russia would increasingly target Ukrainian civilian infrastructure, according to a US official familiar with the intelligence. The official was not authorised to comment publicly about the finding and spoke on the condition of anonymity, the Associated Press reported.

The alert also urged US citizens still in Ukraine to depart the country immediately.

“If you hear a loud explosion or if sirens are activated, immediately seek cover,” the state department said. “If in a home or a building, go to the lowest level of the structure with the fewest exterior walls, windows, and openings; close any doors and sit near an interior wall, away from any windows or openings.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.13am BST

block-time published-time 5.02am BST

Summary and welcome

Hello and welcome back to the Guardian’s live coverage of the war in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine].

I’m Samantha Lock and I will be bringing you all the latest developments for the next short while. Whether you’ve been following our coverage overnight or you’ve just dropped in, here are the latest lines.

The UN’s secretary-general, António Guterres, has demanded a halt to “nuclear sabre-rattling”, saying the world is at a “maximum moment of danger” and all countries with nuclear weapons must make a commitment to “no first-use”.

Meanwhile, the US state department has issued a security alert warning that Russia is stepping up efforts to launch strikes against Ukraine’s civilian infrastructure and government facilities in the coming days.

It is 7am in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine]. Here is everything you might have missed:

*

Russia has accused Ukraine’s intelligence services[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/22/russian-security-service-accuses-ukraine-over-darya-dugina-killing] of carrying out the murder of Darya Dugina[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/21/daughter-of-putin-ally-alexander-dugin-killed-in-car-bomb-in-moscow-reports], the daughter of an ultra-nationalist Russian ideologue. Russia’s FSB security service published information and a video it said showed a Ukrainian woman from the country’s Azov regiment was responsible for the murder. The Guardian reports the claim lacks credibility[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/22/russian-security-service-fsb-claim-to-have-identified-killer-of-darya-dugina-lacks-credibility].

*

The UN’s secretary-general, António Guterres, has demanded a halt to “nuclear sabre-rattling” on Monday, saying the world is at a “maximum moment of danger” and all countries with nuclear weapons must make a commitment to “no first-use”. The UN chief described the situation at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Europe’s largest, as critical. Shelling and fighting in the area continues.

*

Moscow has requested a UN security council meeting be held on Tuesday to discuss the Zaporizhzhia plant, Russian state-owned news agency RIA reported, citing deputy ambassador to the UN Dmitry Polyanskiy.

*

Ukrainian soldiers who were taken prisoner after the battle for Mariupolhaveaccused Russian forces of torture during their captivity. The soldiers, who were from the Azov regiment and released as part of a prisoner exchange, told reporters they saw soldiers that were beaten until their bones were broken. “Some had needles inserted into their wounds, some were tortured with water,” said Vladyslav Zhaivoronok, who lost a leg. “They undressed us, forced to squat while we are naked. If any of the boys raised their heads, they began to beat them immediately,” added Denys Chepurko.

*

The sole bridge across the strategic Dnieper River in the Russian-occupied city of Kherson was reportedly hit by US-supplied high-precision Himars rockets injuring 15 people, a source told Russia’s Interfax news agency. The bridge is a key crossing for Russian military transport in the region.

*

Three villages in Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk region were battered by Russian artillery and multiple rocket launchers on Monday. Soledar, Zaytseve and Bilohorivka near the city of Bakhmut were struck, killing at least two civilians, Ukrainian authorities said.

*

Nearly 9,000 Ukrainian military personnel have been killed in the war with Russia, the head of Ukraine’s armed forces, general Valeriy Zaluzhnyi, said on Monday. The office of the UN high commissioner for human rights said on Monday 5,587 civilians had been killed and 7,890 wounded between 24 February and 21 August, mainly from artillery, rocket and missile attacks.

*

The US has rejected Ukraine’s call for a blanket ban on visas for Russians[https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2022/aug/22/us-rejects-russians-visa-ban-ukraine], saying Washington would not want to close off pathways to refuge for Russia’s dissidents and others who are vulnerable to human rights abuses. The EU’s chief diplomat, Josep Borrell, also said he opposes a complete ban on visas for Russians.

*

The German chancellor says he is working fast to find alternatives to Russian gas[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/aug/22/germany-chancellor-visits-canada-russian-gas-energy-olaf-scholz]. Olaf Scholz said he aims to extricate Germany from its dependence on Russian gas and pursue new energy supplies. Scholz met Canada’s prime minster, Justin Trudeau[https://www.theguardian.com/world/justin-trudeau], in Montreal on Monday. The two leaders are set to sign a deal for Canada to supply clean hydrogen to Germany.

*

Ukraine has restored a rail link to neighbouring Moldova which could carry 10m tonnes of freight a year, president Volodymyr Zelenskiy said. The 22km (12 mile) line runs from western Ukraine to Moldova. Ukraine’s infrastructure minister, Oleksander Kubrakov, said the link would provide an alternative route from the Black Sea port of Odesa.

*

Ukraine’s agricultural exports are likely to rise to about 4m tonnes in August, from 3m tonnes in July, a deputy chair of the Ukrainian agrarian council said. The uptick is due to a UN-brokered deal that unblocked Ukrainian seaports.

*

Europe faces fresh disruption to energy supplies due to damage to a pipeline system bringing oil from Kazakhstan through Russia that was reported by the pipeline operator on Monday. Caspian Pipeline Consortium (CPC) said exports from two of its three mooring points at a Black Sea terminal had been suspended.

*

A senior Russian diplomat has ruled out a diplomatic solution to ending the war in Ukraine. Gennady Gatilov, Russia’s permanent representative to the UN in Geneva, told the Financial Times[https://www.ft.com/content/c9381570-5e3c-4e89-a5a0-7a98bbd880f6] that there would be no direct talks between Vladimir Putin and Volodymyr Zelenskiy, adding that Moscow expects a prolonged conflict.

A Ukrainian national flag seen on a burnt-out Russian military vehicle in downtown Kyiv on 22 August. Photograph: Alexey Furman/Getty Images

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.02am BST

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020220823ei8n000gp


World
EU meets to nut out ban on Russia visas
Jacquelin Magnay
448 字
2022 年 8 月 29 日 08:50 GMT
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
英文
© News Pty Limited. No redistribution is permitted.
The EU will look to restrict tourist visas to Russians at a meeting in Prague on Tuesday.

Under pressure from the Baltic States and Ukraine, which have long demanded a blanket visa ban, the EU is to look at making it more difficult for Russians to move about the continent, as well as farther afield.

For example, once Russians are in Europe, they can apply for an Australian tourist visa.

The Schengen visa concept, allowing free travel through all member countries once one has issued a visa, has complicated single-country responses.

Last week German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, mindful of the reliance of his country on Russian gas to get through the coming winter, said he didn’t want to punish ordinary Russians with such a tourism sanction.

“This is Putin’s war, so I have a very hard time accepting that idea,” Mr Scholz said.

It is anticipated that meeting of EU foreign ministers will scrap the preferential treatment Russians enjoy in applying for visas in member states.

But the Baltic states have threatened to go it alone and ban Russian tourist visas, making it more difficult for Russians to move through the rest of Europe, if the EU doesn’t agree to impose a Schengen-wide policy.

“They must be deprived of the right to cross international borders until they learn to respect them,” Ukraine Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said this month.

Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin said it wasn’t right for Russians to travel as tourists across the continent while their nation was waging war in Europe.

Denmark’s Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod told the Danish news agency: “I consider it shameful that Russian tourists can sunbathe and live in luxury in the south of Europe while Ukrainian cities are bombed beyond recognition.”

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas said visiting Europe should be a privilege for Russians. She noted that while air travel from Russia was shut, Schengen countries had continued to issue tourist visas and Russians were flooding into neighbouring countries through land borders. The timing of the visa tightening is curious given that Russians have flocked to the Mediterranean for the summer holidays, which have just finished.

Lithuanian Foreign minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said Russians had been travelling through Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Finland and Poland to get to other parts of Europe. Some were flying via Istanbul, Dubai and Yerevan.

Latvia has already suspended tourist visas for Russians and Finland has cut the number of visas it approves by 90 per cent. In Britain, processing times for Russians applying for visas are so long and cumbersome to render an application virtually meaningless.

Nationwide News Pty Ltd.

文件 AUSTOL0020220829ei8t002gx


1ST LEAD Russia criticizes EU's decision to suspend visa deal By Christian Thiele and Julia Wäschenbach, dpa
320 字
2022 年 9 月 1 日 15:23 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Berlin (dpa) - Moscow on Thursday criticized the European Union's decision to suspend a visa facilitation agreement with Russia over the country's war in Ukraine.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov spoke of a "contradictory decision" in line with what he termed "a number of other absurdities of this kind," the Russian news agency Interfax reported.

An exit from the agreement that dates to 2007 would also make the situation more difficult for the Europeans, Peskov asserted without further explanation.

The European Union's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell announced on Wednesday that the European Union would completely suspend its agreement with Russia to facilitate the issuing of visas.

It makes the EU visa process for Russians more complicated, more expensive and more bureaucratic, as well as increasing waiting times for approval, but falls short of an outright ban.

The move is another sanction in response to Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine, which has been going on for more than six years.

The Kremlin has left counter-measures open. Peskov said: "Moscow is confidently taking the path that best suits its interests."

Meanwhile, Finland, which shares a 1,340 kilometre-long border with Russia, said it has introduced new rules to make it more difficult for Russian citizens to get a tourist visa from Thursday onwards.

Since September 1, the Finnish authorities will allow only about a hundred appointments a day to Russians who want to apply for a tourist visa, instead of about a thousand per day.

In contrast, according to the Finnish government, 400 appointments will be reserved on average every day for Russian citizens applying for a visa to enter Finland "for our reasons" - a reference to journalists, dissidents or activists wishing to leave Russia.

# Notebook

## Note to editors - Retops with Russian reaction to the EU's visa decision

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220901ei910035y


INSIGHT EU ENERGY Monitoring - 14 September 2022
20738 字
2022 年 9 月 15 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2022. Comecon Media GmbH
Your monitoring of EU energy policies and regulations.

https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/]

ENERGY

Our INSIGHT EU MONITORING today:

* ENERGY PRICES

* EU Commission proposes emergency market intervention to reduce energy bills for Europeans

* EU Commission: Questions and Answers on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices

* Factsheet - Emergency Intervention

* Opening remarks by Executive Vice-President Timmermans and Commissioner Simson at the press conference on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices

* Energy prices: MEPs call for swift measures to shield consumers and businesses - EU Parliament

* Energy prices: ITRE committee Chair reacts to Commission proposals

* Helsinki: Energy crisis and green transition to be discussed on Climate Policy Roundtable

* Mit einem Kommissionspaket soll den explodierenden Energiepreisen entgegenwirkt werden.

* SOTEU

* 2022 State of the Union Address by President von der Leyen

* State of the EU: Ukraine, energy, climate change, economy: EU Parliament debate

* REPOWEREU

* Presentation of the draft opinion on the proposal on REPowerEU

* RENEWABLES

* EU Parliament backs boost for renewables use and energy savings

* Grüne/EFA: Neue EU-Energiegesetze angenommen - Effizienz und Erneuerbare für Energiesicherheit und Klimaziele

* BMWi: Habeck: „Weitere Stärkung der Vorsorge durch kurzfristige Erhöhung der Stromproduktion aus Erneuerbaren Energien und weitere Maßnahmen zur Senkung des Gasverbrauchs“

* Wind Europe: Emergency measures on electricity market: avoid a patchwork that undermines renewables investments

* UKRAINE

* EU Parliament Briefing - Russia’s war on Ukraine fuels energy crisis [What Think Tanks are thinking] - 14-09-2022

* Kharkiv region: President Zelenskyy held a meeting on the energy security

* NORTH SEAS ENERGY COOPERATION

* Members of the North Seas Energy Cooperation (NSEC) grasp historic opportunity to accelerate Europe's move towards energy independence - Government of Ireland

* LNG & GAS SUPPLIES

* EP: Written question - Increased cost of green alternative fuel (LNG) - E-003027/2022

* GERMANY

* Bundesregierung: Umsatzsteuer auf Gas wird reduziert

* Staatssekretär Sven Giegold: Energiewende von unten: Steuerliche Entlastung und Bürokratieabbau kommen!

* ifo Institut: Laufzeitverlängerung würde Strompreise 2023 um 4 Prozent verringern

* Bundesnetzagentur: Situationsbericht Lage der Gasversorgung in Deutschland (Stand 14.09.22)

* ENERGY CHARTER

* Statement by the International Energy Charter Industry Advisory Panel (IAP)

* HYDROGEN

* Latest Hydrogen headlines

* Scrapped | EU's controversial 'additionality' rules for green hydrogen are history after European Parliament vote

* Unveiling of the Urbino 18 hydrogen bus along with #SolarisTalks 2022

* 'From niche to scale' | EU launches €3bn European Hydrogen Bank with a bang but keeps quiet about the details

* Topsoe wins world’s largest ever hydrogen electrolyser order in 5GW green ammonia deal

* The Promise Of Green Hydrogen

* MENA region can lead global steel decarbonisation with investment in green hydrogen and renewable energy

* ENERGY REGULATION

* Registration open for the 3rd ACER - ENTSO-E Public Workshop on the Long Term Flow-Based Allocation (29 September 2022)

* ENTSO-E: Offshore Network Development Plans

* EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* ST 12249 2022 INIT Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices

* EU PARLIAMENT REGISTER

* AMENDMENTS 21 - 91 - Draft opinion Amending Directive (EU) 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, Directive 2010/31/EU on the energy performance of buildings and Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency - PE735.625v01-00

* EU COMMISSION REGISTER

* Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices

* COMMISSION DECISION on the withdrawal of the Commission, on behalf of the European Union, from the International Energy Agency's Implementing Agreement for a Co-operative Programme on Gas and Oil Technologies

ENERGY PRICES

EU Commission proposes emergency market intervention to reduce energy bills for Europeans[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_5489]

Brussels, September 14, 2022

The Commission is proposing an emergency intervention in Europe's energy markets to tackle recent dramatic price rises. The EU is confronted with the effects of a severe mismatch between energy demand and supply, due largely to the continued weaponisation by Russia of its energy resources. To ease the increased pressure this puts on European households and businesses, the Commission is now taking a next step in tackling this issue by proposing exceptional electricity demand reduction measures, which will help reduce the cost of electricity for consumers, and measures to redistribute the energy sector's surplus revenues to final customers. This follows on from previously agreed measures on filling gas storage[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_4080] and reducing gas demand[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_22_4725] to prepare for the upcoming winter. The Commission is also continuing its work to improve liquidity for market operators, bring down the price of gas, and reform the electricity market design for the longer term.

The first response to tackle high prices is to reduce demand. This can impact electricity prices and achieve an overall calming effect on the market. To target the most expensive hours of electricity consumption, when gas-fired power generation has a significant impact on the price, the Commission proposes an obligation to reduce electricity consumption by at least 5% during selected peak price hours. Member States will be required to identify the 10% of hours with the highest expected price and reduce demand during those peak hours. The Commission also proposes that Member States aim to reduce overall electricity demand by at least 10% until 31 March 2023. They can choose the appropriate measures to achieve this demand reduction, which may include financial compensation. Reducing demand at peak times would lead to a reduction of gas consumption by 1.2bcm over the winter. Increasing energy efficiency is also a key part of meeting our climate commitments under the European Green Deal.

The Commission is also proposing a temporary revenue cap on ‘inframarginal' electricity producers, namely technologies with lower costs, such as renewables, nuclear and lignite, which are providing electricity to the grid at a cost below the price level set by the more expensive ‘marginal' producers. These inframarginal producers have been making exceptional revenues, with relatively stable operational costs, as expensive gas power plants have driven up the wholesale electricity price they receive. The Commission proposes to set the inframarginal revenue cap at €180 EUR/MWh. This will allow producers to cover their investment and operating costs without impairing investment in new capacities in line with our 2030 and 2050 energy and climate goals. Revenues above the cap will be collected by Member State governments and used to help energy consumers reduce their bills. Member States trading electricity are encouraged, in a spirit of solidarity, to conclude bilateral agreements to share part of the inframarginal revenues collected by the producing State for the benefit of end-users in the Member State with low electricity generation. Such agreements shall be concluded by 1 December 2022 where a Member State's net imports of electricity from a neighbouring country are at least 100%.

Thirdly, the Commission is also proposing a temporary solidarity contribution on excess profits generated from activities in the oil, gas, coal and refinery sectors which are not covered by the inframarginal revenue cap. This time-limited contribution would maintain investment incentives for the green transition. It would be collected by Member States on 2022 profits which are above a 20% increase on the average profits of the previous three years. The revenues would be collected by Member States and redirected to energy consumers, in particular vulnerable households, hard-hit companies, and energy-intensive industries. Member States can also finance cross-border projects in line with the REPowerEU objectives or use part of the revenues for the common financing of measures protecting employment or promoting investments in renewables and energy efficiency.

In a further intervention in the electricity market rules, the Commission is also proposing to expand the Energy Prices Toolbox available to help consumers. The proposals would allow below cost regulated electricity prices for the first time, and expand regulated prices to also cover small and medium-sized enterprises.

As Commission President von der Leyen announced[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_22_5389] on Wednesday 7 September, the Commission will also continue to pursue other avenues to bring down prices for European consumers and industry, and ease pressure on the market. The Commission will deepen its discussion with Member States about the best ways to reduce gas prices, also analysing various ideas for price caps and enhancing the role of the EU Energy Platform in facilitating lower price agreements with suppliers through voluntary joint purchasing. The Commission will also keep working on tools to improve liquidity on the market for energy utilities[https://finance.ec.europa.eu/news/facing-energy-crisis-eu-work-streams-related-financial-system-2022-09-14_en], and review the Temporary State aid Crisis Framework to ensure that it continues to enable Member States to provide necessary and proportionate support to the economy while ensuring a level playing field. At the Extraordinary Energy Council on 9 September, Energy Ministers of Member States endorsed the Commission's ongoing work in these areas.

Background

The Commission has been tackling the issue of rising energy prices for the past year, and Member States have deployed many measures at national level which the Commission provided through the Energy Prices Toolbox[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_21_5204] adopted in October 2021 and expanded in Spring 2022 with the Communication on short-term market interventions and long-term improvements to the electricity market design[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3140] and the REPowerEU Plan[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_3131]. The energy market situation has worsened considerably since Russia's invasion of Ukraine and its further weaponisation of its energy resources to blackmail Europe, which exacerbated an already tight supply situation after the COVID-19 pandemic. The Commission has already proposed new minimum gas storage obligations and demand reduction targets to ease the balance between supply and demand in Europe, and Member States swiftly adopted these proposals before the summer.

As Russia has continued to manipulate gas supplies, cutting off deliveries to Europe for unjustified reasons, markets have become tighter and more nervous. Prices increased further over the summer months, which have also been marked by extreme weather conditions caused by climate change. In particular, droughts and extreme heat have had an impact on electricity generation by hydropower and nuclear, further reducing supply. That is why the Commission, in the form of a Council Regulation based on Article 122[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A12012E122] of the Treaty, is now proposing an emergency intervention in the electricity market, with common European tools to tackle high prices and address imbalances in the system between suppliers and end-users of electricity, while preserving the overall functioning of the internal energy market and preventing security of supply risks.

Quotes by Members of the College of Commissioners

President Ursula von der Leyen said: “Russian aggression and manipulation is affecting global and European energy markets, and we need to be resolute in our response. Today, the Commission is bringing further proposals to the table which Member States can swiftly adopt and implement, to ease the pressure on households and businesses. We continue to stand united in the face of Putin's weaponisation of gas and ensure we minimise the impact of high gas prices on our electricity costs in these exceptional times.”

Executive Vice-President Frans Timmermans said: “These unprecedented measures are a necessary response to the energy supply shortages and high energy prices affecting Europe. Demand reduction is fundamental to the overall success of these measures: it lowers energy bills, ends Putin's ability to weaponise his energy resources, reduces emissions and helps rebalance the energy market. A cap on outsize revenues will bring solidarity from energy companies with abnormally high profits towards their struggling customers. Above all, however, this crisis underlines that the era of cheap fossil fuels is over and that we need to accelerate the switch towards homegrown, renewable energy.”

Commissioner for Energy Kadri Simson said: “We are making an emergency intervention in the design of our power market today, capping revenues for lower cost electricity producers, and allowing exceptional measures on regulation of prices for businesses and households. This will enable Member States to raise and redirect revenues to those in need in this difficult time, without undermining the long-term functioning of the market”

Commissioner for Economy Paolo Gentiloni said: “Our proposal for a solidarity contribution from fossil-fuel industries will ensure that we tackle the current energy crisis in a spirit of fairness. In these extraordinarily difficult times for so many, fossil-fuel companies have been enjoying abnormally high rents. So it is essential that they pay their fair share to supporting vulnerable households and hard-hit sectors, as well as towards the mountain of investments before us in renewables and energy efficiency. Because in the face of Putin's weaponisation of energy, we need a collective effort of solidarity in order to build a more secure and sustainable Europe.”

For More Information

* Proposal for a Council Regulation on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices[https://energy.ec.europa.eu/proposal-council-regulation-emergency-intervention-address-high-energy-prices_en]

* Questions and Answers - Memo[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_22_5490]

* Factsheet[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/fs_22_5491]

* 2022 State of the Union Address by President von der Leyen[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/ov/speech_22_5493]

* Opening remarks by Executive Vice-President Timmermans and Commissioner Simson[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_22_5521] [will be available later]

EU Commission: Questions and Answers on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices

Link[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_22_5490]

Brussels, 14 September 2022

1. Why has the Commission decided to intervene now in the market?

Gas and electricity prices reached record levels in 2021 and again hit all-time highs in 2022, especially following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The skyrocketing electricity prices across Europe are intrinsically linked to the high price of gas, which increases the price of electricity due to the role of gas-fired power plants in covering demand and setting price. Prices started rising last summer when the world economy picked up after COVID-19 restrictions were eased. Subsequently, Russia's invasion of Ukraine and its weaponisation of gas supply have exacerbated this situation with electricity retail prices having increased by almost 50% year-on-year from July 2021.

Energy prices are expected to remain high due to uncertainty in the market spurred by the risk of further disruptions of Russian gas supplies to the EU. In parallel, the availability of electricity generation in the EU has been below usual levels in the last months due to increased maintenance works of power stations, lower output from hydropower generation due to extreme weather conditions in the summer, and closures of some older power. This has thus contributed to energy scarcity and high energy prices, constituting a burden for consumers and industry and dampening the economic recovery.

This dramatic increase in electricity prices is putting pressure on EU households, small and medium enterprises and industry at large. Vulnerable customers and the energy poor are hardest hit, but increasingly middle income households and SMEs also risk not being able to pay their energy bills. Today's proposed set of emergency measures is a response to the urgent priority of shielding EU consumers from higher energy prices this winter. The proposed emergency intervention[https://energy.ec.europa.eu/proposal-council-regulation-emergency-intervention-address-high-energy-prices_en] represents a further step of the Commission's work on price mitigation tools, which started last October and continued over the past year.

2. When will these proposals enter into force and how long will they be applied for?

The proposed Council Regulation on an electricity emergency tool and a solidarity contribution of the fossil sector is based on Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX%3A12008E122%3AEN%3AHTML]. As such, the proposal requires a qualified majority vote in the Council to be approved, and its adoption will depend on the Council's internal procedures. In view of the emergency situation, Member States have already expressed their intention to swiftly work on the Commission's expected proposals.

The proposed measures are extraordinary in nature and should therefore be limited in time. The electricity emergency tool should apply no later than 1 December 2022 and until 31 March 2023. The Commission has committed to carry out a review of the electricity emergency tool by 28 February 2023, taking into account the electricity supply situation and electricity prices across the EU, and present a report on the main findings of that review to the Council.

The solidarity contributions of the fossil sector will be applied for one year after entering into force. The Commission will carry out a review by 15 October 2023, in view of the general situation of the fossil fuel sector and surplus profits generated and present a report on the main findings of that review to the Council.

The proposed Council Regulation contains regular reporting obligations, starting on 1 December 2022, through which the Commission will monitor the adoption and enforcement of measures by the Member States. This regular monitoring is important to preserve the functioning and integrity of the EU's internal market, as functioning cross-border energy markets are key to ensure security of supply in a situation of shortage.

3. How much will these measures save citizens and businesses on their energy bills?

The Commission has estimated that Member States would be able to collect up to €117 billion from the proposed temporary revenue cap on ‘inframarginal' electricity producers, on an annual basis. The surplus revenues collected will have to be channelled by the Member States to final electricity consumers, be it private or commercial ones, who are exposed to high prices. These revenues can be used to provide income support, rebates, investments in renewables, energy efficiency or decarbonisation technologies. The support provided should keep an incentive for demand reduction. Decisions on the precise distribution will be taken at national level in line with the principles established in the Regulation.

The exact amount of revenues per Member State will depend on the amount of electricity generated from inframarginal technologies in the country and the level of electricity prices during the time of application of these measures. It will vary depending on the energy mix and the design of support schemes for renewable energy in each Member State.

The temporary solidarity contribution based on taxable surplus profits made in the fiscal year 2022 on energy undertakings in the oil, gas, coal and refinery sectors in the Union could bring an estimate of around €25 billion of public revenues, to be redistributed by Member States subject to compliance with Union law. Today's proposals state that these profits should go to households and companies, including energy-intensive industries, to mitigate the effects of sustained high energy prices, reduce energy consumption and boost the EU's energy autonomy.

In addition to the revenues generated for Member States, the demand reduction in the electricity sector can also help bringing down prices, by reducing the need for expensive gas power plants to meet demand.

4. How should Member States reduce their demand for electricity?

The proposed electricity emergency tool combines an overall reduction of electricity demand from all consumers with a focus on demand reduction during peak price hours. According to the proposed Council Regulation, Member States should seek to implement measures to lower overall electricity consumption by at least 10% until 31 March 2023. All consumers can contribute, including those who are not yet equipped with smart metering systems or devices enabling them to adjust their consumption during the day. In addition, to specifically target the most expensive hours of electricity consumption when gas generally sets the marginal price, the Commission proposes an obligation of at least a 5% reduction in gross electricity consumption during selected peak price hours, covering at least 10% of the hours of each month, where prices are expected to be the highest. This obligation would result in selecting on average 3 to 4 hours per weekday, which would normally correspond to peak load hours, but can also include hours where electricity generation from renewables is expected to be low and the generation from marginal plants is necessary to cover the demand.

Overall, this targeted reduction can lead to a reduction of gas consumption estimated at around 1.2 bcm over 4 months. This represents a reduction of gas use for power by around 4% over the winter season across the EU. It will be up to the Member States to identify the peak demand hours in their market. Member States are also free to choose the appropriate measures to meet the foreseen demand reduction, provided that they are in line with the relevant EU competition and electricity market rules.

5. How will the revenue cap for inframarginal technologies work, and how was the level chosen?

The proposed cap aims to recover excess revenues from electricity generators with lower marginal costs, so called ‘inframarginal technologies'. These include renewables, nuclear and lignite. Such electricity generators have seen unexpectedly large financial gains over the past months. By setting an EU-wide cap of €180 on realised market revenues per MWh of electricity produced, the Commission intends to minimise the impact that expensive price-setting marginal sources like coal or gas currently have on the final price of electricity while still ensuring a reasonable return on investment for the technologies covered.

The proposed revenue cap level, which is designed to apply until 31 March 2023, seeks to encompass the majority of inframarginal generators in the EU and to avoid jeopardising the availability and profitability of existing plants and future investment decisions for new inframarginal generation in line with the EU's 2030 and 2050 policy goals. To keep a necessary security margin, the cap level was calibrated significantly above the average market price expectations of market participants for peak hours, before Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Having a uniform cap on revenues across the Union is necessary to preserve the functioning of the internal electricity market, as it allows maintaining price-based competition between electricity producers. To ensure a level playing field, the market revenue cap would apply to revenues from the generation of electricity for all inframarginal generators as defined in the Regulation and cover all market timeframes, regardless of whether the trading of electricity takes place bilaterally (over-the-counter) or in organized markets.

Revenues above the cap will be collected by Member State governments at the moment when transactions are settled or thereafter, and will have to be channeled to households, businesses and the industry at large, who are all exposed to high electricity prices. The proposed Regulation also foresees the possibility to share surplus revenues between Member States trading electricity, whereby the producing state can share part of the collected revenues for the benefit of end-consumers in the importing state. Member States are encouraged, in a spirit of solidarity, to conclude bilateral solidarity agreements to share part of the inframarginal revenues collected by the producing State for the benefit of end-users in the Member State with low electricity generation. The Regulation requires such agreements shall be concluded by 1 December 2022 in situations where a Member State's net imports of electricity are equal or higher than 100% in comparison with its main exporting country.

6. How will the solidarity contribution by fossil fuel companies work, and how was the level chosen?

The Commission has proposed an exceptional solidarity contribution from companies in the oil, gas, coal and refinery sectors, to ensure that the whole energy sector pays its fair share in these difficult times for many to address the extraordinary energy crisis resulting from the weaponisation of the energy supply by Russia.

This solidarity contribution will complement the revenue cap on inframarginal technologies and targets the surplus profits that the fossil fuel industry has made due to the energy crisis. It will be collected by Member States on 2022 profits which are above a 20% increase on the average profits of the previous three years, at a rate of at least 33%. This approach of setting a minimum rate ensures that the solidarity contributions are both fair and proportional.

Establishing this solidarity contribution as a European instrument will ensure that negative spillovers within the internal energy market stemming from uncoordinated national measures can be avoided and risks of litigation between companies and governments can be reduced substantially. Moreover, a coordinated approach will also ensure consistency with the objectives of REPowerEU.

Member States will be in charge of collecting the solidarity contribution, and redistributing the profits subject to compliance with Union law. The revenues from the solidarity contribution should be used to provide financial support measures to households, especially vulnerable households, and hard-hit companies to mitigate the effects of high energy prices, as well as to help the reduction of energy consumption, support energy-intensive industries, promote investments by final customers in renewables, energy efficiency or other decarbonisation technologies; and cross-border projects in line with the REPowerEU objectives.

The solidarity contribution is proposed as an exceptional measure to mitigate the impact of the energy crisis on households and companies across the EU. Tackling energy poverty and addressing the social consequences of the crisis, in particular to protect workers in exposed industries, are also a matter of European solidarity. Member States should focus, in particular, on those most affected by the soaring energy prices. This includes vulnerable households and energy intensive companies or those under pressure to accelerate their green transition.

To maximise the impact of the solidarity contribution and prevent the risk of fragmentation of the Single Market, Member States should act in a spirit of solidarity and devote a share of the revenues to the common financing of measures to reduce the harmful impact of the energy crisis or to promote investments in renewables and energy efficiency.

7. Will existing national measures be compatible with this new EU framework?

A united EU-wide response is needed to tackle the increase of electricity prices and their impact on households, businesses and industry. A coordinated approach through Union-wide electricity demand reduction, in the spirit of solidarity, is necessary to minimise the risk of potential major disruptions during the winter months when electricity consumption and electricity production from gas will be higher. Member States should be free to choose the appropriate measures to achieve the demand reduction targets, including expansion of existing schemes or national incentives to develop demand response.

To preserve the functioning of the electricity system and cross-border trade and investments, a common approach to revenue limitations for inframarginal technologies is also necessary. It will ensure that power continues to flow around Europe to avoid a high-price crisis becoming a security of supply crisis.

At the same time, Member States retain the right to introduce more ambitious measures both in terms of demand reduction and the limitation of revenues of electricity producers, as long as they are proportionate, do not distort the functioning of electricity wholesale markets, do not jeopardise investment signals and they are in line with Union Law.

On the solidarity contribution, the Commission has proposed a minimum rate that is considered both fair and proportionate. Member States could decide to go above this minimum and apply a higher rate, or can combine the new contribution with existing similar measures already introduced at national level. They can also choose to apply the solidarity contribution to a broader set of companies, as long as this remains compatible with the proposed Regulation.

8. What is the situation on futures electricity markets at the moment?

The current stress on electricity markets is primarily due to Russia's aggression against Ukraine and its manipulation of gas supply. This is an exceptional situation for energy markets, with some secondary effects on derivatives markets. Our focus is to ensure that risks are contained and adequately mitigated in the financial system. Futures electricity markets play a role here. They allow energy companies to hedge their risks e.g. the wholesale price they have to pay for their supplies or the output price at which they can expect to sell gas or electricity.

Most of the trading in energy derivatives is conducted on regulated (futures) markets and is cleared centrally via central clearing counterparties (CCPs). In such markets, the current regulatory framework provides the necessary safeguards, such as margin requirements for clearing between buyers and sellers: if one party defaults, the other market participants are protected from this risk.

The collateral requirements ensure financial stability and contribute to reassure financial markets. Amid the sharp rise in gas and electricity prices over the past year, energy companies have been required to post correspondingly higher amounts of cash collateral to CCPs as margin calls have risen in line with prices. This has resulted in problems of liquidity for energy companies and prompted calls for amendments to the rules governing collateral requirements for margin calls.

On 9 September, the Energy Council called on the Commission to design emergency liquidity instruments that would ensure that market participants have at their disposal sufficient collateral to meet margin calls and that would address increased volatility in futures markets, and consider reviewing relevant guidelines to integrate the rules on safeguards. The Commission, in cooperation with the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and the European Banking Authority (EBA), is already working on the above[https://finance.ec.europa.eu/news/facing-energy-crisis-eu-work-streams-related-financial-system-2022-09-14_en], as requested by the Council, as well as a range of options to ensure that the financial system supports actions to ease the current situation, while preserving financial stability.

For more information

Press release[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5489]

Factsheet[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/fs_22_5491]

Factsheet - Emergency Intervention[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/FS_22_5491]

European Commission Factsheet Brussels, 14 Sep 2022 Factsheet - Emergency Intervention Factsheet - Emergency Intervention

VISIT WEBSITE[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/FS_22_5491]

Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices[https://ec.europa.eu/transparency/documents-register/detail?ref=COM(2022)473&lang=en]

Opening remarks by Executive Vice-President Timmermans and Commissioner Simson at the press conference on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices

Link[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_22_5521]

Brussels, 14 September 2022

"Check against delivery"

Opening remarks by Executive Vice-President Timmermans

Good afternoon everyone,

It has now been almost 7 months since Putin started its illegal, barbaric war against Ukraine. We have since seen some incredible acts of bravery from the Ukrainians and despicable acts of barbarism from the Russians, but we have also seen strong solidarity from Europeans.

Putin's war has stoked an energy crisis in Europe that continues to have huge repercussions. In response, we have moved swiftly to secure alternative supplies, accelerate the rollout of renewables, and start reducing gas demand to ensure European citizens are safe for winter.

But we are still confronted with a profound mismatch between supply and demand on the energy market. What was once a free and functioning market has been sabotaged.

We need to understand that the pre-war situation with abundant, cheap fossil fuels is not coming back.

Putin's weaponization of energy is confronting us with increasingly unbearable energy bills that households, and especially small and medium-size enterprises, are grappling with.

Leaving this to the market would mean pricing out the poorest consumers, pushing businesses to the brink of collapse, and letting families go cold. Not everyone needs help with their bills, but those who need it, and those are millions and millions of Europeans, need it very urgently.

The situation is unprecedented and so our proposals to tackle it should be unprecedented.

Our package today therefore does several things:

First, it brings a European reduction in electricity consumption of 10%. During peak-hours, electricity consumption must go down at least 5% so we avoid using the most expensive gas-fired power plants and bring down the price of energy. This will be mandatory, so that the targets are met by everyone.

Let me underline here as well that reducing our gas and electricity consumption as such is fundamental to the success of any measure to tackle this energy crisis. Demand reduction helps rebalance the energy market, lower energy bills, reduces emissions, and makes us immune to Russia's gas games. Without demand reduction, this is not going to work.

Second, our package proposes a European mechanism for collecting and redistributing the exceptional surplus profits and revenues that the war in Ukraine has brought several energy companies. This can generate up to € 117 billion for Member States to support European households and businesses who face unsurmountable energy bills.

Today, gas-fired power plants have extremely high operating costs. And these plants set the market price. This means that power generators with lower operating costs have been able to reap extraordinary profits, way beyond what may have been reasonably expected based on investment decisions. So we propose to cap the revenues of these so-called infra-marginal producers at € 180 per MWh. This level still grants them a profit margin and preserves their incentive to invest.

But fossil fuel companies outside the power sector have also benefitted enormously from the current market situation. We've seen it this summer: share buy-backs, exceptional dividends, etcetera. So as our third measure we ask them for a solidarity contribution, to help support electricity consumers.

To distribute these funds to families and businesses, we offer Member States several suggestions: from direct transfers to end-users and premiums for cutting energy use, to setting lower price for limited volumes which is a good way to offer specific support to lower- and middle-income households.

At this stage, prices remain high. And there is no quick fix. I really need to emphasise that. The next winters – not just this one – will be difficult, make no mistake about that.

But I am confident that these measures will bring progress, just like our previous ones did. Our dependence on Russian gas is down from 40% to 9%. Storage in every Member State is quickly nearing the required 80%, and the EU-average, as the President said this morning, is close to 84%. We are all saving more and more energy. And the pace of renewables being rolled out is steadily rising.

In the end, our green energy transition is the only way to rid ourselves of Putin's energy yoke and it will create energy sovereignty in Europe. The era of cheap fossil fuels is over and the faster we move to cheap, clean, and home-grown renewables, the sooner we will be immune to Russia's energy blackmail and anybody else who may think they can blackmail us with energy.

Putin seeks to divide us. But we need to show him that we are much stronger than that. Looking back to where we started, it's clear that when Europe is united, when we lock arms and stand together, there is nothing we can't do.

Opening remarks by Commissioner Simson

Thank you, Frans, and good afternoon, everyone.

Today we are presenting an emergency proposal for a targeted and time-limited intervention to address high energy prices.

We need to take this step, to prevent a worsening of the outlook and protect citizens and business from the effects of spiking prices.

Unfortunately, the Summer has not offered a break from the energy crisis.

Gas flows from Russia have further dropped since July. The manipulation of supplies is tightening the market and pushing gas prices to new records.

These tensions are having a ripple effect on the electricity market. This has been made worse by other challenges, including an extraordinarily hot and dry summer that gives us a taste of the impact of climate change.

As a result, electricity prices are at unsustainable levels. This is hurting our people and industry.

Member States are continuing to take steps to shield consumers and support energy utilities experiencing liquidity issues. But given the scale of this crisis there is significant value to be added with coordinated intervention at EU level.

This is the basis of today's proposals.

First, we are encouraging Member States to continue their efforts to keep electricity consumption in check. There will be a binding target for peak hours. So Member States would have to cut consumption during the most expensive time - when gas generally sets the price - by at least 5%.

This will reduce pressure on prices across the EU, alleviate security of supply concerns and reduce the risk of blackouts or rationing.

It will be up to Member States to identify the peak hours and to choose appropriate measures to reduce demand, but the direction is clear and common to all.

Second, Member States have taken measures to mitigate the price increases, at a considerable cost for their budget, and are looking now for new ways to sustain this effort.

Today we are proposing a temporary correction to the functioning of the electricity market which will help them to do that.

We are proposing to set a limit at EU level for the remuneration of the inframarginal electricity technologies. Today, gas – or sometimes coal – usually sets the final price for wholesale electricity. A company that produces electricity with lower costs will benefit massively from this, resulting in excessive revenues. At the same time, consumers do not get the benefit in their bills of the growing share of renewables.

An EU-wide cap at 180 €/MWh on revenues from different technologies like renewables, nuclear energy and lignite will generate funds that can be channelled to support consumers.

Today's proposal also gives Member States the option to extend regulated retail electricity prices to small and medium-sized enterprises and sets out that such regulated prices can be lower than electricity costs. This brings legal clarity and certainty over what Member States can do to in this area.

Finally, the oil, gas and coal companies, which are also making huge, unexpected profits, should be part of the effort to address this crisis. We are therefore introducing an exceptional solidarity contribution from the fossil fuel sector that targets these surplus profits.

It would be collected by Member States on 2022 profits which are above a 20% increase on the average profits of the previous three years, at a rate of at least 33%. We believe that this is fair and proportionate, leaving a margin for future investment.

While it's an EU-level policy, the Member States will be in charge of collecting the revenues and channelling them into consumers' support measures and investments related to the energy transition.

These are the key elements of our Article 122 Regulation.

On top of this, we are taking action to prevent the energy crisis from turning into a financial market crisis and to preserve the level playing field in the Single Market.

In a number of Member States, energy companies are struggling with liquidity. Commissioner Mairead McGuinness and her services have kickstarted work on measures to solve the liquidity issues on the energy futures market. Executive Vice-President Margrethe Vestager has begun the process of simplifying the procedures and expanding the scope for state guarantees under the Temporary Crisis Framework for State Aid.

By addressing these urgent issues, we will also preserve the progress made in preparing Europe to go through the coming winter safely.

The joint storage policy and the coordinated gas demand reduction efforts are working well. The EU storage level is today over 84% and the monthly gas consumption is around 10% lower than in previous years.

We have also made huge strides in securing alternative gas supplies. Norway, not Russia, is the biggest gas supplier to the EU today. Flows from other partners have increased and the US has already delivered the additional 15 bcm of LNG agreed by Presidents von der Leyen and Biden.

We have come a long way on the road to REPowerEU since last March.

But we know that this is a long game. We continue to believe that a gas price cap on Russian pipeline imports is warranted, but more work is needed to assess adverse impacts on some Member States. In addition, we are deepening our analysis of how a horizontal cap on all gas imported in Europe would work and what are its implications.

As President von der Leyen said this morning, we will develop with the Member States a set of measures that take into account the specific nature of our relationship with suppliers – ranging from unreliable suppliers such as Russia to reliable friends and partners.

She also mentioned that we are looking into a complementary EU price index for LNG. TTF, the current pricing benchmark for gas, is not up to the current situation on the market.

In the end, the only lasting solution both to the security of supply and price challenges is a green and efficient energy system. This is why the Parliament's vote today on the revision of the Renewables and Energy Efficiency Directives was so important. And now I truly hope that the co-legislators to accelerate the work on the RepowerEU proposals on permitting and authorisation.

Thank you.

Energy prices: MEPs call for swift measures to shield consumers and businesses[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/pt/press-room/20220909IPR40136/energy-prices-meps-call-for-swift-measures-to-shield-consumers-and-businesses] - EU Parliament

Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is set to present emergency proposals on energy during her State of the European Union speech in plenary tomorrow.

During the debate, the Czech Council Presidency announced that Council will seek to approve the European Commission’s upcoming proposals during an emergency meeting at the end of September.

European Commissioner for Energy Kadri Simson said that the Commission will propose measures to reduce electricity demand during peak price hours in order to bring more balance to the market. It will also introduce an EU-wide limit on the remuneration of low-carbon energy, so that revenues above that cap will be used to help member states support vulnerable consumers. She also said that the Commission will work with electricity market regulators to address the liquidity problems on the market.

During the debate, MEPs emphasized the need to ensure that the EU response is built on solidarity, and that profits made by energy companies must be used to protect consumers. Many urged for a further boost for renewables and developing cross-border energy interconnections - in particular between France and Spain. Germany should not close its remaining nuclear plants in the current circumstances, several said. Other MEPs demanded measures against speculation on the gas market and to cut peak electricity demand, while some considered electricity to be a public good that should not be traded on a stock market.

Background

Against the backdrop of the war in Ukraine, the disruption of Russian gas supplies has led to skyrocketing electricity prices and market volatility, leading the Commission and member states to consider new policy options such as capping prices or decoupling of gas and electricity prices.

In recent months, Parliament and Council have adopted an emergency plan for filling gas reserves[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220616IPR33214/parliament-approves-plans-to-restock-gas-reserves-before-winter]. The Commission has also launched the RepowerEU[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_1511] plan as well as EU-wide gas consumption reduction measures[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_4608].

VISIT WEBSITE[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/pt/press-room/20220909IPR40136/energy-prices-meps-call-for-swift-measures-to-shield-consumers-and-businesses]

Energy prices: ITRE committee Chair reacts to Commission proposals

Link[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220914IPR40503/energy-prices-itre-committee-chair-reacts-to-commission-proposals]

Industry, Research and Energy committee Chair Cristian Bușoi called upon Member States to swiftly adopt the package of measures proposed on Wednesday in order to tackle high energy prices.

"The European Commission has presented measures that will help Member States protect citizens from the energy price shock. We welcome these measures, and we now call on Council to adopt them as soon as possible. A full implementation is essential to preserve the solidarity between Member States through the winter. It's no longer time for discussions over opt-outs or exemptions. We trust the Czech Presidency will ensure that solidarity prevails" said Cristian Bușoi[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/38420/CRISTIAN-SILVIU_BUSOI/home] (EPP, RO).

"It is crucial to make sense of the efforts we are about to make. The European electricity market is no longer functioning, because of Putin's use of the energy weapon. It was a one-shot weapon - which he used against European citizens. Russia can no longer be considered a reliable partner. We will free ourselves for good from dependence on Russian hydrocarbons. This will not be an easy task" he said.

"Energy is a core element in the welfare of our citizens and of the economy, so when shocks to the system happen the effect is felt throughout our societies. Parliament will stand by the people in this crisis and we will push to ensure that the profits of energy companies are indeed used to protect them".

"I also welcome the fact that the European Commission has lowered the proposed cap on electricity revenues. We must bear in mind that the citizens of Eastern Europe have a comparatively higher share of energy in their budget. Many simply cannot afford the current prices" he said.

"We hope that the European Commission will quickly come forward with proposals addressing the price of imports - not just from Russia but also from other providers are making considerable profit right now" he added.

Background

To ease the increased pressure of energy prices on European households and businesses, the European Commission has proposed on Wednesday[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5489] exceptional electricity-demand reduction measures, which will help reduce the cost of electricity for consumers, and measures to redistribute the energy sector’s surplus revenues to final customers.

Further information

* Committee on Industry, Research and Energy [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/itre/home.html]

* Cristian-Silviu Buşoi (EPP, RO)[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/38420]

Helsinki: Energy crisis and green transition to be discussed on Climate Policy Roundtable[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/helsinki-energy-crisis-and-green-transition-to-be-discussed-on-climate-policy-roundtable/386976/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Helsinki, 14 September 2022

The Climate Policy Roundtable will hold its 17th meeting on Thursday 15 September. The main topics are solutions to energy crisis and green transition. The Roundtable is chaired by Prime Minister Sanna Marin.

The war launched by Russia has increased the need to speed up the green transition and phase out fossil fuels even faster. The prices of energy, especially natural gas and other fossil energy, have risen in Europe, and in Finland as well. This has broad consequences, including for the price of electricity. Electricity prices are expected to continue to rise during next winter, which may have serious impacts on both households and businesses.

At its meeting, the Climate Policy Roundtable will discuss the key measures by which we can stabilise the energy market and promote the green transition, both in the short and long term. Besides this, the Roundtable will discuss how the different perspectives of justice should be taken into account in the energy crisis and in phasing out fossil energy.

In the budget session this autumn, the Government outlined a number of measures to compensate households for the sharp rise in electricity prices. In addition, the Government has proposed EUR 10 billion in emergency funding to energy companies that have run into difficulties due to the growing collateral requirements. Within the EU, there are also discussions on different kinds of measures to find solutions to the energy crisis. In Finland, the State is launching a campaign that will encourage private individuals, companies, NGOs and other entities to reduce their energy consumption. In the coming winter the Senate Group that manages the State-owner properties will implement an extensive energy savings programme that contains different kinds of measures to save heat and electricity.

The Climate Policy Roundtable brings together a broad spectrum of stakeholders from different sectors of society. The purpose of the Roundtable is to create a common understanding of how Finland can make a just transition to a carbon neutral society by 2035. With its work, the Roundtable supports the preparation and implementation of Finland’s national climate policy.

Source – Finnish Government[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/1410903/climate-policy-roundtable-meets-to-discuss-energy-crisis-and-ways-to-boost-green-transition]

Mit einem Kommissionspaket soll den explodierenden Energiepreisen entgegenwirkt werden.

Link[https://www.vci.de/presse/pressemitteilungen/das-energiepreisproblem-wird-so-nicht-geloest.jsp]

14. September 2022

Die Präsidentin der Europäischen Kommission, Ursula von der Leyen, hat heute in ihrer Rede zur Lage der EU ein Paket vorgestellt, mit dem den explodierenden Energiepreisen entgegengewirkt werden soll. Wolfgang Große Entrup, Hauptgeschäftsführer des Verbandes der Chemischen Industrie (VCI), ist skeptisch, ob die vorgestellten Maßnahmen auch geringere Energiepreise für die Industrie erwirken können. Er sagt:

„Die Energiekosten explodieren, der Verlust wichtiger Produktionsprozesse droht. Hier hilft das Kommissionspaket nicht weiter. Es setzt mit Umverteilungsambitionen an den Symptomen an, wir müssen aber an die Ursachen ran. Wir haben zu wenig günstigen Strom. Damit sich das ändert, muss jetzt alles ans Netz, was kurzfristig verfügbar ist. Stromanbieter werden durch Europas Pläne aber abgeschreckt und nicht motiviert.“

Branche erwartet Realitätscheck der europäischen Gesetzgebung

Angesichts der zunehmend dramatischen wirtschaftlichen Lage erwartet die Chemie- und Pharmaindustrie ganz grundsätzlich, dass die EU-Kommission ihren industriepolitischen Kompass neu ausrichtet. Große Entrup: „Europa kann sich von der Zeitenwende nicht abkoppeln. Wir brauchen jetzt zügig einen Realitätscheck der europäischen Gesetzgebung in drei Clustern: Beschleunigen – justieren – zurückstellen. Heißt: Wo können wir massiv beschleunigen, um zum Beispiel den Ausbau der Erneuerbaren schneller voranzutreiben, in welchen Bereichen sollten Maßnahmen unter den neuen Gegebenheiten anders justiert werden und wo sollten Vorhaben ganz zurückgestellt werden.“

Der Verband der Chemischen Industrie (VCI) vertritt die Interessen von rund 1.900 Unternehmen aus der chemisch-pharmazeutischen Industrie und chemienaher Wirtschaftszweige gegenüber Politik, Behörden, anderen Bereichen der Wirtschaft, der Wissenschaft und den Medien. 2021 setzten die Mitgliedsunternehmen des VCI rund 220 Milliarden Euro um und beschäftigten über 530.000 Mitarbeiterinnen und Mitarbeiter.

SOTEU

2022 State of the Union Address by President von der Leyen

Link[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_22_5493]

Strasbourg, 14 September 2022

"Check against delivery"

The original version of the speech is available here[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/ov/speech_22_5493].

A UNION THAT STANDS STRONG TOGETHER

INTRODUCTION

Madam President,

Honourable Members,

My fellow Europeans,

Never before has this Parliament debated the State of our Union with war raging on European soil.

We all remember that fateful morning in late February.

Europeans from across our Union woke up dismayed by what they saw. Shaken by the resurgent and ruthless face of evil. Haunted by the sounds of sirens and the sheer brutality of war.

But from that very moment, a whole continent has risen in solidarity.

At the border crossings where refugees found shelter. In our streets, filled with Ukrainian flags. In the classrooms, where Ukrainian children made new friends.

From that very moment, Europeans neither hid nor hesitated.

They found the courage to do the right thing.

And from that very moment, our Union as a whole has risen to the occasion.

Fifteen years ago, during the financial crisis, it took us years to find lasting solutions.

A decade later, when the global pandemic hit, it took us only weeks.

But this year, as soon as Russian troops crossed the border into Ukraine, our response was united, determined and immediate.

And we should be proud of that.

We have brought Europe's inner strength back to the surface.

And we will need all of this strength. The months ahead of us will not be easy. Be it for families who are struggling to make ends meet, or businesses, who are facing tough choices about their future.

Let us be very clear: much is at stake here. Not just for Ukraine – but for all of Europe and the world at large.

And we will be tested. Tested by those who want to exploit any kind of divisions between us.

This is not only a war unleashed by Russia against Ukraine.

This is a war on our energy, a war on our economy, a war on our values and a war on our future.

This is about autocracy against democracy.

And I stand here with the conviction that with courage and solidarity, Putin will fail and Europe will prevail.

THE COURAGE TO STAND WITH OUR HEROES

Honourable Members,

Today - courage has a name, and that name is Ukraine.

Courage has a face, the face of Ukrainian men and women who are standing up to Russian aggression.

I remember a moment in the early weeks of the invasion. When the First Lady of Ukraine, Olena Zelenska, gathered the parents of Ukrainian children killed by the invader.

Hundreds of families for whom the war will never end, and for whom life will never go back to what it was before.

We saw the first Lady leading a silent crowd of heartbroken mothers and fathers, and hang small bells in the trees, one for every fallen child.

And now the bells will ring forever in the wind, and forever, the innocent victims of this war will live in our memory.

And she is here with us today!

Dear Olena, it took immense courage to resist Putin's cruelty.

But you found that courage.

And a nation of heroes has risen.

Today, Ukraine stands strong because an entire country has fought street by street, home by home.

Ukraine stands strong because people like your husband, President Zelenskyy, have stayed in Kyiv to lead the resistance – together with you and your children, dear First Lady.

You have given courage to the whole nation. And we have seen in the last days the bravery of Ukrainians paying off.

You have given voice to your people on the global stage.

And you have given hope to all of us.

So today we want to thank you and all Ukrainians.

Glory to a country of European heroes. Slava Ukraini!

Europe's solidarity with Ukraine will remain unshakeable.

From day one, Europe has stood at Ukraine's side. With weapons. With funds. With hospitality for refugees. And with the toughest sanctions the world has ever seen.

Russia's financial sector is on life-support. We have cut off three quarters of Russia's banking sector from international markets.

Nearly one thousand international companies have left the country.

The production of cars fell by three-quarters compared to last year. Aeroflot is grounding planes because there are no more spare parts. The Russian military is taking chips from dishwashers and refrigerators to fix their military hardware, because they ran out of semiconductors. Russia's industry is in tatters.

It is the Kremlin that has put Russia's economy on the path to oblivion.

This is the price for Putin's trail of death and destruction.

And I want to make it very clear, the sanctions are here to stay.

This is the time for us to show resolve, not appeasement.

The same is true for our financial support to Ukraine.

So far Team Europe have provided more than 19 billion euros in financial assistance.

And this is without counting our military support.

And we are in it for the long haul.

Ukraine's reconstruction will require massive resources. For instance, Russian strikes have damaged or destroyed more than 70 schools.

Half a million Ukrainian children have started their school year in the European Union. But many others inside Ukraine simply don't have a classroom to go to.

So today I am announcing that we will work with the First Lady to support the rehabilitation of damaged Ukrainian schools. And that is why we will provide 100 million euros. Because the future of Ukraine begins in its schools.

We will not only support with finance – but also empower Ukraine to make the most of its potential.

Ukraine is already a rising tech hub and home to many innovative young companies.

So I want us to mobilise the full power of our Single Market to help accelerate growth and create opportunities.

In March, we connected successfully Ukraine to our electricity grid. It was initially planned for 2024. But we did it within two weeks. And today, Ukraine is exporting electricity to us. I want to significantly expand this mutually beneficial trade.

We have already suspended import duties on Ukrainian exports to the EU.

We will bring Ukraine into our European free roaming area.

Our solidarity lanes are a big success.

And building on all that, the Commission will work with Ukraine to ensure seamless access to the Single Market. And vice-versa.

Our Single Market is one of Europe's greatest success stories. Now it's time to make it a success story for our Ukrainian friends, too.

And this is why I am going to Kyiv today, to discuss this in detail with President Zelenskyy.

Honourable Members,

One lesson from this war is we should have listened to those who know Putin.

To Anna Politkovskaya and all the Russian journalists who exposed the crimes, and paid the ultimate price.

To our friends in Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, and to the opposition in Belarus.

We should have listened to the voices inside our Union – in Poland, in the Baltics, and all across Central and Eastern Europe.

They have been telling us for years that Putin would not stop.

And they acted accordingly.

Our friends in the Baltics have worked hard to end their dependency on Russia. They have invested in renewable energy, in LNG terminals, and in interconnectors.

This costs a lot. But dependency on Russian fossil fuels comes at a much higher price.

We have to get rid of this dependency all over Europe.

Therefore we agreed on joint storage. We are at 84% now: we are overshooting our target.

But unfortunately that will not be enough.

We have diversified away from Russia to reliable suppliers. US, Norway, Algeria and others.

Last year, Russian gas accounted for 40% of our gas imports. Today it's down to 9% pipeline gas.

But Russia keeps on actively manipulating our energy market. They prefer to flare the gas than to deliver it. This market is not functioning anymore.

In addition the climate crisis is heavily weighing on our bills. Heat waves have boosted electricity demand. Droughts shut down hydro and nuclear plants.

As a result, gas prices have risen by more than 10 times compared to before the pandemic.

Making ends meet is becoming a source of anxiety for millions of businesses and households.

But Europeans are also coping courageously with this.

Workers in ceramics factories in central Italy, have decided to move their shifts to early morning, to benefit from lower energy prices.

Just imagine the parents among them, having to leave home early, when the kids are still sleeping, because of a war they haven't chosen.

This is one example in a million of Europeans adapting to this new reality.

I want our Union to take example from its people. Reducing demand during peak hours will make supply last longer, and it will bring prices down.

This is why we are putting forward measures for Member States to reduce their overall electricity consumption.

But more targeted supported is needed.

For industries, like glass makers who have to turn off their ovens. Or for single parents facing one daunting bill after another.

Millions of Europeans need support.

EU Member States have already invested billions of euros to assist vulnerable households.

But we know this will not be enough.

This is why we are proposing a cap on the revenues of companies that produce electricity at a low cost.

These companies are making revenues they never accounted for, they never even dreamt of.

In our social market economy, profits are good.

But in these times it is wrong to receive extraordinary record profits benefitting from war and on the back of consumers.

In these times, profits must be shared and channelled to those who need it the most.

Our proposal will raise more than 140 billion euros for Member States to cushion the blow directly.

And because we are in a fossil fuel crisis, the fossil fuel industry has a special duty, too.

Major oil, gas and coal companies are also making huge profits. So they have to pay a fair share – they have to give a crisis contribution.

These are all emergency and temporary measures we are working on, including our discussions on price caps.

We need to keep working to lower gas prices.

We have to ensure our security of supply and, at the same time, ensure our global competitiveness.

So we will develop with the Member States a set of measures that take into account the specific nature of our relationship with suppliers – ranging from unreliable suppliers such as Russia to reliable friends such as Norway.

I have agreed with Prime Minister Store to set up a task force. Teams have started their work.

Another important topic is on the agenda. Today our gas market has changed dramatically: from pipeline mainly to increasing amounts of LNG.

But the benchmark used in the gas market – the TTF – has not adapted.

This is why the Commission will work on establishing a more representative benchmark.

At the same time we also know that energy companies are facing severe problems with liquidity in electricity futures markets, risking the functioning of our energy system.

We will work with market regulators to ease these problems by amending the rules on collateral - and by taking measures to limit intra-day price volatility.

And we will amend the temporary state aid framework in October to allow for the provision of state guarantees, while preserving a level playing field.

These are all first steps. But as we deal with this immediate crisis, we must also look forward.

The current electricity market design – based on merit order – is not doing justice to consumers anymore.

They should reap the benefits of low-cost renewables.

So, we have to decouple the dominant influence of gas on the price of electricity. This is why we will do a deep and comprehensive reform of the electricity market.

Now - here is an important point. Half a century ago, in the 1970s, the world faced another fossil fuel crisis.

Some of us remember the car-free weekends to save energy. Yet we kept driving on the same road.

We did not get rid of our dependency on oil. And worse, fossil fuels were even massively subsidised.

This was wrong, not just for the climate, but also for our public finances, and our independence. And we are still paying for this today.

Only a few visionaries understood that the real problem was fossil fuels themselves, not just their price.

Among them were our Danish friends.

When the oil crisis hit, Denmark started to invest heavily into harnessing the power of the wind.

They laid the foundations for its global leadership in the sector and created tens of thousands of new jobs.

This is the way to go!

Not just a quick fix, but a change of paradigm, a leap into the future.

STAYING THE COURSE AND PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE

Honourable Members,

The good news is: this necessary transformation has started.

It is happening in the North Sea and the Baltic Sea, where our Member States agreed to invest massively into off-shore wind generation.

It is happening in Sicily, where Europe's largest solar factory will soon manufacture the newest generation of panels.

And it is happening in Northern Germany, where local trains now run on green hydrogen.

And hydrogen can be a game changer for Europe.

We need to move our hydrogen economy from niche to scale.

With REPowerEU, we have doubled our 2030 target to produce ten million tons of renewable hydrogen in the EU, each year.

To achieve this, we must create a market maker for hydrogen, in order to bridge the investment gap and connect future supply and demand.

That is why I can today announce that we will create a new European Hydrogen Bank.

It will help guarantee the purchase of hydrogen, notably by using resources from the Innovation Fund.

It will be able to invest 3 billion euros to help building the future market for hydrogen.

This is how we power the economy of the future.

This is the European Green Deal.

And we have all seen in the last months just how important the European Green Deal is.

The summer of 2022 will be remembered as a turning point.

We all saw the dry rivers, the burning forests, the impact of the extreme heat.

And under the surface, the situation is far starker.

So far the glaciers in the Alps helped as an emergency reserve for rivers like the Rhine or Rhone.

But with Europe's glaciers melting faster than ever, future droughts will be felt far more acutely.

We must work relentlessly to adapt to our climate – making nature our first ally.

This is why our Union will push for an ambitious global deal for nature at the UN Biodiversity conference in Montreal later this year.

And we will do the same at COP27 in Sharm el-Sheikh.

But in the short term, we also need to be better equipped to handle our changing climate.

The destructive power of extreme weather is too big for any country to fight on its own.

This summer, we sent planes from Greece, Sweden and Italy to fight fires in France and Germany.

But as disasters become more frequent and more intense, Europe will need more capacity.

This is why I can today announce that we will double our firefighting capacity over the next year.

The EU will buy another 10 light amphibious aircrafts and three helicopters to add to the fleet.

This is European solidarity in action.

Honourable Members,

The last years have shown how much Europe can achieve when it is united.

After an unprecedented pandemic, our economic output overtook pre-crisis levels in record time.

We went from having no vaccine to securing over 4 billion doses for Europeans and for the world.

And in record time, we came up with SURE – so that people could stay in their jobs even if their companies had run out of work.

We were in the deepest recession since World War 2.

We achieved the fastest recovery since the post-war boom

And that was possible because we all rallied behind a common recovery plan.

NextGenerationEU has been a boost of confidence for our economy.

And its journey has only just begun.

So far, 100 billion euros have been disbursed to Member States. This means: 700 billion euros still haven't flown into our economy.

NextGenerationEU will guarantee a constant stream of investment to sustain jobs and growth.

It means relief for our economy. But most importantly, it means renewal.

It is financing new wind turbines and solar parks, high-speed trains and energy-saving renovations.

We conceived NextGenerationEU almost two years ago, and yet it is exactly what Europe needs today.

So let's stick to the plan.

Let's get the money on the ground.

Honourable Members,

The future of our children needs both that we invest in sustainability and that we invest sustainably.

We must finance the transition to a digital and net-zero economy.

And yet we also have to acknowledge a new reality of higher public debt.

We need fiscal rules that allow for strategic investment, while safeguarding fiscal sustainability.

Rules that are fit for the challenges of this decade.

In October, we will come forward with new ideas for our economic governance.

But let me share a few basic principles with you.

Member States should have more flexibility on their debt reduction paths.

But there should be more accountability on the delivery of what we have agreed on.

There should be simpler rules that all can follow.

To open the space for strategic investment and to give financial markets the confidence they need.

Let us chart once again a joint way forward.

With more freedom to invest. And more scrutiny on progress.

More ownership by Member States. And better results for citizens.

Let us rediscover the Maastricht spirit – stability and growth can only go hand in hand.

Honourable Members,

As we embark on this transition in our economy, we must rely on the enduring values of our social market economy.

It's the simple idea that Europe's greatest strength lies in each and every one of us.

Our social market economy encourages everyone to excel, but it also takes care of our fragility as human beings.

It rewards performance and guarantees protection. It opens opportunities but also set limits.

We need this even more today.

Because the strength of our social market economy will drive the green and digital transition.

We need an enabling business environment, a workforce with the right skills and access to raw materials our industry needs.

Our future competitiveness depends on it.

We must remove the obstacles that still hold our small companies back.

They must be at the centre of this transformation – because they are the backbone of Europe's long history of industrial prowess.

And they have always put their employees first – even and especially in times of crisis.

But inflation and uncertainty are weighing especially hard on them.

This is why we will put forward an SME Relief Package.

It will include a proposal for a single set of tax rules for doing business in Europe – we call it BEFIT.

This will make it easier to do business in our Union. Less red tape means better access to the dynamism of a continental market.

And we will revise the Late Payment Directive – because it is simply not fair that 1 in 4 bankruptcies are due to invoices not being paid on time.

For millions of family businesses, this will be a lifeline in troubled waters.

But European companies are also grappling with a shortage of staff.

Unemployment is at a record low, and this is great.

At the same time, job vacancies are at a record high.

Europe lacks truck drivers, waiters and airport workers,

as well as nurses, engineers and IT technicians.

Both low-end and high-end. We need everyone on board.

We need much more focus in our investment on professional education and upskilling.

We need better cooperation with the companies, because they know best what they need.

And we need to match these needs with people's aspirations.

But we also have to attract the right skills to our continent, skills that help companies and strengthen Europe's growth.

As a first important step, we need to speed up and facilitate the recognition of qualifications also of third country nationals.

This will make Europe more attractive for skilled workers.

This is why I am proposing to make 2023 the European Year of Skills.

Honourable Members,

My third point for our SMEs and our industry.

Whether we talk about chips for virtual reality or cells for solar panels, the twin transitions will be fuelled by raw materials

Lithium and rare earths are already replacing gas and oil at the heart of our economy.

By 2030, our demand for those rare earth metals will increase fivefold.

And this is a good sign, because it shows that our European Green Deal is moving fast.

The not so good news is – one country dominates the market.

So we have to avoid falling into the same dependency as with oil and gas.

This is where our trade policy comes into play.

New partnerships will advance not only our vital interests – but also our values.

Trade that embraces workers' rights and the highest environmental standards is possible with like-minded partners.

We need to update our links to reliable countries and key growth regions.

And for this reason, I intend to put forward for ratification the agreements with Chile, Mexico and New Zealand.

And advance negotiations with key partners like Australia and India.

But securing supplies is only a first step.

The processing of these metals is just as critical.

Today, China controls the global processing industry. Almost 90 % of rare earths and 60 % of lithium are processed in China.

We will identify strategic projects all along the supply chain, from extraction to refining, from processing to recycling. And we will build up strategic reserves where supply is at risk.

This is why today I am announcing a European Critical Raw Materials Act.

We know this approach can work.

Five years ago, Europe launched the Battery Alliance. And soon, two third of the batteries we need will be produced in Europe.

Last year I announced the European Chips Act. And the first chips gigafactory will break ground in the coming months.

We now need to replicate this success.

This is also why we will increase our financial participation to Important Projects of Common European Interest.

And for the future, I will push to create a new European Sovereignty Fund.

Let's make sure that the future of industry is made in Europe.

STANDING UP FOR OUR DEMOCRACY

Honourable Members,

As we look around at the state of the world today, it can often feel like there is a fading away of what once seemed so permanent.

And in some way, the passing of Queen Elizabeth II last week reminded us of this.

She is a legend!

She was a constant throughout the turbulent and transforming events in the last 70 years.

Stoic and steadfast in her service.

But more than anything, she always found the right words for every moment in time.

From the calls she made to war evacuees in 1940 to her historic address during the pandemic.

She spoke not only to the heart of her nation but to the soul of the world.

And when I think of the situation we are in today, her words at the height of the pandemic still resonate with me.

She said: “We will succeed – and that success will belong to every one of us”.

She always reminded us that our future is built on new ideas and founded in our oldest values.

Since the end of World War 2, we have pursued the promise of democracy and the rule of law.

And the nations of the world have built together an international system promoting peace and security, justice and economic progress.

Today this is the very target of Russian missiles.

What we saw in the streets of Bucha, in the scorched fields of grain, and now at the gates of Ukraine's largest nuclear plant – is not only a violation of international rules.

It's a deliberate attempt to discard them.

This watershed moment in global politics calls for a rethink of our foreign policy agenda.

This is the time to invest in the power of democracies.

This work begins with the core group of our like-minded partners: our friends in every single democratic nation on this globe.

We see the world with the same eyes. And we should mobilise our collective power to shape global goods.

We should strive to expand this core of democracies. The most immediate way to do so is to deepen our ties and strengthen democracies on our continent.

This starts with those countries that are already on the path to our Union.

We must be at their side every step of the way.

Because the path towards strong democracies and the path towards our Union are one and the same.

So I want the people of the Western Balkans, of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia to know:

You are part of our family, your future is in our Union, and our Union is not complete without you!

We have also seen that there is a need to reach out to the countries of Europe – beyond the accession process.

This is why I support the call for a European Political Community – and we will set out our ideas to the European Council.

But our future also depends on our ability to engage beyond the core of our democratic partners.

Countries near and far, share an interest in working with us on the great challenges of this century, such as climate change and digitalisation.

This is the main idea behind Global Gateway, the investment plan I announced right here one year ago.

It is already delivering on the ground.

Together with our African partners we are building two factories in Rwanda and Senegal to manufacture mRNA vaccines.

They will be made in Africa, for Africa, with world-class technology.

And we are now replicating this approach across Latin America as part of a larger engagement strategy.

This requires investment on a global scale.

So we will team up with our friends in the US and with other G7 partners to make this happen.

In this spirit, President Biden and I will convene a leaders' meeting to review and announce implementation projects.

Honourable Members,

This is part of our work of strengthening our democracies.

But we should not lose sight of the way foreign autocrats are targeting our own countries.

Foreign entities are funding institutes that undermine our values.

Their disinformation is spreading from the internet to the halls of our universities.

Earlier this year, a university in Amsterdam shut down an allegedly independent research centre, which was actually funded by Chinese entities. This centre was publishing so-called research on human rights, dismissing the evidence of forced labour camps for Uyghurs as “rumours”.

These lies are toxic for our democracies.

Think about this: We introduced legislation to screen foreign direct investment in our companies for security concerns.

If we do that for our economy, shouldn't we do the same for our values?

We need to better shield ourselves from malign interference.

This is why we will present a Defence of Democracy package.

It will bring covert foreign influence and shady funding to light.

We will not allow any autocracy's Trojan horses to attack our democracies from within.

For more than 70 years, our continent has marched towards democracy. But the gains of our long journey are not assured.

Many of us have taken democracy for granted for too long. Especially those, like me, who have never experienced what it means to live under the fist of an authoritarian regime.

Today we all see that we must fight for our democracies. Every single day.

We must protect them both from the external threats they face, and from the vices that corrode them from within.

It is my Commission's duty and most noble role to protect the rule of law.

So let me assure you: we will keep insisting on judicial independence.

And we will also protect our budget through the conditionality mechanism.

And today I would like to focus on corruption, with all its faces. The face of foreign agents trying to influence our political system. The face of shady companies or foundations abusing public money.

If we want to be credible when we ask candidate countries to strengthen their democracies, we must also eradicate corruption at home.

That is why in the coming year the Commission will present measures to update our legislative framework for fighting corruption.

We will raise standards on offences such as illicit enrichment, trafficking in influence and abuse of power, beyond the more classic offences such as bribery.

And we will also propose to include corruption in our human rights sanction regime, our new tool to protect our values abroad.

Corruption erodes trust in our institutions. So we must fight back with the full force of the law.

Honourable Members,

Our founders only meant to lay the first stone of this democracy.

They always thought that future generations would complete their work.

“Democracy has not gone out of fashion, but it must update itself in order to keep improving people's lives.”

These are the words of David Sassoli – a great European, who we all pay tribute to today.

David Sassoli thought that Europe should always look for new horizons.

And through the adversities of these times, we have started to see what our new horizon might be.

A braver Union.

Closer to its people in times of need.

Bolder in responding to historic challenges and daily concerns of Europeans. And to walk at their side when they deal with the big trials of life.

This is why the Conference on the Future of Europe was so important.

It was a sneak peek of a different kind of citizens' engagement, well beyond election day.

And after Europe listened to its citizens' voice, we now need to deliver.

The Citizens' Panels that were central to the Conference will now become a regular feature of our democratic life.

And in the Letter of Intent that I have sent today to President Metsola and Prime Minister Fiala, I have outlined a number of proposals for the year ahead that stem from the Conference conclusions.

They include for example a new initiative on mental health.

We should take better care of each other. And for many who feel anxious and lost, appropriate, accessible and affordable support can make all the difference.

Honourable Members,

Democratic institutions must constantly gain and regain the citizens' trust.

We must live up to the new challenges that history always puts before us.

Just like Europeans did when millions of Ukrainians came knocking on their door.

This is Europe at its best.

A Union of determination and solidarity.

But this determination and drive for solidarity is still missing in our migration debate.

Our actions towards Ukrainian refugees must not be an exception. They can be our blueprint for going forward.

We need fair and quick procedures, a system that is crisis proof and quick to deploy, and a permanent and legally binding mechanism that ensures solidarity.

And at the same time, we need effective control of our external borders, in line with the respect of fundamental rights.

I want a Europe that manages migration with dignity and respect.

I want a Europe where all Member States take responsibility for challenges we all share.

And I want a Europe that shows solidarity to all Member States.

We have progress on the Pact, we now have the Roadmap. And we now need the political will to match.

Honourable Members,

Three weeks ago, I had the incredible opportunity of joining 1,500 young people from all over Europe and the world, who gathered in Taizé.

They have different views, they come from different countries, they have different backgrounds, they speak different languages.

And yet, there is something that connects them.

They share a set of values and ideals.

They believe in these values.

They are all passionate about something larger than themselves.

This generation is a generation of dreamers but also of makers.

In my last State of the Union address, I told you that I would like Europe to look more like these young people.

We should put their aspirations at the heart of everything we do.

And the place for this is in our founding Treaties.

Every action that our Union takes should be inspired by a simple principle.

That we should do no harm to our children's future.

That we should leave the world a better place for the next generation.

And therefore, Honourable Members, I believe that it is time to enshrine solidarity between generations in our Treaties.

It is time to renew the European promise.

And we also need to improve the way we do things and the way we decide things.

Some might say this is not the right time. But if we are serious about preparing for the world of tomorrow we must be able to act on the things that matter the most to people.

And as we are serious about a larger union, we also have to be serious about reform.

So as this Parliament has called for, I believe the moment has arrived for a European Convention.

CONCLUSION

Honourable Members,

They say that light shines brightest in the dark.

And that was certainly true for the women and the children fleeing Russia's bombs.

They fled a country at war, filled with sadness for what they had left behind, and fear for what may lie ahead.

But they were received with open arms. By many citizens like Magdalena and Agnieszka. Two selfless young women from Poland.

As soon as they heard about trains full of refugees, they rushed to the Warsaw Central Station.

They started to organise.

They set up a tent to assist as many people as possible.

They reached out to supermarket chains for food, and to local authorities to organise buses to hospitality centres.

In a matter of days, they gathered 3000 volunteers, to welcome refugees 24/7.

Honourable Members,

Magdalena and Agnieszka are here with us today.

Please join me in applauding them and each and every European who opened their hearts and their homes.

Their story is about everything our Union stands and strives for.

It is a story of heart, character and solidarity.

They showed everyone what Europeans can achieve when we rally around a common mission.

This is Europe's spirit.

A Union that stands strong together.

A Union that prevails together.

Long live Europe.

State of the EU: Ukraine, energy, climate change, econom[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220909IPR40133/] y:[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220909IPR40133/] EU Parliament debate

In the annual State of the European Union debate, MEPs quizzed President von der Leyen on the Commission’s work in the past year and its upcoming plans.

Opening the debate, EP President Roberta Metsola[https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/video/v_I229656] said: “It is a special honour to have Olena Zelenska with us on this important day. We are here against an alarming backdrop of an illegal and unjustifiable invasion of sovereign Ukraine, high inflation, energy and electricity price rises, a climate catastrophe, increased food insecurity and rising costs of living. Today our message must be that "Europe will respond".”

On the war against Ukraine, Commission President von der Leyen stated: “Putin will fail and Europe will prevail.” She added that the sanctions against Russia “are here to stay.” Ms von der Leyen announced €100 million to restore damaged Ukrainian schools as well as bringing Ukraine into the EU’s free roaming area and the Single Market.

On soaring energy prices, the Commission will put forward measures for member states to reduce their electricity consumption and will propose a cap on the revenues of companies that produce electricity at a low cost to raise more than €140 billion to cushion the blow for citizens. She also announced a reform of the electricity market. Von der Leyen made clear that Putin is exclusively to blame for the current energy crisis and the price increases.

On the Conference on the Future of Europe, President von der Leyen promised that the Citizens’ Panels will now become a regular feature and that the moment for a European Convention has arrived.

Further topics the Commission President touched upon include fighting foreign interference to protect our democracies, closer cooperation with countries such as Chile, Mexico, New Zealand, Australia and India, and proposals for a European Sovereignty Fund, a European Critical Raw Materials Act, a European Hydrogen Bank and an SME Relief Package.

You can watch her full speech here (part 1[https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/video/v_I229657], part 2[https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/video/v_I229658], part 3[https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/video/v_I229659], part 4[https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/video/v_I229660]).

Interventions by the leaders of the political groups

Manfred Weber (EPP, DE) urged for a “winter of solidarity”: “We can beat Putin and lower people’s electricity bills”. On the new energy proposals, he deplored the Parliament’s diminished role and regretted the Council’s lack of leadership. He also asked for a moratorium on new legislation to avoid an additional burden on farmers and SMEs. Finally, he stressed that there is “no effort to coordinate the EU’s defence activities” and called on the “Commission to launch, before December, a European defence action plan”.

The EU’s commitment to Ukraine’s freedom and integrity must be firm, but besides celebrating wins, we need to support those who are suffering from the social and economic consequences of the war, said Iratxe García (S&D, ES). “If not, we will see populism grow”, she warned. Ms García welcomed the emergency energy proposals, particularly the use of the extraordinary profits made by energy companies, because “it is not acceptable that some become millionaires at the expense of families’ suffering”.

Stéphane Séjourné (Renew, FR), declared that Ukraine’s fight "is a fight for Europe’s values, it is our fight, the fight for the rule of law against the law of the strongest”. The EU has the means to respond quickly and effectively to the consequences of the war on European citizens, he said. He expressed support for measures to reduce energy prices and called for "all our dependencies, on food, raw materials, health, digital and defence infrastructures” to be reduced. Public policies should be aligned with the objective of strategic autonomy, he concluded.

“We must continue to support Ukraine and even scale up those efforts”, insisted Ska Keller (Greens/EFA, DE). However, solidarity within the EU also needs to increase. We must ensure that the costs of these times are carried by those with the broadest shoulders, she stressed. “Ultimately, the only way through this crisis is to use less energy and more renewable energy”. Ms Keller also called on the Commission to make sure that “no money is paid out to Poland and Hungary unless they return to the path of the rule of law.”

Marco Zanni (ID, IT) considered that the proposed measures “are nowhere near enough to bring concrete help to those who are suffering today”. "The cap on the price of gas -the only measure that will somehow help citizens and businesses (...) - is still being discussed”. Mr Zanni urged the Commission to consider that 'the world has changed since 2019' and that certain policies are no longer viable, as they have neither helped to protect the climate nor to achieve an industrial and socio-economic transition.

Raffaele Fitto (ECR, IT) called for the Atlantic Alliance to continue being strengthened and for sanctions to be maintained, which are the only means to achieve results. However, he emphasised the need to “ensure true unity” in the EU to be able to tackle “two big issues: that of energy and that of support for families and businesses”. We need clear answers, he insisted on “the gas price cap and the decoupling of the price between gas and energy”.

Manon Aubry (The Left, FR) highlighted that citizens cannot pay their bills any more. Salaries stagnate while prices rise with inflation and energy costs, but dividends go up and billionaires use their private jets, she deplored. Ms Aubry welcomed the announced excess profits tax for energy companies, saying that her group was always the only one to ask for such a tax, which needs to be paid by all enterprises that benefit from the crises.

You can watch the full debate here[https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/webstreaming/debate-on-state-of-union-2022-enhanced-version-with-captions_20220914-0900-SPECIAL-OTHER].

REPOWEREU

Presentation of the draft opinion on the proposal on REPowerEU

14-09-2022

The Committee on Regional Development will hold a presentation of the draft opinion on the legislative proposal on REPowerEU chapters in recovery and resilience plans in an extraordinary meeting in Strasbourg on 15 September. The proposal amends, among others, Common Provisions Regulation 2021-2027, increasing the allowed threshold of transfers from the Cohesion Policy funds to the Recovery and Resilience Facility.

* REGI Website [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/regi/home/highlights]

* Meeting agenda and documents [https://emeeting.europarl.europa.eu/emeeting/committee/en/archives/REGI]

* Live streaming [https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/webstreaming?lv=COMMITTEES]

* EU Fact Sheets: regional and cohesion policy[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/factsheets/en/section/195/regional-and-cohesion-policy]

RENEWABLES

EU Parliament backs boost for renewables use and energy savings[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220909IPR40134/]

* Share of renewable energy to be raised to 45% by 2030

* Energy savings targets increased to 40% of final energy consumption, and 42.5% of primary energy consumption

* Revision of two laws will help fight climate change and boost energy security

By 2030, the European Parliament wants renewable energy to be used much more, and energy consumption to be greatly reduced.

On Wednesday, MEPs voted to raise the share of renewables in the EU’s final energy consumption to 45% by 2030, under the revision of the Renewable Energy Directive (RED) -a target also backed by the European Commission under its "RepowerEU" package.

The legislation also defines sub-targets for sectors such as transport, buildings, and district heating and cooling. In the transport sector, deploying renewables should lead to a 16% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, through the use of higher shares of advanced biofuels and a more ambitious quota for renewable fuels of non-biological origin such as hydrogen. Industry should boost its use of renewables by 1.9 percentage points per year, and district heating networks by 2.3 points

Each member state will have to develop two cross-border projects for the expansion of green electricity. Member states with an annual electricity consumption of more than 100 TWh will have to develop a third one by 2030.

MEPs also adopted amendments calling for phasing down the share of primary wood counted as renewable energy.

The text was adopted with 418 votes in favour, 109 against and 111 abstentions.

Energy savings

In a separate vote on Wednesday, MEPs backed the revision of the Energy Efficiency Directive (EED), the law that sets energy-saving targets in both primary[https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php?title=Glossary:Primary_energy_production] and final[https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/statistics-explained/index.php?title=Glossary:Final_energy_consumption] energy consumption in the EU.

MEPs raised the EU target for reducing final and primary energy consumption, so that member states must collectively ensure final energy consumption is reduced by at least 40% by 2030 and 42.5% in primary energy consumption compared to 2007 projections. This corresponds to 740 and 960 million tonnes of oil equivalent (Mtoe) for final and primary energy consumption, respectively. Member states should set binding national contributions to achieve these targets.

The targets will be met through measures at local, regional, national and European levels, in different sectors - e.g. public administration, buildings, businesses, data centres.

The text was adopted with 469 votes in favour, 93 against and 82 abstentions.

Quotes

"Only the expansion of renewable energy means true independence" said Markus Pieper[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/28224/MARKUS_PIEPER/home] (EPP, DE), lead MEP on the renewable energy directive. "We strongly support the increased 2030 target of 45%. We confirm the need for more cross-border cooperation to expand renewable energy deployment, and call for a diversified import strategy for hydrogen. We have also raised the requirements for the sustainability of biomass and fuels, and showed ways in which biogenic materials can make a real economic contribution to the energy transition.”

Niels Fuglsang[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/101585/NIELS_FUGLSANG/home] (S&D, DK), rapporteur on the energy efficiency directive, said: ". We are in a crisis where Putin is shutting off gas. One of our most effective answers to this is energy efficiency. It is crucial Parliament has today voted for ambitious and binding energy efficiency targets for the EU and for individual member states."

Next steps

MEPs and the Czech Presidency of the Council will now enter into negotiations on the files, on which EU Ministers have set their position in June[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/06/27/fit-for-55-council-agrees-on-higher-targets-for-renewables-and-energy-efficiency/].

Background

On 14 July 2021, the European Commission adopted the 'Fit for 55' package, adapting existing climate and energy legislation to meet the new EU objective of a minimum 55% reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2030. One element of the package is the revision of the Renewable Energy Directive (RED II), which will help the EU deliver the new 55% GHG target. Under RED II currently in force, the EU is obliged to ensure at least 32% of its energy consumption comes from renewable energy sources by 2030.

The “Fit for 55” package also includes the recast of the Energy Efficiency Directive (EED), aligning its provisions to the new 55% GHG target. The EED currently sets out the level of energy savings the EU needs to make to meet the agreed goal of 32.5% energy efficiency improvements by 2030.

Grüne/EFA: Neue EU-Energiegesetze angenommen - Effizienz und Erneuerbare für Energiesicherheit und Klimaziele

Straßburg, 14. September 2022

Soeben hat das Europäische Parlament seine Position zur neuen EU-Energieeffizienzrichtlinie (EED) und zur Erneuerbare Energien Richtlinie (RED) angenommen. EED und RED sind zentrale Gesetze zur Erreichung des EU-Klimaziels einer Treibhausgasreduktion von mindestens 55 Prozent bis 2030.

Hierzu kommentiert die an den Verhandlungen zur EU-Energieeffizienzrichtlinie beteiligte grüne Europaabgeordnete Jutta Paulus:

„Energieeffizienz ist der schlafende Riese der Energiewende. Die neue EU-Energieeffizienzrichtlinie ist zentral für die Versorgungssicherheit und Energiesouveränität in der EU. Energie, die nicht verbraucht wird, muss nicht hergestellt, transportiert oder bezahlt werden.

Das Europäische Parlament nimmt die EU-Kommission und die Mitgliedstaaten mit bindenden Energiesparzielen in die Pflicht. Die EU-Mitgliedstaaten dürfen sich nicht länger gegen Maßnahmen zum Energiesparen stellen und müssen Verantwortung übernehmen.

Endlich sollen Gebäude für öffentliche Aufgaben, vom sozialen Wohnungsbau über Schulen und Krankenhäuser zu Rathäusern und Parlamenten, zur energetischen Modernisierung verpflichtet werden. In Deutschland sind Gebäude für 35 Prozent des Energieverbrauchs verantwortlich. Mit Sanierungen und der damit einhergehenden Energieeinsparung kann die Forderung der Internationalen Energieagentur nach einer Treibhausgasreduktion von 40 Prozent in den nächsten zwanzig Jahren mit Hilfe der Energieeffizienz erreicht werden.“

BMWi: Habeck: „Weitere Stärkung der Vorsorge durch kurzfristige Erhöhung der Stromproduktion aus Erneuerbaren Energien und weitere Maßnahmen zur Senkung des Gasverbrauchs“[https://www.bmwk.de/Redaktion/DE/Pressemitteilungen/2022/09/20220914-habeck-weitere-starkung-der-vorsorge.html]

14.09.2022 - Pressemitteilung - Energieeffizienz [https://www.bmwk.de/Navigation/DE/Themen/energieeffizienz.html]

Das Bundeskabinett hat heute die vom Bundesminister für Wirtschaft und Klimaschutz vorgelegte Formulierungshilfe für einen Gesetzentwurf zur Änderung des Energiesicherungsgesetzes und anderer energiewirtschaftlicher Vorschriften beschlossen. Ziel des Entwurfs für eine dritte Novelle des Energiesicherungsgesetzes (EnSiG 3.0) die Stromproduktion aus Erneuerbaren Energien kurzfristig zu erhöhen und die Transportkapazitäten im Stromnetz zu steigern, um zur Reduzierung des Gasverbrauch im Winter 2022/2023 und im Winter 2023/2024 beizutragen. Ferner wird die Einspeisung von verflüssigtem Gas im Winter 2022/2023 weiter abgesichert.

Bundesminister Robert Habeck[https://www.bmwk.de/Redaktion/DE/Dossier/Visitenkarten/visitenkarte-habeck.html]: „Der völkerrechtswidrige Angriff Russlands auf die Ukraine hat die Energiemärkte verunsichert, genau darauf zielt Putin. Wir setzen dem aber konsequente Vorsorge entgegen und sichern die Energieversorgung. Wir haben früh begonnen, uns auf den Winter vorzubereiten, und das zeigt wichtige Erfolge. So sind wir seit Anfang September quasi unabhängig von den russischen Gaslieferungen über Nord Stream 1. Trotz des Lieferstopps sind die Speicher schon gut gefüllt und steigen weiter an - auf heute rund 88,5%. Wir treiben Ausbau der Flüssiggasterminals voran. Mit den heute beschlossenen Maßnahmen steigern wir kurzfristig die Stromerzeugung aus erneuerbaren Energien, um noch mehr Gas zu sparen. Wir ermöglichen zusätzliche Einspeisung von Windenergie und Photovoltaik, streichen Begrenzungen und geben zusätzliche Anreize für die Stromproduktion aus Biogas. Wir beschleunigen den Netzausbau, um die Netze kurzfristig höher auszulasten und so die Transportkapazität zu steigern. Außerdem senken wir die Hürden für den Brennstoffwechsel. Alle Maßnahmen dienen dazu, unseren Gasverbrauchweiter zu senken und die Unabhängigkeit von Energieimporten aus Russland zu festigen. Zudem stärken wir damit das Stromsystem.“

Mit der Novelle des Energiesicherungsgesetzes werden zudem die Möglichkeiten zur Lastflexibilität industrieller Großverbraucher erschlossen. Hinzu kommen Verfahrenserleichterungen, mit der die Nutzung von LNG-Anlagen verbessert wird, um eine möglichst große Gaseinspeisung an den Standorten Brunsbüttel, Wilhelmshaven und Lubmin in diesem Winter abzusichern.

Die Formulierungshilfe zum Gesetzentwurf zur Änderung des Energiesicherungsgesetzes und anderer energiewirtschaftlicher Vorschriften finden Sie hier (PDF, 430 KB)[https://www.bmwk.de/Redaktion/DE/Downloads/Energie/20220914-entwurf-einer-formulierungshilfe-der-bundesregierung.pdf?__blob=publicationFile&v=10].

Wind Europe: Emergency measures on electricity market: avoid a patchwork that undermines renewables investments

Link[https://windeurope.org/newsroom/press-releases/emergency-measures-on-electricity-market-avoid-a-patchwork-that-undermines-renewables-investments/]

14 September 2022

The European Commission has proposed new rules that would cap the price of wind energy and other so-called inframarginal power generation at €180/MWh. WindEurope supports the aim of cushioning the impact of high electricity prices on families and businesses. But national caps that deviate from an EU-wide cap would create a patchwork that would undermine investments in renewables.

The European Commission has proposed new emergency measures to tackle the current energy crisis. After Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and its deliberate reduction of gas flows, energy prices in Europe have surged. Driven by the high price of gas, electricity prices have increased up to 10-fold over the last year, putting European families and businesses under increasing pressure.

Today the Commission proposed, among other things, the introduction of a €180/MWh price cap for so-called “inframarginal producers of electricity”. These include wind, solar, geothermal, hydro, nuclear and lignite. The difference between the wholesale electricity price and the €180/MWh cap would be recovered by National Governments to finance energy efficiency measures, help vulnerable households pay their bills and support companies affected by the energy crisis.

The price cap is EU-wide and technology-neutral, meaning that it equally applies to all Member States and to all inframarginal producers. And it applies to revenue generated from all contractual market arrangements, including electricity sold on the wholesale market, under a Power Purchase agreement (PPA) as well as forward hedges. The Commission clarified that the revenues of wind energy PPAs and forward hedges would typically be below the €180/MWh cap.

However, the European Commission proposal would allow Member States to go further in limiting the revenues of inframarginal producers of electricity. And Member States would be allowed to maintain already introduced price caps. That’s not helpful.

Europe needs more renewables as soon as possible to reduce its overreliance on Russian fossil fuel imports and to overcome the current energy crisis. A patchwork of different price caps, unilaterally introduced by individual Member States, creates investment uncertainty.

“The EU wants a huge expansion of renewables to help get out of the current energy crisis. That means loads of new investments in wind and solar. But investors need visibility. So an EU-wide cap on revenues from wind should be precisely that – a single EU-wide cap. Allowing countries to deviate from it and have lower caps creates confusion and certainty – and will slow down the investments we so badly need”, says WindEurope CEO Giles Dickson.

The European Commission has designed the cap so it does not apply to those wind farms that aren’t earning today’s wholesale electricity prices. Most wind farms in Europe are in fact on fixed income: either from a Government contract, a PPA with an industrial consumer – or they’ve hedged against both lower and higher market prices.

The proposed EU Regulation includes a solidarity contribution from fossil fuel companies that have made significant windfall profits. These oil and gas producers will be asked to contribute at least 33% of their surplus profits generated in 2022. Member States can apply higher rates. These solidary contributions should be used to support households, to help energy-intensive industries transitioning to renewables and to fund cross-border projects.

The European Commission estimates that the cap on inframarginal power producers and the solidary contribution will together generate €140bn of revenues.

They are underpinned by a mandatory reduction of total monthly gross electricity consumption of 10% and a binding target to decrease electricity demand during peak hours by at least 5%. Member States can choose how to fulfil these demand reduction targets. These targets make sense.

The Commission’s proposal will now be discussed by EU Energy Ministers – at an extraordinary Energy Council on 30 September. The measures should then enter into force for a period of one year – with the option to be prolonged if the energy crisis continues. The Commission is now starting to work on the long-term changes to the EU electricity market design.

UKRAINE

EU Parliament Briefing - Russia’s war on Ukraine fuels energy crisis [What Think Tanks are thinking] - 14-09-2022[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document/EPRS_BRI(2022)733643]

The European Union is debating how to respond to the energy crisis resulting from Russia’s war on Ukraine. Energy prices are surging in the EU and elsewhere, as Russia curtails fossil fuel exports with the aim of pressing the Union to reduce its support for Ukraine. Gas prices are now some ten times their average over the last decade. Individual EU governments are offering their citizens and businesses financial relief, but they face the dilemma of balancing this aid with allowing energy prices to grow in order to discourage consumption. Some countries are reopening polluting coal-fired power plants and delaying closures of nuclear energy generators. The European Commission proposed, in September, EU-wide measures against Russia’s energy market manipulation. They would force firms and individuals to use less energy in certain circumstances, and envisage windfall charges on some power generators, which would be returned to consumers. It offers liquidity aid for energy firms and proposes a cap on the price of Russian gas. EU energy ministers discussed the ideas on 9 September, but reached no firm conclusions. This note gathers links to the recent publications and commentaries from many international think tanks on the energy market. Earlier analyses of high energy prices can be found in a previous edition of the ‘What Think Tanks are Thinking’ series.

Source : © European Union, 2022 - EP VISIT WEBSITE[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document/EPRS_BRI(2022)733643]

Kharkiv region: President Zelenskyy held a meeting on the energy security [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/kharkiv-region-president-zelenskyy-held-a-meeting-on-the-energy-security/386978/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Kyiv, 14 September 2022

During a working trip to the Kharkiv region, President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy held a meeting on energy security issues in the region.

Head of the Kharkiv Regional Military Administration Oleg Syniehubov informed the President that 16 communities were fully de-occupied in the region, and 7 communities were partially de-occupied. About 6% of the region’s territory remains under occupation, while 32% of the Kharkiv region was occupied before the counteroffensive of the Ukrainian military.

According to Oleg Syniehubov, works are being carried out in the region to restore damaged infrastructure facilities, in particular in liberated settlements. Electricity supply lines, mobile communications and the work of medical institutions are being restored in the de-occupied territories.

The President emphasized the importance of restoring electricity supply as soon as possible in the territories liberated from the enemy.

“The de-occupation is ongoing, so we need to prepare a clear plan of action so that it is applicable in other areas that will be liberated,” Volodymyr Zelenskyy said.

Minister of Energy Herman Halushchenko, who participated in the meeting via video conference, noted that the work of repair crews largely depends on the pace of demining the territories.

In view of this, the President called to ensure the work of a greater number of crews of energy workers and employees of the State Emergency Service in order to speed up the recovery process.

During the meeting, attention was also focused on the issue of the operation of CHPP and TPP in the Kharkiv region. Volodymyr Zelenskyy noted that today, in the conditions of war, it is necessary to develop a plan of measures to ensure reserve capacities of the energy supply system.

In addition, the Head of State got himself acquainted with the progress of restoration of a residential building in Kharkiv, which was damaged as a result of Russian shelling. The roof, walls and balconies are being repaired there, windows are being installed.

Volodymyr Zelenskyy presented the Order of Bohdan Khmelnytsky of the III degree to Head of the Kharkiv Regional Military Administration Oleg Syniehubov and the Order “For Courage” of the II degree to Mayor of Kharkiv Ihor Terekhov.

Oleg Syniehubov and Ihor Terekhov were awarded in accordance with the President’s decree of March 6 for a significant personal contribution to the protection of state sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, courage and selfless actions shown during the organization of the defense of settlements from Russian invaders.

Source – President of Ukraine[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/glava-derzhavi-proviv-naradu-shodo-energetichnoyi-bezpeki-ha-77789]

NORTH SEAS ENERGY COOPERATION

Members of the North Seas Energy Cooperation (NSEC) grasp historic opportunity to accelerate Europe's move towards energy independence[https://www.gov.ie/en/press-release/9c152-members-of-the-north-seas-energy-cooperation-nsec-grasp-historic-opportunity-to-accelerate-europes-move-towards-energy-independence/] - Government of Ireland

VISIT WEBSITE[https://www.gov.ie/en/press-release/9c152-members-of-the-north-seas-energy-cooperation-nsec-grasp-historic-opportunity-to-accelerate-europes-move-towards-energy-independence/]

From Department of the Environment, Climate and Communications[https://www.gov.ie/en/organisation/department-of-the-environment-climate-and-communications/]

Published on 12 September 2022

Last updated on 12 September 2022

Energy Ministers from the members of the North Seas Energy Cooperation (NSEC) and the European Commission have today (12 September) announced a significant increase in their collective ambition in the deployment of offshore renewable energy. At their Ministerial Meeting in Dublin, under the Irish Co-Presidency of NSEC, the NSEC ministers have – for the first time – agreed aggregate, non-binding offshore renewable energy targets for the maritime area of the entire NSEC region.

The nine NSEC countries have agreed to reach at least 260GW of offshore wind energy by 2050. This will represent more than 85% of the EU-wide ambition of reaching 300GW by 2050 as set out in the EU strategy for offshore renewable energy.[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=COM:2020:741:FIN&qid=1605792629666]

Ministers and the Commission reiterated their commitment that cooperation within the NSEC will be the framework for achieving their increased offshore ambitions.

Speaking at the Ministerial meeting, Minister for the Environment, Climate and Communications, Eamon Ryan said:

"In Ireland alone our sea area is seven times our landmass. The North Atlantic and North Sea comprise some of the windiest locations on the globe. It is our greatest collective resource of continuous energy and it is momentous that we have agreed today to be ambitious in our targets, as a collective. Russia’s illegal invasion of Ukraine and the consequential energy price shock and security of supply crisis has shown us how crucial it is that we move away, as quickly as possible, from our reliance on expensive and ransomed fossil fuels. It has also shown us how important unity across the European Union has been in responding to this crisis. When it comes to realising the potential of offshore wind, again, it is best that we work in unity, that we set agreed targets, and that we operate as a collective. With this approach, we can provide assurances to householders and businesses – in our own countries and across Europe – that firstly, Europe will be energy independent, and secondly, that these new renewable energy sources and resultant hydrogen from our seas will be fairly shared and, critically, will be affordable."

Welcoming the new targets, the European Commissioner for Energy, Kadri Simson said:

"Today’s commitment is a great example of the kind of regional cooperation that the Commission envisaged in our Offshore Renewable Energy Strategy. It is impressive that the target agreed by nine NSEC countries constitutes more than 85% of the EU-wide ambition we outlined two years ago. The green energy transition has only become more urgent since Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The acceleration of renewables deployment is one of the three pillars of the REPowerEU Plan to end our dependence on Russian fossil fuels. Increasing renewable energy will not only help to improve the sustainability of our energy sector, it will improve our security of supply and the affordability of energy – two challenges that we are facing in the EU at the moment."

Notes

The North Seas Energy Cooperation (NSEC)

The North Seas Energy Cooperation (NSEC) is a regional non-binding and voluntary EU cooperation framework which aims to advance development of offshore renewable energy in the geographical area of the North Seas, including the Irish and Celtic Seas. The NSEC is based on a political declaration adopted in 2016, with membership comprised of Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and the European Commission.

The 2016 political declaration which established the group emphasises the importance of voluntary cooperation, with the aim of securing a sustainable secure and affordable energy supply for the North Seas countries. An updated political declaration was signed in December 2021 to reflect the increased climate ambition contained in the European Green Deal.

Ireland’s NSEC Presidency 2022

The Co-Presidency of the NSEC is held by the European Commission on a permanent basis and one NSEC member state for a rotating 12-month period. Ireland holds this Co-Presidency role for 2022.

In this role Ireland has sought to promote the following:

* establishing ambitious 2050 offshore renewable energy targets for the whole of the NSEC

* enhancing cooperation between NSEC countries, including in relation to developing offshore grids and Maritime Spatial Planning

* establishing market arrangements to encourage development of hybrid offshore renewable projects comprising offshore generation with interconnection

* formalising a constructive future relationship between the NSEC and the UK

Hybrid offshore renewable projects or hybrid interconnectors are projects that combine electricity generation with the ability to supply electricity to two or more different markets – for example an offshore windfarm that would have connections to Belgium and Denmark.

NSEC Ministerial Event – Dún Laoghaire

As part of the role of Co-President Ireland hosted a Ministerial Event in Dublin on Monday, 12 September for the energy ministers of the NSEC and the European Commission. In addition to the Irish priorities, the meeting included discussions with offshore renewable energy sector representatives regarding current offshore renewables supply chain constraints and possible actions to address these.

The Ministers and the Commission discussed how the revised EU TEN-E Regulation will make a vital contribution towards development of the offshore grids, cross border interconnection, and hybrid offshore renewable energy projects necessary to deliver upon their increased offshore ambitions.

The Joint Statement of the Dublin meeting[https://energy.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2022-09/220912_NSEC_Joint_Statement_Dublin_Ministerial.pdf] reiterates the need to speed up permit granting procedures for deployment of offshore renewable energy, while ensuring that maximising our common offshore resource takes place with due regard for the protection of biodiversity and ecosystems, the economic wellbeing of local communities, viable and sustainable food production and alternative activities taking place within our shared maritime space.

LNG & GAS SUPPLIES

EP: Written question - Increased cost of green alternative fuel (LNG) - E-003027/2022[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/E-9-2022-003027_EN.html]

Question for written answer E-003027/2022

to the Commission

Rule 138

Silvio Berlusconi (PPE), Antonio Tajani (PPE)

Source : © European Union, 2022 - EP[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/privacy-policy/en]

VISIT WEBSITE[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/E-9-2022-003027_EN.html]

GERMANY

Bundesregierung: Umsatzsteuer auf Gas wird reduziert[https://www.bundesregierung.de/breg-de/aktuelles/steuersenkung-gas-2125486]

Die steigenden Energiepreise sind für viele Bürgerinnen und Bürger schon jetzt zu einer großen Belastung geworden. Deshalb senkt die Bundesregierung vorübergehend den Umsatzsteuersatz auf die Lieferung von Gas. Das Kabinett hat dafür eine Formulierungshilfe für den Deutschen Bundestag beschlossen.

Mit dem „Gesetz zur temporären Senkung des Umsatzsteuersatzes auf Gaslieferungen über das Erdgasnetz“ wird der Umsatzsteuersatz auf Gaslieferungen ab Oktober 2022 bis Ende März 2024 von 19 auf 7 Prozent reduziert. Diese Maßnahme ist Teil des dritten Entlastungspaketes. Die Steuermindereinnahmen belaufen sich für diesen Zeitraum auf circa 11,3 Milliarden Euro.

Die Umsatzsteuer ist als indirekte Steuer darauf angelegt, dass sie von den Unternehmen grundsätzlich an die Verbraucherinnen und Verbraucher weitergegeben wird. Dies muss auch für den umgekehrten Fall gelten. Die Bundesregierung erwartet von den Unternehmen, dass sie die Steuersenkung eins zu eins an die Verbraucherinnen und Verbraucher weitergeben.

Belastungen werden abgemildert

Im Zeitraum vom 1. Oktober 2022 bis 31. März 2024 wird die Gasbeschaffungsumlage[https://www.bundesregierung.de/breg-de/themen/klimaschutz/gaspreisanpassung-umlage-2068832] erhoben. Diese unterliegt, ebenso wie das Entgelt für die Gaslieferung, der Umsatzsteuer. Den Gaskundinnen und -kunden sollen jedoch aus der obligatorischen Erhebung der Umsatzsteuer auf die Gasbeschaffungsumlage keine zusätzlichen Belastungen entstehen.

Der Umsatzsteuersatz auf die Lieferung von Gas wird daher von 19 auf 7 Prozent abgesenkt - und zwar solange, wie auch die Gasbeschaffungsumlage erhoben wird, also vom 1. Oktober 2022 bis zum 31. März 2024. Damit werden für Gaskundinnen und -kunden die Belastungen reduziert, die durch die Gasbeschaffungsumlage entstehen.

So wirkt die Senkung der Umsatzsteuer:

Nach Berechnungen der Bundesregierung [*] belaufen sich die Kosten für die ab Oktober geltenden Gasumlagen auf insgesamt circa 660 Euro für einen Vier-Personen-Haushalt mit einem Gasverbrauch von 20.000 Kilowattstunden im Jahr. Durch die von der Bundesregierung geplante Senkung der Umsatzsteuer von 19 auf 7 Prozent wird dieser Haushalt im Gegenzug um knapp 400 Euro im Jahr entlastet. Die Gasumlagen helfen den Gasimporteuren, die hohen Ersatzbeschaffungskosten zu finanzieren und dadurch die Versorgungssicherheit für unser Land zu erhalten.

[*] Berechnungsbasis: Gaspreis netto 13,5 ct/kWh, Gasumlagen netto 3,1 ct/kWh (Gasbeschaffungsumlage 2,4 ct + Gasspeicherumlage 0,1 ct + Bilanzierungsumlage 0,6 ct)

Mehr über die befristete Umsatzsteuersenkung auf Gaslieferungen erfahren Sie in unseren Fragen und Antworten[https://www.bundesregierung.de/breg-de/themen/klimaschutz/faq-mwst-senkung-auf-gas-2078214].

Mittwoch, 14. September 2022

Staatssekretär Sven Giegold: Energiewende von unten: Steuerliche Entlastung und Bürokratieabbau kommen!

Die Bundesregierung hat heute weitreichende steuerliche Entlastungen und Entbürokratisierungen für die dezentrale Nutzung von Photovoltaikanlagen beschlossen.

Damit setzen wir den Kurs des konsequenten Bürokratieabbaus und des Ausbaus der Erneuerbaren fort. Das haben wir beschlossen:

* Wir stellen klar, dass Balkonsolaranlagen keine absurden Abschaltvorrichtungen benötigen. Das gilt für alte wie neue Anlagen.

* Neue PV-Anlagen bis 25 kWpeak brauchen auch keine Steuerungseinrichtungen bzw. Begrenzung der Wirkleistungseinspeisung auf 70% mehr. Für Altanlagen wird die sogenannte 70% Regelung bis 7 kWp ab 1.1.23 komplett aufgehoben.

* Einnahmen und Entnahmen im Zusammenhang mit PV-Anlagen bei Einfamilienhäusern & Nebengebäuden bis 30 kWp werden von der Einkommenssteuer freigestellt.

* Auch in Mehrfamilienhäusern werden Einnahmen und Entnahmen aus Photovoltaikanlagen sogar bis zu 100 kWp von der Einkommenssteuer freigestellt. (15 kWp pro Wohn- oder Gewerbeeinheit)

* Damit wird der Tatsache Rechnung getragen, dass PV zwar wirtschaftlich ist, aber große Profite damit dezentral nicht zu machen sind. Aufwändige Steuererklärungen entfallen!

* Für die Lieferung und Installation von Photovoltaikanlagen für Wohnungen und öffentliche Gebäude sowie zugehöriger Komponenten und Speicher führen wir einen Nullsteuersatz in der Umsatzsteuer ein. Damit nutzen wir die Spielräume der neuen EU-Mehrwertsteuersystemrichtlinie.

* Lohnsteuerhilfevereine dürfen künftig Arbeitnehmer*innen weiter steuerlich beraten, wenn sie in eine PV-Anlage investiert haben.

* Für die Jahre 2022, 2023 und 2024 kommt zudem eine Regelung im EEG, die einen zusätzlichen Anreiz zur Stromproduktion aus Biogasanlagen setzt.

* Außerdem kommt für den 15. Januar 2023 eine zusätzliche „Krisensonderausschreibung“ für Solaranlagen in Höhe von 1.500 MW. Hier besteht noch ein Vorbehalt auf Beihilfegenehmigung der EU-Kommission (wir sind optimistisch!).

Aus dem Nähkästchen der Regierung: Die steuerlichen Maßnahmen wurden aus dem Bundesfinanzministerium vorgeschlagen und vom Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft und Klimaschutz nach Kräften unterstützt.

Das zeigt: Die Regierung zieht beim Ausbau der Erneuerbaren an einem Strang!

Schon im Osterpaket hatten wir zahlreiche Entbürokratisierungen für die Erneuerbaren Energien und ihre Nutzung in Bürgerhand auf den Weg gebracht. Der Bundestag hat diese inzwischen beschlossen. Mehr dazu hier[https://www.bmwk.de/Redaktion/DE/Pressemitteilungen/2022/04/20220406-habeck-das-osterpaket-ist-der-beschleuniger-fur-die-erneuerbaren-energien.html].

Weitere Entbürokratisierungen sind in Vorbereitung und Umsetzung. Dabei zielen wir vor allem auf bürokratische Lasten für kleine und mittlere Unternehmen und Privathaushalte, wenn sie sich für den ökologischen Wandel einsetzen. Wer in erneuerbare Energien investiert, muss gefördert und nicht gegängelt werden.

Über sachdienliche Hinweise auf konkrete und umsetzbare Entbürokratisierungen freue ich mich! Vielen Dank an alle, die schon mit ihren Hinweisen beigetragen haben.

Bei all dem gebührt besonderer Dank an die vielen Mitarbeiter*innen im Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft und Klimaschutz und weiteren Ministerien, die all diese Arbeit zusätzlich zum Aufräumen von jahrelangen Versäumnissen bei der Energiewende schultern. Das sind stille Heldinnen und Helden der Energiewende!

Doch all das ist nur der Anfang. Bürokratieabbau ist nicht nur notwendig bei den Erneuerbaren Energien. Wir werden das zusammen mit dem federführenden Justizministerium und der gesamten Bundesregierung breit angehen.

Wir liefern die Veränderungen für eine sozial-ökologische Marktwirtschaft, wie im Koalitionsvertrag angekündigt. Punkt für Punkt, Gesetz für Gesetz arbeite ich daran hinter den Kulissen des Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft und Klimaschutz - wie so viele im Regierungsteam!

ifo Institut: Laufzeitverlängerung würde Strompreise 2023 um 4 Prozent verringern

München, 14. September 2022 – Eine Laufzeitverlängerung der drei deutschen Atomkraftwerke würde den deutschen Strompreis im kommenden Jahr um 4 Prozent senken. Das geht aus Berechnungen des ifo Instituts hervor. Die Atomkraftwerke würden rund 4 Prozent des Stroms in Deutschland erzeugen. Der Stromerzeugungsanteil von Erdgas würde allerdings nur von 8,3 Prozent auf 7,6 Prozent sinken. „Denn Atomkraft ersetzt Erdgas nicht 1:1, sondern kurzfristig vor allem auch Kohle“, sagt ifo-Stromexperte Mathias Mier.

Gaskraftwerke glichen vor allem Schwankungen der Nachfrage und der erneuerbaren Energien aus. Atomkraft sei dazu ungeeignet, und die Kostenstruktur verlange nach einem Dauerbetrieb. Nicht alle Determinanten des künftigen Stromverbrauchs und insbesondere der Erdgasverfügbarkeit im Winter seien heute bereits bekannt, deswegen kann es sinnvoll sein, sich die Option Atomstrom auch über eine krisenbedingte, kurzfristige Laufzeitverlängerung im kommenden Jahr hinaus offen zu halten. Für die Betreiber der Atomkraftwerke schätzt Mier, dass deren Gewinne im laufenden Jahr wegen der hohen Erdgaspreise unerwartet um 7,9 Milliarden Euro höher ausfallen werden. Auch andere Betreiber erwirtschafteten hohe unerwartete Gewinne. Die Diskussion um eine Änderung des Strommarktdesigns hält Mier für „nicht zielführend, weil der Strommarkt ja funktioniert. Was nicht funktioniert, ist der Erdgasmarkt. Da wurde politisch schlecht diversifiziert“.

Aufsatz: „Erdgas- und Strompreise, Gewinne, Laufzeitverlängerungen und das Klima[https://www.ifo.de/publikationen/2022/aufsatz-zeitschrift/erdgas-und-strompreise-gewinne-laufzeitverlaengerungen-und-0]“, von Mathias Mier, in: ifo Schnelldienst 9/2022.

Bundesnetzagentur: Situationsbericht Lage der Gasversorgung in Deutschland (Stand 14.09.22)[https://www.bundesnetzagentur.de/DE/Fachthemen/ElektrizitaetundGas/Versorgungssicherheit/aktuelle_gasversorgung/_downloads/09_September/220914_gaslage.html]

ENERGY CHARTER

Statement by the International Energy Charter Industry Advisory Panel (IAP)[http://www.energycharter.org/media/news/article/statement-by-the-international-energy-charter-industry-advisory-panel-iap/?cHash=c312792f8246c206751c31e7e0aa4bc9]

Taking into consideration the alert on "Code Red for Humanity", as defined by UN Secretary-General António Guterres in his statement on the Sixth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, understanding the need for immediate actions to implement the European Green Deal, and being conscious and aware of climate change impact on the European and the global economies, possibly dwarfing the unprecedented energy crisis, and noting the most severe, for the last few decades or even centuries, heat waves and droughts occurring in various parts of the world, the International Energy Charter Industry Advisory Panel (IAP) members call for developing and implementing more coherent, comprehensive, coordinated, and caring energy policies and targeted measures worldwide. The IAP members acknowledge the need for global mobilisation of unprecedentedly large but rationally spread investment in energy security, energy efficiency and renewable energy sub-sectors. These investments are required to meet today's demand and ensure a safe, fast and clean transition targeting a carbon-neutral global energy system in line with the Paris Agreement commitments.

In this context, the IAP members welcome the outcomes of the Ad Hoc Meeting of the Energy Charter Conference, which took place on 24 June 2022, on the modernisation of the Energy Charter Treaty (ECT). The IAP encourages the ECT's ambitious modernisation process and believes the Energy Charter process should stick to its core principles to diligently and efficiently address the above crucial challenges diligently and efficiently.

Remaining conscious and aware of the ECT's value and fully recognising its successfully progressing modernisation process, the IAP rests at the Energy Charter Conference's disposal to support it and address the mentioned challenges in the most efficient and fastest manner.

The IAP notes the Contracting Parties reaching the agreement in principle on the modernisation of the ECT, as outlined in the Public Communication, explaining the main changes contained in the agreement (CCDEC 2022 10 GEN[https://www.energycharter.org/fileadmin/DocumentsMedia/CCDECS/2022/CCDEC202210.pdf]). The IAP believes that the modernised ECT, once approved and ratified, will establish an improved international legal framework to protect sustainable energy investment, trigger the industry decarbonisation process and promote the clean energy technological transition. As was declared by the Panel members before, the purpose of the modernised Treaty is to sustain and expand fundamental principles ensuring the value of the ECT as an instrument for the promotion and protection of energy investment, trade and transit.

The ECT modernisation process is approaching its culmination, providing the IAP with an opportunity to undergo a transformation and restructuring process itself. The IAP will consider revising its Terms of Reference, adjusting its functions and activities, and modifying the scale and scope of the Panel's outputs. For this, the Panel developed its mid-term strategy, which was discussed by the members and will be finalised and approved at the next IAP Meeting. The IAP will implement the mid-term strategy starting in 2023. The new strategy assumes a more substantial commitment by its members, the geographic expansion of the membership, the introduction of new executive positions, and the provision of a broader range of research and analytical services within and outside various task forces.

As needed, the IAP members stand ready to engage with all the stakeholders and look for new opportunities for more intensified participation in the Energy Charter Process.

Updated on 14 September 2022

HYDROGEN

Latest Hydrogen headlines

* Scrapped | EU's controversial 'additionality' rules for green hydrogen are history after European Parliament vote[https://www.rechargenews.com/energy-transition/scrapped-eus-controversial-additionality-rules-for-green-hydrogen-are-history-after-european-parliament-vote/2-1-1299195]

* Unveiling of the Urbino 18 hydrogen bus along with #SolarisTalks 2022[https://www.automotiveworld.com/news-releases/unveiling-of-the-urbino-18-hydrogen-bus-along-with-solaristalks-2022/]

* 'From niche to scale' | EU launches €3bn European Hydrogen Bank with a bang but keeps quiet about the details[https://www.rechargenews.com/energy-transition/from-niche-to-scale-eu-launches-3bn-european-hydrogen-bank-with-a-bang-but-keeps-quiet-about-the-details/2-1-1299131]

* Topsoe wins world’s largest ever hydrogen electrolyser order in 5GW green ammonia deal[https://www.rechargenews.com/energy-transition/topsoe-wins-world-s-largest-ever-hydrogen-electrolyser-order-in-5gw-green-ammonia-deal/2-1-1299119]

* The Promise Of Green Hydrogen[https://www.forbes.com/sites/siemens-smart-infrastructure/2022/09/14/the-promise-of-green-hydrogen/]

* MENA region can lead global steel decarbonisation with investment in green hydrogen and renewable energy[https://www.renewableenergymagazine.com/hydrogen/vestas-wins-43-mw-order-for-wind-20220914-1/]

ENERGY REGULATION

Registration open for the 3rd ACER - ENTSO-E Public Workshop on the Long Term Flow-Based Allocation (29 September 2022)

The EU Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (ACER) and the European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity (ENTSO-E) are holding the 3rd public workshop on the flow-based capacity allocation processes and methodologies in the Core and Nordic Capacity Calculation Regions (CCR).

When?

On Thursday, 29 September 2022, 09:00 – 12:00.

What is the event about?

The aim of the workshop is to provide an update on the long-term flow-based allocation (LTFBA) process. In addition, the workshop will prove attendees updates regarding the methodologies that relate to the LTFBA. Finally, the workshop will address stakeholders’ expectations on the first implementation of the flow-based approach at the yearly and monthly auctions of cross-zonal transmission capacities.

Find out more and register to the event.[https://mailservice.acer.europa.eu/lists/lt.php?tid=fUtVAVMBAlNSU0wJBAZbHVYMAg8dCgsEAhpRB1dVBAdUAQdVAFcdU1xbUloBVwYdUw9XBR0GCQMAGlQAVQMZVlQFDwEDUlgAUlBURVNQVVZbX1YOHVYAAQAaAVIKBxlSV1YPHFQFB1gAAARdBQUCVA]

ENTSO-E: Offshore Network Development Plans

12 September 2022

The new TEN-E regulation requires the Member States, the European Commission, and TSOs to collaborate on the development of Offshore Network Development Plans. In this framework, ENTSO-E and the European Commission have jointly elaborated this brief guidance document, aiming to support the Member States in delivering the input information needed by ENTSO-E for the infrastructure planning task.

For each sea basin, the information needed includes:

* Offshore RES capacities in the relevant time horizons (2030, 2040, 2050).

* Locations dedicated to hosting this offshore generation and transmission infrastructure.

Check the offshore wind figures included in the 2022 Scenarios[https://2022.entsos-tyndp-scenarios.eu/]

Read the document[https://eepublicdownloads.blob.core.windows.net/public-cdn-container/tyndp-documents/ONDP2024/220906_ENTSO-E_Guidance_ENER_ENTSO-E_clean.pdf]

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* ST 12249 2022 INIT[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-12249-2022-INIT/en/pdf] Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices

EU PARLIAMENT REGISTER

* AMENDMENTS 21 - 91 - Draft opinion Amending Directive (EU) 2018/2001 on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, Directive 2010/31/EU on the energy performance of buildings and Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency - PE735.625v01-00[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/AGRI-AM-735625_EN.pdf]

EU COMMISSION REGISTER

* Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices[https://ec.europa.eu/transparency/documents-register/detail?ref=COM(2022)473&lang=en]

* COMMISSION DECISION on the withdrawal of the Commission, on behalf of the European Union, from the International Energy Agency's Implementing Agreement for a Co-operative Programme on Gas and Oil Technologies[https://ec.europa.eu/transparency/documents-register/detail?ref=C(2022)6501&lang=en]

Important note

Please do not hesitate to reach out if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues. See also our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

Last, but not least, here are some more useful deep links:

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Insight EU Agenda Weekly: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Insight EU Premium: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium]

* Specialised Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020220915ei9f00004


Insight EU monitoring - Your Daily Premium Digest
22095 字
2022 年 9 月 15 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2022. Comecon Media GmbH
A full-text overview of today's most important posts on our Insight EU portal

DAILY DIGEST

PREMIUM

www.ieu-monitoring.com[http://www.ieu-monitoring.com]

* Insight EU Environment Monitoring 13 September 2022

* Insight EU Climate Monitoring 13 September 2022

* Insight EU Energy Monitoring 13 September 2022

* EU Commission prepares a general ban on products made with forced labour

* EU HR Borrell on the forced deportation of Ukrainian civilians to Russia

* Kharkiv region: President Zelenskyy held a meeting on the energy security

* Helsinki: Energy crisis and green transition to be discussed on Climate Policy Roundtable

* Russian’s aggression against Ukraine: EU individual sanctions prolonged

* EU Commission’s Executive Vice-President Dombrovskis participates in G7 Trade Ministers meeting

* Mergers: EU Commission clears acquisition of Hop Lun by Platinum

* Energy prices: EU Commission proposes emergency market intervention to reduce bills for Europeans

* Iratxe García on SOTEU urges for help EU citizens affected by Russia’s war

* SOTEU 2022: Address by President von der Leyen in the EU Parliament

* Ethiopia: EEAS statement on the latest hostilities

* Google v EU Commission: Judgment of the General Court in Case T-604/18 | (Google Android)

Insight EU Environment Monitoring 13 September 2022[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-13-september-2022/386989/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

HAZARDOUS CHEMCIALS

* REPORT FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE AND THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS Summary of the Synthesis Report on the operation of Regulation (EU) No 649/2012 concerning the export and import of hazardous chemicals

PESTICIDES

* EFSA: First update of the EU database of processing factors for pesticide residues

OCCUPATIONAL RADIATION

* IAEA: Tailored Approaches Key to Optimizing Occupational Radiation Protection

SUPPLY CHAINS

* S&Ds’ call finally heard – EU Commission to propose an EU-wide ban on products made with forced labour

COVID-19 MONITORING

* COVID-19: Team Europe has delivered €47.7 billion to help its partners address the pandemic and its consequences

* EMA: Adapted vaccine targeting BA.4 and BA.5 Omicron variants and original SARS-CoV-2 recommended for approval

OSHA BRIEFS

* Healthy Workplaces Good Practice Awards 2020-2022

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* CM 4378 2022 INIT Informal videoconference of the members of the Working Party on International Environment Issues (CITES)

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 1 ANNEX to the COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE AND THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 INIT COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE AND THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 2 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – SLOVAKIA Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Region Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 3 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – DENMARK Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 4 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT The EU Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – GREECE Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions The EU Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 5 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – ESTONIA Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 6 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – SPAIN Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 7 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – FRANCE Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 8 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – CROATIA Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 9 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – HUNGARY Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 10 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review Country Report – IRELAND Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 11 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – BELGIUM Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 12 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – BULGARIA Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 13 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – CYPRUS Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 14 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – CZECHIA Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 15 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – GERMANY Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 16 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – LITHUANIA Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 17 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – LUXEMBOURG Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 18 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review Country Report – THE NETHERLANDS Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 19 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – POLAND Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 20 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – PORTUGAL Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 21 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – ROMANIA Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 22 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – SWEDEN Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 23 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – SLOVENIA Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 24 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – AUSTRIA Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 25 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – ITALY Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 26 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – LATVIA Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 27 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – FINLAND Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* ST 12276 2022 ADD 28 COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Environmental Implementation Review 2022 Country Report – MALTA Accompanying the document Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions Environmental Implementation Review 2022: Turning the tide through environmental compliance

* CM 4373 2022 INIT Informal videoconference of the members of the Working Party on Genetic Resources and Innovation in Agriculture (Genetic Resources)

* ST 12261 2022 INIT COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/… of 8.9.2022 amending Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2019/1021 of the European Parliament and of the Council on persistent organic pollutants, as regards hexachlorobenzene

* ST 12261 2022 ADD 1 ANNEX to the COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/… amending Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2019/1021 of the European Parliament and of the Council on persistent organic pollutants as regards hexachlorobenzene

* EU COMMISSION REGISTER

* COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) /… concerning the authorisation of L-lysine monohydrochloride and L-lysine sulphate produced by fermentation with Corynebacterium glutamicum CGMCC 14498 as feed additives for all animal species

* REPORT FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE AND THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS Summary of the Synthesis Report on the operation of Regulation (EU) No 649/2012 concerning the export and import of hazardous chemicals

* Commission Decision regarding the follow-up to National Parliaments’ Opinions – reply to the Sénat (FR) – Own initiative Opinion on: La préservation de la filière des huiles essentielles à base de lavande et d’autres plantes à parfum, aromatiques et médicinales, menacée par la révision des règlements européens dits « REACH » et « CLP »

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF:

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/]

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: sales[at]ieu-monitoring.com.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-13-september-2022/386989/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Climate Monitoring 13 September 2022[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-13-september-2022/386988/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

DEFORESTATION

* Climate change: new rules for companies to help limit global deforestation – EU Parliament

* S&Ds: The EU finally closes its doors to all products that contribute to deforestation

* Europa-SPD: Parlament stimmt geplantem EU-Gesetz gegen Entwaldung zu – Waldzerstörung aufhalten

* EU-Abgeordnete Hildegard Bentele (EVP/CDU) zu entwaldungsfreien Lieferketten

* EU-Abgeordneter Markus Ferber zur EU-Waldpolitik: In der Vielfalt nicht geeint

* For Renew Europe, the resilience of European and global forests is a major element of the Green Deal

* Grüne/EFA zur Abstimmung im EU-Parlament zu entwaldungsfreien Lieferketten: Ein Guter Tag für die internationalen Wälder!

INDUSTRY

* Agora Energiewende: Klimaschutzverträge für die Industrietransformation (Stahl) – Update

CLIMATE ACTION

* EP: MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION on the consequences of drought, fire and other extreme weather phenomena: increasing the EU’s efforts to fight climate change – B9-0384/2022

UNFCCC / WMO

* United in Science: We are Heading in the Wrong Direction

* Climate change impacts ‘heading into uncharted territory’, warns UN chief

* WMO: Cairo Roundtable advances on Early Warnings for All

TRANSPORT EMISSIONS

* IW Köln: CO2-Regulierung des Straßenverkehrs in Europa

* Fit for 55 – Drive Technologies of the Future: Solutions for a climate-neutral passenger and freight transport

CCS

* Belfer Center Policy Brief: Comparative State Economic Interventions in the Carbon Capture and Storage Market

DECARBONIZATION

* TotalEnergies and the Technical University of Denmark Create a Center of Excellence in Decarbonized Energies

EFRAG

* Latest publications by EFRAG

* EFRAG Sustainability Reporting Board meeting 14 September 2022

* EFRAG FR TEG webcast meeting 14 September 2022

GERMANY

* BGR beteiligt sich an „Woche der Klimaanpassung“

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* ST 12284 2022 INIT Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Social Climate Fund – Four-column table

* CM 4377 2022 INIT Ad Hoc Working Party on the risk of deforestation and forest degradation associated with products placed on the EU market (AHWP Deforestation)

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF:

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.10.28 https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-13-September-2022-PDF-p493006487[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-13-September-2022-PDF-p493006487] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-13-September-2022-PDF-p493006487[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-13-September-2022-PDF-p493006487] END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.10.28

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/]

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: sales[at]ieu-monitoring.com.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-13-september-2022/386988/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Energy Monitoring 13 September 2022[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-13-september-2022/386987/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

SOLAR ENERGY

* EU Commission: Solar energy – harnessing the power of the sun

RENEWABLES

* EP Votes on the renewable energy and energy efficiency directives: press conferences

* EU Parliament: Clean energy: the EU’s push for renewables and energy efficiency

* S&Ds in plenary: Energy efficiency and renewables’ Directives must and will work for the people and the planet

* Greens/EFA: Combating the energy crisis with renewables & energy savings

ENERGY CRISIS

* Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin: Europe needs strategic autonomy in energy, food, defence and technology

* EU Parliament adopts position on key budget law, calls for more funds to help citizens cope with high energy costs

* S&Ds: We cannot ask people to tighten their belts without taxing energy companies

* Renew Europe: Sheltering households and businesses from increasing energy prices must be a top EU priority

* EU-Abgeordneter Markus Ferber (EVP/CSU): Energiepreise: Angebotsseite bedenken!

TRANSPORT ENERGY EFFIENCY

* S&P Global: Norway ‘skeptical’ about European gas price cap, but retains open attitude: PM

ENERGY EFFIENCY

* EU Commission: Connected and energy-efficient transport: €5 billion available for key infrastructure projects

* Jahresveranstaltung 2022: Netzwerkinitiative bietet Unterstützung bei Gas- und Energieeinsparungen

GERMANY

* Bundesnetzagentur: Situationsbericht Lage der Gasversorgung in Deutschland (Stand 13.09.22)

NUCLEAR ENERGY

* EP: Written question – Extension of the operational lives of German nuclear power plants – P-002999/2022

* Update 102 – IAEA Director General Statement on Situation in Ukraine

HYDROGEN

* IEA: Global Hydrogen Review 2022

* EP to vote on scrapping additionality – Hydrogen Europe

* Latest Hydrogen headlines

* HYDRA Consortium moves to next stage with hydrogen powertrain installed at Centinela

* New York announces $16.6M for hydrogen and 4 other long-duration storage demonstration projects

* Voith and KEYOU to present hydrogen-driven city bus

* RINA awards Freudenberg fuel cell systems

* The World’s First Hydrogen Trains Started Passenger Service in Germany

* Green Hydrogen Fuel: An opportunity for India to achieve Net Zero

* Crowley Bets on Hydrogen Fuel Cells to Help Decarbonize Maritime

* Africa’s first hydrogen

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* CM 4312 2022 INIT Working Party on Energy

* ST 12060 2022 INIT COUNCIL DECISION on the position to be taken on behalf of the European Union within the Ministerial Council of the Energy Community with regard to the incorporation of Regulation (EU) 2022/1032 of the European Parliament and of the Council on gas storage into the Energy Community acquis

* ST 12060 2022 ADD 1 Draft DECISION OF THE MINISTERIAL COUNCIL OF THE ENERGY COMMUNITY adapting and implementing Regulation (EU) 2022/1032 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EU) 2017/1938 as adapted and adopted in the Energy Community by Ministerial Council Decision 2021/15/MC-EnC, and Regulation (EC) No 715/2009 as adapted and adopted by Ministerial Council Decision 2011/02/MC-EnC

* ST 12185 2022 COR 1 Council Decision on the EU position in the Ministerial Council of the Energy Community on the incorporation of Regulation (EU) 2022/1032 on gas storage into the Energy Community acquis – Adoption

EU COMMISSION REGISTER

* COMMISSION OPINION pursuant to Article 3 of the Regulation (EC) No 715/2009 and Article 10(6) of Directive 2009/73/EC – Spain – Certification of Enagás Transporte S.A.U. as transmission system operator for gas

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF:

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/]

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: sales[at]ieu-monitoring.com.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-13-september-2022/386987/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commission prepares a general ban on products made with forced labour[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-prepares-a-general-ban-on-products-made-with-forced-labour/386982/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 14 September 2022

The Commission has today proposed to prohibit products made with forced labour on the EU market. The proposal covers all products, namely those made in the EU for domestic consumption and exports, and imported goods, without targeting specific companies or industries. This comprehensive approach is important because an estimated 27.6 million people are in forced labour, in many industries and in every continent. The majority of forced labour takes place in the private economy, while some is imposed by States. The proposal builds on internationally agreed definitions and standards, and underlines the importance of close cooperation with global partners. National authorities will be empowered to withdraw from the EU market products made with forced labour, following an investigation. EU customs authorities will identify and stop products made with forced labour at EU borders.

Executive Vice-President and Commissioner for Trade, Valdis Dombrovskis, said:

“This proposal will make a real difference in tackling modern-day slavery, which affects millions of people around the globe. Our aim is to eliminate all products made with forced labour from the EU market, irrespective of where they have been made. Our ban will apply to domestic products, exports and imports alike. Competent authorities and customs will work hand-in-hand to make the system robust. We have sought to minimise the administrative burden for businesses, with a tailor-made approach for SMEs. We will also further deepen our cooperation with our global partners and with international organisations.”

Commissioner for Internal Market, Thierry Breton, said:

“In today’s geopolitics, we need both secure and sustainable supply chains. We cannot maintain a model of consumption of goods produced unsustainably. Being industrial and technological leaders presupposes being more assertive in defending our values and in setting our rules and standards. Our Single Market is a formidable asset to prevent products made with forced labour from circulating in the EU, and a lever to promote more sustainability across the globe.”

The forced labour instrument in practice

National authorities in the Member States will implement the prohibition through a robust, risk-based enforcement approach. In a preliminary phase, they will assess forced labour risks based on many different sources of information that together should facilitate the identification of risks and help focus their efforts. These may include submissions from civil society, a database of forced labour risks focusing on specific products and geographic areas, and the due diligence that companies carry out.

The authorities will start investigations on products for which there are well-founded suspicions that they have been made with forced labour. They can request information from companies and carry out checks and inspections, including in countries outside the EU. If national authorities find forced labour, they will order the withdrawal of the products already placed on the market, and prohibit to place the products on the market, and to export them. Companies will be required to dispose of the goods. The Member States’ customs authorities will be in charge of enforcement at the EU borders.

If the national authorities cannot gather all the evidence they require, for instance due to the lack of cooperation by a company or a non-EU state authority, they can take the decision on the basis of the available facts.

Competent authorities will apply the principles of risk-based assessment and proportionality throughout the process. On this basis, the proposal takes into account in particular the situation of small and medium-sized companies (SMEs). Without being exempted, SMEs will benefit from the specific design of the measure, i.e. competent authorities will consider the size and resources of the economic operators concerned and the scale of the risk of forced labour before initiating a formal investigation. SMEs will also benefit from support tools.

The Commission will also issue guidelines within 18 months from the entry into force of this Regulation. The guidelines will include forced labour due diligence guidance and information on risk indicators of forced labour. The new EU Forced Labour Product Network will serve as a platform for structured coordination and cooperation between competent authorities and the Commission.

Next steps

The proposal now needs to be discussed and agreed by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union before it can enter into force. It will apply 24 months after its entry into force.

Background

steady-paywall

Today’s proposal follows the commitment taken by President von der Leyen in the 2021 State of the Union speech. The EU promotes decent work across all sectors and policy areas in line with a comprehensive approach targeted at workers in domestic markets, in third countries and in global supply chains. This includes core labour standards such as elimination of forced labour. The Communication on Decent Work Worldwide[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_1187] presented in February 2022 sets out the internal and external policies the EU uses to implement decent work worldwide, including through international partnerships, trade, EU neighbourhood and enlargement, trafficking and public procurement.

The EU also proactively addresses violations of decent work, including forced labour in multiple international settings, such as the International Labour Organization, the G7 and the World Trade Organization.

In July 2021, the Commission and the European External Action Service published Guidance[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_3664] to assist EU businesses in taking appropriate measures to address the risk of forced labour in their operations and supply chains, as a bridge towards mandatory horizontal due diligence legislation.

In its proposal for a Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_1145] adopted in February 2022, the Commission set out due diligence obligations for larger companies to identify, prevent, mitigate and account for actual and potential adverse impacts on human rights, including labour rights and the environment along global supply chains.

For More Information

Questions and Answers[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_22_5416]

Factsheet[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/fs_22_5425]

Proposal for a Regulation[https://single-market-economy.ec.europa.eu/document/785da6ff-abe3-43f7-a693-1185c96e930e_en] on prohibiting products made with forced labour on the Union market

EU Commission Questions and Answers: Prohibition of products made by forced labour in the Union Market

14 September 2022

What is forced labour?

Forced labour is defined by the International Labour Organization (ILO) as “all work or service which is exacted from any person under the threat of a penalty and for which the person has not offered himself or herself voluntarily.”

It refers to situations in which persons are coerced to work through the use of violence or intimidation, or by more indirect means such as manipulated debt, retention of identity papers or threats of denunciation to immigration authorities.

Why is this initiative needed?

Forced labour, including forced child labour, continues to be a major global issue, with the ILO estimating the global number of people in a situation of forced labour at around 27.6 million. Combating forced labour and promoting responsible business practices are priorities of the EU’s agenda on business and human rights.

The EU is already very active in promoting decent work and freedom from forced labour through a variety of internal and external policies, and international partnerships, including in the ILO, World Trade Organization (WTO) and G7. For instance, the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights explicitly prohibits forced labour, and the EU has a several pieces of legislation in place or in preparation that address this issue (e.g. Directive 2011/36/EU on human trafficking; Directive 2009/52/EC providing for minimum standards on sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals or the Commission’s proposal for a directive on corporate sustainability due diligence). Furthermore in 2021, the Commission and the European External Action Service issued guidance[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_3664] to assist EU businesses in taking appropriate measures to address the risk of forced labour in their operations and supply chains, based on international standards.

The continued existence of forced labour illustrates, however, the need for additional measures, also aimed at products. The Commission is therefore proposing to complement this set of existing and pending measures with legislation that specifically prohibits the placing of forced labour products on the EU market.

What is the planned scope for this new legislative instrument?

The legislative proposal[https://single-market-economy.ec.europa.eu/document/785da6ff-abe3-43f7-a693-1185c96e930e_en] will effectively prohibit the placing on the EU market of products made with forced labour, as well as their export from the EU.

Forced labour takes place in many industries and in every continent in the world, including Europe. The majority of it takes place in the private sector, some of it is imposed by States. The aim of the proposal is not to target specific countries, companies or industries, but rather to effectively ban the selling of forced labour goods in the EU, irrespective of the source. Therefore, the proposal covers all products made available within the EU market, meaning both products made in the EU for domestic consumption and for export, as well as imported goods.

Are some sectors more affected by forced labour than others?

Forced labour is found in a large number of sectors. Some service sectors, textiles, mining and agriculture are among the sectors where forced labour has frequently been reported. All industry sectors are covered by this initiative.

Who will enforce the forced labour instrument?

EU Member States will be required to designate competent authorities responsible for implementing and enforcing the Regulation, with the necessary powers and resources. The Commission will support Member States for instance by ensuring the availability of a public database, efficient coordination among the Member States’ competent authorities and by issuing guidelines.

Member States’ customs authorities will be in charge of enforcement at the EU borders. They will rely on the decisions by Member States’ competent authorities to identify the products concerned and carry out controls for imports and exports.

How will the forced labour instrument work in practice?

The investigative process will be carried out in two phases. In the preliminary phase, the authorities assess if there are well-founded reasons to suspect that products have been likely made with forced labour. If they determine that there is a substantiated concern of forced labour, they will proceed to the investigation phase.

Competent authorities will in all phases have to follow a risk-based approach. It means that they should focus their enforcement efforts where they are likely to be most effective, namely on the economic operators involved in the steps of the value chain as close as possible to where the risk of forced labour is likely to occur. They should also take into account the size and economic resources of the economic operators, the quantity of products concerned, as well as the scale of suspected forced labour.

In carrying out investigations, competent authorities will examine all the information available to them. This includes: independent and verifiable information on risks that forced labour has been used in the production process; information on market surveillance and compliance of products shared by other Member States; submissions made by third parties including civil society; information on whether a company carries out forced labour due diligence in its operations and supply chains.

Which tools will be made available for authorities and companies?

The Regulation also provides for the creation of a database of forced labour risk areas or products. Furthermore, a new platform (EU Forced Labour Product Network) will be created to ensure structured coordination and cooperation between competent authorities and the Commission.

The Commission will also support companies by issuing guidelines, which could include guidance on due diligence and advice on where and how to detect forced labour in their supply chains.

Are SMEs excluded from these rules?

The Regulation focuses on products, irrespective of the size of the companies involved. However, the Commission is well aware of the particular situation of SMEs and has taken this into account both in the design and enforcement of the Regulation. For example, competent authorities will take into account the size and resources of the companies when carrying out their assessments and investigations. The Commission also anticipates that there will be a need to support SMEs with guidelines, which could include guidance on how to carry out various steps of due diligence in relation to forced labour, and how to ensure consistency with requirements under other relevant EU legislation.

What happens if companies do not comply with the new rules?

If the authorities have established that a product was made by forced labour, it cannot be sold in the EU, or exported from the EU. In case the product is already on the market, the company in question will be required to withdraw it from the market. It will also be required to dispose of the products. The economic operator concerned will bear the costs of disposing of the prohibited product. This will provide a strong deterrent and incentive for companies to comply. Furthermore, if a company does not follow the decision of a Member State under this Regulation, they face penalties under national law.

What are the benefits for citizens?

Social justice is an issue close to the heart of European citizens. According to the 2021 Eurobarometer on social issues[https://europa.eu/eurobarometer/surveys/detail/2266], nine in ten Europeans consider a social Europe to be important to them personally. One of the most key issues singled out by respondents was fair working conditions. At the same time, 71% of respondents see a lack of social rights as a serious problem. There is therefore an expectation that the EU should act in order to ensure the respect of labour rights and other human rights.

Once the new Regulation will be in force, European consumers will feel more confident that the products that they are buying have not been made using forced labour.

What are the benefits for companies?

Businesses will benefit from increased public trust and credibility to customers, as well as lower reputational and brand risk. Social sustainability will be enhanced and a coherent set of rules across the EU will be easier for companies to follow.

What are the costs for companies?

Companies of all sizes have increasingly invested in transparency of their supply chain, which is a key tool for identifying whether or not there is a risk of forced labour. The costs will vary depending on the size of the company, the sector and on the supply chain for a given company. Normally, the costs will relate to the procedures needed to monitor the supply chain, administrative costs for engaging with competent authorities and customs authorities.

What is the expected impact on forced labour worldwide?

The new instrument will introduce a prohibition on placing on the EU market products made with forced labour, no matter where they are made. The prohibition will therefore contribute to the international efforts to eradicate forced labour. As for companies, the Regulation will act as an additional incentive to ensure that their supply chains are forced-labour free.

Are there international standards concerning workers’ rights?

ILO standards on forced labour (Conventions 29 on Forced Labour and 105 on Abolition of Forced Labour, together with the 2014 Protocol to Convention 29 and ILO Recommendation 203 0f 2017) are the main standards at the international level to combat this scourge. Their implementation is supported by an extensive ILO Business Network for Forced Labour, and well-targeted technical assistance. Other relevant international standards cover responsible business conduct more generally, and include the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines on Multinational Enterprises and Due Diligence. Furthermore, the above-mentioned forced labour business guidance issued by the Commission and the European External Action Service explains the practical aspects of due diligence and provides an overview of EU and international instruments on responsible business conduct that are relevant for combatting forced labour.

What is the relationship between this legislation and due diligence legislation?

The Commission’s proposal for a directive on corporate sustainability due diligence[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_1145] addresses corporate behavior and due diligence processes for the companies falling in its scope. The proposal focuses on establishing a system within company law and corporate governance to address human rights and environmental abuses in companies’ own operations, their subsidiaries’ operations and their value chains. Companies are required to engage with business partners in their value chains to remedy the violations. While the proposal includes sanctions in case of non-compliance with the due diligence obligations, it does not require Member States or companies to prohibit the placing and making available of any product on the market.

By contrast, the forced labour proposal will effectively prohibit the placing on the EU market of products made with forced labour, as well as their export from the EU.

Though different, the two proposals are interlinked. If a company has carried out effective due diligence on its supply chains, such that they mitigate, prevent and bring to an end risks of forced labour, this will be taken into account by the competent authorities when they assess whether there is a well-founded suspicion that a product is likely to have been made with forced labour.

Is the Commission cooperating with partners/international organisations?

Forced labour is a global problem and the efforts to combat it need to rely on international cooperation. We are already cooperating with partners and with international organisations on the global fight against forced labour.

In coherence with this, the proposal includes an article on international cooperation to support the implementation of the market prohibition by means of dialogue with third countries. In particular, the Commission has proposed to use existing dialogue structures – such as the Human Rights Dialogues with third countries – or others to be created ad hoc as frameworks to engage and cooperate with authorities of non-EU countries.

Furthermore, the Commission will maintain its current strong cooperation and level of engagement with international organisations, governments of third countries, civil society representatives and business organisations.

To support the efforts of companies and partner countries, the Commission will propose the adoption of accompanying measures and to reinforce the local capacity in tackling forced labour.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_22_5416]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-prepares-a-general-ban-on-products-made-with-forced-labour/386982/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU HR Borrell on the forced deportation of Ukrainian civilians to Russia[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-hr-borrell-on-the-forced-deportation-of-ukrainian-civilians-to-russia/386980/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Strasbourg, 14 September 2022

EP speech delivered by Commissioner for Cohesion and Reforms, Elisa Ferreira

Check against delivery!

President, Honourable Members of the European Parliament,

The European Union’s position on Russia’s unjustified and unprovoked war of aggression against Ukraine is clear: the EU stands by Ukraine as long as it takes.

And the European Union takes action against Russia – the aggressor and the perpetrator of atrocities and crimes against Ukraine and the Ukrainian people.

First, the European Union has adopted the largest sanctions package ever and nothing is off the table. Russia is heading for the worst recession since 1990.

Second, just last week the European Union fully suspended the Visa Facilitation Agreement.

Third, the European Union is working with partners around the world to counter Russian disinformation, raising awareness that it is Russia’s aggression – not Western sanctions – which is aggravating the food and energy crises.

Fourth, the European Union seeks to isolate Russia in international fora and calling it out for its breaches of international law and international humanitarian law.

And finally, the European Union is supporting all efforts on accountability, seeking to document the evidence needed to hold the perpetrators of war crimes accountable.

We have, like the Honourable Members [of the European Parliament], heard the allegations of forced removal to territories under Russian military control, or to the Russian Federation itself. We are particularly concerned that the United Nations Human Rights Office has found credible allegations of forced transfers of unaccompanied minors.

We encourage United Nations entities and non-governmental human rights organisations to pursue their work in documenting these allegations in order to have a solid picture of their scope and their scale.

While awaiting further reports on the situation on the ground, we demand that all persons reported disappeared or missing in Ukraine must be searched for, located, and released or returned. Therefore, we call for unimpeded access by UN entities, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and civil society to all areas where civilians are detained.

We also demand that any checks and filtrations, and any detention that may follow such checks, takes place in a legal framework respecting the principles of necessity and proportionality.

We remind that forcible transfers of civilians is prohibited under International Humanitarian Law, notably the Geneva Convention. All cases of enforced disappearances must be duly investigated and those responsible therefore held accountable for war crimes.

Let me finally underline the fate of persons in the most vulnerable situations in this context – namely women and children. They face risks which include sexual exploitation, trafficking, sexual violence, far from public eye. It is our common duty to focus on accountability and on widespread condemnation.

Thank you very much.

Link to the video: https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/en/video/I-230130[https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/en/video/I-230130]

Source – EEAS[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/ep-plenary-speech-high-representativevice-president-josep-borrell-forced-deportation-ukrainian_en]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-hr-borrell-on-the-forced-deportation-of-ukrainian-civilians-to-russia/386980/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Kharkiv region: President Zelenskyy held a meeting on the energy security [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/kharkiv-region-president-zelenskyy-held-a-meeting-on-the-energy-security/386978/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Kyiv, 14 September 2022

During a working trip to the Kharkiv region, President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy held a meeting on energy security issues in the region.

Head of the Kharkiv Regional Military Administration Oleg Syniehubov informed the President that 16 communities were fully de-occupied in the region, and 7 communities were partially de-occupied. About 6% of the region’s territory remains under occupation, while 32% of the Kharkiv region was occupied before the counteroffensive of the Ukrainian military.

According to Oleg Syniehubov, works are being carried out in the region to restore damaged infrastructure facilities, in particular in liberated settlements. Electricity supply lines, mobile communications and the work of medical institutions are being restored in the de-occupied territories.

The President emphasized the importance of restoring electricity supply as soon as possible in the territories liberated from the enemy.

“The de-occupation is ongoing, so we need to prepare a clear plan of action so that it is applicable in other areas that will be liberated,” Volodymyr Zelenskyy said.

Minister of Energy Herman Halushchenko, who participated in the meeting via video conference, noted that the work of repair crews largely depends on the pace of demining the territories.

In view of this, the President called to ensure the work of a greater number of crews of energy workers and employees of the State Emergency Service in order to speed up the recovery process.

During the meeting, attention was also focused on the issue of the operation of CHPP and TPP in the Kharkiv region. Volodymyr Zelenskyy noted that today, in the conditions of war, it is necessary to develop a plan of measures to ensure reserve capacities of the energy supply system.

In addition, the Head of State got himself acquainted with the progress of restoration of a residential building in Kharkiv, which was damaged as a result of Russian shelling. The roof, walls and balconies are being repaired there, windows are being installed.

Volodymyr Zelenskyy presented the Order of Bohdan Khmelnytsky of the III degree to Head of the Kharkiv Regional Military Administration Oleg Syniehubov and the Order “For Courage” of the II degree to Mayor of Kharkiv Ihor Terekhov.

Oleg Syniehubov and Ihor Terekhov were awarded in accordance with the President’s decree of March 6 for a significant personal contribution to the protection of state sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, courage and selfless actions shown during the organization of the defense of settlements from Russian invaders.

Source – President of Ukraine[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/glava-derzhavi-proviv-naradu-shodo-energetichnoyi-bezpeki-ha-77789]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/kharkiv-region-president-zelenskyy-held-a-meeting-on-the-energy-security/386978/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Helsinki: Energy crisis and green transition to be discussed on Climate Policy Roundtable [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/helsinki-energy-crisis-and-green-transition-to-be-discussed-on-climate-policy-roundtable/386976/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Helsinki, 14 September 2022

The Climate Policy Roundtable will hold its 17th meeting on Thursday 15 September. The main topics are solutions to energy crisis and green transition. The Roundtable is chaired by Prime Minister Sanna Marin.

The war launched by Russia has increased the need to speed up the green transition and phase out fossil fuels even faster. The prices of energy, especially natural gas and other fossil energy, have risen in Europe, and in Finland as well. This has broad consequences, including for the price of electricity. Electricity prices are expected to continue to rise during next winter, which may have serious impacts on both households and businesses.

At its meeting, the Climate Policy Roundtable will discuss the key measures by which we can stabilise the energy market and promote the green transition, both in the short and long term. Besides this, the Roundtable will discuss how the different perspectives of justice should be taken into account in the energy crisis and in phasing out fossil energy.

In the budget session this autumn, the Government outlined a number of measures to compensate households for the sharp rise in electricity prices. In addition, the Government has proposed EUR 10 billion in emergency funding to energy companies that have run into difficulties due to the growing collateral requirements. Within the EU, there are also discussions on different kinds of measures to find solutions to the energy crisis. In Finland, the State is launching a campaign that will encourage private individuals, companies, NGOs and other entities to reduce their energy consumption. In the coming winter the Senate Group that manages the State-owner properties will implement an extensive energy savings programme that contains different kinds of measures to save heat and electricity.

The Climate Policy Roundtable brings together a broad spectrum of stakeholders from different sectors of society. The purpose of the Roundtable is to create a common understanding of how Finland can make a just transition to a carbon neutral society by 2035. With its work, the Roundtable supports the preparation and implementation of Finland’s national climate policy.

Source – Finnish Government[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/1410903/climate-policy-roundtable-meets-to-discuss-energy-crisis-and-ways-to-boost-green-transition]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/helsinki-energy-crisis-and-green-transition-to-be-discussed-on-climate-policy-roundtable/386976/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Russian’s aggression against Ukraine: EU individual sanctions prolonged [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/russians-aggression-against-ukraine-eu-individual-sanctions-prolonged/386973/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 14 September 2022

The Council decided today to prolong the duration of the restrictive measures targeting those responsible for undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine for a further six months, until 15 March 2023.

The existing restrictive measures provide for travel restrictions for natural persons, the freezing of assets, and a ban on making funds or other economic resources available to the listed individuals and entities. Sanctions will continue to apply to 1206 individuals and 108 entities, many of which are targeted in response to Russia’s ongoing unjustified and unprovoked military aggression against Ukraine.

After 24 February 2022, in response to Russia’s military aggression against Ukraine, the EU massively expanded sanctions against Russia. In addition to sanctioning top political representatives, oligarchs, military and propagandists, the EU has adopted unprecedented measures with the aim of significantly weakening Russia’s economic base, depriving it of critical technologies and markets, and significantly curtailing its ability to wage war.

The EU resolutely condemns Russia’s indiscriminate attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure, and urges Russia to immediately and unconditionally withdraw all its troops and military equipment from the entire territory of Ukraine within its internationally recognised borders. International humanitarian lawmust be respected. Russia, Belarus and all those responsible for war crimes will be held to account for their actions, in accordance with international law.

The European Union is unwavering in its commitment to help Ukraine exercise its inherent right of self-defence against the Russian aggression and build a peaceful, democratic and prosperous future.

* EU response to Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine – background information[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/eu-response-ukraine-invasion/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/09/14/russian-aggression-against-ukraine-eu-individual-sanctions-over-territorial-integrity-prolonged-for-a-further-six-months/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Russian+aggression+against+Ukraine%3a+EU+individual+sanctions+over+territorial+integrity+prolonged+for+a+further+six+months]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/russians-aggression-against-ukraine-eu-individual-sanctions-prolonged/386973/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commission’s Executive Vice-President Dombrovskis participates in G7 Trade Ministers meeting[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commissions-executive-vice-president-dombrovskis-participates-in-g7-trade-ministers-meeting/386968/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 14 September 2022

Executive Vice-President Valdis Dombrovskis will participate in the G7 Trade Ministers Meeting[https://www.g7germany.de/g7-en/current-information/g7-meetings-trade-ministers-2014880] which will take place in Neuhardenberg, Germany, on 14-15 September. German Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Protection, Robert Habeck, hosts and leads the work process of the G7 Trade Ministers. During the meeting, the Ministers will discuss coordinated actions to prevent Russia from profiting from its illegal aggression against Ukraine, including from its attacks on Ukraine’s production and exports. They will also discuss further steps to keep food and agriculture markets open and call on all partners to avoid unjustified restrictive trade measures. Furthermore, ministers will reaffirm their unwavering commitment to support the government and people of Ukraine, including thought trade and investment. In addition, they will discuss joint responses to global economic disruptions, including resilient and sustainable supply chains, the reform of the WTO, level playing field issues and economic coercion. In the margins of this meeting, Executive Vice-President Dombrovskis will meet bilaterally with US Trade Representative Katherine Tai, Ukrainian Trade Minister Yulia Svyrydenko, Canadian Trade Minister Mary Ng, and Japanese Trade Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_22_5526]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commissions-executive-vice-president-dombrovskis-participates-in-g7-trade-ministers-meeting/386968/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Mergers: EU Commission clears acquisition of Hop Lun by Platinum[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/mergers-eu-commission-clears-acquisition-of-hop-lun-by-platinum/386966/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 14 September 2022

The European Commission has approved, under the EU Merger Regulation, the acquisition of sole control of Hop Lun Limited (‘Hop Lun’) of Hong Kong by Platinum Equity Group (‘Platinum’) of the US. Hop Lun is a global company active in the production and sale of lingerie products and swimwear. Platinum is a global investment company. Platinum controls Elevate Textiles, which is a global company active in the manufacturing and supply of industrial apparel sewing thread. The Commission concluded that the proposed acquisition would raise no competition concerns, given its very limited impact on the market. The transaction was examined under the simplified merger review procedure. More information is available on the Commission’s competition[http://ec.europa.eu/competition/index_en.html] website, in the public case register[http://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/index.cfm] under the case number M.10898[https://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/case_details.cfm?proc_code=2_M_10898].

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_22_5526]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/mergers-eu-commission-clears-acquisition-of-hop-lun-by-platinum/386966/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Energy prices: EU Commission proposes emergency market intervention to reduce bills for Europeans[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/energy-prices-eu-commission-proposes-emergency-market-intervention-to-reduce-bills-for-europeans/386955/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 14 September 2022

The Commission is proposing an emergency intervention in Europe’s energy markets to tackle recent dramatic price rises. The EU is confronted with the effects of a severe mismatch between energy demand and supply, due largely to the continued weaponisation by Russia of its energy resources. To ease the increased pressure this puts on European households and businesses, the Commission is now taking a next step in tackling this issue by proposing exceptional electricity demand reduction measures, which will help reduce the cost of electricity for consumers, and measures to redistribute the energy sector’s surplus revenues to final customers. This follows on from previously agreed measures on filling gas storage[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_4080] and reducing gas demand[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_22_4725] to prepare for the upcoming winter. The Commission is also continuing its work to improve liquidity for market operators, bring down the price of gas, and reform the electricity market design for the longer term.

The first response to tackle high prices is to reduce demand. This can impact electricity prices and achieve an overall calming effect on the market. To target the most expensive hours of electricity consumption, when gas-fired power generation has a significant impact on the price, the Commission proposes an obligation to reduce electricity consumption by at least 5% during selected peak price hours. Member States will be required to identify the 10% of hours with the highest expected price and reduce demand during those peak hours. The Commission also proposes that Member States aim to reduce overall electricity demand by at least 10% until 31 March 2023. They can choose the appropriate measures to achieve this demand reduction, which may include financial compensation. Reducing demand at peak times would lead to a reduction of gas consumption by 1.2bcm over the winter. Increasing energy efficiency is also a key part of meeting our climate commitments under the European Green Deal.

The Commission is also proposing a temporary revenue cap on ‘inframarginal’ electricity producers, namely technologies with lower costs, such as renewables, nuclear and lignite, which are providing electricity to the grid at a cost below the price level set by the more expensive ‘marginal’ producers. These inframarginal producers have been making exceptional revenues, with relatively stable operational costs, as expensive gas power plants have driven up the wholesale electricity price they receive. The Commission proposes to set the inframarginal revenue cap at €180 EUR/MWh. This will allow producers to cover their investment and operating costs without impairing investment in new capacities in line with our 2030 and 2050 energy and climate goals. Revenues above the cap will be collected by Member State governments and used to help energy consumers reduce their bills. Member States trading electricity are encouraged, in a spirit of solidarity, to conclude bilateral agreements to share part of the inframarginal revenues collected by the producing State for the benefit of end-users in the Member State with low electricity generation. Such agreements shall be concluded by 1 December 2022 where a Member State’s net imports of electricity from a neighbouring country are at least 100%.

Thirdly, the Commission is also proposing a temporary solidarity contribution on excess profits generated from activities in the oil, gas, coal and refinery sectors which are not covered by the inframarginal revenue cap. This time-limited contribution would maintain investment incentives for the green transition. It would be collected by Member States on 2022 profits which are above a 20% increase on the average profits of the previous three years. The revenues would be collected by Member States and redirected to energy consumers, in particular vulnerable households, hard-hit companies, and energy-intensive industries. Member States can also finance cross-border projects in line with the REPowerEU objectives or use part of the revenues for the common financing of measures protecting employment or promoting investments in renewables and energy efficiency.

In a further intervention in the electricity market rules, the Commission is also proposing to expand the Energy Prices Toolbox available to help consumers. The proposals would allow below cost regulated electricity prices for the first time, and expand regulated prices to also cover small and medium-sized enterprises.

As Commission President von der Leyen announced[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_22_5389] on Wednesday 7 September, the Commission will also continue to pursue other avenues to bring down prices for European consumers and industry, and ease pressure on the market. The Commission will deepen its discussion with Member States about the best ways to reduce gas prices, also analysing various ideas for price caps and enhancing the role of the EU Energy Platform in facilitating lower price agreements with suppliers through voluntary joint purchasing. The Commission will also keep working on tools to improve liquidity on the market for energy utilities[https://finance.ec.europa.eu/news/facing-energy-crisis-eu-work-streams-related-financial-system-2022-09-14_en], and review the Temporary State aid Crisis Framework to ensure that it continues to enable Member States to provide necessary and proportionate support to the economy while ensuring a level playing field. At the Extraordinary Energy Council on 9 September, Energy Ministers of Member States endorsed the Commission’s ongoing work in these areas.

Background

steady-paywall

The Commission has been tackling the issue of rising energy prices for the past year, and Member States have deployed many measures at national level which the Commission provided through the Energy Prices Toolbox[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_21_5204] adopted in October 2021 and expanded in Spring 2022 with the Communication on short-term market interventions and long-term improvements to the electricity market design[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3140] and the REPowerEU Plan[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_3131]. The energy market situation has worsened considerably since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and its further weaponisation of its energy resources to blackmail Europe, which exacerbated an already tight supply situation after the COVID-19 pandemic. The Commission has already proposed new minimum gas storage obligations and demand reduction targets to ease the balance between supply and demand in Europe, and Member States swiftly adopted these proposals before the summer.

As Russia has continued to manipulate gas supplies, cutting off deliveries to Europe for unjustified reasons, markets have become tighter and more nervous. Prices increased further over the summer months, which have also been marked by extreme weather conditions caused by climate change. In particular, droughts and extreme heat have had an impact on electricity generation by hydropower and nuclear, further reducing supply. That is why the Commission, in the form of a Council Regulation based on Article 122[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A12012E122] of the Treaty, is now proposing an emergency intervention in the electricity market, with common European tools to tackle high prices and address imbalances in the system between suppliers and end-users of electricity, while preserving the overall functioning of the internal energy market and preventing security of supply risks.

Quotes by Members of the College of Commissioners

President Ursula von der Leyen said:

“Russian aggression and manipulation is affecting global and European energy markets, and we need to be resolute in our response. Today, the Commission is bringing further proposals to the table which Member States can swiftly adopt and implement, to ease the pressure on households and businesses. We continue to stand united in the face of Putin’s weaponisation of gas and ensure we minimise the impact of high gas prices on our electricity costs in these exceptional times.”

Executive Vice-President Frans Timmermans said:

“These unprecedented measures are a necessary response to the energy supply shortages and high energy prices affecting Europe. Demand reduction is fundamental to the overall success of these measures: it lowers energy bills, ends Putin’s ability to weaponise his energy resources, reduces emissions and helps rebalance the energy market. A cap on outsize revenues will bring solidarity from energy companies with abnormally high profits towards their struggling customers. Above all, however, this crisis underlines that the era of cheap fossil fuels is over and that we need to accelerate the switch towards homegrown, renewable energy.”

Commissioner for Energy Kadri Simson said:

“We are making an emergency intervention in the design of our power market today, capping revenues for lower cost electricity producers, and allowing exceptional measures on regulation of prices for businesses and households. This will enable Member States to raise and redirect revenues to those in need in this difficult time, without undermining the long-term functioning of the market”

Commissioner for Economy Paolo Gentiloni said:

“Our proposal for a solidarity contribution from fossil-fuel industries will ensure that we tackle the current energy crisis in a spirit of fairness. In these extraordinarily difficult times for so many, fossil-fuel companies have been enjoying abnormally high rents. So it is essential that they pay their fair share to supporting vulnerable households and hard-hit sectors, as well as towards the mountain of investments before us in renewables and energy efficiency. Because in the face of Putin’s weaponisation of energy, we need a collective effort of solidarity in order to build a more secure and sustainable Europe.”

For More Information

Proposal for a Council Regulation on an emergency intervention to address high energy prices[https://energy.ec.europa.eu/proposal-council-regulation-emergency-intervention-address-high-energy-prices_en]

Questions and Answers – Memo[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_22_5490]

Factsheet[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/fs_22_5491]

2022 State of the Union Address by President von der Leyen[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/ov/speech_22_5493]

Opening remarks by Executive Vice-President Timmermans and Commissioner Simson[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/speech_22_5521] [will be available later]

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_5489]

Q&A – EU Commission’s emergency market intervention

Brussels, 14 September 2022

1. Why has the Commission decided to intervene now in the market?

Gas and electricity prices reached record levels in 2021 and again hit all-time highs in 2022, especially following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The skyrocketing electricity prices across Europe are intrinsically linked to the high price of gas, which increases the price of electricity due to the role of gas-fired power plants in covering demand and setting price. Prices started rising last summer when the world economy picked up after COVID-19 restrictions were eased. Subsequently, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and its weaponisation of gas supply have exacerbated this situation with electricity retail prices having increased by almost 50% year-on-year from July 2021.

Energy prices are expected to remain high due to uncertainty in the market spurred by the risk of further disruptions of Russian gas supplies to the EU. In parallel, the availability of electricity generation in the EU has been below usual levels in the last months due to increased maintenance works of power stations, lower output from hydropower generation due to extreme weather conditions in the summer, and closures of some older power. This has thus contributed to energy scarcity and high energy prices, constituting a burden for consumers and industry and dampening the economic recovery.

This dramatic increase in electricity prices is putting pressure on EU households, small and medium enterprises and industry at large. Vulnerable customers and the energy poor are hardest hit, but increasingly middle income households and SMEs also risk not being able to pay their energy bills. Today’s proposed set of emergency measures is a response to the urgent priority of shielding EU consumers from higher energy prices this winter. The proposed emergency intervention[https://energy.ec.europa.eu/proposal-council-regulation-emergency-intervention-address-high-energy-prices_en] represents a further step of the Commission’s work on price mitigation tools, which started last October and continued over the past year.

2. When will these proposals enter into force and how long will they be applied for?

The proposed Council Regulation on an electricity emergency tool and a solidarity contribution of the fossil sector is based on Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX%3A12008E122%3AEN%3AHTML]. As such, the proposal requires a qualified majority vote in the Council to be approved, and its adoption will depend on the Council’s internal procedures. In view of the emergency situation, Member States have already expressed their intention to swiftly work on the Commission’s expected proposals.

The proposed measures are extraordinary in nature and should therefore be limited in time. The electricity emergency tool should apply no later than 1 December 2022 and until 31 March 2023. The Commission has committed to carry out a review of the electricity emergency tool by 28 February 2023, taking into account the electricity supply situation and electricity prices across the EU, and present a report on the main findings of that review to the Council.

The solidarity contributions of the fossil sector will be applied for one year after entering into force. The Commission will carry out a review by 15 October 2023, in view of the general situation of the fossil fuel sector and surplus profits generated and present a report on the main findings of that review to the Council.

The proposed Council Regulation contains regular reporting obligations, starting on 1 December 2022, through which the Commission will monitor the adoption and enforcement of measures by the Member States. This regular monitoring is important to preserve the functioning and integrity of the EU’s internal market, as functioning cross-border energy markets are key to ensure security of supply in a situation of shortage.

3. How much will these measures save citizens and businesses on their energy bills?

The Commission has estimated that Member States would be able to collect up to €117 billion from the proposed temporary revenue cap on ‘inframarginal’ electricity producers, on an annual basis. The surplus revenues collected will have to be channelled by the Member States to final electricity consumers, be it private or commercial ones, who are exposed to high prices. These revenues can be used to provide income support, rebates, investments in renewables, energy efficiency or decarbonisation technologies. The support provided should keep an incentive for demand reduction. Decisions on the precise distribution will be taken at national level in line with the principles established in the Regulation.

The exact amount of revenues per Member State will depend on the amount of electricity generated from inframarginal technologies in the country and the level of electricity prices during the time of application of these measures. It will vary depending on the energy mix and the design of support schemes for renewable energy in each Member State.

The temporary solidarity contribution based on taxable surplus profits made in the fiscal year 2022 on energy undertakings in the oil, gas, coal and refinery sectors in the Union could bring an estimate of around €25 billion of public revenues, to be redistributed by Member States subject to compliance with Union law. Today’s proposals state that these profits should go to households and companies, including energy-intensive industries, to mitigate the effects of sustained high energy prices, reduce energy consumption and boost the EU’s energy autonomy.

In addition to the revenues generated for Member States, the demand reduction in the electricity sector can also help bringing down prices, by reducing the need for expensive gas power plants to meet demand.

4. How should Member States reduce their demand for electricity?

The proposed electricity emergency tool combines an overall reduction of electricity demand from all consumers with a focus on demand reduction during peak price hours. According to the proposed Council Regulation, Member States should seek to implement measures to lower overall electricity consumption by at least 10% until 31 March 2023. All consumers can contribute, including those who are not yet equipped with smart metering systems or devices enabling them to adjust their consumption during the day. In addition, to specifically target the most expensive hours of electricity consumption when gas generally sets the marginal price, the Commission proposes an obligation of at least a 5% reduction in gross electricity consumption during selected peak price hours, covering at least 10% of the hours of each month, where prices are expected to be the highest. This obligation would result in selecting on average 3 to 4 hours per weekday, which would normally correspond to peak load hours, but can also include hours where electricity generation from renewables is expected to be low and the generation from marginal plants is necessary to cover the demand.

Overall, this targeted reduction can lead to a reduction of gas consumption estimated at around 1.2 bcm over 4 months. This represents a reduction of gas use for power by around 4% over the winter season across the EU. It will be up to the Member States to identify the peak demand hours in their market. Member States are also free to choose the appropriate measures to meet the foreseen demand reduction, provided that they are in line with the relevant EU competition and electricity market rules.

5. How will the revenue cap for inframarginal technologies work, and how was the level chosen?

The proposed cap aims to recover excess revenues from electricity generators with lower marginal costs, so called ‘inframarginal technologies’. These include renewables, nuclear and lignite. Such electricity generators have seen unexpectedly large financial gains over the past months. By setting an EU-wide cap of €180 on realised market revenues per MWh of electricity produced, the Commission intends to minimise the impact that expensive price-setting marginal sources like coal or gas currently have on the final price of electricity while still ensuring a reasonable return on investment for the technologies covered.

The proposed revenue cap level, which is designed to apply until 31 March 2023, seeks to encompass the majority of inframarginal generators in the EU and to avoid jeopardising the availability and profitability of existing plants and future investment decisions for new inframarginal generation in line with the EU’s 2030 and 2050 policy goals. To keep a necessary security margin, the cap level was calibrated significantly above the average market price expectations of market participants for peak hours, before Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Having a uniform cap on revenues across the Union is necessary to preserve the functioning of the internal electricity market, as it allows maintaining price-based competition between electricity producers. To ensure a level playing field, the market revenue cap would apply to revenues from the generation of electricity for all inframarginal generators as defined in the Regulation and cover all market timeframes, regardless of whether the trading of electricity takes place bilaterally (over-the-counter) or in organized markets.

Revenues above the cap will be collected by Member State governments at the moment when transactions are settled or thereafter, and will have to be channeled to households, businesses and the industry at large, who are all exposed to high electricity prices. The proposed Regulation also foresees the possibility to share surplus revenues between Member States trading electricity, whereby the producing state can share part of the collected revenues for the benefit of end-consumers in the importing state. Member States are encouraged, in a spirit of solidarity, to conclude bilateral solidarity agreements to share part of the inframarginal revenues collected by the producing State for the benefit of end-users in the Member State with low electricity generation. The Regulation requires such agreements shall be concluded by 1 December 2022 in situations where a Member State’s net imports of electricity are equal or higher than 100% in comparison with its main exporting country.

6. How will the solidarity contribution by fossil fuel companies work, and how was the level chosen?

The Commission has proposed an exceptional solidarity contribution from companies in the oil, gas, coal and refinery sectors, to ensure that the whole energy sector pays its fair share in these difficult times for many to address the extraordinary energy crisis resulting from the weaponisation of the energy supply by Russia.

This solidarity contribution will complement the revenue cap on inframarginal technologies and targets the surplus profits that the fossil fuel industry has made due to the energy crisis. It will be collected by Member States on 2022 profits which are above a 20% increase on the average profits of the previous three years, at a rate of at least 33%. This approach of setting a minimum rate ensures that the solidarity contributions are both fair and proportional.

Establishing this solidarity contribution as a European instrument will ensure that negative spillovers within the internal energy market stemming from uncoordinated national measures can be avoided and risks of litigation between companies and governments can be reduced substantially. Moreover, a coordinated approach will also ensure consistency with the objectives of REPowerEU.

Member States will be in charge of collecting the solidarity contribution, and redistributing the profits subject to compliance with Union law. The revenues from the solidarity contribution should be used to provide financial support measures to households, especially vulnerable households, and hard-hit companies to mitigate the effects of high energy prices, as well as to help the reduction of energy consumption, support energy-intensive industries, promote investments by final customers in renewables, energy efficiency or other decarbonisation technologies; and cross-border projects in line with the REPowerEU objectives.

The solidarity contribution is proposed as an exceptional measure to mitigate the impact of the energy crisis on households and companies across the EU. Tackling energy poverty and addressing the social consequences of the crisis, in particular to protect workers in exposed industries, are also a matter of European solidarity. Member States should focus, in particular, on those most affected by the soaring energy prices. This includes vulnerable households and energy intensive companies or those under pressure to accelerate their green transition.

To maximise the impact of the solidarity contribution and prevent the risk of fragmentation of the Single Market, Member States should act in a spirit of solidarity and devote a share of the revenues to the common financing of measures to reduce the harmful impact of the energy crisis or to promote investments in renewables and energy efficiency.

7. Will existing national measures be compatible with this new EU framework?

A united EU-wide response is needed to tackle the increase of electricity prices and their impact on households, businesses and industry. A coordinated approach through Union-wide electricity demand reduction, in the spirit of solidarity, is necessary to minimise the risk of potential major disruptions during the winter months when electricity consumption and electricity production from gas will be higher. Member States should be free to choose the appropriate measures to achieve the demand reduction targets, including expansion of existing schemes or national incentives to develop demand response.

To preserve the functioning of the electricity system and cross-border trade and investments, a common approach to revenue limitations for inframarginal technologies is also necessary. It will ensure that power continues to flow around Europe to avoid a high-price crisis becoming a security of supply crisis.

At the same time, Member States retain the right to introduce more ambitious measures both in terms of demand reduction and the limitation of revenues of electricity producers, as long as they are proportionate, do not distort the functioning of electricity wholesale markets, do not jeopardise investment signals and they are in line with Union Law.

On the solidarity contribution, the Commission has proposed a minimum rate that is considered both fair and proportionate. Member States could decide to go above this minimum and apply a higher rate, or can combine the new contribution with existing similar measures already introduced at national level. They can also choose to apply the solidarity contribution to a broader set of companies, as long as this remains compatible with the proposed Regulation.

8. What is the situation on futures electricity markets at the moment?

The current stress on electricity markets is primarily due to Russia’s aggression against Ukraine and its manipulation of gas supply. This is an exceptional situation for energy markets, with some secondary effects on derivatives markets. Our focus is to ensure that risks are contained and adequately mitigated in the financial system. Futures electricity markets play a role here. They allow energy companies to hedge their risks e.g. the wholesale price they have to pay for their supplies or the output price at which they can expect to sell gas or electricity.

Most of the trading in energy derivatives is conducted on regulated (futures) markets and is cleared centrally via central clearing counterparties (CCPs). In such markets, the current regulatory framework provides the necessary safeguards, such as margin requirements for clearing between buyers and sellers: if one party defaults, the other market participants are protected from this risk.

The collateral requirements ensure financial stability and contribute to reassure financial markets. Amid the sharp rise in gas and electricity prices over the past year, energy companies have been required to post correspondingly higher amounts of cash collateral to CCPs as margin calls have risen in line with prices. This has resulted in problems of liquidity for energy companies and prompted calls for amendments to the rules governing collateral requirements for margin calls.

On 9 September, the Energy Council called on the Commission to design emergency liquidity instruments that would ensure that market participants have at their disposal sufficient collateral to meet margin calls and that would address increased volatility in futures markets, and consider reviewing relevant guidelines to integrate the rules on safeguards. The Commission, in cooperation with the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) and the European Banking Authority (EBA), is already working on the above[https://finance.ec.europa.eu/news/facing-energy-crisis-eu-work-streams-related-financial-system-2022-09-14_en], as requested by the Council, as well as a range of options to ensure that the financial system supports actions to ease the current situation, while preserving financial stability.

For more information

Press release[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5489]

Factsheet[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/fs_22_5491]

Source – EU Commision[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/QANDA_22_5490]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/energy-prices-eu-commission-proposes-emergency-market-intervention-to-reduce-bills-for-europeans/386955/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Iratxe García on SOTEU urges for help EU citizens affected by Russia’s war [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/iratxe-garcia-on-soteu-urges-for-help-eu-citizens-affected-by-russias-war/386951/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Strasbourg, 14 September 202

During today’s debate on the State of the Union, Iratxe García, the leader of the Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament said:

“We are facing historic challenges. First the pandemic and now a war started by Vladimir Putin that threatens our values ​​and the international balance.

“As always, crises reveal our weaknesses, but they also show us what needs to be done: reinforce social policies, reform the energy market, reform taxation and economic governance – we have seen that reforming the Stability Pact is a necessity today – and fight the climate emergency.

“Our commitment to the Ukrainian people is solid. However, to ensure the support of European citizens, it is not only worth cheering on military victories: we must also put ourselves in the shoes of those who are suffering the consequences of this war.

“We must put a cap on the price of gas and help families and businesses pay the bills. And we can do that with part of the extraordinary profits, the “windfall profits” of energy companies. Everyone must pitch in. Also, the time has come, it seems clear to me, for the European unemployment reinsurance system, SURE, to be permanent.

“The state of our democracy, at this historic moment, seems to me as fragile as that of our economy. Ghosts that we thought were overcome are coming back. Some member states have become autocracies, like Orbán’s Hungary. In others, pro-fascist parties can win elections, with the approval and help of the EPP. It is really worrying and dangerous.

“I appeal to the EPP to reconsider its role in the European project, its responsibilities and allies. After World War II, the founders of Christian democracy understood that the best patriotism was to seek the common interests of the European Union as a whole, hand in hand with social democracy, and not exclusive nationalism.”

Source – S&D in the European Parliament – Email

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/iratxe-garcia-on-soteu-urges-for-help-eu-citizens-affected-by-russias-war/386951/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

SOTEU 2022: Address by President von der Leyen in the EU Parliament[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/soteu-2022-address-by-president-von-der-leyen-in-the-eu-parliament/386942/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Strasbourg, 14 September 2022

“Check against delivery”

The original version of the speech is availablehere[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/ov/speech_22_5493].

A UNION THAT STANDS STRONG TOGETHER

INTRODUCTION

Madam President,

Honourable Members,

My fellow Europeans,

Never before has this Parliament debated the State of our Union with war raging on European soil.

We all remember that fateful morning in lateFebruary.

Europeans from across our Union woke up dismayed by what they saw. Shaken by the resurgent and ruthless face of evil. Haunted by the sounds of sirens and the sheer brutality of war.

But from that very moment,a whole continent has risen in solidarity.

At the border crossings where refugees found shelter. In our streets, filled with Ukrainian flags. In the classrooms, where Ukrainian children made new friends.

From that very moment,Europeans neither hid nor hesitated.

They found the courage to do the right thing.

And from that very moment,our Union as a whole has risen to the occasion.

Fifteen years ago, during the financial crisis, it took us years to find lasting solutions.

A decade later, when the global pandemic hit, it took us only weeks.

But this year, as soon as Russian troops crossed the border into Ukraine, our response was united, determined and immediate.

And we should be proud of that.

We have brought Europe’s inner strength back to the surface.

And we will need all of this strength. The months ahead of us will not be easy. Be it for families who are struggling to make ends meet, or businesses, who are facing tough choices about their future.

Let us be very clear: much is at stake here. Not just for Ukraine – but for all of Europe and the world at large.

And we will be tested. Tested by those who want to exploit any kind of divisions between us.

This is not only a war unleashed by Russia against Ukraine.

This is a war on our energy, a war on our economy, a war on our values and a war on our future.

This is about autocracy against democracy.

And I stand here with the conviction that with courage and solidarity, Putin will fail and Europe will prevail.

THE COURAGE TO STAND WITH OUR HEROES

Honourable Members,

Today – courage has a name, and that name is Ukraine.

Courage has a face, the face of Ukrainian men and women who are standing up to Russian aggression.

I remember a moment in the early weeks of the invasion. When the First Lady of Ukraine, Olena Zelenska, gathered the parents of Ukrainian children killed by the invader.

Hundreds of families for whom the war will never end, and for whom life will never go back to what it was before.

We saw the first Lady leading a silent crowd of heartbroken mothers and fathers, and hang small bells in the trees, one for every fallen child.

And now the bells will ring forever in the wind, and forever, the innocent victims of this war will live in our memory.

And she is here with us today!

Dear Olena, it took immense courage to resist Putin’s cruelty.

But you found that courage.

And a nation of heroes has risen.

Today, Ukraine stands strong because an entire country has fought street by street, home by home.

Ukraine stands strong because people like your husband, President Zelenskyy, have stayed in Kyiv to lead the resistance – together with you and your children, dear First Lady.

You have givencourageto the whole nation. And we have seen in the last days the bravery of Ukrainians paying off.

You have givenvoiceto your people on the global stage.

And you have givenhopeto all of us.

So today we want to thank you and all Ukrainians.

Glory to a country of European heroes.Slava Ukraini!

Europe’s solidarity with Ukraine will remain unshakeable.

From day one, Europe has stood at Ukraine’s side. With weapons. With funds. With hospitality for refugees. And with the toughest sanctions the world has ever seen.

Russia’s financial sector is on life-support. We have cut off three quarters of Russia’s banking sector from international markets.

Nearly one thousand international companies have left the country.

The production of cars fell by three-quarters compared to last year. Aeroflot is grounding planes because there are no more spare parts. The Russian military is taking chips from dishwashers and refrigerators to fix their military hardware, because they ran out of semiconductors. Russia’s industry is in tatters.

It is the Kremlin that has put Russia’s economy on the path to oblivion.

This is the price for Putin’s trail of death and destruction.

And I want to make it very clear, the sanctions are here to stay.

This is the time for us to show resolve, not appeasement.

The same is true for our financial support to Ukraine.

So far Team Europe have provided more than 19 billion euros in financial assistance.

And this is without counting our military support.

And we are in it for the long haul.

Ukraine’s reconstruction will require massive resources. For instance, Russian strikes have damaged or destroyed more than 70 schools.

Half a million Ukrainian children have started their school year in the European Union. But many others inside Ukraine simply don’t have a classroom to go to.

So today I am announcing that we will work with the First Lady to support the rehabilitation of damaged Ukrainian schools. And that is why we will provide 100 million euros. Because the future of Ukraine begins in its schools.

We will not only support with finance – but also empower Ukraine to make the most of its potential.

Ukraine is already a rising tech hub and home to many innovative young companies.

So I want us to mobilise the full power of our Single Market to help accelerate growth and create opportunities.

In March, we connected successfully Ukraine to our electricity grid.It was initially planned for 2024. But we did it within two weeks. And today, Ukraine is exporting electricity to us. I want to significantly expand this mutually beneficial trade.

We have already suspended import duties on Ukrainian exports to the EU.

We will bring Ukraine into our European free roaming area.

Our solidarity lanes are a big success.

And building on all that,the Commission will work with Ukraine to ensure seamless access to the Single Market. And vice-versa.

Our Single Market is one of Europe’s greatest success stories. Now it’s time to make it a success story for our Ukrainian friends, too.

And this is why I am going to Kyiv today, to discuss this in detail with President Zelenskyy.

Honourable Members,

One lesson from this war isweshould have listened to those who know Putin.

To Anna Politkovskaya and all the Russian journalists who exposed the crimes, and paid the ultimate price.

To our friends in Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia, and to the opposition in Belarus.

We should have listened to the voices inside our Union – in Poland, in the Baltics, and all across Central and Eastern Europe.

They have been telling us for years that Putin would not stop.

And they acted accordingly.

Our friends in the Baltics have worked hard to end their dependency on Russia. They have invested in renewable energy, in LNG terminals, and in interconnectors.

This costs a lot. But dependency on Russian fossil fuels comes at a much higher price.

We have to get rid of this dependency all over Europe.

Therefore we agreed on joint storage. We are at 84% now: we are overshooting our target.

But unfortunately that will not be enough.

We have diversified away from Russia to reliable suppliers. US, Norway, Algeria and others.

Last year, Russian gas accounted for 40% of our gas imports. Today it’s down to 9% pipeline gas.

But Russia keeps on actively manipulating our energy market. They prefer to flare the gas than to deliver it. This market is not functioning anymore.

In addition the climate crisis is heavily weighing on our bills. Heat waves have boosted electricity demand. Droughts shut down hydro and nuclear plants.

As a result, gas prices have risen by more than 10 times compared to before the pandemic.

Making ends meet is becoming a source of anxiety for millions of businesses and households.

But Europeans are also coping courageously with this.

Workers in ceramics factories in central Italy, have decided to move their shifts to early morning, to benefit from lower energy prices.

Just imagine the parents among them, having to leave home early, when the kids are still sleeping, because of a war they haven’t chosen.

This is one example in a million of Europeans adapting to this new reality.

I want our Union to take example from its people. Reducing demand during peak hours will make supply last longer, and it will bring prices down.

This is why we are putting forward measures for Member States to reduce their overall electricity consumption.

But more targeted supported is needed.

For industries, like glass makers who have to turn off their ovens. Or for single parents facing one daunting bill after another.

Millions of Europeans need support.

EU Member States have already invested billions of euros to assist vulnerable households.

But we know this will not be enough.

This is why we are proposing a cap on the revenues of companies that produce electricity at a low cost.

These companies are making revenues they never accounted for, they never even dreamt of.

In our social market economy, profits are good.

But in these times it is wrong to receive extraordinary record profits benefitting from war and on the back of consumers.

In these times, profits must be shared and channelled to those who need it the most.

Our proposal will raise more than 140 billion euros for Member States to cushion the blow directly.

And because we are in a fossil fuel crisis, the fossil fuel industry has a special duty, too.

Major oil, gas and coal companies are also making huge profits. So they have to pay a fair share – they have to give a crisis contribution.

These are all emergency and temporary measures we are working on, including our discussions on price caps.

We need to keep working to lower gas prices.

We have to ensure our security of supply and, at the same time, ensure our global competitiveness.

So we will develop with the Member States a set of measures that take into account the specific nature of our relationship with suppliers– ranging from unreliable suppliers such as Russia to reliable friends such as Norway.

I have agreed with Prime Minister Støre to set up a task force. Teams have started their work.

Another important topic is on the agenda. Today our gas market has changed dramatically: from pipeline gas mainly to increasing amounts of LNG.

But the benchmark used in the gas market – the TTF – has not adapted.

This is why the Commission will work on establishing a more representative benchmark.

At the same time we also know that energy companies are facing severe problems with liquidity in electricity futures markets, risking the functioning of our energy system.

We will work with market regulators to ease these problems by amending the rules on collateral – and by taking measures to limit intra-day price volatility.

And we will amend the temporary state aid framework in October to allow for the provision of state guarantees, while preserving a level playing field.

These are all first steps. But as we deal with this immediate crisis, we must also look forward.

The current electricity market design – based on merit order – is not doing justice to consumers anymore.

They should reap the benefits of low-cost renewables.

So, we have to decouple the dominant influence of gas on the price of electricity. This is why we will do a deep and comprehensive reform of the electricity market.

Now – here is an important point. Half a century ago, in the 1970s, the world faced another fossil fuel crisis.

Some of us remember the car-free weekends to save energy.Yet we kept driving on the same road.

We did not get rid of our dependency on oil. And worse, fossil fuels were even massively subsidised.

This was wrong, not just for the climate, but also for our public finances, and our independence.And we are still paying for this today.

Only a few visionaries understood that the real problem was fossil fuels themselves, not just their price.

Among them were our Danish friends.

When the oil crisis hit, Denmark started to invest heavily into harnessing the power of the wind.

They laid the foundations for its global leadership in the sector and created tens of thousands of new jobs.

This is the way to go!

Not just a quick fix, but a change of paradigm, a leap into the future.

STAYING THE COURSE AND PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE

Mesdames et Messieurs les Députés,

La bonne nouvelle est que cette transformation nécessaire a commencé.

Elle a lieu en mer du Nord et en mer Baltique, où nos États membres ont massivement investi dans l’éolien en mer.

Elle a lieu en Sicile, où la plus grande usine solaire d’Europe produira bientôt la toute dernière génération de panneaux solaires.

Et elle a lieu dans le nord de l’Allemagne, où les trains régionaux roulent désormais à l’hydrogène vert.

L’hydrogène peut changer la donne pour l’Europe.

Nous devons passer du marché de niche au marché de masse pour l’hydrogène.

Avec REPowerEU, nous avons doublé notre objectif : nous voulons produire dix millions de tonnes d’hydrogène renouvelable dans l’Union européenne, chaque année d’ici 2030.

Pour y parvenir, nous devons créer un animateur de marché pour l’hydrogène, afin de combler le déficit d’investissement et de mettre en relation l’offre et la demande futures.

C’est pourquoi je peux annoncer aujourd’hui que nous allons créer une nouvelle Banque européenne de l’hydrogène.

Elle aidera à garantir l’achat d’hydrogène, notamment en utilisant les ressources du Fonds pour l’innovation.

Elle pourra investir 3 milliard d’euros pour aider à construire le futur marché de l’hydrogène.

C’est ainsi que se bâtira l’économie du futur.

C’est cela, notre Pacte vert pour l’Europe.

Et nous avons tous vu au cours des derniers mois à quel point le Pacte vert pour l’Europe est important.

L’été 2022 restera dans les mémoires. Nous avons tous vu les rivières asséchées, les forêts en feu, la chaleur extrême.

Et la situation est bien plus grave encore. Jusqu’à présent, les glaciers des Alpes ont servi de réserve d’urgence pour des rivières comme le Rhin ou le Rhône.

Mais comme les glaciers d’Europe fondent plus vite que jamais, les sécheresses futures seront beaucoup plus graves.

Nous devons travailler sans relâche à l’adaptation climatique et faire de la nature notre premier allié.

C’est pourquoi notre Union poussera pour un accord mondial ambitieux pour la nature lors de la conférence des Nations Unies sur la biodiversité qui se tiendra à Montréal cette année.

Et nous ferons de même lors de la COP27 à Sharm el-Sheikh.

Mais à court terme, nous devons aussi être mieux équipés pour faire face au changement climatique.

Aucun pays ne peut lutter seul contre les phénomènes météorologiques extrêmes et leurs forces destructrices.

Cet été, nous avons envoyé des avions de la Grèce, la Suède ou d’Italie pour combattre des incendies en France et en Allemagne.

Mais comme ces évènements deviennent plus fréquents et plus intenses, l’Europe aura besoin de plus de capacités.

C’est pourquoi aujourd’hui j’annonce que nous allons doubler notre capacité de lutte contre les incendies au cours de l’année prochaine.

L’Union Européenne achètera dix avions amphibies légers et trois hélicoptères supplémentaires pour compléter notre flotte.

Voilà la solidarité européenne en action

Honourable Members,

The last years have shown how much Europe can achieve when it is united.

After an unprecedented pandemic, our economic output overtook pre-crisis levels in record time.

We went fromhaving no vaccineto securing over 4 billion doses for Europeans and for the world.

And in record time, we came up with SURE – so that people could stay in their jobs even if their companies had run out of work.

We were in the deepest recession since World War 2.

We achieved the fastest recovery since the post-war boom.

And that was possible because we all rallied behind a common recovery plan.

NextGenerationEU has been a boost of confidence for our economy.

And its journey has only just begun.

So far, 100 billion euros have been disbursed to Member States. This means: 700 billion euros still haven’t flown into our economy.

NextGenerationEU will guarantee a constant stream of investment to sustain jobs and growth.

It means relief for our economy. But most importantly, it means renewal.

It is financing new wind turbines and solar parks, high-speed trains and energy-saving renovations.

We conceived NextGenerationEU almost two years ago, and yet it is exactly what Europe needs today.

So let’s stick to the plan.

Let’s get the money on the ground.

Honourable Members,

The future of our children needs both that we invest in sustainability and that we invest sustainably.

We must finance the transition to a digital and net-zero economy.

And yet we also have to acknowledge a new reality of higher public debt.

We need fiscal rules that allow for strategic investment, while safeguarding fiscal sustainability.

Rules that are fit for the challenges of this decade.

In October, we will come forward with new ideas for our economic governance.

But let me share a few basic principles with you.

Member States should have more flexibility on their debt reduction paths.

But there should be more accountability on the delivery of what we have agreed on.

There should be simpler rules that all can follow.

To open the space for strategic investment and to give financial markets the confidence they need.

Let us chart once again a joint way forward.

With more freedom to invest. And more scrutiny on progress.

More ownership by Member States. And better results for citizens.

Let us rediscover the Maastricht spirit – stability and growth can only go hand in hand.

Honourable Members,

As we embark on this transition in our economy, we must rely on the enduring values of our social market economy.

It’s the simple idea that Europe’s greatest strength lies in each and every one of us.

Our social market economy encourages everyone to excel, but it also takes care of our fragility as human beings.

It rewards performance and guarantees protection. It opens opportunities but also set limits.

We need this even more today.

Because the strength of our social market economy will drive the green and digital transition.

We need anenabling business environment, aworkforce with the right skillsandaccess to raw materialsour industry needs.

Our future competitiveness depends on it.

We must remove the obstacles that still hold our small companies back.

They must be at the centre of this transformation – because they are the backbone of Europe’s long history of industrial prowess.

And they have always put their employees first – even and especially in times of crisis.

But inflation and uncertainty are weighing especially hard on them.

This is why we will put forward an SME Relief Package.

It will include a proposal for a single set of tax rules for doing business in Europe – we call it BEFIT.

This will make it easier to do business in our Union. Less red tape means better access to the dynamism of a continental market.

And we will revise the Late Payment Directive– because it is simply not fair that 1 in 4 bankruptcies are due to invoices not being paid on time.

For millions of family businesses, this will be a lifeline in troubled waters.

Der Mangel an Personal ist eine weitere Herausforderung für Europas Unternehmen.

Die Zahl der Arbeitslosen ist so niedrig wie nie zuvor.

Das ist gut!

Aber gleichzeitig liegt die Zahl der offenen Stellen auf Rekordniveau.

Ob Lastwagenfahrer, Kellnern oder Flughafenpersonal.

Ob auch Krankenpfleger, Ingenieurinnen oder IT-Technikerinnen.

Von Ungelernt bis Universitätsabschluß, Europa braucht sie alle!

Wir müssen daher viel stärker in die Aus- und Weiterbildung investieren.

Dazu wollen wir eng mit den Unternehmen zusammenarbeiten.

Denn sie wissen am besten, welche Fachkräfte sie heute und morgen brauchen.

Und wir müssen diesen Bedarf besser in Einklang bringen mit den Zielen und Wünschen die Arbeitssuchende selbst für ihren Berufsweg haben.

Darüber hinaus wollen wir gezielter Fachkräfte aus dem Ausland anwerben, die hier Unternehmen und Europas Wachstum stärken.

Ein wichtiger erster Schritt ist, ihre Qualifikationen in Europa besser und schneller anzuerkennen.

Denn Europa muss attraktiver werden für die, die etwas können und sich einbringen wollen.

Deshalb schlage ich vor, 2023 zum Europäischen Jahr der Aus- und vor allem auch der Weiterbildung zu machen.

Sehr geehrte Damen und Herren Abgeordnete,

zu meinem dritten Punkt für unseren Mittelstand und unsere Industrie.

Unabhängig davon, ob wir über maßgeschneiderte Chips für die virtuelle Realität sprechen oder über Speicherzellen für Solaranlagen – der Zugang zu Rohstoffen ist entscheidend für den Erfolg unserer Transformation hin zu einer nachhaltigen und digitalen Wirtschaft.

Lithium und seltene Erden werden bald wichtiger sein als Öl und Gas.

Allein unser Bedarf an seltenen Erden wird sich bis 2030 verfünffachen.

Und das ist ein gutes Zeichen!

Denn es zeigt, mit welchem Tempo unser Europäischer Green Deal vorankommt.

Das Problem ist nur, dass derzeit ein einziges Land fast den kompletten Markt beherrscht.

Wir müssen vermeiden erneut in Abhängigkeit zu geraten wie bei Öl und Gas.

An diesem Punkt kommt unsere Handelspolitik ins Spiel.

Neue Partnerschaften helfen uns, nicht nur unsere Wirtschaft zu stärken, sondern auch unsere Interessen und unsere Werte global voranzubringen.

Mit gleichgesinnten Partnern können wir auch außerhalb unserer Grenzen Arbeitsstandards und Umweltstandards sichern.

Wir müssen vor allem unsere Beziehungen zu diesen Partnern und zu wichtigen Wachstumsregionen erneuern.

Ich werde daher die Abkommen mit Chile, Mexiko und Neuseeland zur Ratifizierung vorlegen.

Und wir treiben die Verhandlungen mit bedeutenden Partnern wie Australien und Indien voran.

But securing supplies is only a first step.

The processing of these metals is just as critical.

Today, China controls the global processing industry. Almost 90 % of rare earths and 60 % of lithium are processed in China.

We will identify strategic projects all along the supply chain, from extraction to refining, from processing to recycling. And we will build up strategic reserves where supply is at risk.

This is why today I am announcing a European Critical Raw Materials Act.

We know this approach can work.

Five years ago, Europe launched the Battery Alliance. And soon, two third of the batteries we need will be produced in Europe.

Last year I announced the European Chips Act. And the first chips gigafactory will break ground in the coming months.

We now need to replicate this success.

This is also why we will increase our financial participation to Important Projects of Common European Interest.

And for the future, I will push to create a new European Sovereignty Fund.

Let’s make sure that the future of industry is made in Europe.

STANDING UP FOR OUR DEMOCRACY

Honourable Members,

As we look around at the state of the world today, it can often feel like there is a fading away of what once seemed so permanent.

And in some way, the passing of Queen Elizabeth II last week reminded us of this.

She is a legend!

She was a constant throughout the turbulent and transforming events in the last 70 years.

Stoic and steadfast in her service.

But more than anything, she always found the right words for every moment in time.

From the calls she made to war evacuees in 1940 to her historic address during the pandemic.

She spoke not only to the heart of her nation but to the soul of the world.

And when I think of the situation we are in today, her words at the height of the pandemic still resonate with me.

She said: “We will succeed – and that success will belong to every one of us”.

She always reminded us that our future is built on new ideas and founded in our oldest values.

Since the end of World War 2, we have pursued the promise of democracy and the rule of law.

And the nations of the world have built together an international system promoting peace and security, justice and economic progress.

Today this is the very target of Russian missiles.

What we saw in the streets of Bucha, in the scorched fields of grain, and now at the gates of Ukraine’s largest nuclear plant –is not only a violation of international rules.

It’s a deliberate attempt to discard them.

This watershed moment in global politics calls for a rethink of our foreign policy agenda.

This is the time to invest in the power of democracies.

This work begins with the core group of our like-minded partners: our friends in every single democratic nation on this globe.

We see the world with the same eyes. And we should mobilise our collective power to shape global goods.

We should strive to expand this core of democracies. The most immediate way to do so is to deepen our ties and strengthen democracies on our continent.

This starts with those countries that are already on the path to our Union.

We must be at their side every step of the way.

Because the path towards strong democracies and the path towards our Union are one and the same.

So I want the people of the Western Balkans, of Ukraine, Moldova and Georgia to know:

You are part of our family, your future is in our Union, and our Union is not complete without you!

We have also seen that there is a need to reach out to the countries of Europe – beyond the accession process.

This is why I support the call for a European Political Community – and we will set out our ideas to the European Council.

But our future also depends on our ability to engage beyond the core of our democratic partners.

Countries near and far, share an interest in working with us on the great challenges of this century, such as climate change and digitalisation.

This is the main idea behind Global Gateway, the investment plan I announced right here one year ago.

It is already delivering on the ground.

Together with our African partners we are building two factories in Rwanda and Senegal to manufacture mRNA vaccines.

They will be made in Africa, for Africa, with world-class technology.

And we are now replicating this approach across Latin America as part of a larger engagement strategy.

This requires investment on a global scale.

So we will team up with our friends in the US and with other G7 partners to make this happen.

In this spirit, President Biden and I will convene a leaders’ meeting to review and announce implementation projects.

Honourable Members,

This is part of our work of strengthening our democracies.

But we should not lose sight of the way foreign autocrats are targeting our own countries.

Foreign entities are funding institutes that undermine our values.

Their disinformation is spreading from the internet to the halls of our universities.

Earlier this year, a university in Amsterdam shut down an allegedly independent research centre, which was actually funded by Chinese entities. This centre was publishing so-called research on human rights, dismissing the evidence of forced labour camps for Uyghurs as “rumours”.

These lies are toxic for our democracies.

Think about this: We introduced legislation to screen foreign direct investment in our companies for security concerns.

If we do that for our economy, shouldn’t we do the same for our values?

We need to better shield ourselves from malign interference.

This is why we will present a Defence of Democracy package.

It will bring covert foreign influence and shady funding to light.

We will not allow any autocracy’s Trojan horses to attack our democracies from within.

For more than 70 years, our continent has marched towards democracy. But the gains of our long journey are not assured.

Many of us have taken democracy for granted for too long.Especially those, like me, who have never experienced what it means to live under the fist of an authoritarian regime.

Today we all see that we must fight for our democracies.Every single day.

We must protect them both from the external threats they face, and from the vices that corrode them from within.

It is my Commission’s duty and most noble role to protect the rule of law.

So let me assure you: we will keep insisting on judicial independence.

And we will also protect our budget through the conditionality mechanism.

And today I would like to focus on corruption, with all its faces. The face of foreign agents trying to influence our political system. The face of shady companies or foundations abusing public money.

Ifwe want to be credible when we ask candidate countries to strengthen their democracies, we must also eradicate corruption at home.

That is why in the coming year the Commission will present measures to update our legislative framework for fighting corruption.

We will raise standards on offences such as illicit enrichment, trafficking in influence and abuse of power, beyond the more classic offences such as bribery.

And we will also propose to include corruption in our human rights sanction regime, our new tool to protect our values abroad.

Corruption erodes trust in our institutions. So we must fight back with the full force of the law.

Honourable Members,

Our founders only meant to lay the first stone of this democracy.

They always thought that future generations would complete their work.

“Democracy has not gone out of fashion, but it must update itself in order to keep improving people’s lives.”

These are the words of David Sassoli – a great European, who we all pay tribute to today.

David Sassoli thought that Europe should always look for new horizons.

And through the adversities of these times, we have started to see what our new horizon might be.

A braver Union.

Closer to its people in times of need.

Bolder in responding to historic challenges and daily concerns of Europeans.And to walk at their side when they deal with the big trials of life.

This is why the Conference on the Future of Europe was so important.

It was a sneak peek of a different kind of citizens’ engagement, well beyond election day.

And after Europe listened to its citizens’ voice, we now need to deliver.

The Citizens’ Panels that were central to the Conference will now become a regular feature of our democratic life.

And in the Letter of Intent that I have sent today to President Metsola and Prime Minister Fiala, I have outlined a number of proposals for the year ahead that stem from the Conference conclusions.

They include for example a new initiative on mental health.

We should take better care of each other. And for many who feel anxious and lost, appropriate, accessible and affordable support can make all the difference.

Honourable Members,

Democratic institutions must constantly gain and regain the citizens’ trust.

We must live up to the new challenges that history always puts before us.

Just like Europeans did when millions of Ukrainians came knocking on their door.

This is Europe at its best.

A Union of determination and solidarity.

But this determination and drive for solidarity is still missing in our migration debate.

Our actions towards Ukrainian refugees must not be an exception. They can be our blueprint for going forward.

We need fair and quick procedures, a system that is crisis proof and quick to deploy, and a permanent and legally binding mechanism that ensures solidarity.

And at the same time, we need effective control of our external borders, in line with the respect of fundamental rights.

I want a Europe that manages migration with dignity and respect.

I want a Europe where all Member States take responsibility for challenges we all share.

And I want a Europe that shows solidarity to all Member States.

We have progress on the Pact, we now have the Roadmap. And we now need the political will to match.

Honourable Members,

Three weeks ago, I had the incredible opportunity of joining 1,500 young people from all over Europe and the world, who gathered in Taizé.

They have different views, they come from different countries, they have different backgrounds, they speak different languages.

And yet, there is something that connects them.

They share a set of values and ideals.

They believe in these values.

They are all passionate about something larger than themselves.

This generation is a generation of dreamers but also of makers.

In my last State of the Union address, I told you that I would like Europe to look more like these young people.

We should put their aspirations at the heart of everything we do.

And the place for this is in our founding Treaties.

Every action that our Union takes should be inspired by a simple principle.

That we should do no harm to our children’s future.

That we should leave the world a better place for the next generation.

And therefore, Honourable Members, I believe that it is time to enshrine solidarity between generations in our Treaties.

It is time to renew the European promise.

And we also need to improve the way we do things and the way we decide things.

Some might say this is not the right time.But if we are serious about preparing for the world of tomorrow we must be able to act on the things that matter the most to people.

And as we are serious about a larger union, we also have to be serious about reform.

So as this Parliament has called for, I believe the moment has arrived for a European Convention.

CONCLUSION

Honourable Members,

They say that light shines brightest in the dark.

And that was certainly true for the women and the children fleeing Russia’s bombs.

They fled a country at war, filled with sadness for what they had left behind, and fear for what may lie ahead.

But they were received with open arms. By many citizens like Magdalena and Agnieszka. Two selfless young women from Poland.

As soon as they heard about trains full of refugees, they rushed to the Warsaw Central Station.

They started to organise.

They set up a tent to assist as many people as possible.

They reached out to supermarket chains for food, and to local authorities to organise buses to hospitality centres.

In a matter of days, they gathered 3000 volunteers, to welcome refugees 24/7.

Honourable Members,

Magdalena and Agnieszka are here with us today.

Please join me in applauding them and each and every European who opened their hearts and their homes.

Their story is about everything our Union stands and strives for.

It is a story of heart, character and solidarity.

They showed everyone what Europeans can achieve when we rally around a common mission.

This is Europe’s spirit.

A Union that stands strong together.

A Union that prevails together.

Long live Europe.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/ov/speech_22_5493]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/soteu-2022-address-by-president-von-der-leyen-in-the-eu-parliament/386942/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Ethiopia: EEAS statement on the latest hostilities[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ethiopia-eeas-statement-on-the-latest-hostilities/386940/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

14.09.2022

The announcement by the Regional Government of Tigray of its readiness to abide by an immediate cessation of hostilities and a commitment to an AU-led peace process, in line with similar past commitments by the Federal Ethiopian Government, should have opened an opportunity to end hostilities, reach a negotiated permanent ceasefire agreement and engage in direct talks.

However, we have to regret that the two drone airstrikes that hit Mekelle yesterday and earlier today endanger, once again, the very fragile hope for peace in Ethiopia. The blockade of humanitarian aid since the renewed fighting adds to the already huge serious and costly toll on civilian life, economy and development of the country. The role of Eritrea continues to impede ongoing efforts towards peace in Ethiopia.

Peace talks are the only way forward. No time should be lost in making the new Ethiopian year a peaceful one.

The EU encourages both conflict parties to immediately seize this opportunity to end hostilities and reach a negotiated permanent ceasefire agreement. The EU also reiterates its support to the AU-led process and its readiness to actively engage in it, in coordination with international partners.

Source – EEAS[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/ethiopia-statement-spokesperson-latest-developments_en]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ethiopia-eeas-statement-on-the-latest-hostilities/386940/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Google v EU Commission: Judgment of the General Court in Case T-604/18 | (Google Android)[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/google-v-eu-commission-judgment-of-the-general-court-in-case-t-604-18-google-android/386938/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Luxembourg, 14 September 2022

PRESS RELEASE No 147/22

The General Court largely confirms the Commission’s decision that Google imposed unlawful restrictions on manufacturers of Android mobile devices and mobile network operators in order to consolidate the dominant position of its search engine.

In order better to reflect the gravity and duration of the infringement, the General Court considers it appropriate however to impose a fine of €4.125 billion on Google, its reasoning differing in certain respects from that of the Commission.

Google, an undertaking in the information and communications technology sector specialising in internet-related products and services, derives most of its revenue from its flagship product, the search engine Google Search. Google’s business model is based on the interaction between, on the one hand, a number of products and services offered to users for the most part free of charge and, on the other hand, online advertising services using data collected from those users. Google also offers the Android operating system (OS), which, according to the European Commission, was installed on approximately 80% of smart mobile devices used in Europe in July 2018.

Various complaints were submitted to the Commission regarding some of Google’s business practices in the mobile internet, leading the Commission to initiate a procedure against Google in relation to Android on 15 April 2015. By decision of 18 July 2018, the Commission fined Google for having abused its dominant position by imposing anticompetitive contractual restrictions on manufacturers of mobile devices and on mobile network operators, in some cases since 1 January 2011. Three types of restriction were identified:

1. those contained in ‘distribution agreements’, requiring manufacturers of mobile devices to pre-install the general search (Google Search) and (Chrome) browser apps in order to be able to obtain a licence from Google to use its app store (Play Store);

2. those contained in ‘anti-fragmentation agreements’, under which the operating licences necessary for the pre-installation of the Google Search and Play Store apps could be obtained by mobile device manufacturers only if they undertook not to sell devices running versions of the Android operating system not approved by Google;

3. those contained in ‘revenue share agreements’, under which the grant of a share of Google’s advertising revenue to the manufacturers of mobile devices and the mobile network operators concerned was subject to their undertaking not to pre-install a competing general search service on a predefined portfolio of devices.

According to the Commission, the objective of all those restrictions was to protect and strengthen Google’s dominant position in relation to general search services and, therefore, the revenue obtained by Google through search advertisements. The common objective and the interdependence of the restrictions at issue therefore led the Commission to classify them as a single and continuous infringement of Article 102 TFEU and Article 54 of the Agreement on the European Economic Area (EEA).

Consequently, the Commission imposed a fine of almost €4.343 billion on Google, the largest fine ever imposed by a competition authority in Europe. The action brought by Google is largely dismissed by the General Court, which confines itself to annulling the decision only in so far as it finds that the portfolio-based revenue share agreements referred to above constitute, in themselves, an abuse. In the light of the particular circumstances of the case, the General Court also considers it appropriate, in the exercise of its unlimited jurisdiction, to set the amount of the fine imposed on Google at €4.125 billion.

Findings of the General Court

As a first step, the General Court examines the plea alleging errors of assessment in the definition of the relevant markets and in the subsequent assessment of Google’s dominant position on some of those markets. In that context, the General Court states that it is required, essentially, to ascertain, in the light of the parties’ arguments and of the reasoning set out in the contested decision, whether Google’s exercise of its power on the relevant markets enabled it to act to an appreciable extent independently of the various factors likely to constrain its behaviour.

In the present case, the General Court notes at the outset that the Commission identified, first of all, four types of relevant market: (i) the worldwide market (excluding China) for the licensing of smart mobile device operating systems; (ii) the worldwide market (excluding China) for Android app stores; (iii) the various national markets, within the EEA, for the provision of general search services; and (iv) the worldwide market for non OS-specific mobile web browsers. The Commission went on to find that Google held a dominant position on the first three of those markets.

The General Court observes however that, in the Commission’s presentation of the different relevant markets, it duly mentioned their complementarity, presenting them as being interconnected, particularly in the light of the overall strategy implemented by Google to promote its search engine by integrating it into an ‘ecosystem’.

Having been called upon, specifically, to rule on the definition of the boundaries of the market for the licensing of smart mobile device operating systems and the associated assessment of the position held by Google in that market, the General Court establishes, first of all, that the Commission found without objection from Google that the ‘non-licensable’ operating systems exclusively used by vertically integrated developers, like Apple’s iOS or Blackberry, are not part of the same market, given that third party manufacturers of mobile devices cannot obtain licences for them. Nor did the Commission err in also finding that Google’s dominant position on that market was not called into question by the indirect competitive constraint exerted on that market by Apple’s non-licensable operating system. The Commission also rightly concluded that the open-source nature of the licence to use the Android source code did not constitute a sufficient competitive constraint to counterbalance that dominant position.

As a second step, the General Court examines the various pleas alleging that the finding that the restrictions at issue were abusive was incorrect. First, as regards the pre-installation conditions imposed on manufacturers of mobile devices, the Commission concluded that they were abusive, distinguishing, on the one hand, the Google Search and Play Store apps bundle from the Chrome browser, Google Search and Play Store apps bundle, and finding, on the other hand, that those bundles had restricted competition during the infringement period, for which Google had been unable to demonstrate any objective justification. In that regard, the General Court notes that, in order to substantiate the claim that a significant competitive advantage was conferred by the pre-installation conditions at issue, the Commission found that such pre-installation could give rise to a ‘status quo bias’ as a result of the tendency of users to use the search and browser apps available to them and apt to increase significantly and on a lasting basis the usage of the service concerned, an advantage which could not be offset by Google’s rivals.

According to the General Court, none of the criticisms put forward by Google can be levelled against the Commission’s analysis in that respect. Next, addressing complaints regarding the finding that the means available to Google’s competitors did not enable them to counterbalance the competitive advantage derived by Google from the pre-installation conditions in question, the General Court observes that, while those conditions do not prohibit the pre-installation of competing apps, the fact remains that there is provision for such a prohibition, in respect of the devices covered, in the revenue share agreements – whether portfolio-based or the device-based revenue share agreements that replaced them –that is, more than 50% of Google Android devices sold in the EEA from 2011 to 2016, which the Commission was able to take into account as the combined effects of the restrictions in question.

In addition, the Commission was also legitimately able to rely on its observation of the actual situation to support its findings, noting in that respect the limited use in practice of pre-installation or downloading of competing apps or of access to competing search services through browsers. Lastly, deeming Google’s criticisms of the considerations that led the Commission to find that there was no objective justification for the bundles examined also to be ineffective, the General Court rejects in its entirety the plea by which it is alleged that the finding that the pre-installation conditions were abusive is incorrect.

Second, as regards the assessment of the sole pre-installation condition included in the portfolio-based revenue share agreements, the General Court finds, first of all, that the Commission was justified in considering the agreements at issue to constitute exclusivity agreements, in so far as the payments provided for were subject to there being no pre-installation of competing general search services on the portfolio of products concerned.

That being so, in view of the fact that, in finding them to be abusive, the Commission considered that those agreements were apt to encourage the manufacturers of mobile devices and the mobile network operators concerned not to pre-install such competing services, it was required, according to the case-law applicable to that type of practice, to carry out an analysis of their capability to restrict competition on the merits in the light of all the relevant circumstances, including the share of the market covered by the contested practice and its intrinsic capacity to foreclose competitors at least as efficient as the dominant undertaking.

The Commission’s analysis was based essentially on two elements: examination of the coverage of the contested practice, and the results of the ‘as efficient competitor’ test which it applied. In so far as the Commission found, in relation to the first element, that the agreements in question covered a ‘significant part’ of the national markets for general search services, irrespective of the type of device used, the General Court considers that statement to be unsupported by the evidence which the Commission set out in the contested decision. There is a similar deficiency as regards one of the premisses of the AEC test, namely, the search query share that might be contested by a hypothetically at least as efficient competitor whose app would have been pre-installed alongside Google Search.

The General Court also identifies a number of errors of reasoning relating to the assessment of essential variables of the AEC test applied by the Commission, namely, the estimate of the costs attributable to such a competitor; the assessment of the competitor’s ability to obtain pre-installation of its app; and the estimate of likely revenues on the basis of the age of mobile devices in use. It follows that, as conducted by Commission, the AEC test does not support the finding of abuse resulting from the portfolio-based revenue share agreements in themselves, and the corresponding plea is accordingly upheld by the General Court.

Third, as regards the assessment of the restrictions contained in the anti-fragmentation agreements, the General Court observes, as a preliminary point, that the Commission considers such a practice to be abusive in so far as it seeks to prevent the development and market presence of devices running a non-compatible Android fork, although the Commission does not dispute Google’s right to impose compatibility requirements in respect only of devices on which its apps are installed. Having established the material existence of the practice in question, the General Court also considers that the Commission was justified in accepting the ability of non-compatible Android forks to exert competitive pressure on Google.

In those circumstances, in the light of the matters set out by the Commission that are relevant to establishing the impediment to the development and marketing of competing products on the market for licensable operating systems, the Commission was entitled, according to the General Court, to find that the practice in question had led to the strengthening of Google’s dominant position on the market for general search services, while deterring innovation, in so far as it had limited the diversity of the offers available to users.

As a third step, the General Court examines the plea alleging infringement of the rights of the defence, by which Google seeks a declaration that its right of access to the file was infringed and that its right to be heard was not respected. Examining, in the first place, the alleged infringement of the right of access to the file, the General Court makes clear, as a preliminary point, that Google’s complaints in this respect relate to the content of a set of notes sent by the Commission in February 2018 regarding meetings which the Commission held with third parties throughout its investigation. Since those meetings were all interviews conducted for the purpose of collecting information relating to the subject matter of the investigation, within the meaning of Article 19 of Regulation No 1/2003, the Commission was consequently required to ensure that a record was drawn up that would enable the undertaking in question, when the time came, to acquaint itself with that record and to exercise the rights of the defence.

In the present case, the General Court finds that the requirements thus outlined were not met on account, on the one hand, of the time that elapsed between the interviews and the transmission of the notes concerning them and, on the other, of the summary nature of those notes. As regards the inferences to be drawn from that procedural error, the General Court nevertheless recalls that, according to the case-law, a breach of the rights of the defence may be found to have occurred, where there is such a procedural error, only if the undertaking concerned demonstrates that it would have been better able to ensure its defence had there not been that error.

In the present case, the General Court considers, however, that that has not been demonstrated by the evidence disclosed to it or the arguments presented to it in that regard. Addressing, in the second place, the alleged infringement of the right to be heard, the General Court observes that Google’s criticisms in that regard constitute the procedural aspect of the complaints put forward to challenge

the merits of the finding as to the abusive nature of certain revenue share agreements, in so far as they seek to

challenge the denial of a hearing on the AEC test applied in that context. Given that the Commission refused Google a hearing, even though it had sent Google two letters of facts supplementing substantially the substance and scope of the approach initially set out in the statement of objections in that respect, but without adopting, as it ought to have done, a supplementary statement of objections followed by a hearing, the General Court considers that the Commission infringed Google’s rights of defence and thus deprived Google of the opportunity better to ensure its defence by developing its arguments in a hearing. The General Court adds that the value of a hearing is all the more apparent in the present case, given the deficiencies previously identified in the Commission’s application of the AEC test. Consequently, the finding as to the abusive nature of the portfolio-based revenue share agreements must be annulled on that basis also.

Lastly, being required to carry out, in the exercise of its unlimited jurisdiction, an autonomous assessment of the amount of the fine, the General Court states at the outset that, while the contested decision must accordingly be annulled in part, in so far as it concludes that the portfolio-based revenue share agreements are in themselves abusive, that partial annulment does not affect the overall validity of the finding, in the contested decision, of an infringement, in the light of the exclusionary effects arising from the other abusive practices implemented by Google during the infringement period.

On the basis of its own assessment of all the circumstances relating to the penalty, the General Court rules that it is appropriate to vary the contested decision, concluding that the amount of the fine to be imposed on Google for the infringement committed is to be €4.125 billion. To that end, the General Court considers it appropriate, as did the Commission, to take account of the intentional nature of the implementation of the unlawful practices and of the value of relevant sales made by Google in the last year of its full participation in the infringement. By contrast, as regards taking into consideration the gravity and duration of the infringement, the General Court considers it appropriate, for the reasons set out in the judgment, to take account of the evolution over time of the different aspects of the infringement and of the complementarity of the practices concerned, in order to assess the impact of the exclusionary effects properly established by the Commission in the contested decision.

NOTE: An action for annulment seeks the annulment of acts of the institutions of the European Union that are contrary to European Union law. The Member States, the European institutions and individuals may, under certain conditions, bring an action for annulment before the Court of Justice or the General Court. If the action is well founded, the act is annulled. The institution concerned must fill any legal vacuum created by the annulment of the act.

NOTE: An appeal, limited to points of law only, may be brought before the Court of Justice against the decision of the General Court within two months and ten days of notification of the decision.

Source – EU Court of Justice – Email

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/google-v-eu-commission-judgment-of-the-general-court-in-case-t-604-18-google-android/386938/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

You are receiving this e-mail because you have signed up for the premium version of our Insight EU Monitoring Digest.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any problems in receiving or opening this mail, or if you are interested in other services we offer.

You find more information about us on our FAQ page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] and on our subscription page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/subscribe/]. Or simply contact our publisher[mailto:j.weidemann@ieu-monitoring.com?subject=Letter%20to%20the%20publisher].

Important note

Please do not hesitate to reach out if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues. See also our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

Last, but not least, here are some more useful deep links:

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Insight EU Agenda Weekly: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Insight EU Premium: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium]

* Specialised Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020220915ei9f00005


Politics
The ministries are finding a solution to prevent Russian tourist trips - tourist tourism from Russia to Finland can harm Finland's international relations*** TRANSLATED ***
Sanna Nikula
603 字
2022 年 9 月 23 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2022. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
It would not require a threat assessment by the security authorities, but a foreign policy assessment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Ministry officials have found a primary solution to tighten border traffic for Russians. According to STT's information, it is a matter of interpreting the Schengen acquis in a new way based on the new situation. There is a reference in the Schengen regulations, according to which the entry of a foreigner can also be denied on the grounds that he endangers the international relations of the destination country.

According to STT's information, it is now being evaluated whether, based on this point, a broader assessment could be made, that tourist tourism directed to Finland from Russia is in itself already a disadvantage for Finland's international relations, through which it could be applied more widely than as a decision directed directly at an individual person.

According to STT's information, this does not require a threat assessment by the security authorities, but a foreign policy assessment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

This part of the Schengen acquis has not been applied in Finland before, so the matter will still require further preparation. Up until now, it has also been applied in other countries mainly to prevent the entry of a single, contradictory person from the point of view of international relations.

According to STT's information, the government may still discuss different solution options on Friday.

No serious threat has been seen in Finland

In the Baltic countries and Poland, there have been references to an increased security threat when they have restricted their border traffic. However, the Finnish security authorities' assessment of the threat to Finland is different. So far, no security authority has assessed Finland as a serious threat due to tourists from Russia.

The use of Section 16 of the Border Guard Act has also run into this wall. It would offer an opportunity to close the border, but only if, according to the assessment of the security authorities, Finland faces a security threat and pressure that cannot be controlled.

The foreign and interior ministries have been feverishly searching for a solution after Russia announced a partial motion on Wednesday. The government has also announced that it is urgently looking for ways to tighten access to Finland.

- The government's will is very clear, and it is shared. Russian tourism must stop and also transit through Finland, said Prime Minister Sanna Marin(right) on Thursday.

A solution has also been sought in national legislation, but it has been found to be too slow a method. Even if it were to proceed in a straight line, the various stages would easily take a week or more, according to STT.

Sanction legislation has been one of the options, but it is a road of even longer preparation.

Dissidents are not prevented from entering the country

Finland is not blocking the entry of, for example, dissidents or journalists fleeing Russia or otherwise people who have a legitimate reason to fear for their lives.

- In the same way, we don't want to prevent family members from coming to Finland, for example. We have always dealt with these issues separately, just like the Baltic countries and Poland. Even at the moment, for example, you can use these criteria to cross the border in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and also in Poland, said Marin on Thursday.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020220923ei9n005bp


Politics
The ministries are finding a solution to prevent Russian tourist trips - tourist tourism from Russia to Finland can harm Finland's international relations*** TRANSLATED ***
Sanna Nikula, Nina Törnudd
1057 字
2022 年 9 月 23 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2022. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
It would not require a threat assessment by the security authorities, but a foreign policy assessment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Ministry officials have found a primary solution to tighten border traffic for Russians. According to STT's information, it is a matter of interpreting the Schengen acquis in a new way based on the new situation. There is a reference in the Schengen regulations, according to which the entry of a foreigner can also be denied on the grounds that he endangers the international relations of the destination country.

According to STT's information, it is now being evaluated whether, based on this point, a broader assessment could be made, that tourist tourism directed to Finland from Russia is in itself already a disadvantage for Finland's international relations, through which it could be applied more widely than as a decision directed directly at an individual person.

According to STT's information, this does not require a threat assessment by the security authorities, but a foreign policy assessment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

This part of the Schengen acquis has not been applied in Finland before, so the matter will still require further preparation. Up until now, it has also been applied in other countries mainly to prevent the entry of a single, contradictory person from the point of view of international relations.

According to STT's information, the government may still discuss different solution options on Friday.

Supo: The security threat has not changed significantly

In the Baltic countries and Poland, there have been references to an increased security threat when they have restricted their border traffic. However, the Finnish security authorities' assessment of the threat to Finland is different. So far, no security authority has assessed Finland as a serious threat due to tourists from Russia.

The use of Section 16 of the Border Guard Act has also run into this wall. It would offer an opportunity to close the border, but only if, according to the assessment of the security authorities, Finland faces a security threat and pressure that cannot be controlled.

On Friday, the Protection Police updated its assessment of the situation regarding the travel of Russians and stated that the partial suspension of operations will not significantly change the security threat.

- The protection police has previously assessed that the Russians' Travel tourist visas do not threaten national security and supo's position has not changed in its main principles, supo told STT on Friday.

Supo's assessment is that by partially supporting the movement, Russia is seeking additional reinforcement for its war in Ukraine. Russia's activities continue to focus on Ukraine.

- The resources are tied to the ongoing war, despite the anti-Western rhetoric. It is still too early to assess the effects of the launch on Russia's internal situation.

Supo emphasizes that in addition to security aspects, the decision-making has to weigh, among other things, the allocation of support to Ukraine and the message sent by the decision to Russia.

- The protection police is in no way opposed to stopping issuing tourist visas. We do our work to combat threats to national security, i.e. espionage and terrorism, and to obtain information about them under the prevailing conditions and in accordance with legislation.

National legislation too slow a road

The foreign and interior ministries have been feverishly searching for a solution after Russia announced a partial motion on Wednesday. The government has also announced that it is urgently looking for ways to tighten access to Finland.

- The government's will is very clear, and it is shared. Russian tourism must stop and also transit through Finland, said Prime Minister Sanna Marin(right) on Thursday.

A solution has also been sought in national legislation, but it has been found to be too slow a method. Even if it were to proceed in a straight line, the various stages would easily take a week or more, according to STT.

Sanction legislation has been one of the options, but it is a road of even longer preparation.

Dissidents are not prevented from entering the country

Finland is not blocking the entry of, for example, dissidents or journalists fleeing Russia or otherwise people who have a legitimate reason to fear for their lives.

- In the same way, we don't want to prevent family members from coming to Finland, for example. We have always dealt with these issues separately, just like the Baltic countries and Poland. Even at the moment, for example, you can use these criteria to cross the border in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and also in Poland, said Marin on Thursday.

Euro representatives press on

While the officials of various ministries worked out solutions to the visa problem, Finnish MEPs and public opinion pressed on. Seven members of the European Parliament from the Greens, SDP and the center sent a joint letter to Prime Minister Marin, Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto(Green) and Interior Minister Krista Mikkonen(Green).

The letter calls for joint EU measures to stop Russian tourism. The letter was also sent to the EU leadership, i.e. Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, High Representative Josep Borrell and Home Affairs Commissioner Ylva Johansson.

The signatories are the Greens' Alviina Alametsä, Heidi Hautala and Ville Niinistö, the SDP's Eero Heinäluoma and Miapetra Kumpula-Natri, the center's Elsi Katainen and Mauri Pekkarinen.

- In order to maintain and further strengthen a united line, the Union should take joint measures to prevent the travel of Russian tourists to Europe, the letter demands.

If a common line cannot be achieved in the EU, Finland should act on its own initiative, the letter demands.

In addition to the MEPs, ordinary citizens were also on the move, when the citizen's initiative demanding an end to the issuance of visas and the cancellation of already issued visas approached the 50,000 signature mark.

According to Marin, the government is ready to further reduce the number of visas issued, but has to act within the framework of legal marginal conditions. Finland tightened the number of visa applications received from Russians considerably starting this month.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020220923ei9n0060p


Politics
The ministries are finding a solution to prevent Russian tourist trips - tourist tourism from Russia to Finland can harm Finland's international relations*** TRANSLATED ***
Sanna Nikula, Nina Törnudd
630 字
2022 年 9 月 23 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2022. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
It does not require a threat assessment by the security authorities, but a foreign policy assessment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Ministry officials have found a primary solution to tighten entry for Russian tourists. According to STT's information, it is a matter of interpreting the Schengen acquis in a new way based on the new situation. There is a reference in the Schengen regulations, according to which the entry of a foreigner can also be denied on the grounds that he endangers the international relations of the destination country.

According to STT's information, it is now being evaluated whether, based on this point, a broader assessment could be made, that tourist tourism directed to Finland from Russia is in itself already a disadvantage for Finland's international relations, through which it could be applied more widely than as a decision directed directly at an individual person.

According to STT's information, this does not require a threat assessment by the security authorities, but a foreign policy assessment by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

The foreign and interior ministries have been feverishly searching for a solution after Russia announced a partial motion on Wednesday. The government has also announced that it is urgently looking for ways to tighten visa travel for Russians to Finland.

According to STT's information, the government discussed different solution options on Friday.

Supo: The security threat has not changed significantly

In the Baltic countries and Poland, there have been references to an increased security threat when they have restricted their border traffic. However, the Finnish security authorities' assessment of the threat to Finland is different. So far, no security authority has assessed Finland as a serious threat due to tourists from Russia.

The use of Section 16 of the Border Guard Act has also run into this wall. It would offer an opportunity to close the border, but only if, according to the assessment of the security authorities, Finland faces a security threat and pressure that cannot be controlled.

On Friday, the Protection Police updated its assessment of the situation regarding the travel of Russians and stated that the partial suspension of operations will not significantly change the security threat.

- The protection police has previously assessed that the Russians' Travel tourist visas do not threaten national security and supo's position has not changed in its main principles, supo told STT on Friday.

Supo's assessment is that by partially supporting the movement, Russia is seeking additional reinforcement for its war in Ukraine. Russia's activities continue to focus on Ukraine.

- The resources are tied to the ongoing war, despite the anti-Western rhetoric. It is still too early to assess the effects of the launch on Russia's internal situation.

National legislation too slow a road

In Finland, a solution has also been sought in national legislation, but it has been found to be too slow a method. Even if it were to proceed in a straight line, the various stages would easily take a week or more, according to STT.

Sanction legislation has been one of the options, but it is a road of even longer preparation.

Finland is not preventing entry to people who have a legitimate reason to fear for their lives, for example dissidents or journalists fleeing Russia. They also do not want to prevent family members from coming to Finland.

- At the moment, for example, you can use these criteria to cross the border in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and also in Poland, said Prime Minister Sanna Marin(left) on Thursday.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020220923ei9n006pp


Politics
Haavisto: The arrival of Russians to Finland with tourist visas can be stopped completely*** TRANSLATED ***
Sanna Nikula, Nina Törnudd, Antti Autio, Terhi Riolo Uusivaara
1348 字
2022 年 9 月 23 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2022. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
The serious damage to Finland's international position becomes a reason to tighten significantly the granting of visas to Russians.

The serious damage to Finland's international position is emerging as a reason to tighten significantly the granting of visas to Russians.

Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto(green) says that, based on the upcoming government's decision in principle, the authorities can completely prevent the movement of Russian tourists seeking a tourist visa to Finland across the border. Existing visas will also be reconsidered.

According to Haavisto, restrictions on visas for Russians could enter into force next week.

The outline was drawn up by the joint meeting of the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister's Committee on Foreign and Security Policy, or the so-called tp-utva. According to the line, the Government Council would issue a decision in principle on the matter.

The new policy is based on interpreting the Schengen acquis in a new way, based on the new situation after Russia's partial motion. There is a reference in the Schengen regulations, according to which the entry of a foreigner can also be denied on the grounds that he endangers the international relations of the destination country.

Haavisto says that the decision is currently being prepared and it will help both the border authorities and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as the visa authority to take the current situation into account.

- Based on the decision, the authorities can completely prevent the movement of tourists, i.e. people who aspire to Finland based on tourism. And visas can also be canceled individually at the Finnish border, when the conditions for their issuance are no longer met, says Haavisto.

According to him, the reception of visas can also be suspended or severely restricted, except for some special groups. They include relatives, visiting relatives, studying, working and employees in the transport industry.

Haavisto says that the existing visas will also be considered again.

- When a person tries to cross the border, it can be noted that this previous reason for issuing a visa is no longer valid. In other words, you cannot get to Finland based on tourism alone. This applies to both visas issued by Finland and visas issued by others.

Transit tourism through Finland has increased

Haavisto says that the Finnish security authorities were also consulted on the matter on Friday.

- The assessments are still the same, that there is no direct threat to Finland. No security deviations have been seen at the Finnish border. Border traffic, as far as it exists, operates normally. No security threat of any kind has been detected.

- However, it has been noted that this Russian initiative has somewhat started to increase transit tourism through Finland. And we believe that it currently causes unnecessary harm to Finland's international position and relations.

According to Niinistö, everything that has no special reason is rejected

President Sauli Niinistö commented on the restrictions in an interview he gave to Yle at the Finnish embassy in Washington.

- The effort and purpose is to significantly reduce the number of people coming to Finland from Russia. To my understanding, this significantly means that all those who do not have a special reason, such as a family reason, would be rejected, says Niinistö.

He says that the decision in tp-utva was not difficult.

- The question of whether our overall safety was the basis for the decision was discussed.

Supo: The security threat has not changed significantly

In the Baltic countries and Poland, there have been references to an increased security threat when they have restricted their border traffic. However, the Finnish security authorities' assessment of the threat to Finland is different. So far, no security authority has assessed Finland as a serious threat due to tourists from Russia.

The use of Section 16 of the Border Guard Act has also run into this wall. It would offer an opportunity to close the border, but only if, according to the assessment of the security authorities, Finland faces a security threat and pressure that cannot be controlled.

On Friday, the Protection Police updated its assessment of the situation regarding the travel of Russians and stated that the partial suspension of operations will not significantly change the security threat.

- The protection police has previously assessed that the Russians' Travel tourist visas do not threaten national security and supo's position has not changed in its main principles, supo told STT on Friday.

Russian resources tied to Ukraine

Supo's assessment is that by partially supporting the movement, Russia is seeking additional reinforcement for its war in Ukraine. Russia's activities continue to focus on Ukraine.

- The resources are tied to the ongoing war, despite the anti-Western rhetoric. It is still too early to assess the effects of the launch on Russia's internal situation.

Supo emphasizes that in addition to security aspects, the decision-making has to weigh, among other things, the allocation of support to Ukraine and the message sent by the decision to Russia.

- The protection police is in no way opposed to stopping issuing tourist visas. We do our work to combat threats to national security, i.e. espionage and terrorism, and to obtain information about them under the prevailing conditions and in accordance with legislation.

National legislation too slow a road

The foreign and interior ministries have been feverishly searching for a solution after Russia announced a partial motion on Wednesday. The government has also announced that it is urgently looking for ways to tighten access to Finland.

- The government's will is very clear, and it is shared. Russian tourism must stop and also transit through Finland, said Prime Minister Sanna Marin(right) on Thursday.

A solution has also been sought in national legislation, but it has been found to be too slow a method. Even if it were to proceed in a straight line, the various stages would easily take a week or more, according to STT.

Sanction legislation has been one of the options, but it is a road of even longer preparation.

Dissidents are not prevented from entering the country

Finland is not blocking the entry of, for example, dissidents or journalists fleeing Russia or otherwise people who have a legitimate reason to fear for their lives.

- In the same way, we don't want to prevent family members from coming to Finland, for example. We have always dealt with these issues separately, just like the Baltic countries and Poland. Even at the moment, for example, you can use these criteria to cross the border in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and also in Poland, said Marin on Thursday.

Euro representatives press on

While the officials of various ministries worked out solutions to the visa problem, Finnish MEPs and public opinion pressed on. Seven members of the European Parliament from the Greens, SDP and the center sent a joint letter to Prime Minister Marin, Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto(Green) and Interior Minister Krista Mikkonen(Green).

The letter calls for joint EU measures to stop Russian tourism. The letter was also sent to the EU leadership, i.e. Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, High Representative Josep Borrell and Home Affairs Commissioner Ylva Johansson.

The signatories are the Greens' Alviina Alametsä, Heidi Hautala and Ville Niinistö, the SDP's Eero Heinäluoma and Miapetra Kumpula-Natri, the center's Elsi Katainen and Mauri Pekkarinen.

- In order to maintain and further strengthen a united line, the Union should take joint measures to prevent the travel of Russian tourists to Europe, the letter demands.

If a common line cannot be achieved in the EU, Finland should act on its own initiative, the letter demands.

In addition to the MEPs, ordinary citizens were also on the move, when the citizen's initiative demanding an end to the issuance of visas and the cancellation of already issued visas approached the 50,000 signature mark.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020220923ei9n009c5


End of Putin: Frantic mobilisation to spark demise of regime 'He's clearly desperate'
Marco Giannangeli - Sunday Express Diplomatic Editor
960 字
2022 年 9 月 25 日 10:25 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
Vladimir Putin's decision to mobilise at least 300,000 conscripts for his war in Ukraine marks "the beginning of the end" of his regime, experts said last night.

The announcement of a so-called “partial mobilisation” on Wednesday caused a mass exodus of eligible men, as border routes to Georgia and Finland became choked with traffic. Demand for flights to countries which did not demand visas also increased, with a one-way airfare to Istanbul rising from £350 - £2,715.

“Putin’s speech heralded the beginning of the collapse of the Putin regime,“ said Keir Giles of the Chatham House think tank.

“Russia is now displaying all the symptoms of the early stages of the kind of crisis that has brought Russian dictatorships crashing down in the past - pursuing unfeasible objectives in unwinnable wars, and destroying the country, its economy and the lives of young men in the process."

More than 20,000 Russian troops have been killed in action and a further 60,000 wounded in just six months of fighting - far exceeding the number of casualties in Russia’s ten-year war in Afghanistan - as Putin's offensive encountered heavier than expected resistance from Ukrainian forces supplied with Western equipment.

Yesterday it emerged that Putin promoted his most loyal general, Col. Gen. Mikhail Mizintsev - dubbed the "Mariupol butcher" - to the rank of deputy defence minister responsible for supplies and logistics.

Mizintsev, 61, who heads the National Defence Management Centre, was brought to Ukraine in March to secure the land bridge between Donbas and Crimea and improve logistics.

Though, under Russia’s constitution, conscripts are not allowed to be sent to foreign theatres of war, ill-trained conscripts have been present in Ukraine since the February 24th invasion.

Related articles

In order to shore up gaps, private mercenary companies such as the Wagner group have already been given permission to recruit in prisons, offering convicts a reprieve for six months service.

Speaking last night, Lt Gen Stephen Twitty, deputy commander of US’ European Command until 2020, told the Sunday Express: “I don’t think Putin will make that 300,000 figure and, even if he does, they need to be trained and equipped. Russians have taken a lot of losses, so to be able to conjure enough combat-worthy equipment is difficult.

“We always knew he felt that Ukraine was Russian, but we didn’t know how good he was militarily - we were suspicious of his capability, but could not know, as he had only fought in small wars like Aleppo. We do now.”

But he warned the West should not be complacent about the other part of Putin’s speech, in which the increasingly isolated leader warned his country had "various weapons of destruction" and would "use all the means available to us".

“It is difficult to assess how Putin sees his risk-gain equation - he is clearly desperate," said Lt Gen Twitty.

“But any time the threat of nuclear weapons is made, it should be a cause of concern for all of us. We should not take it lightly, but we should let it deter us either.”

His views were echoed by EU policy chief Josep Borrell, who said: ”Certainly it's a dangerous moment because the Russian army has been pushed into a corner, and Putin's reaction - threatening using nuclear arms - it's very bad.”

Last night Fabrice Pothier, former Nato director of policy and planning, said contingency plans had already been made in the West.

“It is no conscience that Putin made this speech just when it seemed that the US was preparing to sanction the deployment of main battle tanks. That would spell the end for Russia, Infantry would have the back up they need,“ he said.

In Putin’s “parallel universe”, the nuclear threat is Putin’s way to come back to the negating table, he said, adding: “But we must assume he means it, even if we know he uses KGB tactics to introduce terrorism.

“It will be up to the P3 to lead the response to Russia’s use of tactical nuclear weapons. This may end up being a non-Nato operation, though Nato’s nuclear group has also made contingency plans.

“But it depends on the scenario. Is it just a warning shot into the Black Sea? There are many shades of grey.”

One worrying option is to launch a missile towards Kyiv from Belarus, warned Yuri Felshtinsky, author of the new book Blowing Up Ukraine.

“Putin is ready to go as far as necessary to win the battle, and that battle is much wider than Ukraine: it is for influence over Europe and the US,“ he said.

“When he sees that the West won’t respond to his list of unlimited demands, and knowing that his conventional forces can ruin territories but not hold them, he will resort to tactical nuclear weapons.

"They won’t be fired from Russian territory, however, but Belarus. This is why he hasn’t annexed it yet.”

He added: “The irony is that Russia had the ideal situation before it invaded. Its control of Crimea gave it a warm sea port and ensured that Ukraine could never join Nato.

"Now no-one in the West is talking about Ukraine's February borders - they want Russia out completely. And Putin knows this.”

Related articles Putin likely to be 'killed' by own generals over nuclear weapon Putin’s war propaganda running out of steam as Russian lose hope Putin fires another general as tensions with Russian military continue Aiden Aslin recalls horror days Moment anti-war protesters are dragged off the streets in Moscow

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220925ei9p001mi


EU prohibits oil supply, restricts exports and imports, and enforces sanctions
317 字
2022 年 10 月 8 日
Nordic Daily
NORDAI
英文
Copyright 2022 SIA Impact Media
Helsinki: The EU adopted further sanctions on October 6, 2022, due to Russia's aggressiveness towards Ukraine. The ninth package of sanctions limits oil delivery if the price surpasses a defined ceiling and extends export and import limitations.

New penalties expand on and clarify prior ones. A new criteria for punishments is established. It lists persons and businesses that evade EU sanctions.

The EU's seventh sanctions package responds to Russian pressure in Ukraine. Russia is employing force to unlawfully take Ukrainian land. Russia's mobilisation and nuclear threat add pressure on Ukraine.

EU condemns Russia's illegitimate annexation of Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhya, and Kherson.

The latest sanctions decision updates the sanctions list. Representatives of the so-called Russian government in Ukrainian seized territory, political players, information influencers, opinion leaders, and economic leaders are on the list. These firms help Russia's army.

Second, the restrictions hinder trade and bar Russian imports. The EU extended export prohibitions. The export sanctions hinder Russia's defence sector from getting aviation products, electronic components, and certain chemicals. This weakens Russia's economy and modernization capabilities. The package also prohibits European enterprises from offering IT, engineering, and architectural services in Russia and EU residents from managing Russian state-owned companies.

Third, Russian oil is sanctioned. EU bans Russian oil imports by sea. End-of-year ban. The G7 has decided to limit Russian oil exports to third countries. The price restriction reduces Russia's income and stabilises the energy market. This sanctions package prohibits overpriced shipments to foreign nations.

Fourth, a new criteria allows people and businesses to be sanctioned if they help bypass penalties. This includes exporting sanctioned goods from the EU to Russia via a third nation or arranging ownership to mask the true owner. These people and organisations can be sanctioned. This should limit interest in sanction-evasion.

SIA Impact Media

文件 NORDAI0020221011eia80001y


CSCE - Tribute to Robert Hand for Forty Years of Service at the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe
CSCE - Commission on Security & Cooperation in Europe published this content on 18 Oct 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 27 Oct 2022 16:56:42 UTC.
11062 字
2022 年 10 月 18 日
U.S. Government News and Documents via PUBT
USGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/tribute-robert-hand-forty-years-service-commission]

Tribute to Robert Hand for Forty Years of Service at the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

Tribute to Robert Hand for Forty Years of Service at the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe

Congressman

Steve Cohen

United States

House of Representatives

117th Congress

Second Session

Tuesday, October 18, 2022

Recognizing Robert "Bob" A. Hand for 40 years of service to the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe.

Whereas Robert (Bob) Hand has given 40 years of faithful service to the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, making him the longest serving staff of the United States Helsinki Commission to date;

Whereas he is a highly respected expert on the Western Balkans with his work being invaluable during the wars in the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s, he was focused on holding accountable those responsible for atrocities such as the Srebrenica genocide in 1995 and the murder of the Albanian-American Bytyqi brothers in Serbia in 2001, and he kept Commissioners up to date on developments in the region, including in Albania, where he is also known for his expert analysis;

Whereas having served on numerous United States delegations to Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) meetings, observed dozens of elections, and served as a mission member on one of the OSCE's first field missions, the OSCE Missions of Long Duration in Kosovo, Sandjak, and Vojvodina while stationed in Novi Pazar in 1993, Bob's institutional expertise and memory on the OSCE has been vital to both the Helsinki Commission and the Department of State;

Whereas in his role as the Secretary of the United States delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly (PA), Bob deftly and tirelessly guaranteed that the delegation was always well-prepared to engage with our counterparts from other countries and that our proposals and resolutions had the best possible chance for adoption;

Whereas his deep expertise on procedural matters and election monitoring, among other processes, made him an extraordinarily effective advocate and negotiator for United States interests and for human rights and democracy throughout his time as Secretary of the United States delegation;

Whereas no major meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly could be considered "typical", with an enormous variety of subjects discussed, new procedures created, and different Members of Congress participating on the United States delegation from meeting to meeting, Bob rose to a huge diversity of challenges as Secretary of the United States delegation, and he ensured that Members could meaningfully participate and contribute, and that the United States presence was impactful in every meeting he coordinated;

Whereas during annual sessions in particular, Bob's calm demeanor and deep knowledge of OSCE Parliamentary Assembly processes helped all members of the delegation, whether Commissioners or not, whether it was their 1st or 15th time at an OSCE PA meeting, to know where they were supposed to be, when they were voting, what issues were at stake, and when they were scheduled to speak;

Whereas ahead of OSCE's yearly gatherings, Bob skillfully collected signatures from other delegations for United States initiatives in the Parliamentary Assembly as well as secured support from Members for important supplementary items and amendments fielded by other delegations;

Whereas at the 2022 OSCE PA Annual Session in Birmingham, Bob worked diligently with several other delegations to ensure that a critical resolution condemning Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine was adopted with the strongest possible language;

Whereas the United States delegation had a 100-percent success rate at the 2022 OSCE PA Annual Session with the joint Ukraine resolution submitted by the United States, Ukrainian, and Lithuanian delegations, and all United States amendments to committee resolutions and supplementary items adopted;

Whereas over the years, Bob guided the United States delegation through elections for OSCE PA leadership and helped secure positions for United States Members as OSCE PA President, Vice Presidents, and committee Chairs to make up the OSCE PA Bureau as well as positions on ad hoc committees and appointments as Special Representatives on Anti-Semitism, Racism and Intolerance, Human Trafficking Issues, and on Political Prisoners;

Whereas Bob was instrumental in ensuring that the COVID pandemic in no way diminished the United States delegation's consistent and meaningful impact, and that United States objectives were advanced at each and every opportunity despite the unprecedented shift to online formats spanning multiple time zones;

Whereas Bob was always guided by a clear sense that what the United States says matters in a body such as the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, he prioritized principles over dialogue for its own sake, and he served the Commission's mandate faithfully and tirelessly; and

Whereas his longstanding relationships with the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly leadership, staff, and other parliamentarians mean his departure will be felt not only by the Commission but by many of our friends in the OSCE region who have worked with him over the years: Now, therefore, be it

Resolved, That the House of Representatives-

(1) recognizes Robert A. Hand's 40 years of dedicated service to the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe (United States Helsinki Commission);

(2) appreciates his sound policy guidance on the Balkans and other regions throughout his time with the Commission;

(3) congratulates him on his successes as Secretary of the United States delegation to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Parliamentary Assembly; and

(4) wishes him all the best in the next chapters of his personal and professional endeavors.

Relevant issues:

Conflict Prevention/Rehabilitation[https://www.csce.gov/issue/conflict-preventionrehabilitation]

Genocide, Crimes against Humanity, and War Crimes[https://www.csce.gov/issue/genocide-crimes-against-humanity-and-war-crimes]

Relevant countries:

Albania[https://www.csce.gov/country/albania]

Russian Federation[https://www.csce.gov/country/russian-federation]

Serbia[https://www.csce.gov/country/serbia]

Leadership:

Steve Cohen[https://www.csce.gov/steve-cohen]

Sort by NewestOldest

Category

Article

Briefing

Event

Hearing

Helsinki Commission

In the News

Map

Press Release

Publication

Speech

Statement

Twitter

Country

Afghanistan

Albania

Algeria

Andorra

Armenia

Australia

Austria

Azerbaijan

Belarus

Belgium

Bosnia and Herzegovina

Bulgaria

Canada

Croatia

Cyprus

Czech Republic

Denmark

Egypt

Estonia

Finland

France

Georgia

Germany

Greece

Holy See

Hungary

Iceland

Ireland

Israel

Italy

Japan

Jordan

Kazakhstan

Kyrgyzstan

Latvia

Liechtenstein

Lithuania

Luxembourg

Malta

Moldova

Monaco

Mongolia

Montenegro

Morocco

Netherlands

North Macedonia

Norway

Participating States

Partners for Cooperation

Poland

Portugal

Republic of Korea

Romania

Russian Federation

San Marino

Serbia

Slovak Republic

Slovenia

Spain

Sweden

Switzerland

Tajikistan

Thailand

Tunisia

Turkey

Turkmenistan

Ukraine

United Kingdom

United States of America

Uzbekistan

Issue

Anti-Semitism

Citizenship and Political Rights

Confidence and Security Building Measures

Conflict Prevention/Rehabilitation

Corruption

Economic Cooperation and Trade

Elections

Energy and Environment

Freedom of Association and Assembly

Freedom of Movement

Freedom of Speech and Expression

Freedom of Thought, Conscience, Religion, or Belief

Freedom of the Media

Gender Equality

Genocide, Crimes against Humanity, and War Crimes

Good Governance and the Rule of Law

Helsinki Commission

Human Trafficking

International Law

International Organizations

International Parental Child Abduction

Internet Freedom

Migration, Refugees, and Displaced Persons

Military Aspects of Security

Minority Rights

OSCE Asian Partners

OSCE Institutions, Structures, and Meetings

OSCE Mediterranean Partners

Property Claims

Racism

Roma

Territorial Integrity

Terrorism

Tolerance and Non-Discrimination

Torture

Date

2021

2019

2017

2015

2013

2011

2009

2007

2005

2003

2001

1999

1997

1995

1993

1991

1989

1987

1985

1983

1981

1979

1977

* toggle-list[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/#]

* toggle-grid[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/#]

* Related content

* Related content

Filter Topics[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/#0] Open[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/#0] Close[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/#0]

* press release Helsinki Commission Condemns Putin's Attacks on Civilians and Declaration of Martial Law Friday, October 21, 2022 WASHINGTON-In light of Vladimir Putin's continuing terror attacks on Ukraine, Helsinki Commission Chairman Sen. Ben Cardin (MD), Co-Chairman Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09), Ranking Member Sen. Roger Wicker (MS), and Ranking Member Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following joint statement: "Russia's dictator Vladimir Putin has no right, or military ability, to claim swathes of Ukraine's territory as part of Russia, including areas that Ukrainian forces have recently liberated. Attempting to declare martial law in these areas is a cynical ploy to legitimize the illegitimate, to make real the unreal, and paves the way for further Russian terror and genocide against the Ukrainian nation. "This month's widespread and deadly strikes on civilian targets-including apartment buildings, playgrounds, and energy facilities and other critical infrastructure-demonstrate a desperate effort to conceal the Kremlin's ongoing military collapse and to break the will of the Ukrainian people. But Ukrainians' resolve will not waver, nor will our commitment to their freedom. "We will continue to support Ukraine in every way we can so that they can defend themselves and the democratic ideals we share. And we will call this war what it is-Russia's genocidal, imperial conquest against a free people."

* event Decolonizing the Russian Empire Wednesday, September 28, 2022 Russia's war of conquest in Ukraine has shocked the world for its brutality and aggression. But the Kremlin's violent designs in Ukraine, and other military adventures in the Caucasus and Eastern Europe, are part of a larger and longer legacy of Russian imperialism that directly threaten its neighbors and imprison a multitude of nations within its authoritarian empire. This side event explores the destructive effects of Russian imperialism and how the unfolding genocide in Ukraine is a natural outgrowth of these colonial policies. Drawing on regional perspectives of those victimized by Russia's brutal empire, the panel will highlight the realities of Russian colonialism and what a process of decolonization-elevating marginalized voices and providing for their full political and civic self-expression-would mean for Russia and for its neighbors.

* hearing My "Hell" in Russian Captivity Thursday, September 15, 2022 Russia's war crimes in Ukraine include the brutal and unlawful detention of thousands of Ukrainians. At this hearing, Yuliia "Taira" Paievska, a well-known Ukrainian volunteer medic who was detained in Mariupol in March and held by the Russians for three months, testified about her capture, the deplorable conditions of her captivity, the plight of those who continue to be detained unlawfully, and her lifesaving work since 2014 providing medical assistance to those wounded by Russia's war.  Taira outlined the daily experience of torture, psychological manipulation, and inhumane living conditions she and others were subjected to by their Russian captors. She explained that she was detained during a document check, and when a guard recognized her name, she was singled out for especially cruel treatment.   Held in the occupied territories but under the direct control of Russian forces, Taira spent three months in captivity. Her captors attempted to force a public confession from her for crimes she had not committed. Taira knew they would use this footage to drive the Russian propaganda narrative of Ukrainian cruelty and defend their own atrocities. She had seen footage of friends and colleagues admitting to crimes she knows they did not commit in order to escape the torture that she herself faced. Taira noted that the Russians spared no one, capturing and torturing civilians as well as soldiers.  After thanking the United States for all the support it has given to Ukraine, she asked for help fighting Russian propaganda. She believes that the world must challenge Russian narratives. Taira requested additional shipments of modern weapons from the United States, stating that Ukrainians have proved themselves as responsible stewards of American weaponry and will use them to continue fighting with honor. She also asked for American help in facilitating international access to prisons in occupied Ukraine, in order to ensure fair treatment of prisoners according to the Geneva Conventions. Finally, Taira requested that the United States designate Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism, continue supporting Ukraine financially, and recognize the violence and oppression committed by Russia in Ukraine as a genocide.  

* press release Helsinki Commission Slams Shutdown of Novaya Gazeta Thursday, September 08, 2022 WASHINGTON-Helsinki Commission Chairman Sen. Ben Cardin (MD), Co-Chairman Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09), Ranking Member Sen. Roger Wicker (MS), and Ranking Member Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02) today condemned the shutdown of Novaya Gazeta in Russia, following the decision of a Moscow court to strip the outlet of its print media registration. They issued the following joint statement: "The Kremlin assault on the last vestiges of independent media in Russia confirms that Vladimir Putin is afraid of the truth. Novaya Gazeta has been a pillar of free Russian media since it was founded in 1993 by future Nobel Peace Prize winner Dmitry Muratov, with the support of late Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. "Putin has spent years attacking truth-tellers in Russia's information space in order to build a country where lies and distortion of reality serve his interests. Russia's horrific war against Ukraine, the atrocities committed by the Russian army, and the state-sponsored justification and praise of this violence are the terrible consequences of this dark and cynical manipulation. Russia needs independent journalism now more than ever." In March 2022, the Helsinki Commission held a hearing on "Putin's War on Truth," which examined Vladimir Putin's crackdown on independent media in Russia following the invasion of Ukraine. Helsinki Commission leadership lauded the award of the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize to Russia's Dmitry Muratov, longtime editor-in-chief of Novaya Gazeta. Muratov dedicated his Nobel Prize award to his slain Novaya Gazeta colleagues Igor Domnikov, Yuri Shchekochikhin, Anna Politkovskaya, Stanislav Markelov, Anastasiya Baburova, and Natalya Estemirova. In a November 2009 Helsinki Commission briefing on violence against journalists and impunity in Russia, Muratov, who provided testimony, said, "I would like to ask you a huge favor. In every meeting, in any encounter with representatives of the Russian political establishment and government, please, bring up this meeting. Please ask these uncomfortable questions. Please try not to be too polite."

* press release Ukrainian Medic to Testify on "Hell" in Russian Captivity, War in Ukraine at Upcoming Helsinki Commission Hearing Wednesday, September 07, 2022 WASHINGTON-The Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission, today announced the following hearing: MY "HELL" IN RUSSIAN CAPTIVITY Taira Paievska on Russia's War in Ukraine Thursday, September 15, 2022 9:00 a.m. Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 106 Watch live: www.youtube.com/HelsinkiCommission[http://www.youtube.com/HelsinkiCommission] Russia's war crimes in Ukraine include the brutal and unlawful detention of thousands of Ukrainians. At this hearing, Yuliia "Taira" Paievska, a Ukrainian volunteer medic who was detained in Mariupol in March and held by the Russians for three months, will testify about her capture; the deplorable conditions of her three-month captivity; the plight of those who continue to be detained unlawfully; and her lifesaving work since 2014 providing medical assistance to those wounded by Russia's war. The following witnesses are scheduled to participate: Yuliia "Taira" Paievska, Ukrainian veteran and volunteer paramedic; Commander, "Taira's Angels" Dr. Hanna Hopko, Co-Founder, International Center for Ukrainian Victory; Former Chair, Committee on Foreign Affairs, Parliament of Ukraine

* press release Co-Chairman Cohen Discusses Role as Special Representative for Political Prisoner Wednesday, September 07, 2022 WASHINGTON-Helsinki Commission Co-Chairman Rep Steve Cohen (TN-09) today spoke at a virtual hearing of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe's Parliamentary Assembly (OSCE PA)about his new role as the assembly's special representative for political prisoners. Co-Chairman Cohen thanked OSCE PA President Margareta Cederfelt of Sweden for naming him to the special representative role and expressed his disappointment at the increased need to call attention to attacks on human rights as conditions around the world continue to deteriorate. He spoke in particular on the cases of Russian politicians Vladimir Kara-Murza, Alexei Navalny, and the former mayor of Yekaterinburg, Yevgeny Roizman, as well as politicians, journalists and dissidents in Belarus, Egypt, Myanmar, and Cambodia. Co-Chairman Cohen said of Kara-Murza, arrested after returning home to Moscow: "I will not let him be forgotten." He also said in part: "I appreciate President Cederfelt's appointment and her faith in me to execute this position as special representative on political prisoners. I take it very seriously and have been working on it regularly, notifying through posts on social media, press releases and calling on governments to release political prisoners. Unfortunately, this role is becoming more and more significant as we have more and more political prisoners… "I've contacted Secretary Blinken to work with him and the State Department. We've brought attention to political prisoners not only in Russia and Belarus but also in Myanmar and Egypt and, unfortunately, in several of the OSCE countries there are political prisoners as well…Conditions all around the world are getting worse…and Russia is the worst." See his entire remarks here.

* press release Helsinki Commission Alarmed By Reported Transport of S-300 Missile Systems by Russia into the Black Sea Friday, September 02, 2022 WASHINGTON-Following reports that the Sparta II, a Russian cargo ship, transported S-300 missile systems through the Turkish Straits, Helsinki Commission Chairman Sen. Ben Cardin (MD), Co-Chairman Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09), Ranking Member Sen. Roger Wicker (MS), and Ranking Member Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02) issued the following joint statement: "We are alarmed by Russia's reported transport of S-300 missile systems through the Turkish Straits into the Black Sea. As Russia is waging a bloody, unprovoked war against Ukraine, it is critical that any supplies of arms to Moscow be cut off as quickly and efficiently as possible. Any additional weapon in the hands of the Kremlin would mean another Ukrainian who would lose his or her life to the aggressor. "As the gatekeeper to the Black Sea, Turkey must do everything in its power to stop the flow of arms to Russia. We are perplexed that while third parties were able to spot the ship as it was entering the straits, it appears the Turkish government failed to prevent it from delivering the missile systems to Russia. Such systems will inevitably be deployed to commit crimes against humanity. "We are sure that Turkey does not want to be complicit in this by failing to carry out its responsibilities. We urge Turkish authorities to clarify their role in allowing the Sparta II into the Black Sea."

* press release Co-Chairman Cohen Deplores Arrest of Former Yekaterinburg Mayor Yevgeniy Roizman Monday, August 29, 2022 WASHINGTON-Following the arrest of the Kremlin critic and former Yekaterinburg mayor Yevgeniy Roizman, Helsinki Commission Co-Chairman and OSCE PA Special Representative on Political Prisoners Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09) issued the following statement: "The arrest and prosecution of Yevgeniy Roizman is another milestone in the Kremlin's descent into a full-blown dictatorship. "Putin's brutal war against Ukraine is what dishonors the Russian military. Mr. Roizman simply has reminded his fellow citizens of that truth. "As Mr. Roizman noted in a recent interview covered by the New York Times, 'the worst thing is when you suddenly see that there is a lot of evil, that evil is winning, that evil is being supported. Evil can only win when it joins together with a lie.' "Mr. Roizman also served as the mayor of Yekaterinburg, the same city where Brittney Griner played since 2014. "The Russian government should drop all the charges against Mr. Roizman and not put any restrictions on his work and activism, and I continue to call for the immediate release of other political prisoners including Vladimir Kara-Murza, Alexey Navalny, and Ilya Yashin, as well as Brittney Griner, Paul Whelan, Marc Fogel, and other journalists, dissidents, and wrongfully detained individuals in Russia."

* in the news It's Time to Throw NATO's Door Wide Open Tuesday, August 23, 2022 NATO was meant to be a harbor for the weak and imperiled. It should be again. June's NATO summit in Madrid was by every account a historic event. In response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine andbroader belligerence against Europe, NATO unveiled a muscular new strategic concept and invited Finland and Swedento join the alliance-an epochal moment for the two traditionally neutral countries and a major statement for thealliance's "open door" policy. Yet looming over all of this are the uncertain fates of the two countries most suffering from Russian aggression: Ukraine and Georgia. Both nations were promised membership in the alliance during the 2008 NATO summit in Bucharest, Romania, yet bothremain outside of it. Now, the enormous human and material toll of Russia's genocidal, neo-imperial war in Ukraine hasput NATO's extended and unfulfi lled promises into sharp, indelible relief. Obscured by ambiguous technicalities, the alliance's failure to provide Ukraine and Georgia with a concrete pathway to membership was clearly an unintentional but predictable invitation to Russian aggression. As Ukrainians desperately defend their homeland and count civilians and their children among those killed, the moraland strategic poverty of Ukraine's deferred accession is laid bare. NATO and its members must now reckon with thewages of a passive approach and rethink the alliance's founding purpose. The bloc was never meant as an exclusive country club of the rich and strong but rather a harbor for the weak and imperiled. It should be again. In April, while observing the Hungarian parliamentary elections, I saw for myself the heartrending humanitarian crisis on Ukraine's borders with Hungary and Slovakia. I saw children who had traveled great distances with their families, clutching the meager mementos of home; I met Ukrainians who traveled back and forth across the borders, bringing supplies from the European Union into western Ukrainian cities; and I saw the humanity of volunteers giving some measure of comfort and welcome to weary refugees who had, at long last, reached the promise of safety at the European Union's frontiers. But what I didn't see were any great barriers or edifices of geography to suggest the line where, on one side, NATO would risk nuclear war in the people's defense and on the other side-in Ukraine-it would not. In the United States and Europe, discussions about the borders between NATO and the rest of Europe are treated like immutable features of geography or acts of god, as though certain states and people are afforded divine predestination into the Euro-Atlantic's rarefied elect. Decisions in the run-up to the war to withhold crucial assistance or provide security guarantees were often justified based on Ukraine's non-membership in NATO, even though concrete pathways into the alliance have never been offered despite the 2008 declaration. The idea that Ukraine and Georgia were somehow unready or unable to meet NATO's technical criteria has always been a problematic argument. At no point has NATO established hard, technical benchmarks for membership-clear, achievable standards for entry-and doing so might have risked Ukraine and Georgia passing muster, potentially embarrassing the countries that were categorically opposed to their accession. Realistically, NATO enlargement has always been a political decision. More recent fixations on technical "readiness" and process were introduced after the Cold War to amplify NATO's turn from a Cold War bulwark to a carrier of Euro-Atlantic values and to manage booming Eastern European demand for membership. But today, Moscow's threat to Europe's peace is all too apparent again-and devastatingly so in Ukraine as well as in Georgia. In response, NATO should change with the strategic landscape-not with "retrenchment," in which it builds its walls higher while Ukraine and other threatened partners burn, but with aggressive enlargement. NATO is generally considered something of a walled garden-a protected redoubt of relative peace, prosperity, and predictability. However, this reputation elides the seismic strategic revolution that founding and early expansion represented. Firmly in the nuclear age and facing Soviet expansionism after two horrific continental wars in the first half of the 20th century, the United States sought to create structures to arrest Europe's ruinous cycles of great-power war. Against thevery real risk of Soviet imperialism and a potential third World War, NATO created a protected sanctuary around Europe's most threatened, impoverished, and war-torn countries. "I am sure," then-U.S. President Harry Truman said just a year before NATO's founding, "that the determination of the free countries of Europe to protect themselves will be matched by an equal determination on our part to help them." To create the rules-based paradise of modern Europe, the United States and its closest allies drew a line in the face of Soviet expansionism and said: No further. Despite war weariness and the steep task of reconstruction, the North Atlantic founders pooled their military power and political determination as well as risked a third World War in Europe's defense. The countries that joined were hardly all first-rate military powers, economic dynamos, or stable democracies-manywere politically unstable, militarily sapped, and economically broken. Several, such as Portugal and Spain, were military dictatorships. The principal continental combatants in World War II-Germany, France, and Italy-were quite literally ruined by the war and took decades to recover. Yet the United States and the other original NATO members didn't quibble interminably over the vagaries of a threatened partner's democratic credentials or its uptake of various technical or military reforms, and they generally accepted European states that sought Washington's protection and a Western orientation. This wasn't because of Western indifference to democracy but rather a recognition that democratization under the shadow of an imminent Soviet threat was essentially impossible and that a country swallowed by Moscow's imperial agenda had no chance of true self-determination-much less democracy. Speaking of NATO's purpose, then-U.S. Secretary of State Dean Acheson described it as "designed to contribute to thestability and well-being of the member nations by removing the haunting sense of insecurity" posed by Soviet expansionism. It took time, but the strategy paid off. Under NATO and the United States' nuclear umbrella, great-power war was avoided, Europe democratized and prospered, and the Soviet Union and its brand of colonialism was dismantled, freeing tens of millions of people. With Russia again in the throes of despotism and expansionist militarism, the conditions that accompanied NATO's founding are all too familiar. Russian aggression in the heart of Europe is an incontrovertible reality-as Ukraine's blood-soaked lands so clearly attest-and there is no reason to believe or expect Moscow to stop until and unless it is stopped. NATO must meet the moment. Dithering over peacetime technicalities defi es NATO's original purpose to secure Europefrom the specter of Moscow's violently imperial agenda. This is not a return to the Cold War, but it is no less a civilizational struggle against a military dictatorship in Moscow. This threat is particularly plain and present for the millions of Ukrainians and Georgians who have had no choice but to suffer on the wrong side of the geopolitical train tracks. NATO should return to its roots and fling open its doors to all those in Europe at risk of Russia's predations. How can this be done? NATO decisions, including membership, require consensus. Transitioning to a wartime open door policy will require a major shift in thinking. For one, the United States, as the ultimate underwriter of NATO's military might, should take steps to provide robust security assistance and assurances to threatened partners-such as those promises it has given Finland and Sweden until their accession is complete-and encourage other like-minded allies to do the same. Similarly, NATO handwringing over outstanding territorial disputes-almost always created or supported by Moscow-should officially become a nonissue. Russia should not be rewarded for cultivating and backing violent separatist movements that inoculate the parent countries from NATO accession. If anything, Russian meddling and aggression evinces the necessity of NATO's protection. This is simple in principle but admittedly difficult in policy amid hot war. How can Ukraine join NATO without triggering a global conflict? First, the United States and its allies can all do more to ensure that Ukraine has military dominance overits own territory and win its war of independence. Mystifying gaps that undermine Western sanctions policies demand attention-such as continued European dependence on Russian energy, U.S. imports of Russian steel, and the growing role of China and other countries in the Middle East, Eurasia, and Asia (including friends and partners) to bypass or ease the impact of international trade sanctions. Likewise, U.S. hesitance over delivering heavy arms and munitions to Ukraine must end. The delivery of U.S. artillery and M142 High Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS) platforms have completely changed the momentum of the conflict in recent weeks; more longer-range munitions and Western fast-jet capabilities could help Ukraine expand the initiative against Russia's high-mass but low-morale attacking force. Second, the United States could consider extending its nuclear umbrella over Ukraine to erase Russia's nuclear advantage and any temptation it may have to use nuclear weapons as Russian conventional losses mount. Doing so would only be a stronger and clearer statement of current U.S. policy that Russia's use of weapons of mass destruction against Ukraine would be "completely unacceptable" and "entail severe consequences," as U.S. President Joe Biden has already said. Against such a horrifying possibility, the West could stand to be much clearer on the evident downsides of such a strategy, which would itself violate Russian nuclear doctrine. And third, the United States can and should have discussions about certain security guarantees for free areas of Ukraine, such as via the provision of the most advanced Western arms or direct Western air defense coverage. For Georgia, and even for a country like Moldova should it so choose, it is even clearer: Provide support and security guarantees over non-occupied regions. Finally, democratic principles should remain a core requirement for NATO. Although the exigencies of the moment maynot allow the luxury of waiting for perfect democratization to develop before entry, NATO can and should create more robust and independent internal mechanisms to monitor and highlight vulnerabilities, advise and assist all members with undertaking difficult reforms, and hold members accountable for sustained and significant democratic backsliding. As Ukraine's brave people fight for survival and every inch of their homeland against Russia's overwhelming and genocidal war, it is impossible not to wonder what might have been had NATO understood in 2008 in Bucharest or in 2014 in Wales what horrors could have been prevented if Ukraine had been spirited into the alliance, along with Georgia. Ukraine will win this war, and Russia will lose-but in many ways, it is already too late for Ukraine and Georgia, having been so thoroughly and persistently victimized by Russian aggression. Yet each moment they are left to fend for themselves only compounds the error-and the shame.

* article NATO Refocused, Europe Reinforced Wednesday, August 10, 2022 By Jessika Nebrat, Max Kampelman Fellow​ Following the escalation of Russia's war against Ukraine, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) is playing a role it has not filled in years. Forced to reconcentrate its attention to Europe's defense, NATO allies are demonstrating persistent resolve in countering Moscow's expansionist tendencies. In doing so, NATO returns to a core facet of its founding mission: the defense against Moscow's militarism. While NATO represents just one facet of the Euro-Atlantic security infrastructure, it is perhaps the most robust organization bound by formal agreements, dedicated to peacekeeping, and capable of enforcement. Its mission to "guarantee the freedom and security of its members through political and military means" echoes the first dimension principles outlined by the Helsinki Final Act, and aligns NATO with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the U.S. Helsinki Commission. In supporting each other's work, these institutions mutually reinforce their shared values and bolster European security. History of NATO In the aftermath of the second World War, the United States, Canada, and several Western European nations sought to boost European economic reconstruction and protect themselves from Soviet domination. The 1947 Treaty of Dunkirk predated NATO in promoting Atlantic alliance and mutual assistance between France and the United Kingdom. The agreement was expanded in March 1948 as the Treaty of Brussels to engage Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in military, economic, social, and cultural cooperation. In the same month, the United States hosted talks intended to unite both North American and Western European allies; as a result, NATO was officially signed into existence on April 4, 1949. The 12 founding member nations derived their legitimacy from United Nations (UN) Charter Article 51, which affirmed the right to collective defense. The foundational NATO Treaty mentioned collective defense only after declaring the parties' commitments to finding peaceful resolutions of disputes, upholding UN principles, strengthening free institutions, and promoting economic collaboration. The Alliance formally defined its principal objectives to deter Soviet expansionism, oppose nationalist militarism on the continent, and bolster European political integration. Though it sought to deter military aggression, NATO's original treaty did not provide any means of enforcing the agreed-upon principles. It was not until after the USSR's 1949 detonation of an atomic bomb and the 1950 start of the Korean War that NATO approved a military command structure. In response, the Soviet Union established the Warsaw Pact in 1955. Though neither of the two ideologically opposed organizations used force during the Cold War, they engaged in an arms race that persisted until the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991. NATO after the Cold War Once NATO no longer had to defend against Soviet expansionism, the Alliance broadened the scope of its peacekeeping and security enforcement missions. In the 1990s, NATO forces were deployed: to Turkey during the Gulf Crisis; upon request to Russia and other Commonwealth of Independent States nations as part of a humanitarian mission after the fall of the USSR; to enforce a UN arms embargo and no-fly zone over former Yugoslavia; and in the Central Mediterranean during a period of tension with Libya. In the 21st century, NATO forces were also deployed during: the Second Gulf War; to the US and Afghanistan in the aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the only Article 5 invocation in NATO history; to mitigate rising ethnic tensions in North Macedonia; to counter terrorist activity in the Mediterranean; as counter-piracy escorts to UN World Food Programme ships transiting the Gulf of Aden; to train Iraqi security forces; to enforce a no-fly zone after the popular uprising in Libya; for peacekeeping in Sudan; and to provide disaster relief throughout Europe, the Middle East, and in the United States. NATO currently maintains active operations in Kosovo, the Mediterranean, Iraq, and throughout the African Union; it recently ramped up air policing as part of a peace-keeping response to the Russian Federation's illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014, and the escalation against Ukraine this past February. Kremlin Narrative against NATO Over the years, Moscow has repeatedly resisted NATO enlargement - especially for countries it claims within its sphere of influence. Putin asserts that during a 1990 summit between President George H. W. Bush and President Gorbachev, the United States promised no further expansion of NATO; civil servants present at that meeting have refuted this claim, as has Mr. Gorbachev himself. In his conversation with Bush, Gorbachev repeatedly affirmed that nations have the right to make their own alliances. Though internal U.S. analyses of the 1990s suggested that expansion eastward may not be politically expedient, such positions never became official policy. The United States has remained resolute in its recognition of sovereign choice, and expansion has been driven by requests from former Soviet and Warsaw Pact states wary of Russian revanchism. The Kremlin has deployed an opposing narrative to justify Russian military engagements in Georgia in the early 2000s, and more recently in Ukraine. Putin sees the inclusion of either nation in NATO, and the political and economic liberalization that go with it, as threats to his regime's stability. NATO membership would limit Russian interference in the internal affairs of either state. Additionally, if Russia's neighbors and fellow post-Soviet states can become true democracies, provide higher quality of living, and ensure the rule of law, then why can't Putin's Russia? Any argument that NATO expansion threatens Russia misrepresents the organization, which is a diverse coalition dedicated to mutual defense and development. Moreover, such an assertion overlooks the efforts NATO has made to include and collaborate with Russia in the pursuit of cooperative security. NATO Back to its Roots By illegally and brutally invading Ukraine in February 2022 - a dramatic escalation of the grinding conflict started in 2014 - Putin has galvanized European and Western unity. Hearkening to its origins and returning attention to Eastern Europe, NATO is recommitting itself to "counter Russia's attempts to destroy the foundations of international security and stability." The international community is largely on board. In its collective attention beyond security, NATO - alongside other organizations - highlights not only the potential for, but the responsibility of the international community to condemn human rights violations, uphold the rule of law, and pursue economic health, all efforts that further challenge the Kremlin's narrative that it can lead (or that there even needs to exist) an opposing bloc. Alarmed by Moscow's renewed expansionism, Sweden and Finland have abandoned decades of neutrality in favor of NATO membership. They are on track towards the fastest accession process in history, and anticipate a smooth integration. Both already engage in the wider European community through membership in such organizations as the European Union and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. Their force structures are robust, and well-versed in NATO procedures following decades of partnership; their accession will secure northeast Europe, expand NATO's border with Russia, and reinforce NATO presence in the Arctic and Baltic Sea. Although the Kremlin initially vowed "military and political repercussions" were Finland and Sweden to join NATO, such threats have dulled to warnings about the installation of NATO military infrastructure nearer Russia's borders; as Finland and Sweden's NATO membership neared finalization, Putin even expressed "no problem" with these states joining the Alliance. It remains to be seen how this change will play out. After decades of orientation towards international stabilization, humanitarian, and counterinsurgency mission sets, NATO has been refocused on European deterrence and defense following the Kremlin's violent assault on Ukraine. In addition to condemning Russia's invasion and supporting Ukraine via such measures as the Comprehensive Assistance Package, NATO plays a critical role in championing European collective defense and discouraging any expansion of conflict.

* press release Co-Chairman Cohen Calls for the Release of Political Prisoners in Belarus Tuesday, August 09, 2022 Washington - On the second anniversary of the sham presidential election in Belarus, the Helsinki Commission Co-Chairman and OSCE PA Special Representative on Political Prisoners Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09) issued the following statement: "Two years ago today, Belarus's autocrat Aleksander Lukashenko put up a show of an election that he had hoped would legitimize his unconstitutional power grab. Despite the many and well-documented cases of election abuse, the people of Belarus did not fall for the tricks of the one-man ruler of Belarus. They voted Lukashenko out, but, predictably, he refused to leave. He ignored the will of the people and chose vicious violence to suppress the peaceful dissent. "In the year following the unprecedented in scale peaceful rallies against the 2020 election results, Lukashenko's troops arrested, tortured and imprisoned a reported 35,000 Belarusians for the simple act of demanding the government respect their choice and rights. He personally presided over the largest ever domestic repression that saw thousands behind bars and tens of thousands flee the country, including the opposition leader and likely legitimate winner absent election fraud, Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, who has been welcomed by neighboring countries. "Since that time, Lukashenko has continued a crackdown on civic participation in Belarus with arrests of civilians protesting the Russian war in Ukraine, changes to Belarus's non-nuclear status, and the ongoing Lukashenko regime during last year's March 25th anniversary of Belarus's 'Freedom Day,' adding to the already sizeable number of politically motivated detainments in the country. "There are now close to 1200 individuals languishing in Belarusian prisons for speaking out against authoritarianism, corruption and war. Included among the political prisoners are: Syarhey Tsikhanouski, husband of Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya and potential candidate against Lukashenko detained in May 2020; Roman Protasevich, journalist and opposition figure accused of inciting mass protests and detained after a false bomb threat forced the landing of Ryanair flight FR4978 destined for Lithuania in Belarus in May 2021; Sofia Sapega, Russian citizen and girlfriend of Protasevich who also was aboard Ryanair flight FR4978; Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty Belarus Service journalists Ihar Losik, Andrey Kuznechyk and Aleh Kruzdzilovic; and Ales Bialiatski, founder of Viasna Human Rights Centre, a human rights organization based in Minsk that provides financial and legal support to political prisoners. These are but a few names representing political candidates, oppositionists, activists, journalists and other Belarusian and non-Belarusian citizens detained by Lukashenko's regime. "Lukashenko must immediately order the release of all political prisoners and wrongfully detained individuals and stop the systematic violations of human rights. I call on the U.S. Department of State and our allies abroad to work together during this time of heightened tension with Belarus and Belarus's benefactor, Russia, to ensure the unjustly imprisoned Belarusians are released at the earliest date possible."

* press release Cardin, Shaheen, Wicker Introduce New Bipartisan Bill to Support Economic Development, Promote Democratic Resilience & Combat Corruption in the Balkans Thursday, August 04, 2022 WASHINGTON - Helsinki Commission Chairman Ben Cardin (MD) with Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on Europe and Regional Security Cooperation and member of the Helsinki Commission, introduced new bipartisan legislation with Helsinki Commission Ranking Member Sen. Roger Wicker (MS) called the Western Balkans Democracy and Prosperity Act. This legislation would support economic development in the region through initiatives on infrastructure, trade and anti-corruption, including codification of sanctions to deter destabilizing activity In the Western Balkans. Sens. Durbin (IL), Tillis (NC), Van Hollen (MD) and Murphy (CT) also are original cosponsors of the bipartisan legislation. "While the Western Balkan nations have made great strides towards democratic governance since the end of the Yugoslav Wars, increasing political divisions and corruption threaten to erode this progress," said Chairman Cardin. "We must continue to support our democratic partners and allies in the Balkans. This bipartisan bill will advance regional stability and anti-corruption efforts by establishing programs that encourage inclusive economic development, national anti-corruption strategy, and hold accountable those who threaten peace in the Western Balkans." "Amid Russia's unprovoked war in Ukraine and Putin's clear ambitions to spread malign influence across Eastern Europe, the United States' relationship with the Western Balkans is pivotal. That's why I'm proud to introduce new bipartisan legislation that strengthens trade and investments between the U.S. and Western Balkans, while rooting out local corruption and codifying sanctions against destabilizing actors - all of which pave the way for greater Euro-Atlantic integration," said Sen.Shaheen. "When I traveled to the Western Balkans in the Spring, I met with young leaders who shared their dreams of building a prosperous future in countries with strong democratic institutions and economic opportunity. Their stories - their visions of building a brighter future for the next generation - inspired my legislation. This region deserves every tool possible to build sustainable democracies, and I'm proud to lead this bipartisan bill that would foster relations between the U.S. and our Balkan partners and encourage greater regional integration." "The Balkans are countries with a rich and varied heritage, and they also occupy an increasingly important position in European affairs," said Sen. Wicker. "This bill would send a strong bipartisan signal that the United States is committed to supporting diplomacy in the region." "As Putin's unprovoked war in Ukraine rages on, we must not forget the hard won peace in the Balkans, which suffered terrible violence after the breakup of Yugoslavia. The United States and our allies contributed greatly to ending that horrific conflict, and this legislation reaffirms our commitment to seeing a stable future for the region-one squarely rooted in the West," said Sen. Durbin. "The Balkans region is critical to Europe's security, and we must deepen existing engagement with our partners as Russia continues its illegal war against Ukraine and threatens our NATO allies," said Sen. Tillis. "In the spring, I was proud to visit Serbia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kosovo, and Belgium with Senator Shaheen to hear from leaders of these countries and relay to our colleagues the importance of expanding economic opportunity and combating corruption. This bipartisan legislation will demonstrate our support for their efforts to advance democracy, and I will work with my colleagues to build support and pass it out of Congress." "Despite Putin's intent, his bloody war in Ukraine has not weakened our global alliances, but bolstered them. Increasing our partnerships with the Western Balkans will allow us to build on this and spur new economic cooperation between our nations. This legislation will help us capitalize on these opportunities as we continue to support strengthening democracy in the region," said Sen. Van Hollen. "Maintaining peace in the Balkans is critical to European security, especially as Putin grows more desperate in Ukraine and may turn to other countries for a victory. During my trip to the region this spring, it was clear the United States must deepen our engagement. This legislation will strengthen U.S.-Balkan ties, expand economic opportunity, and support efforts to advance democracy and root out corruption," said Senator Murphy. Specifically, the Western Balkans Democracy and Prosperity Act: Establishes a regional trade and economic competitiveness initiative, which would support democratic resilience, economic development and prosperity in the region. Establishes an anti-corruption initiative that directs the Secretary of State to provide technical assistance for each country in the Western Balkans to develop a national anti-corruption strategy. Codifies two U.S. executive orders that would grant authority for sanctions against those who threaten peace and stability in the Western Balkans and are engaged in corrupt behavior. Boosts university partnerships, encourages Peace Corps engagement in the region, creates a Balkans Youth Leadership Initiative and requires the Development Finance Corporation to open a previously announced office in the region. Full text of the bill is available here.

* publication Helsinki Commission Digital Digest July 2022 Friday, July 29, 2022

* press release Co-Chairman Cohen Deplores Arrest of Ilya Yashin in Russia Thursday, July 28, 2022 WASHINGTON-In response to the arrest of Ilya Yashin, a Russian politician critical of Russia's war in Ukraine, the Helsinki Commission Co-Chairman and OSCE PA Special Representative on Political Prisoners Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09) issued the following statement: "Putin's government has been engaged in a systematic assault on Russian citizens who dare speak the truth about Russia's atrocities in Ukraine. Ilya Yashin, a Russian patriot and a fierce critic of the war in Ukraine, is one of the victims of this regime. "Ilya spoke out against the war despite the cynical law Russia has adopted that punishes people speaking the truth on this conflict with up to 15 years in prison. He was arrested on trumped-up charges and is facing a lengthy jail term for no crime other than publicly speaking out against Russia's war in Ukraine. Ilya is a political prisoner and should be given all protections afforded by this status. The Russian government has a complete disregard for international law and customs but if they have an ounce of respect for their own laws, they will immediately release Ilya and other political prisoners." Ilya Yashin, a co-founder of the Solidarity movement, is a member of a Moscow city district council. Throughout his career, he advocated for fair elections, rule of law, and democracy in Russia. Prior to his arrest, Mr. Yashin was one of the few Russian opposition activists who had not been killed, forced to flee, or imprisoned.

* statement Wicker Stands in Solidarity With Russian Dissident Thursday, July 28, 2022 WASHINGTON - Mr. President, I rise this afternoon to make sure that the plight of Russian leader Vladimir Kara-Murza is not forgotten. That the outrageous imprisonment of Vladimir Kara-Murza by the Russian dictator Vladimir Putin is not forgotten. We remember three decades ago what hope we had for a new Russia. Russia entered a new age of possibility some three decades ago, after more than 70 years of communist repression, the Soviet order had collapsed, and with it the Iron Curtain that kept freedom away from millions was torn down. As the red flags came down in Moscow, the free world watched with anticipation, hoping that democracy and the rule of law might finally take root in a free Russia. Regrettably, that has not happened. Instead of democracy and freedom, the Russian people got Vladimir Putin, a man who has used his office to murder, imprison, and force into exile anyone who threatens his grip on power -- all the while, enriching himself beyond anyone's wildest imagination while ordinary Russians, especially out in the countryside of Russia, live in squalid conditions. One of his latest victims is Vladimir Kara-Murza, a Russian patriot and a friend I had the privilege of hosting in my office just four months ago. As a matter of fact, I have hosted him several times. Today, Vladimir Kara-Murza spends his days in a prison cell, where the only thing you can see through the window is a barbed wire fence. What was his crime? He simply spoke the truth about Putin's war on Ukraine. His trial, if it can even be called a trial, was held in secret. No journalists, no diplomats or spectators of any kind were allowed to be there. And for his offense of talking about the Russian war against Ukraine, he now faces up to 15 years in prison. This is not the first time the Russian dictator has tried to silence him. Mr. Kara-Murza has been poisoned twice, in 2015 and 2017, and almost died in both cases. Since then, his wife and three children have had to live abroad, though he himself has chosen to spend most of his time in Russia. In a recent interview with National Review, his wife, Evgenia explained why he insists on working in Russia: "He believes that he would not have the moral right to call on people to fight if he were not sharing the same risks." Or as Mr. Kara-Murza put it in a recent CNN interview the day of his arrest. He said, "The biggest gift we could give the Kremlin would be to just give up and run. That's all they want from us." What a contrast in character to the man currently running the Kremlin. The National Review's story goes on to describe Mr. Kara-Murza's courageous work for democracy through the eyes of his wife of Evgenia, as well as the costs that he and his family have endured along with so many other Russian dissidents. And, Mr. President, I ask unanimous consent at this point to insert the National Review story that I referred to into the record. Mr. Kara-Murza's imprisonment is part of Mr. Putin's larger assault on what remains of political freedom in Russia. In Mr. Kara-Murza's words, Putin's regime has gone, "from highly authoritarian to near totalitarian almost overnight." In March, Russian officials passed a new censorship law, forbidding all criticism of Mr. Putin's war in Ukraine. That law has been the basis for more than 16,000 arrests since the war began in February, including that of Mr. Kara-Murza. Another 2,400 Russians have been charged with administrative offenses for speaking out against the war. Meanwhile, Putin's propaganda machine is ramping up. Independent Russian media outlets have all but vanished, having been blocked, shut down, or forced out of the country by the Kremlin. The last embers of freedom in Russia are going cold. Putin's crackdown on domestic freedom began in 2003, when Mikhail Khodorkovsky was arrested on trumped up charges of tax fraud after he simply criticized the government. A former member of the elite, Mr. Khodorkovsky, had successfully led the Yukos Oil Company through privatization after the Iron Curtain fell. And contrary to the Kremlin's claims, the company consistently paid its taxes. But that didn't stop Vladimir Putin from plundering its assets, throwing Mr. Khodorkovsky in jail, where he stayed for ten years. I would note that just before his arrest, Mr. Khodorkovsky displayed the same courage and patriotism that we now see in Vladimir Kara-Murza. Like Mr. Kara-Murza, he knew very well he could go to jail for speaking out against the government. But Mr. Khodorkovsky did so anyway and refused to flee the country, saying, "I would prefer to be a political prisoner rather than a political immigrant." Of course, by then, Mr. Putin had already shown himself willing to violate the international laws of war, having leveled the Chechen capital of Grozny in his own Republic of Russia in 1999. In 2008, he launched a new assault on international law with the invasion of Georgia. In 2014 he started a bloody war in eastern Ukraine, and in 2016, Soviet Russian dictator Putin and his forces attacked the Syrian city of Aleppo, killing hundreds of civilians and prolonging the rule of Bashar al-Assad. Meanwhile, Putin ramped up his attacks on domestic freedom as well. In 2015 Boris Nemtsov, leader of the democratic opposition, former deputy prime minister of Russia, was shot to death in broad daylight just yards away from the Kremlin. Three months later, Mr. Kara-Murza was poisoned for the first time. More recently, in 2020, Alexei Navalny, the current leader of the opposition, was himself poisoned and had to seek treatment in Berlin. This is Vladimir Putin's Russia today. When Navalny recovered, he chose to return to Moscow, knowing the risks, and immediately upon landing, he was arrested. This is the deplorable state of Russia and freedom under Vladimir Putin. Time and again, he has shown that he is bent on stamping out the aspirations of his people for freedom and the rule of law. As leader of the free world, America must continue to condemn Putin's lawless acts and stand in solidarity with our Russian friends, who are courageously fighting against all odds for a better future in Russia -- and are suffering as a result. These are modern day heroes: Alexei Navalny, Vladimir Kara-Murza, and we should not forget them. My friend, the distinguished senior senator from Maryland, Senator Cardin and I, along with Congressman Steve Cohen and Joe Wilson, are the four House and Senate leaders of the Helsinki Commission, which monitors human rights and former Soviet countries. We recently sent a joint letter to President Biden calling on the administration to name and sanction all of those who have been involved in the arrest, detention and persecution of Vladimir Kara-Murza. I issue that call again today, and I invite my colleagues from both parties to stand with Vladimir Kara-Murza and work for his release. Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.

* press release Helsinki Commission Urges Administration to Work to Free Vladimir Kara-Murza Monday, July 25, 2022 WASHINGTON-Helsinki Commission Chairman Sen. Ben Cardin (MD), Co-Chairman Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09), Ranking Member Sen. Roger Wicker (MS), and Ranking Member Rep. Joe Wilson (SC-02) today released a letter urging the Biden Administration to "use every instrument in our toolbox" to free Russian political prisoner Vladimir Kara-Murza. The letter read in part: "The United States has a proud history of standing up for political prisoners and working relentlessly to help them return to freedom. We stared down the Soviet Union, Communist China, military regimes in Latin America and South-East Asia, and succeeded in helping secure the release of those who deserved freedom the most - innocent and peaceful activists and freedom fighters representing a vision for better governments in those countries. Mr. Kara-Murza represents a hope for a democratic Russia at peace with its neighbors and own citizens, and now is someone who the U.S. should advocate for his release… "The Helsinki Commission continues to raise the issue of political prisoners in Russia, Belarus, and other countries across the OSCE region, and specifically Vladimir Kara-Murza's case…Now, we call on your Administration to use every instrument in our toolbox to secure the release of Mr. Kara-Murza. This is in the interest of our national security, his well-being, and importantly, the well-being of his incredibly brave children and spouse. Mrs. Kara-Murza and their three children reside in the U.S and despite the distance, the Kremlin has been poisoning - literally and figuratively - their lives for decades now. We should do everything in our power to help free Vladimir Kara-Murza and reunite him with his family." On April 12, Vladimir Kara-Murza was arrested in Russia on charges of disobeying police orders when he allegedly "changed the trajectory of his movement" upon seeing Russian police officers at his home. This carried a 15-day sentence in jail. With five days remaining in his sentence, new charges were levied against him for spreading "deliberately false information" about Russia's war on Ukraine. He now faces up to 15 years in prison. On March 29, he testified at a Helsinki Commission hearing examining Russian dictator Vladimir Putin's war on truth, where witnesses discussed the Kremlin's use of propaganda and censorship. "Those who speak out against this war are now liable for criminal prosecution," he said. The Helsinki Commission has a long tradition of advocating on behalf of political prisoners worldwide. Earlier this month, Co-Chairman Cohen was appointed the first-ever OSCE Parliamentary Assembly Special Representative on Political Prisoners.

* press release CO-CHAIRMAN COHEN APPOINTED AS OSCE PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLY SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE ON POLITICAL PRISONERS Thursday, July 21, 2022 WASHINGTON-Margareta Cederfelt, President of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly (PA), has appointed Helsinki Commission Co-Chairman Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09) as the first-ever OSCE PA Special Representative on Political Prisoners. "I welcome the chance to serve as the voice of political prisoners across the OSCE region," said Co-Chairman Cohen. "Every day, we witness more political arrests of opposition politicians, journalists, activists and civilians in Russia, Belarus, and other participating States that are cracking down on free speech, freedom of the press, and free thought. Through this position, I am committed to working tirelessly to elevate the issue of political imprisonment as the egregious violation of human rights that it is." In his new role, Co-Chairman Cohen will collect and share intelligence on political prisoners throughout the OSCE region; raise awareness of participating States with high rates of political prisoners; advocate for the release of political prisoners; and promote dialogue at the OSCE PA and OSCE executive structures about political imprisonment. Commission Chairman Senator Ben Cardin and Congressman Chris Smith were reappointed as Special Representative on Anti-Semitism, Racism and Intolerance, and Special Representative on Human Trafficking Issues, respectively.

* hearing Behind Enemy Lines Wednesday, July 20, 2022 As Russia's genocidal war against Ukraine continues, Ukrainians in occupied territories are demonstrating courageous resistance in the face of atrocities, deprivation, and forced displacement, the scope and scale of which has shocked the world. This hearing examined the human toll the war is taking on the people of Ukraine. It also underscored the importance of continued assistance from Ukraine's partners to help it win the war, restore its territorial integrity, rebuild its shattered infrastructure, and bring Russian war criminals to justice. U.S. Ambassador to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Michael R. Carpenter outlined his institution's comprehensive approach to supporting Ukraine. The OSCE continues to provide Ukraine with military aid; expose Russia's clear, gross, and uncorrected violation of the Helsinki Final Act based on its unprovoked aggression against Ukraine and the Ukrainian people people; impose costs on the Kremlin, including instituting export controls and restricting Moscow's participation in OSCE activities due to its breach of all ten principles of the Helsinki Final Act; promote multilateral support forUkraine; and hold Russian individuals and leadership accountable, especially for Russia's violations of human rights. Ambassador Carpenter also highlighted a recent report that centers on Russia's human rights violations, produced by the OSCE's Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. Ukrainian MP Oleksiy Goncharenko highlighted the systematic attacks on his nation's history, culture, and identity. In addition to mass civilian casualties, rape, and torture within Ukraine's borders, more than 1.3 million citizens have been deported to the Russian Federation, 240,000 children among them. Many are forced into "filtration camps," in which soldiers crudely inspect, interrogate, and terrorize Ukrainians to look for signs of loyalty to Kyiv. Territories that fall under Russian occupation have been quickly militarized and used for further assaults on neighboring regions. Goncharenko noted that Russia now occupies an amount of land in Ukraine roughly equivalent to the size of Pennsylvania. Olga Aivazovska, Board Chair of the Civil Network OPORA and Co-Founder of the International Center for Ukrainian Victory, highlighted heartbreaking stories of human suffering, and Putin's use of an asymmetric arsenal - including food insecurity, energy control, and misinformation campaigns - against Ukraine. She implored the international community to sustain investigations into and seek justice for widespread human rights violations. She also called attention to the wealth of resources that Russia has stolen from Ukraine, and the investment it will require to rebuild the nation after victory. Ukrainian witnesses asked for additional U.S. military support in the form of long-range HIMARS missile systems, western fighter jets, and related training. They also emphasized the need to designate Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism, to cultivate the legal and humanitarian infrastructure necessary to ensure justice, and to rebuild Ukraine's economic, agricultural, and energy capacities. Members assured witnesses that their dedication to supporting Ukraine remains unwavering, and that Ukraine remains a great inspiration for the free world. Related Information Witness Biographies

* press release Helsinki Commission Hearing to Highlight Life in Ukraine's Newly Occupied Territories Friday, July 15, 2022 WASHINGTON-The Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe, also known as the Helsinki Commission, today announced the following hearing: BEHIND ENEMY LINES Life in Ukraine's Newly Occupied Territories Wednesday, July 20, 2022 2:30 p.m. Dirksen Senate Office Building Room 562 Watch live: www.youtube.com/HelsinkiCommission[http://www.youtube.com/HelsinkiCommission] As Russia's genocidal war against Ukraine continues, Ukrainians in occupied territories are demonstrating courageous resistance in the face of atrocities, deprivation, and forced displacement, the scope and scale of which has shocked the world. This hearing will examine the human toll the war is taking on the people of Ukraine. It also will underscore the importance of continued assistance from Ukraine's partners to help it win the war, restore its territorial integrity, rebuild its shattered infrastructure, and bring Russian war criminals to justice. The following witnesses are scheduled to participate: Panel One: Michael Carpenter, Permanent Representative and Ambassador of the United States to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Panel Two: Oleksiy Goncharenko, Member of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine; Vice President of the Committee on Migration and Refugees, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Olga Aivazovska, Head of the Board Civil Network OPORA; Co-Founder, International Center for Ukrainian Victory

* briefing Shoulder to Shoulder Thursday, July 14, 2022 Helsinki Commission Co-Chairman Rep. Steve Cohen and Ranking Member Rep. Joe Wilson joined former U.S. Army Staff Sergeant James Vasquez and Lt. Colonel Ripley "Rip" Rawlings (USMC, Ret.) to discuss U.S. volunteers fighting for Ukraine. Mr. Vasquez is a volunteer soldier fighting in Ukraine who partnered with Lt. Col. Rawlings to provide on-the-ground support through an organization called Ripley's Heroes. At the beginning of Russia's unprovoked and brutal invasion of Ukraine, Mr. Vasquez decided to travel to Ukraine and fight alongside Ukrainians. For three months, Vasquez armed and trained Ukrainian soldiers to "fight like gentlemen." Vasquez noted that Ukrainians are "warriors in spirit and in heart," but require training and supplies to be most effective. After fighting alongside Ukrainians, Vasquez developed a comradery with his unit, and is returning to Ukraine this month to deliver more supplies and continue fighting. Lt. Col. Rawlings met Vasquez in Ukraine in the early weeks of war and the two decided to launch Ripley's Heroes, an organization providing essential military support to Ukrainian soldiers. Ripley's Heroes has Ukrainian partners on the ground, including the Kiev-based NGO Come Back Alive, who help ensure that soldiers receive necessary supplies as quickly as possible. When asked by Rep. Cohen what the United States should do moving forward to support a Ukrainian victory, Lt. Col. Rawlings noted that a key obstacle to providing Ukrainians with warfighting supplies are U.S. commercial regulations on the export of military equipment, such as International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). According to Lt. Col. Rawlings, rather than simply keeping U.S. military technology out of the hands of nefarious actors, ITAR prevents private U.S. citizens from supporting the war effort by providing simple, effective, non-lethal equipment, like night-vision goggles. Mr. Vasquez agreed that changing U.S. laws to remove the regulations that prevent private citizens from helping Ukraine could help them win the war.

Pages

* 1

* 2[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/tribute-robert-hand-forty-years-service-commission?page=1]

* 3[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/tribute-robert-hand-forty-years-service-commission?page=2]

* 4[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/tribute-robert-hand-forty-years-service-commission?page=3]

* 5[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/tribute-robert-hand-forty-years-service-commission?page=4]

* 6[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/tribute-robert-hand-forty-years-service-commission?page=5]

* 7[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/tribute-robert-hand-forty-years-service-commission?page=6]

* 8[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/tribute-robert-hand-forty-years-service-commission?page=7]

* 9[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/tribute-robert-hand-forty-years-service-commission?page=8]

* …

* next ›[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/tribute-robert-hand-forty-years-service-commission?page=1]

* last »[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/tribute-robert-hand-forty-years-service-commission?page=49]

* Original Link[https://www.csce.gov/international-impact/press-and-media/statements/tribute-robert-hand-forty-years-service-commission]

Disclaimer

CSCE - Commission on Security & Cooperation in Europe published this content on 18 October 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 27 October 2022 16:57:20 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 USGND00020221027eiai006y2


European Court of Human Rights judgment: CASE OF DIMOV AND OTHERS v. BULGARIA
2196 字
2022 年 11 月 3 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2022 SIA Impact Media
Brussels: European Court of Human Rights has issued the following judgment on (08 June 2021):

FOURTH SECTION

CASE OF DIMOV AND OTHERS v. BULGARIA

(Applications nos. 45660/17 and 13 others -

see appended list)

JUDGMENT STRASBOURG

8 June 2021

This judgment is final but it may be subject to editorial revision.

In the case of Dimov and Others v. Bulgaria, The European Court of Human Rights (Fourth Section), sitting as a Committee composed of:

Iulia Antoanella Motoc, President, Gabriele Kucsko-Stadlmayer, Pere Pastor Vilanova, judges, and Ilse Freiwirth, Deputy Section Registrar, Having regard to:

the applications against the Republic of Bulgaria lodged with the Court under Article 34 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms ("the Convention") by nineteen Bulgarian nationals ("the applicants") on different dates (see the appended table for a list of the applicants, the introduction dates of their applications and the names of their representatives);

the decision to give notice to the Bulgarian Government ("the Government") of the complaint concerning the applicants' inability to vote while serving their prison sentences and to declare inadmissible the remainder of the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth applications;

the parties' observations;

Having deliberated in private on 11 May 2021, Delivers the following judgment, which was adopted on that date:

INTRODUCTION

1. The case concerns complaints under Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention that the applicants had been unable to vote while effectively serving prison sentences.

THE FACTS

2. The applicants were born on different dates between 1958 and 1990. The applicants in the first and fourteenth applications were represented by Mr K. Kanev, acting in his capacity as head of the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee. The applicants in the remaining applications were represented by Ms S. Ivanova, a lawyer practising in Sofia.

3. The Government were represented by their Agent, Ms R. Nikolova, from the Ministry of Justice.

4. The facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.

5. The applicants in the first to tenth applications were all effectively serving different prison sentences when elections for the Bulgarian Parliament were held on 26 March 2017. As the relevant legislation excluded individuals serving prison sentences from voting, the applicants could not vote in those elections.

6. The applicants in the first application, with the exception of Mr T.P. Stamenov, as well as the applicants in the eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth applications, were effectively serving different prison sentences on 26 May 2019 when elections of Members of the European Parliament were held. As a result, in application of the relevant legislation, they could not vote in those elections. As regards in particular Mr T.P. Stamenov (who is one of the six applicants in the first application), the Government pointed out, and his representative accepted, that he had not been serving a prison sentence at the time of the elections for Members of the European Parliament on 26 May 2019.

RELEVANT LEGAL FRAMEWORK

7. The relevant legal provisions concerning prisoners' right to vote have been set out in the Court's judgment in the case of Kulinski and Sabev v. Bulgaria, no. 63849/09, §§ 10 and 15-22, 21 July 2016.

THE LAW JOINDER OF THE APPLICATIONS

8. Having regard to the similar subject matter of the applications, the Court finds it appropriate to examine them jointly in a single judgment.

PRELIMINARY ISSUE

9. The Government stated that under Rule 36(4)(a) of the Rules of Court the representative acting on behalf of the applicants had to be an advocate authorised to practice in any of the Contracting Parties and resident in the territory of one of them, or any other person approved by the President of the Chamber. They pointed out that they were not aware that those conditions were fulfilled in respect of the applicants in a number of applications and invited the Court to clarify that question.

10. The Court finds that no issue arises under Rule 36(4)(a) of the Rules of Court in respect of the representatives of any of the applicants. In particular, according to the official register maintained by the Supreme Bar Council, the representative of the applicants in the second to thirteenth applications, Ms S. Ivanova, is a lawyer authorised to practise in Bulgaria and residing on its territory. Furthermore, while Mr K. Kanev, the representative of the applicants in the first and fourteenth applications, is not an advocate authorised to practise in any of the Contracting Parties by the terms of Rule 36 § 4 (a), in view of the circumstances of the cases and in the interests of the proper administration of justice, the President of the Section granted him leave to represent the applicants in the proceedings before the Court in those two applications.

ALLEGED VIOLATION OF ARTICLE 3 OF PROTOCOL NO.1 TO THE CONVENTION

11. All applicants complained under Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention about the impossibility to vote because they were convicted prisoners, effectively serving their sentences at the time when two parliamentary elections were held. In particular, the applicants in the first to tenth applications complained in relation to the elections to the Bulgarian Parliament on 26 March 2017, and the applicants in the first and eleventh to fourteenth applications, complained in relation to the elections of Members of the European Parliament on 26 May 2019. The relevant part of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 reads as follows:

"The High Contracting Parties undertake to hold free elections at reasonable intervals by secret ballot, under conditions which will ensure the free expression of the opinion of the people in the choice of the legislature."

Admissibility

12. The Court observes that, following the communication of the applications, the Government pointed out and the representative accepted that one of the applicants in the first application, Mr T.P. Stamenov, was not serving a prison sentence at the time of the elections for Members of the European Parliament on 26 May 2019 (see paragraph 6 above). Consequently, the Court finds that he cannot claim to have been a victim of a violation of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 in respect of those elections. His complaint related to those elections is therefore incompatible ratione personae with the provisions of the Convention within the meaning of Article 35 § 3 (a) and must be rejected as inadmissible under Article 35 §§ 1 and 4 of the Convention.

13. The Court further notes that the complaint, made by the rest of the applicants (see paragraph 11 above), is not manifestly ill-founded within the meaning of Article 35 § 3 (a) of the Convention. The Court further notes that it is not inadmissible on any other grounds. It must therefore be declared admissible.

Merits

The parties' position

14. The applicants in the first and fourteenth applications emphasised that, just like in the case Kulinski and Sabev v. Bulgaria, (no. 63849/09, 21 July 2016), they had been deprived of the right to vote, in particular in relation to the elections indicated in their complaints. The prohibition on their voting rights stemmed from the Constitution and the Election Code, was of a blanket nature and did not allow for an assessment of proportionality through the establishment of a discernible and sufficient link between the sanction and the conduct of the individuals concerned.

15. The applicants in the second to the thirteenth applications stated that the Court had repeatedly found a violation of the Convention in situations such as that of the applicants. The disenfranchisement of persons effectively serving a prison sentence represented a dehumanising penal policy, impeding prisoners in their work toward resocialisation.

16. The Government stated that Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention did not provide for an absolute right. Likewise, that Convention provision contained no exhaustive list of restrictions which might accompany the right to free elections. A violation of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 could not be justified only because prisoners serving custodial sentences could not exercise their voting right, since that restriction was not arbitrary and pursued a legitimate aim related to ensuring the rule of law. That restriction did not prejudice the requirement of the Convention to ensure the free expression of the opinion of the people. Disenfranchisement had a further re-education effect on the convicted person and, in this sense, it was introduced as a punitive measure in order to achieve a legitimate aim.

17. The Government pointed out that the Bulgarian legal system provided for several mechanisms allowing early termination of the effective implementation of a prison sentence. Those were the release on parole and a reduction of sentence, as well as a possibility for release, as a result of presidential clemency or amnesty. Those mechanisms allowed for an early recovery of the right to vote and demonstrated that the Bulgarian criminal justice system had a certain degree of flexibility as it provided a legal opportunity for a differentiated approach. In view of the above, they stated, it could not be said that the Bulgarian legislation, presupposing disenfranchisement for the period of serving a prison sentence, had a common and undifferentiated application with regard to prisoners.

The Court's assessment

18. The Court observes that the facts underlying the present complaints and the arguments advanced by the Government are similar to those that have already given rise to the finding of a violation of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention in the case of Kulinski and Sabev (cited above, §§ 8-9 and 29-30). Having examined all the material submitted to it, the Court has not found any fact or argument capable of persuading it to reach a different conclusion. The Court notes in this connection that the Government have not shown or argued, that the relevant domestic legal provisions, or related practice, which had been at the origin of the Court's finding of a violation in Kulinski and Sabev (cited above, §§ 37 and 41), have been amended in any way, or that the Constitutional Court has interpreted the relevant Constitutional provision in compliance with the Convention requirement that there be no general, automatic and indiscriminate restriction to the right to vote of prisoners effectively serving their sentences (see, mutatis mutandis, Anchugov and Gladkov v. Russia, nos. 11157/04 and 15162/05, § 111, 4 July 2013).

19. The foregoing considerations are sufficient to enable the Court to conclude that there has been a violation of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention in respect of the applicants in the first to the tenth applications as regards the election to the Bulgarian Parliament on 26 March 2017. The Court also finds that there has been a violation of this provision in respect of the applicants in the first and eleventh to fourteenth applications as regards the election to the European Parliament on 26 May 2019, save for Mr T.P. Stamenov in the first application whose related complaint was declared inadmissible (see paragraph 12 above).

APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 41 OF THE CONVENTION

20. Article 41 of the Convention provides:

"If the Court finds that there has been a violation of the Convention or the Protocols thereto, and if the internal law of the High Contracting Party concerned allows only partial reparation to be made, the Court shall, if necessary, afford just satisfaction to the injured party."

Damage

21. The applicants claimed different amounts in respect of non‑pecuniary damage.

22. The Government stated that in case the Court found a violation of the applicants' right to free elections, the ruling in this regard and the publication of the judgment would constitute just satisfaction.

23. Having regard to the circumstances of the present case, the Court considers that the finding of a violation constitutes sufficient just satisfaction for any non-pecuniary damage sustained by the applicants (see Kulinski and Sabev, cited above, § 55 with further reference).

Costs and expenses

24. The applicants in the first and fourteenth applications claimed 2,173 euros (EUR) for the costs and expenses incurred before the Court, of which EUR 2,160 was in respect of the legal fee of their representative. They asked for this amount to be paid directly into the account of the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee.

25. The applicants in the second to thirteenth applications claimed EUR 1,920 each in respect of the legal fees of their representative.

26. The Government considered that these claims were exaggerated and unjustified.

27. According to the Court's case-law, an applicant is entitled to the reimbursement of costs and expenses only in so far as it has been shown that these have been actually and necessarily incurred and are reasonable as to quantum.

28. As regards the costs and expenses incurred before the Court, regard being had to the documents in its possession and the above criteria, the Court considers it reasonable to award EUR 2,000 to each of the two representatives and that this amount should be paid directly into the respective bank accounts of the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee and of Ms S. Ivanova.

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020221103eib30003g


Insight EU monitoring - Your Daily Premium Digest
14908 字
2022 年 11 月 9 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2022. Comecon Media GmbH
A full-text overview of today's most important posts on our Insight EU portal

DAILY DIGEST

PREMIUM

www.ieu-monitoring.com[http://www.ieu-monitoring.com]

* Finland to contribute to shipment of Ukraine grain

* Myanmar/Burma: EU imposes fifth round of restrictive measures

* Insight EU Climate Monitoring 7 November 2022

* Vanuatu: EU Council fully suspends visa free travel agreement

* Insight EU Energy Monitoring 7 November 2022

* Eastern Mediterranean: EU Council prolongs the sanctions regime over unauthorised drilling

* EU Parliament wants to clamp down on foreign public subsidies

* Montenegro: EU Spokesperson on developments in the Parliament and around the Constitutional Court

* Tax rulings: EU Court jugdement in Cases C885/19 P (Fiat Chrysler Finance Europe) and C898/19 P (Ireland)

* EU budget: EU Council agrees disaster relief aid of €668m for seven member states

* Mergers: EU Commission opens investigation into the proposed acquisition of Activision Blizzard

* Harmful tax measures: EU Finance ministers agree to strengthen code of conduct

* Banking: EU Council agrees its position on implementation of Basel III reforms

* Main results of the Ecofin Council on 8 November 2022

* Ecofin: Press remarks by Executive EU Commission VP Dombrovskis

* Statement by EU Commission President at the COP27 plenary meeting

* Egypt: EU Commission President von der Leyen on ‘investing in future of energy’

* Fiat tax State aid case: EU Commission Executive VP Vestager on today’s Court judgment in Luxembourg

* Competition: EU Commission seeks feedback on draft revised Market Definition Notice

* Namibia: EU Commission President on Memorandum of Understanding on renewable hydrogen and sustainable raw materials value chains

* Forest Partnerships with Congo, Guyana, Mongolia, Zambia and Uganda signed – Statement by Ursula von der Leyen

* EU sanctions against Russia: MEPs hear experts on effects

* Investor-State dispute settlement (ISDS): EESC backs criticism, demands holistic approach

Finland to contribute to shipment of Ukraine grain[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finland-to-contribute-to-shipment-of-ukraine-grain/393016/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Helsinki, 8 November 2022

Finland will support the grain shipments of the World Food Programme (WFP) from Ukraine to Somalia. At the same time, Finland will increase its humanitarian assistance to the Horn of Africa, where more than 20 million people are in need of urgent food aid.

Global food security has deteriorated further during 2022. Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has deteriorated access to food and raised prices. The COVID-19 pandemic and, in some places, the effects of climate change hinder access to food, too. The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) and the World Food Programme (WFP) estimate that up to 222 million people could suffer from acute food insecurity in 53 countries.

The situation is particularly severe in the Horn of Africa, which is suffering from a record-breaking drought after a fifth consecutive failed rainy season. More than 20 million people need food aid. The countries of the Horn of Africa are particularly dependent on grain imports from Russia and Ukraine, which is why Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has such a devastating impact on the region. Finland is allocating EUR 15.7 million in humanitarian assistance to the region. From that sum, nearly EUR 7 million will be channelled through the WFP to help facilitate the transport of Ukrainian grain to Somalia.

“It is critically important that the shipping of grain from Ukraine to Horn of Africa can continue. We support the World Food Programme in this,” says Minister for Development Cooperation and Foreign Trade Ville Skinnari.

Finland’s humanitarian assistance is delivered by the UN Refugee Agency (UNCHR), the Finnish Red Cross and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC). The focus of the assistance is food security, but it is also used to protect refugees. The Horn of Africa is a major junction of migration, and large numbers of people move back and forth within the region. The decreasing levels of food aid affect the 3.5 million refugees in the region, too.

“Our humanitarian assistance will make it possible to give people shelter, clean water and health services. There is a pressing shortage of them both in the region’s communities and in the refugee camps,” Minister Skinnari says.

Source – Finnish Government[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/finland-to-contribute-to-shipment-of-ukraine-grain]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finland-to-contribute-to-shipment-of-ukraine-grain/393016/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Myanmar/Burma: EU imposes fifth round of restrictive measures [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/myanmar-burma-eu-imposes-fifth-round-of-restrictive-measures/393010/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

In view of the continuing escalation of violence and grave human rights violations following the military takeover two years ago, the Council adopted today a fifth round of restrictive measures.

The new listings target 19 persons and one entity, including the Minister of Investment and Foreign Economic Relations Kan Zaw, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court Htun Htun Oo, high-ranking members of the Myanmar Armed Forces (Tatmadaw) and Air Force, members of the Union Election Commission, as well as business representatives of private companies closely connected and providing support to the Tatmadaw. The State Administration Council is also included as it plays a central role in undermining democracy and the rule of law in Myanmar/Burma as well as in actions that threaten the peace, security and stability of the country.

Restrictive measures currently apply to a total of 84 individuals and 11 entities. Those designated are subject to an asset freeze and a travel ban, which prevents them from entering or transiting through EU territory. In addition, EU persons and entities are prohibited to make funds available to those listed.

Other EU restrictive measure will remain in place: the embargo on arms and equipment and export restrictions on equipment for monitoring communications which might be used for internal repression, the export ban on dual-use goods for use by the military and border guard police, and the prohibition of military training and cooperation with the Tatmadaw.

These measures complement the withholding of EU financial assistance to the government of Myanmar and the freezing of all EU assistance, a tool that might be perceived as a means to legitimise the junta.

Two years ago, on 8 November 2020, the National League for Democracy obtained overwhelming and incontestable popular support in the general elections in Myanmar/Burma. The civilian government was overthrown by the Myanmar military on 1 February 2021.

The EU is deeply concerned by the continuing escalation of violence and the evolution towards a protracted conflict which has spread across the country and has regional implications. The EU condemns the continuing grave human rights violations including torture and sexual and gender-based violence, the continued persecution of civil society, human rights defenders and journalists, attacks on the civilian population, including ethnic and religious minorities, and the destruction of private property by the Myanmar armed forces.

The EU will continue to strive to bring to justice all those responsible for the human rights violations, war crimes and crimes against humanity committed in the wake of the 1 February 2021 coup in Myanmar.

The EU reiterates the calls for an immediate cessation of all hostilities, respect of international humanitarian law, and an end to the disproportionate use of force. The sustained use of the most despicable forms of violence by the regime against its people, including civilians and children, runs counter to the commitments set out in the ASEAN Five-Point Consensus, to which the Myanmar military regime agreed. The European Union will continue to support ASEAN’s efforts to ensure a peaceful resolution of the current crisis and looks forward to bold decisions vis-a-vis the Myanmar military regime to be agreed on at the upcoming ASEAN Leaders’ Summit in Phnom Penh. The European Union reiterates its calls for the immediate and unconditional release of all those arbitrarily detained in connection with the coup, including President Win Myint and State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi.

The relevant legal acts have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union.

Background

In February 2021, the Council adopted conclusions condemning in the strongest terms the military coup carried out in Myanmar/Burma. In this document, the Council called for a de-escalation of the crisis through an immediate end to the state of emergency and the restoration of the legitimate civilian government.

On 25 July 2022, the High Representative issued a declaration on behalf of the EU denouncing the execution of pro-democracy and opposition leaders in the country.

In the absence of any swift improvement in the situation, the EU expressed readiness to adopt further restrictive measures against all persons and entities responsible for undermining the rule of law and for human rights violations in the country.

* Official Journal of the EU, 8 November 2022 (including a list of the sanctioned individuals and entities)[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=OJ:L:2022:286I:TOC]

* Myanmar/Burma: EU imposes restrictive measures on 22 individuals and 4 entities in fourth round of sanctions, 21 February 2022[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/02/21/myanmar-burma-eu-imposes-restrictive-measures-on-22-individuals-and-4-entities-in-fourth-round-of-sanctions/]

* Myanmar/Burma: Declaration by the High Representative on behalf of the EU on the execution of pro-democracy and opposition leaders in Myanmar/Burma, 25 July 2022[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/07/25/myanmar-burma-declaration-by-the-high-representative-on-behalf-of-the-eu-on-the-execution-of-pro-democracy-and-opposition-leaders-in-myanmar-burma/]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/ecofin/2022/11/08/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/myanmar-burma-eu-imposes-further-restrictive-measures-on-19-individuals-and-one-entity/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Myanmar%2fBurma%3a+EU+imposes+further+restrictive+measures+on+19+individuals+and+one+entity]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/myanmar-burma-eu-imposes-fifth-round-of-restrictive-measures/393010/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Climate Monitoring 7 November 2022[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-7-november-2022/392970/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

COP27

* ‘Cooperate or perish’: At COP27 UN chief calls for Climate Solidarity Pact, urges tax on oil companies to finance loss and damage

* COP27 begins a ‘new era to do things differently’, UN climate change chief declares as pivotal conference gets underway

* New UN weather report ‘a chronicle of chaos’: UN chief

* World Leaders Launch Forests and Climate Leaders’ Partnership to accelerate momentum to halt and reverse forest loss and land degradation by 2030

* UK Representative, COP26 President, Alok Sharma’s Ceremonial Opening Speech at COP27

* Statement by IPCC Chair Hoesung Lee during the Opening of COP27

* IEA events at the COP27

* #Atoms4Climate: IAEA comes to COP27

* #Atoms4Climate: IAEA at COP27 to Highlight Nuclear’s Role in Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation

COP27 – EU

* COP27: EU Union concludes a strategic partnership with Kazakhstan on raw materials, batteries, and renewable hydrogen

* Statement by President von der Leyen on the occasion of the signature of the Memorandum of Understanding with Kazakhstan

* Statement by President von der Leyen at the Forests and Climate Leaders’ Partnership Summit

* EIB at COP27: MDBs to expand support for countries seeking climate-resilient sustainable transition

* S&Ds on COP27: The world expects concrete measures to stop climate change. War in Ukraine cannot be used as an excuse to postpone green transition

* Czech EU Presidency: COP 27 climate conference starts in Egypt

* BMUB: Deutschlands Beitrag zur Weltklimakonferenz in Ägypten: Ambition und Solidarität

COP27 – STAKEHOLDERS

* WWF Statement on the COP27 Agri-Commodity Sector Roadmap

* Germanwatch: Scholz‘ globaler Schutzschirm gegen Schäden und Verluste ist „guter Anfang“

CLIMATE DIPLOMACY

* Joint Statement: South Africa Just Energy Transition Investment Plan

CARBON CYCLES

* EP OPINION on sustainable carbon cycles – PE734.179v02-00

OZONE

* UNEP: What we can learn from a healing Ozone layer

* Revision of the Ozone Regulation [EU Legislation in Progress] – EP Research Service

EFRAG

* EFRAG FR TEG meeting 9 November 2022

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF:

To be added later

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/]

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: sales[at]ieu-monitoring.com.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-7-november-2022/392970/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Vanuatu: EU Council fully suspends visa free travel agreement[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/vanuatu-eu-council-fully-suspends-visa-free-travel-agreement/393006/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

The Council today decided to fully suspend the visa waiver agreement with Vanuatu due to the risks posed by its investor citizenship schemes (‘golden passport’ schemes).

A partial suspension of the agreement had already been adopted on 3 March 2022. Following the partial suspension, the Commission started a dialogue with Vanuatu on 12 May to address the EU’s concerns. However, since then the country has failed to engage in any meaningful way and the circumstances that led to the temporary suspension still persist.

Based on careful monitoring and assessment of Vanuatu’s investor citizenship schemes, the EU has concluded that they present serious deficiencies which could pose a risk to the EU, notably due to:

* the extremely low rejection rate, which raises doubts as to the reliability of the security and due diligence screening

* the absence of physical presence or residence requirements, short processing periods and a lack of information exchange with applicants’ countries of origin or residence

* the granting of citizenship to applicants listed in Interpol databases

* the nationalities of origin of successful applicants, which include several countries whose nationals require a visa to enter the EU

Next steps

The decision will now be published in the Official Journal and will apply as from 4 February 2023.

Background

A visa waiver agreement has applied between the EU and Vanuatu since 2015. This agreement allows citizens of Vanuatu to travel to the EU without a visa for stays of up to 90 days in any 180-day period.

In recent years, Vanuatu has established additional investor citizenship schemes and the number of successful applicants has increased. In 2017, the Commission started investigating those schemes, since they raised serious doubts on account of their security failures. The Commission also warned the Vanuatu authorities about the suspension clauses contained in the visa waiver agreement. Despite the commitment by Vanuatu authorities to implement reforms in order to address concerns, in April 2021 the government of Vanuatu took further steps to set up a new citizenship programme.

In this context, the Commission considered that the investor schemes in place in Vanuatu countered the objectives of the EU visa policy, and on 12 January 2022 proposed the partial suspension of the visa waiver agreement with Vanuatu.

The agreement was partially suspended for a period of nine months, from 4 May 2022 to 3 February 2023, to allow for an enhanced dialogue with Vanuatu to remedy the situation. Due to the lack of progress, on 12 October 2022 the European Commission proposed the full suspension of the agreement from 4 February 2023.

* Council decision on the suspension in whole of the application of the agreement between the EU and Vanuatu on the short-stay visa waiver[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/documents-publications/public-register/public-register-search/results/?WordsInSubject=&WordsInText=&DocumentNumber=13631%2F22&InterinstitutionalFiles=&DocumentDateFrom=&DocumentDateTo=&MeetingDateFrom=&MeetingDateTo=&DocumentLanguage=EN&OrderBy=DOCUMENT_DATE+DESC&ctl00%24ctl00%24cpMain%24cpMain%24btnSubmit=]

* EU visa policy (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/eu-visa-policy/]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/ecofin/2022/11/08/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/vanuatu-council-fully-suspends-visa-free-travel-agreement/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Vanuatu%3a+Council+fully+suspends+visa+free+travel+agreement]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/vanuatu-eu-council-fully-suspends-visa-free-travel-agreement/393006/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Energy Monitoring 7 November 2022[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-7-november-2022/392969/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

ENERGY SECURITY

* Joint Statement following the latest meeting of the EU-US Task Force on Energy Security

ENERGY CRISIS

* The EU Commission hosts a roundtable to discuss measures for consumer protection

ENERGY REGULATION

* CEER Public Consultation on Guidelines of Good Practice for Trustworthy Green Offers and Consumer Protection against Misleading Marketing (“Greenwashing”)

IAEA

* Update 124 – IAEA Director General Statement on Situation in Ukraine

* IAEA Launches New Reference Publication for Nuclear Safeguards

HYDROGEN

* Verykios appointed Chair of Clean H2 Partnership GB

* Latest Hydrogen headlines

* Investments in infrastructure has fueled Germany’s transition to hydrogen-powered trains

* Absolut Vodka and Ardagh Group co-invest in hydrogen-fired glass furnace in a global spirits industry first

* First Hydrogen vehicles ready for maiden test run

* WWU unveils plans for major industrial hydrogen pipeline

* Absolut turns to hydrogen energy

* IRS seeks feedback on clean hydrogen production tax credit

* Can hydrogen deliver a new way to decarbonize?

* The New Hydrogen Car That Travels 2k Km with a Single Tank

* The Hydrogen Economy Will Soon Be Ready For Take Off, Including Planes And Power Plants

* Accidental Discovery May Optimize Hydrogen Production Process

* Four hydrogen buses are heading to Venice

* Dual-pressure hydrogen stations for buses and HGVs spread cost and encourage local take-up

* Public Comments Requested on Additional Aspects of the IRA Clean Energy Tax Incentives, including Clean Hydrogen Production, Carbon Capture and Sequestration, Clean Commercial Vehicles and EV Charging Stations

OPEC

* OPEC launches 2022 edition of the World Oil Outlook at ADIPEC

UKRAINE

* Joint appeal to ramp up emergency energy equipment donations to Ukraine

GERMANY

* Bundestags-Anhörung zur Gaspreisbremse: Entscheidend sind bei der Umsetzung einfache und praktikable Regeln

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF:

To be added later

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/]

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: sales[at]ieu-monitoring.com.

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-7-november-2022/392969/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Eastern Mediterranean: EU Council prolongs the sanctions regime over unauthorised drilling[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eastern-mediterranean-eu-council-prolongs-the-sanctions-regime-over-unauthorised-drilling/393000/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

Following the review of the framework for restrictive measures in response to Türkiye’s unauthorised drilling activities in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Council today adopted a decision extending the regime for one year, until 12 November 2023.

The European Union will therefore maintain its ability to impose targeted restrictive measures on persons or entities responsible for or involved in unauthorised drilling activities of hydrocarbons in the Eastern Mediterranean.

The sanctions consist of a travel ban to the EU and an asset freeze for persons, and an asset freeze for entities. In addition, EU persons and entities are forbidden from making funds available to those listed.

Currently two individuals are subject to sanctions.

The decision will enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.

Background

The sanctions regime against unauthorised drilling activities in the Eastern Mediterranean is a direct follow-up to the Council conclusions of 14 October 2019, which were endorsed by the European Council on 17-18 October 2019, when the EU reaffirmed its full solidarity with Cyprus regarding respect for its sovereignty and sovereign rights in accordance with international law, and invited the Commission and the European External Action Service to submit proposals for a framework for restrictive measures.

The decision is kept under constant review and is renewed or amended, as appropriate, if the Council deems that its objectives have not been met.

* European Council conclusions of 17 October 2019[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2019/10/17/european-council-conclusions-on-turkey-illegal-drilling-activities-and-mh17/]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/ecofin/2022/11/08/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/eastern-mediterranean-council-prolongs-the-sanctions-regime-over-unauthorised-drilling-activities-for-a-further-year/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Eastern+Mediterranean%3a+Council+prolongs+the+sanctions+regime+over+unauthorised+drilling+activities+for+a+further+year]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eastern-mediterranean-eu-council-prolongs-the-sanctions-regime-over-unauthorised-drilling/393000/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Parliament wants to clamp down on foreign public subsidies [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-parliament-wants-to-clamp-down-on-foreign-public-subsidies/392998/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

Parliament is set to approve rules to counteract market-distorting foreign subsidies to companies operating in the EU. Government financing of enterprises has been on the rise worldwide, in particular because of China’s growing role in the global economy.

Foreign subsidies can have a distortive effect on competitive markets. Parliament wants the European Commission to have the power to investigate and counteract market-distorting foreign subsidies granted to companies set to acquire EU businesses or take part in EU public procurement.

Foreign subsidies can be broadly defined as those granted by a government to a firm outside its territory or jurisdiction. The EU has become increasingly aware of the possible distortions of the single market and the uneven playing-field created by these subsidies.

The new legislation aims to ensure fair competition among firms active on the EU market by establishing equal opportunities.

Read more on the EU’s trade defence instruments[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/economy/20180308STO99328/trade-wars-what-are-the-eu-s-trade-defence-instruments]

Fairer foreign financing

“If foreign companies want to take control of European companies or participate in European public procurement, the European Commission has to ensure that they operate under similar conditions as European companies that have to stick to a strict state aid regime,” said Christophe Hansen (EPP, Luxembourg), who is guiding the legislation through Parliament.

The new rules would enable the Commission to investigate and mitigate the effects of foreign subsidies, which can take the form of foreign capital injections, loans, fiscal incentives, tax exemptions and debt forgiveness. They would also allow the Commission to investigate foreign subsidies in mergers and acquisitions, as well as in bids in large public procurement procedures involving support from governments outside the EU, as the bidder would have to notify about external financial contributions.

“We will fill this longstanding regulatory gap at last and take another step towards an open but fair market,” Hansen said.

The EU is a particularly open economy. It is one of the world’s largest trading blocs[https://policy.trade.ec.europa.eu/eu-trade-relationships-country-and-region/eu-position-world-trade_en] with 16% of global trade. Figures show that global foreign direct investment[https://www.oecd.org/investment/investment-policy/FDI-in-Figures-April-2022.pdf] flows last year rose above pre-pandemic levels, with the largest sources of foreign direct investment flows coming from the US, Germany, Japan and China.

Discover more facts and figures on the EU’s position in world trade[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/economy/20180703STO07132/the-eu-s-position-in-world-trade-in-figures-infographic]

The Commission published a proposal for a regulation to tackle foreign subsidies with a distortive effect on the EU single market in May 2021. Parliament adopted its position[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/A-9-2022-0135_EN.html] in May 2022 and subsequently reached an agreement with the Council.

Parliament members will debate the agreement and vote on it during the plenary session on 9-10 November.

Distortive foreign subsidies

* Legislative procedure[https://oeil.secure.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.do?lang=en&reference=2021/0114(COD)]

Globalisation

* Parliament approves EU-Vietnam free trade and investment protection deals[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20200206IPR72012/parliament-approves-eu-vietnam-free-trade-and-investment-protection-deals]

* EU-Vietnam trade deal: what are the benefits?[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20200131STO71518/eu-vietnam-trade-deal-what-are-the-benefits]

* EU-Japan relations: new trade agreement dawn of a new era[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20181127STO20312/eu-japan-relations-new-trade-agreement-dawn-of-a-new-era]

* EP gives green light to EU-Singapore trade and investment protection deals[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20190207IPR25207/ep-gives-green-light-to-eu-singapore-trade-and-investment-protection-deals]

* Trade agreements: what the EU is working on [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20161014STO47381/trade-agreements-what-the-eu-is-working-on]

* How to manage globalisation: EU responses[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20190910STO60748/how-to-manage-globalisation-eu-responses]

* Ensuring foreign direct investment does not harm Europe’s interests[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20180122STO92231/ensuring-foreign-direct-investment-does-not-harm-europe-s-interests]

* The EU’s position in world trade in figures (infographic)[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20180703STO07132/the-eu-s-position-in-world-trade-in-figures-infographic]

* Dumping explained: definition and effects[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20180621STO06336/dumping-explained-definition-and-effects]

* Anti-dumping policy: how EU fights unfair trade practices[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20180601STO04822/anti-dumping-policy-how-eu-fights-unfair-trade-practices]

* Making the most of globalisation: EU trade policy explained[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20190528STO53303/making-the-most-of-globalisation-eu-trade-policy-explained]

* Facts: the benefits of economic globalisation in Europe[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20190603STO53520/facts-the-benefits-of-economic-globalisation-in-europe]

* Globalisation: how EU trade policy helps promote human rights[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20190612STO54309/globalisation-how-eu-trade-policy-helps-promote-human-rights]

* From bananas to solar panels: when trade conflicts turn bad[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20140120STO33103/from-bananas-to-solar-panels-when-trade-conflicts-turn-bad]

* Trade wars: what are the EU’s trade defence instruments? [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/priorities/globalisation/20180308STO99328/trade-wars-what-are-the-eu-s-trade-defence-instruments]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-parliament-wants-to-clamp-down-on-foreign-public-subsidies/392998/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Montenegro: EU Spokesperson on developments in the Parliament and around the Constitutional Court[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/montenegro-eu-spokesperson-on-developments-in-the-parliament-and-around-the-constitutional-court/392991/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

The EU is deeply concerned by the 1 November vote in the parliament of Montenegro, in effect amending the prerogatives of the President of the Republic through the adoption of legislation under the urgency procedure. All legislative acts should be in line with the constitution. All political stakeholders should refrain from any action that could further deepen the institutional crisis and undermine the country’s democratic institutions.

To end the current stalemate, the EU urges all actors to prioritize building the consensus on, and urgently appointing, members of the Constitutional Court at the next vote in Parliament on 22 November. The Court’s full functionality is crucial to ensure the legitimacy of democratic elections, among other important matters.

The accession of Montenegro to the European Union is the strategic choice of an overwhelming majority of Montenegrin citizens and the publicly stated goal of a vast majority of Montenegrin political stakeholders. Montenegro has been a frontrunner among the EU candidate countries. Continued progress on EU accession requires all political actors to support the functionality of the country’s democratic institutions and strengthen the rule of law.

Source – EEAS[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/montenegro-statement-spokesperson-developments-parliament-and-around-constitutional-court_en]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/montenegro-eu-spokesperson-on-developments-in-the-parliament-and-around-the-constitutional-court/392991/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Tax rulings: EU Court jugdement in Cases C885/19 P (Fiat Chrysler Finance Europe) and C898/19 P (Ireland)[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/tax-rulings-eu-court-jugdement-in-cases-c885-19-p-fiat-chrysler-finance-europe-and-c898-19-p-ireland/392986/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Luxembourg. 8 November 202

Tax rulings: The EU Court of Justice holds that the EU General Court was wrong to confirm the reference framework used by the EU Commission to apply the arm’s length principle to integrated companies in Luxembourg, in failing to take into account the specific rules implementing that principle in that Member State

The Court thus annuls the decision of the EU Commission, finding that its analysis of the reference system and, by extension, the existence of a selective advantage granted to FFT is erroneous.

You can read and download further details below:

tax rulings-CP220178EN

Source – EU Court of Justice

Statement by Executive Vice-President Margrethe Vestager following today’s Court judgment on the Fiat tax State aid case in Luxembourg

Brussels, 8 November 2022

Today’s judgment by the Court of Justice annuls the Commission’s 2015 decision finding that Luxembourg granted selective tax advantages to Fiat through a transfer pricing ruling, in breach of EU State aid rules. We will carefully study the judgment and its implications.

The Commission’s decision concerned a tax ruling by Luxembourg to Fiat in 2012, which determined the methodology for the calculation of the taxable profit of Fiat’s financing company. As a result of the tax ruling, Fiat reduced its tax burden up to €30 million since 2012.

Even if the Commission’s decision was annulled, the judgment gives important guidance on the application of EU State aid rules in the area of taxation. The Court confirmed that action by Member States in areas that are not subject to harmonization by EU law is not excluded from the scope of the Treaty provisions on the monitoring of State aid.

The Commission is committed to continue using all the tools at its disposal to ensure that fair competition is not distorted in the Single Market through the grant by Member States of illegal tax breaks to multinational companies.

The Commission’s work, both on enforcement of State aid rules and on the wider taxation agenda, is yielding results beyond individual State aid decisions. Some Member States have amended their tax legislation. Many Member States have incorporated OECD rules and introduced ruling practices to address loopholes and ensure more tax fairness. We have made a lot of progress already at national, European and global levels, and we need to keep working together to succeed. This includes continuing to look at aggressive tax planning measures of Member States under EU State aid rules, in light of the most recent case law of the Court.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/statement_22_6690]

Statement: Markus Ferber, MdEP zum Urteil im Luxemburg/Fiat-Fall

Heute hat der Europäische Gerichtshof eine wettbewerbsrechtliche Entscheidung der Europäischen Kommission, in der diese befunden hatte, dass Luxemburg dem Unternehmen Fiat/Chrysler Beihilfen in Form selektiver Steuervorteile gewährt hat, kassiert. Der wirtschaftspolitische Sprecher der EVP-Fraktion im Europäischen Parlament, Markus Ferber, erklärte dazu:

„Das heutige Urteil ist eine Ohrfeige für die Europäische Kommission und eine Blamage für Wettbewerbskommissarin Vestager. Es ist nicht das erste Mal, dass der Wettbewerbskommissarin ein Beihilfefall vor Gericht um die Ohren fliegt. Dass Vestagers Strafen vor Gericht gekippt werden, entwickelt sich langsam zum Regelfall. Es stellt sich die grundsätzliche Frage, ob die Generaldirektion Wettbewerb vor lauter Übereifer mit der notwendigen Sorgfalt vorgeht. Die Kommission täte gut daran, solche Fälle sorgfältig und gerichtsfest vorzubereiten. Andernfalls ist der langfristige Schaden hoch. Mit ihrem Übereifer hat die Generaldirektion Wettbewerb der Steuergerechtigkeit einen Bärendienst erwiesen.“

Das Urteil können Sie unter folgendem Link einsehen:

https://curia.europa.eu/jcms/upload/docs/application/pdf/2022-11/cp220178en.pdf[https://curia.europa.eu/jcms/upload/docs/application/pdf/2022-11/cp220178en.pdf]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/tax-rulings-eu-court-jugdement-in-cases-c885-19-p-fiat-chrysler-finance-europe-and-c898-19-p-ireland/392986/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU budget: EU Council agrees disaster relief aid of €668m for seven member states[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-budget-eu-council-agrees-disaster-relief-aid-of-e668m-for-seven-member-states/392985/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

Today the Council decided to amend its yearly budget to provide €668 million in disaster relief aid to Germany, Belgium, Spain, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Greece and Austria. The money will be used to repair damage inflicted by the major natural disasters that hit these seven member states in 2021.

When disaster hits our fellow member states, we help and also provide financial aid through the EU budget. We have a collective interest that countries struck by natural disasters can rebuild what was destroyed, and that their economies emerge stronger from these events. We all remember vividly the tragic images of the floods in Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria, the volcano eruption in Spain and the earthquake in Greece. I am very pleased that the Council today agreed to provide a total of €668 million in disaster relief aid.

Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance of Czechia

In practice this means that the EU transfers money from the solidarity and emergency aid reserve in its budget to the so-called EU solidarity fund operational budget line, from where it can be paid to member states which were struck by natural disasters and which apply for financial assistance from this fund. The solidarity fund is designed to provide financial assistance in the event of a major disaster in a member state or a country holding accession negotiations with the EU.

The aid will be distributed as follows:

* €612.6 million for Germany following the floods in the North Rhine-Westphalia and Rhineland-Palatinate regions of July 2021, in the course of which 196 people died;

* €87.7 million for Belgium after the floods of summer 2021 which caused damage to hundreds of thousands of households;

* €9.5 million for Spain following to the eruption of the volcano Cumbre Vieja in La Palma, Las Canarias, in September 2021 which created massive damage on the island;

* €4.7 million for the Netherlands due to the floods of July 2021 which caused severe damage;

* €1.8 million for Luxembourg which in summer 2021 registered a 100-year flood at ten gauging stations and measured the highest water levels at fifteen gauging stations since the beginning of recording;

* €1.4 million for Greece after the earthquake of 6 ML magnitude southeast of Heraklion, Crete, in September 2021 which killed one person, injured 36 and created substantial damages;

* €798.000 for Austria following the floods of July 2021 in Salzburg and Tyrol where the population and the economy was severely affected.

In parallel, the Council also endorsed amendments to the 2022 EU budget in order to enter the necessary appropriations, both in commitments and payments.

The financial aid will be paid out once both proposals have been adopted by the European Parliament and the Council.

* Council decision[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-13627-2022-INIT/en/pdf]

* Transfer of EU budget[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-13628-2022-INIT/en/pdf]

* EU budget (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/the-eu-budget/]

* EU budget for 2022 (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/the-eu-budget/eu-annual-budget/2022-budget/]

* Long-term EU budget 2014-2020 (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/the-eu-budget/long-term-eu-budget-2014-2020/]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/ecofin/2022/11/08/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/eu-budget-council-agrees-disaster-relief-aid-of-668-million-for-seven-member-states-following-floods-a-volcano-eruption-and-an-earthquake/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=EU+budget%3a+Council+agrees+disaster+relief+aid+of+%u20ac668+million+for+seven+member+states+following+floods%2c+a+volcano+eruption+and+an+earthquake]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-budget-eu-council-agrees-disaster-relief-aid-of-e668m-for-seven-member-states/392985/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Mergers: EU Commission opens investigation into the proposed acquisition of Activision Blizzard[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/mergers-eu-commission-opens-investigation-into-the-proposed-acquisition-of-activision-blizzard/392983/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

The European Commission has opened an in-depth investigation to assess the proposed acquisition of Activision Blizzard by Microsoft under the EU Merger Regulation. The Commission is concerned that the proposed acquisition may reduce competition in the markets for the distribution of console and personal computers (‘PCs’) video games and for PC operating systems.

Microsoft and Activision Blizzard are both developers and publishers of games for PCs, game consoles and mobile devices as well as distributors of games for PCs. In addition, Microsoft also distributes games for consoles, offers the Xbox gaming console and related services as well a wide range of products and services, including the PC operating system Windows and the cloud computing service Azure.

The Commission’s preliminary competition concerns

The Commission’s preliminary investigation shows that the transaction may significantly reduce competition on the markets for the distribution of console and PC video games, including multi-game subscription services and/or cloud game streaming services, and for PC operating systems.

In particular, the Commission is concerned that, by acquiring Activision Blizzard, Microsoft may foreclose access to Activision Blizzard’s console and PC video games, especially to high-profile and highly successful games (so-called ‘AAA’ games) such as ‘Call of Duty’.

The preliminary investigation suggests that Microsoft may have the ability, as well as a potential economic incentive, to engage in foreclosure strategies vis-à-vis Microsoft’s rival distributors of console video games, such as preventing these companies from distributing Activision Blizzard’s console video games on consoles or degrading the terms and conditions for their use of or access to these video games.

When it comes to multi-game subscription services and/or cloud game streaming services in particular, the Commission is concerned that, by acquiring Activision Blizzard, Microsoft may foreclose access, to the detriment of its rival distributors of console and PC video games that offer such services, to its own PC and console video games, which are key for the provision of the nascent services of multi-game subscription and cloud game streaming.

Such foreclosure strategies could reduce competition in the markets for the distribution of console and PC video games, leading to higher prices, lower quality and less innovation for console game distributors, which may in turn be passed on to consumers.

Finally, at this stage of the investigation, the Commission has concerns that the proposed acquisition may reduce competition on the market for PC operating systems. In particular, the Commission is concerned that Microsoft may reduce the ability of rival providers of PC operating systems to compete with Microsoft’s operating system Windows, by combining Activision Blizzard’s games and Microsoft’s distribution of games via cloud game streaming to Windows. This would discourage users to buy non-Windows PCs.

The preliminary investigation suggests that Microsoft may have the ability, as well as a potential economic incentive, to engage in such conduct vis-à-vis rival providers of PC operating systems.

The Commission will now carry out an in-depth investigation into the effects of the transaction to determine whether its initial competition concerns are confirmed.

The proposed transaction was notified to the Commission on 30 September 2022.

The Commission now has 90 working days, until 23 March 2023, to take a decision. The opening of an in-depth inquiry does not prejudge the outcome of the investigation.

Companies and products

Microsoft is a global technology company headquartered in Redmond, Washington, US. Microsoft offers a wide range of products and services to customers through the following operating segments: (i) Productivity and Business Processes; (ii) Intelligent Cloud; and (iii) More Personal Computing. Microsoft is active as a developer and publisher of games for PCs, game consoles and mobile devices as well as a distributor of games for PCs and consoles. In addition, Microsoft offers the Xbox gaming console and related services.

Activision Blizzard is a publicly listed company headquartered in Santa Monica, California, US. Activision Blizzard is active as a developer and publisher of games for PCs, game consoles and mobile devices as well as a distributor of games for PCs.

Merger control and procedure

The Commission has the duty to assess mergers and acquisitions involving companies with a turnover above certain thresholds (see Article 1 of the Merger Regulation[https://ec.europa.eu/competition/mergers/legislation/regulations.html]) and to prevent concentrations that would significantly impede effective competition in the EEA or any substantial part of it.

The vast majority of notified mergers do not pose competition problems and are cleared after a routine review. From the moment a transaction is notified, the Commission generally has 25 working days to decide whether to grant approval (Phase I) or to start an in-depth investigation (Phase II).

In addition to the current transaction, there are currently four on-going Phase II merger investigations: (i) the proposed acquisition of Pfleiderer Polska by Kronospan[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_2284]; (ii) the proposed acquisition of OMV Slovenija by MOL[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3974]; (iii) the proposed acquisition of VOO and Brutélé by Orange[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_4762]; and (iv) the proposed acquisition of Alumetal by Hydro[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_6013].

More information will be available on the Commission’s competition website[https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/index_en], in the Commission’s public case register[https://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/index.cfm] under the case number M.10646[https://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/case_details.cfm?proc_code=2_M_10646].

Quote

“Video games attract billions of users all over the world and are among the fastest growing forms of digital entertainment. For years, Microsoft has been a major player across the gaming supply chain. It is acquiring Activision Blizzard, a highly successful producer of gaming content. We must ensure that opportunities remain for future and existing distributors of PC and console video games, as well as for rival suppliers of PC operating systems. The point is to ensure that the gaming ecosystem remains vibrant to the benefit of users in a sector that is evolving at a fast pace. Our in-depth investigation will assess how the deal affects the gaming supply chain.”

Margrethe Vestager, Executive Vice-President in charge on competition policy – 08/11/2022

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_6578]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/mergers-eu-commission-opens-investigation-into-the-proposed-acquisition-of-activision-blizzard/392983/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Harmful tax measures: EU Finance ministers agree to strengthen code of conduct[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/harmful-tax-measures-eu-finance-ministers-agree-to-strengthen-code-of-conduct/392981/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

8 November 2022

The EU continues to promote fair tax competition and address harmful tax practices, both within the EU and worldwide. EU finance ministers today agreed on a revised code of conduct for business taxation: a political, intergovernmental commitment by member states to apply reinforced screening rules when looking for and remedy tax measures that could be harmful to the tax bases of other member states. The ultimate goal is to tackle harmful tax competition, tax evasion and tax avoidance in the EU.

While the international dimension of the work of the code of conduct group is more widely known – the group is cooperating with third country jurisdictions to promote and strengthen tax good governance and carries out the work leading to the regular revision of the EU list of non-cooperative tax jurisdictions – the primary task of the code of conduct group has been to detect and eliminate harmful tax measures in EU member states since 1997.

Today’s revision of the code, the first one since 1997, means that member states will broaden the scope of the tax measures under scrutiny when examining harmful tax practices within the EU. The update of the code took the form of a resolution of the Council and of the representatives of the governments of the member states, meeting within the Council, on a revised code of conduct for business taxation.

We confirmed today our commitment to a fairer tax environment in the EU by reinforcing the rules we apply when tackling harmful tax practices in an evolving economy. Our experts in taxation constantly look out for harmful tax practices. Since starting its work in 1997, the code of conduct group succeeded in eliminating around 140 harmful tax practices within the EU. The code of conduct of business taxation has not been amended since 1997 and today´s agreement further improves its effectiveness also in the light of the recent international tax reform.

Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance of Czechia

The revised code of conduct introduces in particular the concept of ‘tax features of general application’. Whereas previously only preferential measures (such as special regimes or exemptions from the general taxation system) were examined, under the new rules the scope will also include tax features of general application. These will be regarded as harmful if they lead to double non-taxation or the double/multiple use of tax benefits.

The revised code of conduct further clarifies the review process in the code of conduct group, which is responsible for the administration of the code.

This revision will allow the Council code of conduct working group to continue its work to address harmful tax practices efficiently.

Background

The code of conduct is a political commitment that has an intergovernmental nature. The Council’s code of conduct group consists of high-level taxation experts of the member states. It is responsible for monitoring possibly harmful tax measures in the EU member states.

The code of conduct forms the basis of the work of the Council code of conduct working group. Its elected Chair is supported by the General Secretariat of the Council.

Its work also has an international dimension which aims to promote effective changes in respect of worldwide tax good governance through cooperation. The code of conduct group also carries out the technical work, screening and assessment leading to the regular revision by the Council of the EU list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes. This EU list is regularly revised following an in-depth review of the implementation of commitments taken by all third-country jurisdictions that are part of the process.

* Council conclusions on the reform of the code of conduct for business taxation[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/59966/st14452-en22.pdf]

* Taxation: Anguilla, The Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands added to EU list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes (press release, 4 October 2022[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/10/04/taxation-anguilla-the-bahamas-and-turks-and-caicos-islands-added-to-eu-list-of-non-cooperative-jurisdictions-for-tax-purposes/]

* EU list of non-cooperative jurisdictions (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/eu-list-of-non-cooperative-jurisdictions/]

* Code of Conduct Group (Business Taxation)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/council-eu/preparatory-bodies/code-conduct-group/]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/ecofin/2022/11/08/]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/harmful-tax-measures-eu-finance-ministers-agree-to-strengthen-code-of-conduct/392981/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Banking: EU Council agrees its position on implementation of Basel III reforms[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/banking-eu-council-agrees-its-position-on-implementation-of-basel-iii-reforms/392978/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

8 November 2022

The EU is about to boost the resilience of banks operating in the Union and strengthen their supervision and risk management by finalising the implementation of the globally agreed Basel III regulatory reforms. Today, the Council reached its position (general approach) on the proposals amending the capital requirements directive and the capital requirements regulation.

We are boosting the strength and resilience of banks operating in the Union. As we are finalising the implementation of the international Basel III reforms, it is important that we take into account the specificities of the EU banking sector and the specific situation in our member states. I am confident that the updated texts which we agreed today aim to achieve these objectives.

Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance of Czechia

The Slovenian, French and Czech presidencies, as well as the member states’ experts have devoted a lot of time and effort to address the many political and technical issues of this package. Thanks to the constructive approach of all member states, after 12 months of intense negotiations, the right balance has been found for the Council to reach a general approach.

When it comes to limiting banks’ variability of capital levels computed by using internal models via the so-called “output floor” the Council specifies that the limit applies both at banking group level and at the level of each individual bank. Member states will nevertheless have the discretion to apply the floor at the highest level of consolidation for entities in their country if they so wish.

In its position, the Council added technical improvements to the areas of credit risk, market risk and operational risk. It also added enhanced proportionality rules for small banks, in particular concerning disclosure requirements for small and non-complex institutions.

The Council also revised the Commission proposals as regards the “fit and proper” framework for assessing the suitability of members of the institutions’ management bodies and key function holders, further considering national specificities and practices. Similarly, a more proportionate and targeted framework for cooling-off periods has been imposed for staff and members of governance bodies of competent authorities, before they can take up positions in supervised institutions.

Last but not least, the proposal aims to harmonise minimum requirements applicable to branches of third-country banks and the supervision of their activities in the EU as well as to harmonise supervisory tools and powers to make the framework more suitable for member states’ specific market conditions.

Background

The EU plans to finalise the implementation of Basel III international agreements into EU law. The Basel III agreements were reached by the EU and its G20 partners in the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to make banks more resilient to possible economic shocks. Basel III comprises a number of measures to enhance prudential regulatory standards, supervision and risk management of banks as a response to the global financial crisis of 2007/2008.

The Commission’s proposal of the capital requirements directive aimed at strengthening the regulatory and supervisory landscape for banks operating in the EU by closing loopholes for third country branches, by enhancing and harmonising supervisory tools and powers in important areas and by ensuring that supervisors are sufficiently independent from economical and political influence and by incorporating environmental, social and governance related risks.

The Commission’s proposal of the capital requirements regulation aimed to reinforce and facilitate the allocation of capital and liquidity within banking groups in Europe without imposing a significant increase in their capital requirements. The framework for credit risk and operational risk will be further improved and supported by a so called “output floor” which aims at reducing unjustified variances in banks’ risk metrics.

The European Commission presented its proposals on a review of the capital requirements directive and the capital requirements regulation on 27 October 2021. Now that the Council has set its position on the proposals, it is ready to start negotiations with the European Parliament in order to agree on a final version of the texts.

* General approach on directive 2013/36/EU as regards supervisory powers, sanctions, third-country branches, and environmental, social and governance risks, and amending directive 2014/59/EU[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/59969/st13773-en22.pdf]

* General approach on regulation (EU) No 575/2013 as regards requirements for credit risk, credit valuation adjustment risk, operational risk, market risk and the output floor[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/59970/st13772-en22.pdf]

* Commission proposal amending directive 2013/36/EU[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/documents-publications/public-register/public-register-search/results/?WordsInSubject=&WordsInText=&DocumentNumber=13245%2F21&InterinstitutionalFiles=&DocumentDateFrom=&DocumentDateTo=&MeetingDateFrom=&MeetingDateTo=&DocumentLanguage=EN&OrderBy=DOCUMENT_DATE+DESC&ctl00%24ctl00%24cpMain%24cpMain%24btnSubmit=]

* Commission proposal amending regulation (EU) No 575/2013[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/documents-publications/public-register/public-register-search/results/?WordsInSubject=&WordsInText=&DocumentNumber=13246%2F21&InterinstitutionalFiles=&DocumentDateFrom=&DocumentDateTo=&MeetingDateFrom=&MeetingDateTo=&DocumentLanguage=EN&OrderBy=DOCUMENT_DATE+DESC&ctl00%24ctl00%24cpMain%24cpMain%24btnSubmit=]

* Banking Union (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/banking-union/]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/ecofin/2022/11/08/]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/banking-eu-council-agrees-its-position-on-implementation-of-basel-iii-reforms/392978/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Main results of the Ecofin Council on 8 November 2022[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/main-results-of-the-ecofin-council-on-8-november-2022/392974/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Ministers discuss financial assistance for Ukraine and strengthening the resilience of the banking sector

Today, at a meeting of the ECOFIN Council in Brussels chaired by Zbyněk Stanjura, the finance ministers agreed on the need for a rapid continuation of macro-financial assistance to Ukraine in the amount of EUR 18 billion for 2023. The ministers also agreed on a compromise proposal implementing the Basel III international banking standards to increase the resilience of the EU banking sector. They also discussed the abolition of mandatory minimum road tax rates and the impact of the US Inflation Reduction Act legislation on European companies.

The finance ministers discussed the economic and financial aspects of the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the need to ensure the continuation of macro-financial assistance to Ukraine. “My personal visit to Kiev last week was a really powerful experience for me. You arrive in a warring country and you receive a message warning of the risk of bombing in the area you are in. I saw for myself the difference between judging the state of a warring country from the outside and direct personal experience,” said Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura.

In the spring, EU leaders decided to provide Ukraine with €9 billion in 2022 to run the state and ensure the functioning of critical infrastructure through macro-financial assistance. A total of €6 billion of this package has so far been disbursed to Ukraine, while the remaining €3 billion will be part of a new €18 billion package for 2023, which the Commission is expected to publish on 9 November.

“Today I have urged my colleagues in the Commission to speed up the preparation of the necessary legislation so that the new aid package can be approved at the December Ecofin under the Czech Presidency. The first € 3 billion to provide basic public services could reach Ukraine in early January,” minister Stanjura added.

The ministers also discussed the implementation of the Basel III standard, the international rules approved by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, into European legislation. The Commission’s so-called 2021 banking package aims, in particular, to revise existing capital requirements and thus make banks more resilient in the event of future economic shocks.

“We are confident that we have found a good compromise proposal that implements international standards while reflecting the specificities of the EU banking sectors. The key for us was to support the preparedness of European banks for possible future crises by increasing their capital requirements while avoiding disproportionate impacts on the EU banking sector,” said minister Stanjura.

Also on the agenda was a debate on the revision of the directive on the charging of heavy goods vehicles for the use of certain roads (Eurovignette). The amendment to the directive would abolish the obligation to apply the European minimum road tax rate to trucks over 12 tonnes. “I see the modification of the Directive as another step towards greater tax liberalisation. It will allow EU countries to set a zero road tax rate, but it does not prevent anyone from maintaining the taxation of trucks. I am convinced that in the Czech Republic, the abolition of the remainder of road tax would benefit both small and medium-sized enterprises and the state, which is forced to administer this budget-poor tax in a costly manner,” minister Stanjura concluded.

Find out more information[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/ecofin/2022/11/08/]

Main results

Basel III

The Council agreed its position (general approach) on the two remaining legislative acts for the implementation of the Basel III agreement, reform measures intended to help reinforce the resilience of the EU banking sector and strengthen its supervision and risk management.

We are boosting the strength and resilience of banks operating in the Union. As we are finalising the implementation of the international Basel III reforms, it is important that we take into account the specificities of the EU banking sector and the specific situation in our member states. I am confident that the updated texts which we agreed today aim to achieve these objectives.

Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance of Czechia

* Banking sector: Council agrees its position on the implementation of Basel III reforms (press release, 8 November 2022)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/banking-sector-council-agrees-its-position-on-the-implementation-of-basel-iii-reforms/]

* Recording of the discussion[https://video.consilium.europa.eu/event/en/26280]

* Banking Union (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/banking-union/]

Eurovignette : taxation of trucks

The Council discussed those parts of the Eurovignette directive which concern the taxation of heavy goods vehicles for the use of road infrastructures.

We had a good discussion on how to amend current taxation rules in order to best achieve our shared objectives: encourage cleaner road transport and reduce congestion. It is important that we remove any obstacles which remain for member states to fully apply the ‘polluter pays’ and ‘user pays’ principles for trucks. While we made good progress, this issue is complex and will require further work.

Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance of Czechia

* Recording of the discussion[https://video.consilium.europa.eu/event/en/26280]

* Clean and sustainable mobility (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/clean-and-sustainable-mobility/]

War in Ukraine

Ministers discussed the economic and financial impact of the Russian aggression against Ukraine. Since the start of the war, this is a regular agenda item for Economic and Financial Affairs Council meetings.

Ministers gave political guidance regarding the way forward on a more structural solution for the EU’s financial assistance for Ukraine in 2023. They overwhelmingly underlined the urgency of this issue and favoured a framework providing the predictability and flexibility that would allow the Commission to mobilise resources through bond issuance within agreed budgetary limits. The aim is to start the monthly disbursements to Ukraine in January 2023.

The EU will stand by Ukraine for as long as it takes, also financially. As the President of the Council, I shared with my colleagues my personal experience from my visit to Kyiv last week. My goal is to set up regular disbursements to Ukraine starting from January 2023. If we want to meet this target, we must act very fast. Today, the ministers gave political guidance to the Commission so that it can propose the required legislative package without delay. We will spare no efforts to reach agreement on these proposals at the December meeting of the Economic and Financial Affairs Council.

Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance of Czechia

* EU response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/eu-response-ukraine-invasion/]

Recovery and Resilience Facility

Economy and finance ministers took stock of the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF).

* A recovery plan for Europe (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/eu-recovery-plan/]

Financial services legislation

The presidency informed ministers on the state of play as regards current legislative proposals in the field of financial services.

* Progress report[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-13460-2022-INIT/en/pdf]

* Recording of the discussion[https://video.consilium.europa.eu/event/en/26280]

* Digital finance (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/digital-finance/]

* Capital markets union (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/capital-markets-union/]

Statistics

The Council approved conclusions on EU statistics, welcoming the response of the European Statistical System (ESS) to the need for new and timelier statistics prompted by the Russian war of aggression against Ukraine, notably with respect to statistics on energy, supply chains, migration and the labour market.

* Council adopted conclusions on statistics (press release, 8 November 2022)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/council-adopted-conclusions-on-statistics/]

European Fiscal Board

The Chair of the European Fiscal Board (EFB) presented the EFB’s 2022 annual report.

* EFB’s 2022 annual report[https://ec.europa.eu/info/publications/2022-annual-report-european-fiscal-board_en]

US inflation reduction act

The Commission informed ministers on the inflation reduction act and on the consequences of this new US legislation for the EU.

International meetings

The Presidency and the Commission informed ministers on the outcome of the G20 meeting of Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors on 12-13 October 2022 and the IMF annual meetings.

Taxation: revised code of conduct

As an item without discussion, EU finance ministers today agreed on a revised code of conduct for business taxation: a political, intergovernmental commitment by member states to apply reinforced screening rules when looking for and remedy tax measures that could be harmful to the tax bases of other member states.

We confirmed today our commitment to a fairer tax environment in the EU by reinforcing the rules we apply when tackling harmful tax practices in an evolving economy. Our experts in taxation constantly look out for harmful tax practices. Since starting its work in 1997, the code of conduct group succeeded in eliminating around 140 harmful tax practices within the EU. The code of conduct of business taxation has not been amended since 1997 and today´s agreement further improves its effectiveness also in the light of the recent international tax reform.

Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister of Finance of Czechia

* Taxation: Finance ministers agree to strengthen the code of conduct used to identify and curb harmful tax measures of member states (press release, 8 November 2022)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/taxation-finance-ministers-agree-to-strengthen-the-code-of-conduct-used-to-identify-and-curb-harmful-tax-measures-of-member-states/]

* Code of Conduct Group (Business Taxation)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/council-eu/preparatory-bodies/code-conduct-group/]

Vanuatu

As an item without discussion, the Council today decided to fully suspend the visa waiver agreement with Vanuatu due to the risks posed by its investor citizenship schemes (‘golden passport’ schemes).

* Vanuatu: Council fully suspends visa free travel agreement (press release, 8 November 2022)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/vanuatu-council-fully-suspends-visa-free-travel-agreement/]

EU and EFTA ministers for finance and economy met on 8 November 2022 in Brussels

Meetings in the margins of Ecofin

In the margins of Ecofin, a macroeconomic dialogue meeting was held with social partners, focusing on energy prices.

At an annual dialogue between EU and EFTA ministers for finance and economy, participants exchanged views on energy prices and inflation in the context of the current geopolitical situation.

The Council also adopted without discussion the items on the lists of legislative and non-legislative A items.

Meeting information

* Meeting n°3905

* Brussels

* 8 November 2022

* 10:30

Preparatory documents

* List of A items, legislative deliberations[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-14018-2022-INIT/en/pdf]

* List of A items, non-legislative activities[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-14017-2022-INIT/en/pdf]

* Provisional agenda[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-14016-2022-INIT/en/pdf]

* Background brief[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/59888/background-note-ecofin-221108-final.pdf]

Outcome documents

* List of participants[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/59975/20221008ecofinpresslist.pdf]

Press releases

* Council adopted conclusions on statistics[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/council-adopted-conclusions-on-statistics/] – 8 November 2022, 15:05

* Myanmar/Burma: EU imposes further restrictive measures on 19 individuals and one entity[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/myanmar-burma-eu-imposes-further-restrictive-measures-on-19-individuals-and-one-entity/] – 8 November 2022, 14:00

* Eastern Mediterranean: Council prolongs the sanctions regime over unauthorised drilling activities for a further year[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/eastern-mediterranean-council-prolongs-the-sanctions-regime-over-unauthorised-drilling-activities-for-a-further-year/] – 8 November 2022, 11:50

* Banking sector: Council agrees its position on the implementation of Basel III reforms[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/banking-sector-council-agrees-its-position-on-the-implementation-of-basel-iii-reforms/] – 8 November 2022, 11:35

* Taxation: Finance ministers agree to strengthen the code of conduct used to identify and curb harmful tax measures of member states[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/taxation-finance-ministers-agree-to-strengthen-the-code-of-conduct-used-to-identify-and-curb-harmful-tax-measures-of-member-states/] – 8 November 2022, 11:05

* EU budget: Council agrees disaster relief aid of €668 million for seven member states following floods, a volcano eruption and an earthquake[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/eu-budget-council-agrees-disaster-relief-aid-of-668-million-for-seven-member-states-following-floods-a-volcano-eruption-and-an-earthquake/] – 8 November 2022, 10:51

* Vanuatu: Council fully suspends visa free travel agreement[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/08/vanuatu-council-fully-suspends-visa-free-travel-agreement/] – 8 November 2022, 10:45

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/main-results-of-the-ecofin-council-on-8-november-2022/392974/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Ecofin: Press remarks by Executive EU Commission VP Dombrovskis [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ecofin-press-remarks-by-executive-eu-commission-vp-dombrovskis/392968/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

Thank you minister, good afternoon everyone.

As the minister already said, we reached a general approach on the Banking Package that the Commission presented a little more than a year ago.

It is a major step towards implementing the international standards of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision – known as Basel III. This is important to finalise the post-crisis reforms of banking regulation.

We all share the same objective of making banks more resilient to future economic shocks by implementing Basel III faithfully.

At the same time, it is important that we take specific features of Europe’s banking sector into account to avoid a significant overall increase in capital requirements for EU banks.

This will maintain the sector’s competitiveness.

It will make sure that EU banks remain a reliable and sustainable source of finance for the EU economy.

The next step will now be to start negotiations with the European Parliament, aiming to reach agreement as soon as possible.

We are also looking forward to seeing our partner countries make progress on implementing the Basel III standards.

Let me turn now to the wider economy, where we have reached something of a turning point.

In the first half of the year, we saw surprisingly strong growth. By the second quarter, all euro area economies had recovered to their pre-COVID output volume.

But since then, the forces that have been driving this expansion have largely faded away.

The only bright spot comes from the EU labour markets, where figures for employment remain solid.

But in the meantime, the shocks caused by Russia’s aggression against Ukraine are taking the upper hand.

The outlook for economic growth now looks significantly weaker than in the Commission’s summer forecast, while inflation will stay higher for longer.

We will update our economic forecast later this week.

With several negative factors in play, and in a difficult geopolitical context, one thing remains clear: the EU urgently needs to accelerate its transition towards cleaner energy and away from fossil fuels – particularly from Russia.

Adding dedicated REPowerEU chapters into existing recovery and resilience plans will be an excellent way to finance measures to address high energy prices and energy poverty.

In effect, it will mean frontloading financial support so that we can respond better to the energy crisis.

The European Parliament is expected to endorse its position on REPowerEU at its plenary session tomorrow.

Trilogue negotiations could start shortly afterwards. This is very good news: we want REPowerEU in place as soon as possible so that people and businesses can start reaping the benefits.

Ministers also discussed the impact of the Commission’s proposed energy market measures on financial markets.

These measures have three objectives:

* to ease the liquidity stress that some energy firms are experiencing when they hedge risks

* to tackle price volatility on energy derivatives markets

* to provide markets with an accurate and reliable price assessment of LNG imports into Europe.

The situation in energy markets is exceptional, so we need to act as quickly as possible.

Now, turning to Ukraine.

In line with the recent EU leaders’ call for the Commission to propose a more structural solution for assisting Ukraine, ministers agreed to move ahead with an assistance package of up to €18 billion of concessional loans for 2023.

We should aim for a first disbursement in January.

The Commission will present its proposal tomorrow. Our aim is to secure approval from the European Parliament and Council before the end of the year.

It needs to be decided quickly: 2023 is approaching fast and Ukraine’s financing needs are urgent.

As regards this year’s financing, we expect the next payment of €2.5 billion to reach Kyiv by the end of this month.

Thank you.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_22_6689]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ecofin-press-remarks-by-executive-eu-commission-vp-dombrovskis/392968/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Statement by EU Commission President at the COP27 plenary meeting[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/statement-by-eu-commission-president-at-the-cop27-plenary-meeting/392966/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

In February, in the same week that Russia invaded Ukraine, the IPCC issued a stark warning to the global community. Its message could not have been clearer: the climate is changing faster than our capacity to adapt. So the world must deliver better and faster. The global fossil fuel crisis must be a game changer. And my friends, let us not take the highway to hell; let us earn the clean ticket to heaven. That is our responsibility.

For Europe, the answer is REPowerEU. We are not just cutting our dependency on Russian fossil fuels – that is good, but that is not enough – but we are massively accelerating the roll-out of renewables. The European Union’s additional renewable capacity is set to more than double this year, up to 50 gigawatts. And if we accelerate and if we scale up – and that is our plan – we can, in the next year, meet a new all-time record of over 100 gigawatts of additional renewable capacity. Because we know that every kilowatt-hour of electricity that we generate from renewable sources – like solar and wind, and green hydrogen – is not only good for our climate, but also good for our independence and our security of supply.

Here, the Global South has the resources in abundance. So let us team up. That is why the European Union is signing new hydrogen partnerships with Egypt, with Namibia and with Kazakhstan. That is why we are supporting partners such as Vietnam and South Africa to decarbonise their economies. We need to reach the Paris goal. And Europe is staying the course.

We will reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% until 2030. And that is cast in law. With our Fit for 55 Package, we are putting in place the most ambitious legal framework worldwide. And we call on all major emitters to increase their ambitions, too.

In addition, we need tangible progress on our global goal for adaptation. Those most in need, in the developing world, must be supported in adapting to a harsher climate. This is also why this COP must make progress on averting, minimising and addressing loss and damage from climate change. It is high time to put this on the agenda.

Finally, we urge our partners in the Global North to step up their climate finance to the Global South. Team Europe is providing its fair share of the USD 100 billion promise. For the second year in a row, we have exceeded EUR 23 billion – despite the COVID-19 pandemic, despite the Russian war. And a big bulk of our climate finance goes already to adaptation. So it is doable and we call on others to step up, too.

My message to you today is: Europe is staying the course. So let us do this journey together.

Thank you so much.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_22_6663]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/statement-by-eu-commission-president-at-the-cop27-plenary-meeting/392966/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Egypt: EU Commission President von der Leyen on ‘investing in future of energy’[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/egypt-eu-commission-president-von-der-leyen-on-investing-in-future-of-energy/392963/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

First of all, I want to thank you, Mr President, and you, Mr Chancellor, for the invitation to this roundtable. It is absolutely the right topic at the right time.

Because I think what we see, in 2022, is that there are tectonic changes in the energy market. It has to do, of course, with the war that Russia unleashed against Ukraine. Eight months ago the war started. And since then, we have seen skyrocketing prices for fossil fuels. The driver for that is the fact that Russia has cut 80% of the pipeline gas to the European Union. You must know that before the war, Russia was the biggest supplier of fossil fuel energy worldwide. And the European Union was its biggest customer. These days are over. What we did is: We diversified to trusted partners. We did a lot of saving – 15%. But the most important is accelerating, scaling up renewable energy. And that is why this high-level roundtable is so timely.

I do not want to focus on the European domestic elements. The Chancellor has already, rightly so, described our goals in the European Union for green hydrogen. We have a huge investment package domestically, we call it REPowerEU – with EUR 300 billion. But I want to focus on what we are doing abroad. And here, you must see that this whole energy demand that was once supplied by Russia is now shifting, if we do it right, to the Global South. Because the demand should go into renewable energy, clean energy. Every kilowatt-hour of renewable energy that we produce is not only good for the climate, but it is also good for our independence and our security of supply. That is why this moment is so decisive to look at the Global South. You have the resources in abundance – wind and sun. What is necessary is the investment and the infrastructure. That is where we have to team up. Therefore, we created the investment package, Global Gateway, of EUR 300 billion. EUR 150 billion of those are devoted to Africa and a big emphasis is on renewable energy.

So again, if we do it right, right now, we now have the investment offensive in clean green hydrogen. During this COP, we are signing hydrogen partnerships with Egypt, with Kazakhstan and with Namibia, for example. And very important is: yes, there is public money, but of course we also need the engagement of the private sector. Because for a true partnership that is at eye level, the idea is that the technology goes to the Global South, that the skills are developed in the Global South. That is important. Of course, we invest in the infrastructure, the interconnectors, pipelines that have to be hydrogen-ready – you name it. But important is that it is not a one-way but a joint endeavour that we are together engaging in.

So my message is here: Thank you very much for this very timely high-level roundtable. It is the moment where we have to decide whether we will be locked in in fossil fuels – that is really dangerous – or whether we leapfrog forward into the renewables. And there, green hydrogen is one of the key energy sources.

Many thanks.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_22_6662]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/egypt-eu-commission-president-von-der-leyen-on-investing-in-future-of-energy/392963/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Fiat tax State aid case: EU Commission Executive VP Vestager on today’s Court judgment in Luxembourg[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/fiat-tax-state-aid-case-eu-commission-executive-vp-vestager-on-todays-court-judgment-in-luxembourg/392960/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

Today’s judgment by the Court of Justice annuls the Commission’s 2015 decision finding that Luxembourg granted selective tax advantages to Fiat through a transfer pricing ruling, in breach of EU State aid rules. We will carefully study the judgment and its implications.

The Commission’s decision concerned a tax ruling by Luxembourg to Fiat in 2012, which determined the methodology for the calculation of the taxable profit of Fiat’s financing company. As a result of the tax ruling, Fiat reduced its tax burden up to €30 million since 2012.

Even if the Commission’s decision was annulled, the judgment gives important guidance on the application of EU State aid rules in the area of taxation. The Court confirmed that action by Member States in areas that are not subject to harmonization by EU law is not excluded from the scope of the Treaty provisions on the monitoring of State aid.

The Commission is committed to continue using all the tools at its disposal to ensure that fair competition is not distorted in the Single Market through the grant by Member States of illegal tax breaks to multinational companies.

The Commission’s work, both on enforcement of State aid rules and on the wider taxation agenda, is yielding results beyond individual State aid decisions. Some Member States have amended their tax legislation. Many Member States have incorporated OECD rules and introduced ruling practices to address loopholes and ensure more tax fairness. We have made a lot of progress already at national, European and global levels, and we need to keep working together to succeed. This includes continuing to look at aggressive tax planning measures of Member States under EU State aid rules, in light of the most recent case law of the Court.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_22_6690]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/fiat-tax-state-aid-case-eu-commission-executive-vp-vestager-on-todays-court-judgment-in-luxembourg/392960/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Competition: EU Commission seeks feedback on draft revised Market Definition Notice[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/competition-eu-commission-seeks-feedback-on-draft-revised-market-definition-notice/392958/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

The European Commission has launched today a public consultation inviting all interested parties to comment on the draft revised Market Definition Notice[https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/document/download/bbb4908a-0462-4bb5-9d35-c59bcb4e22a7_en]. Market definition is an important first step in the assessment of mergers and of most antitrust cases. It serves to define the boundaries of competition between companies. The Market Definition Notice is being revised for the first time since its adoption in 1997, taking into account the significant developments of the intervening years, in particular digitalisation and new ways of offering goods and services, and to reflect the interconnected and globalised nature of commercial exchanges.

The draft revised Market Definition Notice follows a thorough review process launched in April 2020. In July 2021[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_3585], the Commission published the results of its evaluation, which showed that while the current Notice remains highly relevant and is generally fit for purpose, certain updates and clarifications are necessary to bring it in line with developments in the Commission’s practice, the EU courts’ case law as well as new market realities. More than 100 stakeholders made their views known and those have been taken into account in the draft text presented for consultation today.

The proposed changes

The main objective of the draft revised Market Definition Notice is to offer more guidance, transparency and legal certainty for businesses to facilitate compliance, including through concrete examples. It also aims at contributing to a more efficient enforcement by the Commission and National Competition Authorities.

The proposed changes provide new or additional guidance on various key market definition issues:

* Explanations on the principles of market definition and the way market definition is used for the purpose of application of competition rules.

* Greater emphasis on non-price elements such as innovation and quality of products and services.

* Clarifications regarding the forward-looking application of market definition, especially in markets that are expected to undergo structural transitions, such as technological or regulatory changes.

* New guidance in relation to market definition in digital markets, for example multi-sided markets and “digital eco-systems” (e.g. products built around a mobile operating system).

* New principles on innovation-intensive markets, clarifying how markets should be assessed where companies compete on innovation, including through pipeline products.

* More guidance on geographic market definition, including the conditions to define global markets, the approach to assessing imports as well as the Commission’s approach to local markets defined by catchment areas (e.g. in the retail sale of consumer goods).

* Clarifications as regards the quantitative techniques, such as the small but significant and non-transitory increase in price/SSNIP test, that the Commission may use when defining a market.

* Expanded guidance on possible sources of evidence and their probative value, based on the Commission’s material experience and fact-based approach to market definition.

Next steps

Interested parties are invited to submit their comments on the draft Notice by 13 January 2023.

More information including on how to submit a contribution is available here[https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/public-consultations/2022-market-definition-notice_en].

On the basis of the evidence gathered during the review, including the comments received in this public consultation, the Commission will revise and finalise the draft published today with a view to having a new Market Definition Notice in place in Q3 2023.

Background on the review process

In April 2020, the Commission launched an evaluation[https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/public-consultations/2020-market-definition-notice_en#evaluation-results] of the current Market Definition Notice. As part of that evaluation, the Commission published the results of an open public consultation, including a summary of the contributions received[https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/document/download/a94f9cd6-0b51-4970-8492-ac0a20dd74f6_en?filename=summary_of_contributions_stakeholders.pdf] and a summary of the contributions of the National Competition Authorities[https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/document/download/5dee9499-ddb6-49c9-b117-30f772f90316_en?filename=summary_of_contributions_NCA.pdf], as well as the results of a support study[https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/document/download/92e7adf6-6a0f-4bb2-87bf-e81ba491e8c4_en?filename=kd0221712enn_market_definition_notice_2021_1.pdf].

In July 2021, the Commission published a Staff Working Document[https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/document/download/451c200b-c9de-41a6-af3c-2e872db8f809_en?filename=evaluation_market-definition-notice_en.pdf] setting out the results of the evaluation.

Following the evaluation, the Commission addressed the subject of market definition by reference to broader competition policy considerations in its Communication ‘A competition policy fit for new challenges’[https://ec.europa.eu/transparency/documents-register/detail?ref=COM(2021)713&lang=en] in November 2021, and announced the review of the current Notice. It published a call for evidence[https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/have-your-say/initiatives/13308-EUs-konkurrencelovgivning-ajourf%C3%B8ring-af-meddelelsen-om-markedsafgr%C3%A6nsning-revision-_en] in January 2022 to start the review.

Background on the Market Definition Notice

Market definition is a tool to identify the boundaries of competition between companies. The objective of defining the relevant product and geographic market is to identify the actual and potential competitors that constrain the commercial decisions of the companies, such as their pricing decisions. It is from this perspective that the market definition makes it possible, among other things, to calculate market shares that may convey meaningful information for the purposes of assessing market power.

Market definition helps to understand the competitive environment in which firms operate, both at a given time and more dynamically. Since markets are not static, this analysis needs to be repeated for each case, to take account of changes in production processes, consumer preferences, and other market specificities, such as innovation cycles, supply chains, the specificities of digital markets and related business models, and ease of access to new suppliers, or in response to regulatory changes. Similarly, the geographical scope of a market is also subject to a fresh assessment in every case, which can lead to markets being defined from local (such as for the retail sale of consumer goods) to global (such as for the sale of aviation components), depending on how they actually work in practice, in particular from the perspective of consumers and customers.

The Market Definition Notice[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:31997Y1209(01)&from=EN] provides guidance on the principles and best practices of how the Commission applies the concept of relevant product and geographic market in its enforcement of EU competition law.

For More Information

See the dedicated webpage of DG Competition[https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/public-consultations/2022-market-definition-notice_en], which contains a link to the draft revised Market Definition Notice as well as instructions on how to submit observations.

Quote

Our rule book needs to be clear, accurate and up to date to ensure legal certainty and predictability for businesses. As the world has become more digitised and our economies are interconnected, some markets work differently today than they did in the past. The draft revised Market Definition Notice aims to reinforce sound principles that have stood the test of time, provide necessary clarifications and fill gaps in our guidance. Today we invite interested parties to comment on the proposed changes.

Margrethe Vestager, Executive Vice-President in charge on competition policy – 08/11/2022

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_6528]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/competition-eu-commission-seeks-feedback-on-draft-revised-market-definition-notice/392958/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Namibia: EU Commission President on Memorandum of Understanding on renewable hydrogen and sustainable raw materials value chains[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/namibia-eu-commission-president-on-memorandum-of-understanding-on-renewable-hydrogen-and-sustainable-raw-materials-value-chains/392956/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

Mr President,

Prime Minister,

Dear Werner Hoyer,

What a pleasure to be here and what a pleasure to celebrate that we signed the MoU for hydrogen and rare raw materials, that we are going to develop together. It is a very decisive moment indeed. And it is wonderful to be here as European Union in Namibia, if I may say so.

It is a very special partnership that we are starting now. Because we are in a decisive moment. We are in a moment of deep crisis worldwide for energy. And now is the time where we have to really decide whether we want to be locked in in fossil fuels or whether we want to leap forward into clean energy. This is not only wind, this is not only solar, but it is also green hydrogen.

And here, this is the big opportunity for Namibia and the Global South because you have the resources in abundance. And if we partner up, if we team up, if we find the right team, together with the European Investment Bank, to develop, to invest in the infrastructure, then this is a big win-win situation for all of us.

We want to reach our climate goals. We want to preserve nature. We want to fight climate change. We want to have clean energy. And as I said, you have all the resources in abundance. So let us team up. With the investment of Global Gateway, it is a EUR-150-billion programme for Africa. So let us really invest in the green energies, the clean energies, and start a wonderful intensive win-win partnership between the European Union and Namibia.

Thank you for having me.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_22_6661]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/namibia-eu-commission-president-on-memorandum-of-understanding-on-renewable-hydrogen-and-sustainable-raw-materials-value-chains/392956/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Forest Partnerships with Congo, Guyana, Mongolia, Zambia and Uganda signed – Statement by Ursula von der Leyen[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/forest-partnerships-with-congo-guyana-mongolia-zambia-and-uganda-signed-statement-by-ursula-von-der-leyen/392950/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

Fellow leaders, Excellencies,

It is a pleasure to have you here. What a special moment. We are all gathered here because we share the same ambition: to save our forests. We have been losing ten million hectares of forests per year – that is the size of Iceland, every single year. We know that our forests are in danger. And that means that if our forests – our green lungs – are in danger, we are in danger, too. Only healthy forests can store carbon so they can help us fight climate change. Only healthy forests can provide the resources that round about 1.6 billion people currently need, that rely on the existence of the forests. But what we also do know is that deforestation is man-made. So if we are the ones triggering deforestation, we can do something about it.

And therefore, today, fellow leaders, Excellencies, I am very glad to launch the first five Forest Partnerships with Guyana, Mongolia, the Republic of Congo, Zambia and Uganda. You all are – and I know that by experience and through our conversations – deeply committed to protecting your beautiful forests. And I am glad that we, as the European Union, can support you in this ambition. These Forest Partnerships are local preservation strategies adapted to the very unique needs that all of you and your forests have, and to the needs of your communities – I really want to stress that point. Because there is no one-size-fits-all approach. Every local community is different and they have specific needs and we have to respect that. And this is included in our Forest Partnerships. Let me stress three main objectives that we have in common.

The first one is that we need to develop strategies for the sustainable development and management of forests. Management of forests, yes, we know how to do this. But we want a sustainable management of forests. It includes of course land restoration so that these forests can be restored and can be our best allies in the fight against climate change. And of course, this will also contribute to our European goal to ensure that 40 million hectares of forests are sustainably managed by 2027. That is our goal; that is what we are working for. And here is a big milestone that we achieve.

Secondly – and we have discussed that – it is so important that we create jobs around the forest value chains. Jobs in the sustainable management of forests. We are convinced that with these Forest Partnerships we can create around one million jobs in the forest sector until 2027 – actually our goal is to create half of the jobs for women to preserve our forests.

And the third point is very important, we want to facilitate trade in wood products between us so that this is a win-win situation for all of us. Because Europe is turning to more sustainably sourced and quality wood products to reach the objectives of our European Green Deal. So our demand for sustainably managed wood products will only grow. And that is where you are the specialists and where you will become the main source. Because if we agree on sustainable management of forests, what we are looking for are the sustainable products resulting from it. And therefore it is a win-win situation for both sides.

All of this requires significant investments. And we are willing to invest EUR 450 million until 2024, so in the short term to make this happen. This is a part of our bigger global engagement with Global Gateway. An investment programme that invests EUR 7 billion in biodiversity until 2027. A large share of that is devoted to the forests. And if you speak about biodiversity and preserving the biodiversity of our planet, one of our main objectives is to really have a look at our green lungs, our forests.

Excellencies,

Many thanks for the signature of our Forest Partnerships. This is not the end of something, this is the beginning of something. So good luck on that and many thanks for being here.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_22_6660]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/forest-partnerships-with-congo-guyana-mongolia-zambia-and-uganda-signed-statement-by-ursula-von-der-leyen/392950/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU sanctions against Russia: MEPs hear experts on effects[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-sanctions-against-russia-meps-hear-experts-on-effects/392951/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 8 November 2022

MEPs on Tuesday heard from experts and the Ukrainian economic development committee chair about the economic effect of the EU’s sanctions on Russia and the EU itself.

The hearing[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/public-hearing-on-the-economic-impact-of/product-details/20221104CHE10881], held in the European Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs committee, allowed MEPs to gather information on what is working, what needs to be improved and what needs to be avoided in order to minimise the impacts on the EU’s economies.

Dmytro Natalukha, Chair of the Committee on Economic Development of Ukraine’s Parliament said that Russia was able to resist the sanctions better than expected. The upcoming ninth package of sanctions, therefore, remained necessary. He singled out two areas that this package should address. Firstly, the need to sanction Russia’s political parties supporting Putin. This would target over 4 million as yet untouched Russian citizens, all occupying enabling positions for support for the war to continue and for discordant voices to be suppressed. The second area to address was the transport of Russian oil by Greek vessels.

Tymofiy Mylovanov, Director of the Kyiv School of Economics, outlined the state of Ukraine’s economy saying that despite the government already correcting downwards its expectations for the economy following Russia’s attacks on the energy infrastructure, the situation would probably worsen further. His institute was estimating the cost of damage at around USD 127 billion, excluding damage to confidential infrastructure and equipment.

Benjamin Moll, a macroeconomics professor at the London School of Economics told MEPs that the EU economy was withstanding and adapting well to the adverse economic effects. Shortages and rationing were now looking increasingly unlikely, he said, adding that recessions were expected to only be mild and limited to a few countries. The key would be to maintain household demand reduction for gas throughout the winter. It was therefore important not to develop support measures directly tied to energy consumption and keep incentives to reduce the demand for gas, he concluded.

Maíra Martini, research and policy expert at Transparency International explained how the large bulk of Russian assets which had been frozen had happened in only 6 of the EU’s Member States, with the rest accounting for only a small proportion. It was important to understand why this was the case and reduce the obstacles hampering many member states from freezing more Russian assets, she said. Ms Martini also pointed to an important defect in the sanctions regime regarding the provision of trust services which she said meant that sanctioned Russians could still continue benefitting from such services to a certain degree.

Hannes Swoboda, President of the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies said that rather than from the sanctions, the main economic hit to Russia has come from the withdrawal of countless foreign companies who, when doing so, also withdrew their technology from the country. It was now crucial to ensure that this technology would not be imported from somewhere else. Mr Swoboda also said that, likewise, it would be a good strategy to encourage and facilitate the departure of the educated Russian young people. Finally, Mr Swoboda pointed to the need to acknowledge that certain Balkan countries and Hungary and Slovakia were being more negatively impacted by the war and the sanctions than other countries.

During the question and answer session, MEPs asked about the role of third countries in the EU sanctions regime and how to deal with those third countries which did not cooperate sufficiently. They also asked for more details on how to structure support measures in the EU which would not fuel demand for gas. MEPs also highlighted that more needed to be done in the areas of golden passports, the use of cryptocurrencies, the assets register, and beneficial ownership disclosure to ensure these were not being used to evade the sanctions.

You can watch the hearing again here[https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/webstreaming/econ-committee-meeting_20221108-0900-COMMITTEE-ECON].

Further information

* Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/econ/home.html]

* Information related to the hearing [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/hearing-on-the-economic-impact-of-eu-san/product-details/20221103CAN67522]

* Watch the hearing again [https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/webstreaming/econ-committee-meeting_20221108-0900-COMMITTEE-ECON]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-sanctions-against-russia-meps-hear-experts-on-effects/392951/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Investor-State dispute settlement (ISDS): EESC backs criticism, demands holistic approach[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/investor-state-dispute-settlement-isds-eesc-backs-criticism-demands-holistic-approach/392947/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

7/11/2022

Downloads[https://www.eesc.europa.eu/en/news-media/news/eesc-backs-criticism-investor-state-dispute-settlement-isds-and-calls-more-holistic-approach#downloads]

Criticism raised by civil society mainly concerns questions about the legitimacy, consistency and transparency of this arbitration system. A new model for international investment governance needs to be developed, in order to fill the significant gap between the investment system on the one hand and effective protection of labour rights and the environment on the other.

Investor-State dispute settlement (ISDS) is a mechanism in numerous free trade agreements and international investment agreements (IIA) for settling disputes concerning the implementation of investment protection agreements.

The system has been the subject of much criticism from civil society, said the rapporteur general and EESC member Christophe Quarez, recalling the debates on the draft agreement between the EU and the US, namely the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP).

The own-initiative opinion Multilateral investor-State arbitration court: assessment of the UNCITRAL process and its achievements in light of civil society recommendations[https://www.eesc.europa.eu/en/our-work/opinions-information-reports/opinions/multilateral-investor-state-arbitration-court-assessment-uncitral-process-and-its-achievements-light-civil-society], adopted at the EESC’s October plenary session, sets out to explore the situation regarding the reform and modernisation of this dispute settlement method – in which the European Commission is playing a central role – currently under discussion at the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL).

As Mr Quarez stressed: The questioning through arbitration of democratic decisions on environmental, social or health protection has been widely criticised. Similarly, questions about the independence and legitimacy of the arbitrators, and the transparency and cost of the procedure, are often raised.

The EESC reiterates the need to have a modern, effective and functioning international investment protection system with dispute resolution. At the same time, it regrets that international law does not require the exhaustion of domestic remedies.

That is why the Committee keeps reminding the Commission of its request to be more closely involved in its UNCITRAL work, encouraging the Commission to pursue the issue of the exhaustion of local remedies before any international referral. The current system discriminates against SMEs, given their limited financial resources. ISDS should be recognised as an extraordinary remedy.

Accordingly, the Committee stresses that, at this point, UNCITRAL activities should focus more on substantive issues rather than procedural ones – although still important. Among others, an important example of substantive issues is the vagueness and/or too far-reaching nature of the provisions on fair and equitable treatment (FET).

The need for a holistic approach consistent with sustainable development and social justice goals

The most frequently identified problems concern the lack of transparency in investment disputes, the lack of consistency and predictability of arbitration outcomes, the role and independence of arbitrators and ISDS clauses that contain vague and too far-reaching concepts may lead to legal uncertainty and potential misuse.

Current public perception sees that there is a significant gap between the protection of investments, which is legally binding, and the protection of human, social, environmental and health rights, which come under international systems that are either partially binding or not binding at all.

Like the European Parliament’s Committee on International Trade (INTA), the EESC believes that EU investment policy should not only meet investor and recipient State expectations, but also the EU’s wider economic interests, its external policy objectives, as well as its priorities, particularly those on environmental protection and the protection of fundamental human rights.

Achieving consistency between the EU’s ambitious sustainable development goals, and the framework for reforming the ISDS model can help society tackle current challenges.

The common objective is to find a balance between the protection of investments and the protection of the general interest, emphasised Mr Quarez, adding that: all stakeholders, including local residents, workers, trade unions, environmental and consumer groups, must be heard by the State/investor arbitration bodies.

The EESC encourages the Commission to ensure that cross-cutting issues such as the chilling effects of ISDS, the exhaustion of local remedies and access of third parties such as local communities impacted by the investments are kept on the table and satisfactorily addressed.

For a multilateral ISDS reform process to make a real difference, the EESC considers it essential to take a more holistic approach to international investment governance, moving away from ad-hoc arbitration and not merely replacing ISDS arbitration with an investor-state court.

Downloads

* EESC backs criticism of investor-State dispute settlement (ISDS), and calls for a more holistic approach: en[https://www.eesc.europa.eu/sites/default/files/files/investor_state_dispute_settlement.docx]

Related content

* External Relations Section (REX)[https://www.eesc.europa.eu/en/sections-other-bodies/sections-commission/external-relations-section-rex]

* 573rd Plenary session 26-27 October 2022[https://www.eesc.europa.eu/en/agenda/our-events/events/573rd-plenary-session-26-27-october-2022]

* Multilateral investor-state arbitration court: assessment of the UNCITRAL process and its achievements in light of civil society recommendations[https://www.eesc.europa.eu/en/our-work/opinions-information-reports/opinions/multilateral-investor-state-arbitration-court-assessment-uncitral-process-and-its-achievements-light-civil-society]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/investor-state-dispute-settlement-isds-eesc-backs-criticism-demands-holistic-approach/392947/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

You are receiving this e-mail because you have signed up for the premium version of our Insight EU Monitoring Digest.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any problems in receiving or opening this mail, or if you are interested in other services we offer.

You find more information about us on our FAQ page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] and on our subscription page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/subscribe/]. Or simply contact our publisher[mailto:j.weidemann@ieu-monitoring.com?subject=Letter%20to%20the%20publisher].

Important note

Please do not hesitate to reach out if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues. See also our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

Last, but not least, here are some more useful deep links:

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Insight EU Agenda Weekly: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Insight EU Premium: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium]

* Specialised Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020221109eib900005


Finnish Food Prices Hit Record Highs as Economy Tightens
438 字
2022 年 11 月 19 日
FARS News Agency
FARSNA
英文
© 2022, FARS News Agency, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
TEHRAN (FNA)- Food prices in Finland have soared by almost 16 percent year-on-year in October, hitting a record high during the Nordic country’s entire time in the European Union.

The acceleration is unprecedented since the energy crisis of the Seventies and marks a continued rise from 14.5 percent in September and 12.5 percent in October, RIA Novosti reported.

The spike was most pronounced in flour, eggs, coffee and butter. Flour has risen in price by 46 percent, and the rest have risen by more than 30 percent. During the whole of October, pears were reported to be the only product actually to fall in value.

According to forecasts by the Pellervo Institute of Economic Research, the annual rise in food will eventually reach 11 percent.

Experts argued that the rapid inflation spike is unlikely to be stopped in November, December or even early 2023, as food and electricity will continue to appreciate for several months to come, with no signs of a slowdown in sight and more chronic drivers of inflation now in play.

According to Statistics Finland, consumer price increases accelerated last month, mostly as a result of surges in energy prices, diesel and petrol prices and the average interest rate on housing loans.

Amid galloping inflation, higher borrowing costs kicked in and reduced activity, Finland’s economy contracted in the third quarter by 0.1 percent, Statistics Finland said, with recession looming next year.

At the same time Finland’s growing cost-of-living crisis, which largely mirrors that of the eurozone, has been exacerbated by Helsinki’s self-crippling sanctions against Russian energy. Amid shortages of gas and electricity, Finland is bracing itself for rolling power cuts this winter.

Helsinki also made a public case of its refusal to comply with Moscow's demands to pay for gas in rubles, with a number of politicians claiming that the conflict in Ukraine, in which Finland firmly supports Kiev with arms, training and assistance, made cooperation with Russia impossible.

However, in subsequent months Helsinki had no qualms about buying Russian gas in liquefied form. This week, it transpired that Finland’s import of Russian nickel increased since the start of the Ukraine conflict. In September, the imports grew by a whopping 59 percent.

Pressed over this obvious discrepancy, the Finnish government said it was prepared to ramp up sanctions against Russia further. Among others, Finland's Minister for European Affairs Tytti Tuppurainen said the Nordic country was ready to “sanction everything”, if the EU were to reach a consensus.

Click to view image[https://media.farsnews.ir/Uploaded/Files/Images/1401/08/28/14010828000692_Test_PhotoN.jpg]

FARS News Agency

文件 FARSNA0020221119eibj0005m


3 Russian-owned private planes are seized by Finland
189 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日
Nordic Daily
NORDAI
英文
Copyright 2022 SIA Impact Media
Helsinki, Finland: According to Yle's investigative unit MOT, three jet aircraft that are believed to have been used by the Vantaa-based company Polar Aviation in contravention of EU sanctions against Russia have been seized by Finnish authorities.

The jets that Polar Aviation utilised are owned by a Russian businessman, according to research conducted by MOT last spring (article in Finnish).

Although the National Enforcement Authority of Finland believes the aircraft had been used by Russian people who are subject to sanctions, he is not on the EU's sanction list.

According to the information that MOT was able to get from the National Enforcement Authority, Polar Aviation has not provided all of the papers that the authority has asked for.

On November 16, the Enforcement Authority decided to seize the aircraft. Polar Aviation told MOT that the authority's decision was incorrect.

According to MOT's investigation last spring, the jets belong to Russian businessman Sergei Grischenko, who had a long career at Gazprombank, Russia's third-largest bank. The aircraft were previously owned by the financial institution.

SIA Impact Media

文件 NORDAI0020221122eibl00019


Finland to return arrested cargo rail cars to Russia
137 字
2022 年 11 月 28 日 05:10 GMT
Prime News
PRTASS
英文
© 2022. JSC PRIME. All rights reserved.
MOSCOW, Nov 28 (PRIME) -- Finland will return the Russian cargo rail cars had arrested because of the E.U. sanctions to Moscow, the trade representation of Russia said in a statement late on November 25.

“The authorities of the Republic of Finland decided to return the cargo rail cars arrested in the framework of the sanction restrictions to Russia. As of the beginning of November 2022, the list of arrested equipment included more than 800 units of full or empty railcars,” the statement read.

Finnish companies earlier filed the request to the Foreign Ministry of Finland because of high costs for upkeep of the arrested rolling stock and because of the risks that the arrested railcars pose for the country’s transport system, the trade representation said.

End

JSC PRIME

文件 PRTASS0020221128eibs000dx


U.S. Department of State - Secretary Antony J. Blinken With Swedish Foreign Minister Tobias Billström and Finnish Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto At a Joint Press Availability
U.S. Department of State published this content on 08 Dec 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 08 Dec 2022 19:30:32 UTC.
4541 字
2022 年 12 月 8 日
U.S. Government News and Documents via PUBT
USGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format

Secretary Antony J. Blinken With Swedish Foreign Minister Tobias Billström and Finnish Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto At a Joint Press Availability

SECRETARY BLINKEN: Good morning, everyone. Earlier this morning, I joined President Biden, Vice President Harris, and Cherelle Griner in the Oval Office. Cherelle spoke to her wife, Brittney, who is now on her way back home to the United States after a long, unjust, and wrongful detention. Listening to them connect for the first time since Brittney's been freed was as moving as it was unforgettable. Their strength, their resilience, have been nothing short of inspiring.

Let me just express my own gratitude to the State Department team and to our colleagues across the United States Government who worked tirelessly to secure Brittney Griner's release. I especially want to commend our Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs Roger Carstens and his entire team. Roger is actually accompanying Brittney home as we speak. I also extend our thanks to our Emirati friends, who assisted in Brittney's transfer today.

Securing the release of Americans who have been wrongfully detained is a top priority for me as Secretary of State, and it's something that we work on every single day. And so while we're elated at Brittney returning home, we continue to work relentlessly to bring Paul Whelan home as well. Despite our efforts, the Russian Government has not yet been willing to end his wrongful detention. They continue to insist on sham charges of espionage and are treating Paul's case differently. As a result, Paul and his loved ones continue to suffer needlessly and unjustly.

This was not a choice of which American to bring home. The choice was one or none. I wholeheartedly wish that we could have brought Paul home today on the same plane as Brittney, just as, as the time, I wished we could have Brittney and Paul home when we secured the release of Trevor Reed back in April. But we will stay at it. We continue to work with the Whelan family, who've been extraordinarily gracious, and we hold them in our thoughts and prayers always, but especially today. And we will never relent until Paul - and for that matter, every other U.S. national held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad - is free and coming home and joining their families, where they belong.

Now turning to our bilateral and trilateral meetings today, it's a particular pleasure to have my friends Pekka and Tobias here. Foreign Minister Haavisto, Foreign Minister Billström are close colleagues. They themselves are extremely close colleagues, especially in recent months. But we held very productive conversations this morning, both bilaterally and together the three of us.

This is the second time that we've met in the last two weeks. Last week, Tobias and Pekka were with us in Bucharest. In fact, I was sitting next to them at the NATO table for the ministerial meeting that we had, just the latest demonstration that Sweden and Finland are ready to bring their strengths to bear to our Alliance.

As we speak, President Putin is trying to weaponize winter. Russia has destroyed over a third of Ukraine's energy system, plunging its most vulnerable civilians into cold, into darkness as the frigid temperatures set it. Families, the elderly, disabled people, children - all targets. Two weeks ago, doctors in Kyiv were in the middle of preforming open-heart surgery on a 14-year-old boy when Russian missiles knocked out the power, forcing them to continue the operation by the glow of their phones. That is what President Putin's war looks like: A child on an operating table, fighting for his life, while Russian strikes bring death from the skies.

President Putin has failed at defeating Russia - defeating Ukraine on the battlefield. He has failed at his land grabs in the south and east. He's failed at erasing Ukraine's borders, its identity, its people, its resilience. And as Sweden and Finland prepare to join NATO, we know that he's failed at weakening our Alliance. Indeed, he's only made NATO stronger and bigger.

Finland and Sweden fully understand what's at stake for Ukraine, for NATO, for the entire world at this critical moment. They've been partners in maintaining a firm, united response to President Putin's brutal war of aggression against Ukraine. This year, Sweden and Finland have sent well over $1 billion in security, humanitarian, and other assistance to Ukraine. Both recently announced their largest ever packages of military aid. Swedes and Finns have welcomed tens of thousands of displaced Ukrainians into their communities, giving them housing, school access to their kids, opportunities at work for the adults. As EU members, they're joining our partners to level unprecedented sanctions against Russia to curtail its ability to wage this war.

Finland and Sweden are ready to be NATO Allies. Their troops have served shoulder to shoulder with U.S. and NATO forces in Kosovo, in Afghanistan, in Iraq, in Libya. Both are members of NATO's Partnership for Peace and NATO's Enhanced Opportunity Partnership, meaning, to put it into plain English, that their militaries work nearly seamlessly with Alliance forces.

Finland and Sweden will bolster our Alliance not only through their military capabilities, but also through their values - an abiding commitment to democracy, the rules-based international order, respect for human rights, respect for human dignity.

I'm confident that NATO will formally welcome Finland and Sweden as members soon. Since the NATO Summit in Madrid, both countries have taken significant concrete actions to fulfill their commitments, including those related to the security concerns on the part of our ally Turkey. As their membership process continues, the United States is fully committed to Finland and Sweden's accession. The strength of that support can be seen in our Senate's overwhelming bipartisan vote for their membership, just weeks after their application was submitted.

Of course, the partnership that the United States has with both countries - with Sweden, with Finland - goes well beyond our cooperation on supporting Ukraine or countering Russian's aggression. As trade and economic partners, our countries and businesses are making investments that are expanding opportunity and improving the lives for families on both sides of the Atlantic. As innovation powerhouses, we're collaborating to address some of the most urgent global challenges, like the climate crisis. As leading democracies, we're advancing governance priorities, including freedom of expression, combatting corruption, advancing gender equality around the world.

Our close collaboration on Arctic issues touches on all of these priorities. The United States is an Arctic nation, and therefore we have a profound stake in advancing an Arctic region that is peaceful, stable, prosperous, and cooperative.

Let me just close with a note about our shared history. People from the Nordic countries first came to our shores more than a century before the birth of the United States. Generations followed that journey. Today, roughly 11 million Americans trace their ancestry to Nordic countries. Throughout our histories, the United States has looked to Sweden and Finland not only as partners but as friends. And so Pekka, Tobias - my friends - we're so proud to stand with you as prepare to take the significant step and join us as NATO Allies. Thank you.

Pekka.

FOREIGN MINISTER HAAVISTO: Thanks, Tony, and thanks for welcoming us so warmly to Washington. It's great to be here again. And also congratulations for bringing your citizen back home.

I really want to thank Secretary Blinken for this excellent bilateral meeting today, as well as for these customs and exchange of views with you, Tony, today together with my Swedish colleague, Minister Billström.

We announced earlier this autumn between Finland and U.S. that we will renegotiate the Defense Cooperation Agreement, DCA. The DCA is a continuation of earlier cooperation between the United States and Finland. The agreement provides a framework for deepening defense cooperation and strengthening the partnership between our two countries.

During our bilateral meeting today, we focused naturally a great deal on the security situation in Europe. We discussed Finland's NATO process, Russia's war against Ukraine, and our support to Ukraine. We emphasized the importance of transatlantic relations. We also had good exchange of views on China.

We are, of course, grateful for the strong support we have received from the United States during our NATO accession process and the first phase of ratifications from member states, including U.S. It's important for us that our accession process - processes continue to advance together with Sweden.

In the NATO foreign minister's meeting in Bucharest, we - together with Sweden - had discussions with both Turkey and Hungary on our membership process. As a future ally, Finland commits to NATO's 360-degree approach to security. We take the security concerns of all Allies seriously. Finland is a security provider whose membership will further strengthen the Alliance as a whole. There's a very strong public support in Finland for our NATO membership, and we hope to finalize the process soon.

And a couple of words about Ukraine and Russia. We discussed also bilaterally Ukraine's immediate and long-term needs. Actually, I had - together with Tobias - a possibility to visit Kyiv one week ago, meeting President Zelenskyy and seeing the destruction caused by Russian bombings, particularly to the electricity network. We are now mobilizing also private sector help to Ukraine.

It's very important that we continue both military and humanitarian and development aid towards Ukraine, and we thank U.S. for very active role on that. Finland continues to support Ukraine as long as necessary. Finland has already decided on 10 defense material assistance packages to Ukraine and is prepared to deliver more. Finland is also ready to participate in Ukraine's reconstruction.

We need to keep up and increase the sanction pressure on Russia, and that has to continue as long as needed. The aggression is illegal, and we have to recognize that. It's important also to continue to coordinate our actions with partners. Important that we counter Russia's false narratives. Russia is spreading disinformation and weaponizing food and energy in order to weaken support to Ukraine.

The manner in which Russia is waging war in Ukraine flagrantly violates international law, deliberately targeting military operations at civilians and civilian targets is a war crime. We must hold Russia accountable for its violations of international law and ensure that there is no impunity for atrocity crimes committed in Ukraine. Russia bears responsibility for the damages caused by its internationally wrongful act in and against Ukraine. Thank you.

SECRETARY BLINKEN: Tobias.

FOREIGN MINISTER BILLSTRÖM: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, dear Tony. A warm thanks, first of all, for hosting us here in Washington, D.C. And many congratulations for bringing your citizen successfully back home.

I'm especially delighted that I could pay this visit at an early stage of my tenure. The transatlantic relationship is a top priority for the Swedish Government, and our fruitful discussions today are just one evidence of that.

We are facing the greatest foreign security and defense policy challenges of modern times. If anything, the challenge of today and of tomorrow prove that there is no alternative to cooperation on the strong and close transatlantic relations.

I want to thank you for the United States' deep and determined engagement for European security, for your strong and substantial support to Ukraine, and as well for your staunch support to Sweden's and Finland's decision to join NATO.

Standing here today together with our dear neighbor Finland proves that we are in this together.

Today's discussion have been immensely valuable in both the bilateral and trilateral formats. Naturally, we focused on our NATO accession process, which is progressing well. We are eager to join and to contribute to the security of the entire Alliance. We discussed our individual and joint support for - to Ukraine, which continue unabatedly, as strong as ever.

On our side, the Swedish Government has most recently presented a record-sized winter support package to Ukraine, including both humanitarian and military aid, totaling over $830 million. We stand by Ukraine and we will do everything to help them to win this war with the aim of restoring their territorial integrity. But I would really like, again, to offer my thanks to the American people and to the U.S. Government for all that you are doing for Ukraine, and I would like to encourage our European friends, the member states, to step up to match your endeavors and your efforts.

In our discussions today I also shared Sweden's plans and priorities as incoming presidency of the EU Council on Ukraine, and further EU support to Ukraine will be at the top of our agenda. We will also seek to enhance transatlantic cooperation in many ways during our EU presidency.

Today I am particularly happy and proud to stand here together with you, Pekka and Tony, demonstrating our strong partnership. I look forward to continue working closely with you on our common interests. Thank you.

MR PRICE: We'll now turn to questions, and we'll start with Shannon Crawford of ABC.

QUESTION: Thank you so much. My first question is for all three officials. One - despite NATO's remarkable unity, one member of the Alliance, Turkey, has effectively held the accession process hostage for months now with really no clear sign of letting up. Now, while some of Turkey's demands have been met, the country has yet to even specifically outline its requirements for winning its approval. But meanwhile, the clock is ticking and Secretary General Stoltenberg is warning that the delay could allow for a miscalculation from Moscow. How long can the Alliance afford to wait? And Mr. Secretary, can we expect the U.S. to take a more direct role at any point?

And on the breaking news this morning, of course, the U.S. is preparing to welcome Brittney Griner home. But as you noted, Secretary Blinken, there is another wrongfully detained American that's still in Russia: Paul Whelan. Now, the administration has successfully negotiated two prisoner swaps with Moscow, but Paul has been left out of both. And as you note, that's not for lack of trying on the U.S. side. Do you see any signs of optimism, any reason for hope that Russia might be willing to negotiate and complete a swap for Paul Whelan? And what is the U.S. willing to do to bring him home? Will the U.S. go beyond a one-for-one prisoner swap?

SECRETARY BLINKEN: I'm happy to start - first of all, on the NATO question. Look, it's important, first of all, to put this in perspective. When it comes to the accession of new members - in this case, Finland and Sweden - the process has never moved faster. All 30 Allies signed the accession protocols; 28 of the 30, of course, have ratified them, and we are working toward the additional ratifications - Turkey and Hungary. And I am convinced, based on everything I know, that we will soon be able to call both countries formally our allies.

I've got to say I'm further convinced of that by my own recent visit to Bucharest, where we were all around the same table. As it happens, I sat next to both of our colleagues there. Finland and Sweden are already integrating into our work. And as I mentioned as well, there can be no doubt on anyone's part that they are ready today to be formal members of the Alliance. Our own Senate agreed to their membership mere weeks after their application, and there is overwhelming support in Congress for that. I know that both of my friends will have or will spend some time with Congress.

Turkey has raised important security concerns in this process, and the process is being used effectively and productively to address those concerns. And I won't speak for either of my colleagues on that, except to say, as we've observed it, what both countries have done in engaging with Turkey and with NATO itself has been to address those concerns in tangible ways. And we've seen these countries take tangible steps to, again, address the concerns that Turkey has raised.

So I'm confident that this is moving forward, it's moving forward in a process that is appropriate, and that we will soon welcome them as members. But let me turn to each of you, and I'll come back to the second part of your question.

FOREIGN MINISTER HAAVISTO: Thank you, an excellent question. And we already established this tripartite working group in Madrid NATO Summit. This working group has been meeting on the expert level, one time in Stockholm, one time in Helsinki. Those meetings have been very good and issues have been clarified regarding Turkish concern on the terrorism. PKK as an organization is forbidden organization in the whole Europe, including Finland and Sweden, and so forth. So those issues that are mentioned in the memorandum, tripartite memorandum, are very much fulfilled. Our minister of defense has just visited Ankara during these days, yesterday and today, and so forth, so this - also the bilateral cooperation has been ongoing.

Of course, what we are still missing is the clear date and clear plan of the Turkish parliament to deal with this issue. And we know that Turkey is going to the elections. Of course, our hope is that this decision should come from Turkey rather sooner than later.

We had an announcement in Bucharest during the Bucharest meeting from Hungary that they are ready to ratify in the beginning of February, and of course we hope that this will be the timetable that both of our countries could come as members, full members of NATO.

FOREIGN MINISTER BILLSTRÖM: Thank you very much. I could make it easy, yes, by standing by what Pekka has just said, but I would like to make a few additions of my own. Yes, as the Secretary said, we are addressing the concerns raised by Turkey within the memorandum, the trilateral memorandum signed at the Madrid Summit, and we are doing it step by step with the contents, but it has to be understood as well that the fulfillment of a memorandum has to take place within the framework of the constitution that we have in Sweden, the legislation, and basic principles of the rules of law. And this is something which the Turkish Government is well aware of.

But within those limits, everything will be fulfilled. That is written down in the memorandum by all the three parties. And I myself am soon going to Ankara to continue the discussions with my Turkish and - my and Pekka's Turkish colleague on the spot, and I hope that the outcome of that discussion will also bring us forward. A constant dialogue between the governments, between the authorities in the various countries, is also important to underline as a part of the fulfillment of the memorandum. Thank you.

SECRETARY BLINKEN: And on the second part of the question, with regard to Paul Whelan, first, back in July I made public what had been going on in private for some time: persistent efforts to secure the release of both Brittney Griner and Paul Whelan. I spoke directly to Foreign Minister Lavrov at the time. We've had numerous engagements ever since on the basis of the substantial proposal that we had put on the table, and then different permutations as we worked back and forth with the Russians. The presidents had established a channel to do this; we've been engaged in it ever since.

We followed up on the initial proposal, as I said, looking at different ways to get this done. And by "get this done," I mean bring both Brittney and Paul home. And as I said a few moments ago, this was not a choice about which American to bring home. The choice was, in this instance, one or none. Because, unfortunately, Russia has continued to see Paul's case through the lens of sham espionage charges and they are treating him differently than they treated Brittney Griner. We've made every possible offer available to us thus far to secure Paul's release, but in this moment, there was no way to bring him home along with Brittney.

Again, this was the same situation that we faced back in April. We got Trevor Reed home. We wanted to bring Brittney and Paul home at the same time. In that moment we were not able to do so; in this moment we were not able to secure Paul's release. But going forward, we remain absolutely determined to do that and we will continue to engage the Russians on Paul and we'll continue to look at everything possible to bring him home.

But again, we didn't want to lose the opportunity today to secure the release of one of them. We've had the opportunity to speak directly to Paul Whelan over the last 24 hours, and let me simply say that he's extraordinarily gracious as well as being extraordinarily courageous. We've spoken to his family. We'll continue to do that and we'll continue to work very closely with them in the effort that will not cease until Paul is home.

MR PRICE: Iida Tikka of Yle News, Finland.

QUESTION: Thank you. A little follow-up on the NATO accession talks question. Publicly the U.S. has stayed seemingly on the sidelines of these talks between Finland, Sweden, and Turkey. Is this image still correct, and why is the U.S. not taking more active role? Is this because of lack of will or political clout?

SECRETARY BLINKEN: This is and has been from the start a process, and it's a process that every prospective member of NATO goes through and a process, as I said, that has actually worked so far at record speed. We've never seen a process move this quickly when it comes to the accession of new members. And as I noted a few moments ago, as I said, all 30 have signed the protocols; 28 have ratified, and two are left to ratify.

In the context of this process, Turkey has raised concerns, and concerns that are best addressed directly by Finland and Sweden with NATO's assistance as necessary. And as you've heard from both of my colleagues, they've had a - I think what's been a very good and productive process working directly with Turkey to try to address the concerns that resulted in a memorandum of understanding that is being implemented, and concrete steps have been taken by Sweden and by Finland to make good on the commitments that they've undertaken in this process. All of that is moving forward. And again, I have every expectation that both will formally become members soon.

As for the United States, like every Ally, we have a strong stake in the membership process being completed and both countries formally joining the Alliance. We know the contributions that they can make, and those contributions could not be more important at a time when we have a variety of challenges. And that's strongly the opinion of the United States, one that we've expressed to all of our Allies, including to Turkey, over these weeks and months. It's also very strongly the opinion of the United States Congress, and it has spoken out vocally on that as well.

But again, it's our expectation that the process continues to move forward, that it's moving forward in a deliberate and appropriate way, and that it will come to a conclusion soon.

MR PRICE: And finally, Cecilia Khavar of Swedish radio.

QUESTION: Thank you so much for this opportunity. And Mr. Secretary, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg recently stated that Sweden and Finland have fulfilled their end of the deal in this process with Turkey, and we heard you just say that Sweden and Finland have taken significant steps. But what's your view on that? Has Sweden, more specifically now, fulfilled its end of the deal?

And with regard to what my colleague asked as well, you say it's a matter of Sweden and Finland to discuss directly with Turkey, but what concrete steps have you and your government taken to try and help convince Turkey to accept Sweden and Finland without delay?

SECRETARY BLINKEN: Again, this is not a bilateral issue between the United States and Turkey and it's not going to turn into one. This is a matter of having a process for the entire Alliance for new members to come in. As part of that process, one of the members has raised concerns that are being addressed directly by that country and the prospective new members.

What is clear - again, as I said - is that there is overwhelming support in the United States, not just from the President and the Executive Branch but from our Congress, when it comes to Sweden and Finland becoming members and becoming members as quickly as the process can move. We've made that point as a NATO Ally to the Turks and we've noted publicly the readiness of both Sweden and Finland to become members now.

We also acknowledge Turkey's legitimate security concerns. We have from day one. There are more terrorist attacks on Turkish soil than on the soil of any other NATO Ally.

But we also very much appreciate and acknowledge the tangible steps that both Finland and Sweden have taken, already taken, including substantially strengthening the bilateral cooperation with Turkey on their key security concerns. But this is a process that is moving forward. It's moving forward because of the very important work that both of our soon-to-be allies have done with Turkey, and I have every expectation that that process will continue and be brought to a successful conclusion soon.

QUESTION: So you don't agree with Jens Stoltenberg about - that Sweden has fulfilled their end of the deal?

SECRETARY BLINKEN: Again, they have a memorandum of understanding. Very tangible steps have been taken to implement it, and we will let them continue that process with Turkey.

MR PRICE: Thank you very much, gentlemen. Thank you very much.

SECRETARY BLINKEN: Thank you, everyone. Thank you.

* Original Link[https://www.state.gov/secretary-antony-j-blinken-with-swedish-foreign-minister-tobias-billstrom-and-finnish-foreign-minister-pekka-haavisto-at-a-joint-press-availability/]

Disclaimer

U.S. Department of State published this content on 08 December 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 08 December 2022 19:32:34 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 USGND00020221208eic800aht


Sweden's, Finland's accession to NATO prompted by farfetched pretext of Russian threat - Russian General Staff chief
258 字
2022 年 12 月 22 日 14:22 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS General Newswire
DANWS
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
MOSCOW. Dec 22 (Interfax) - Finland's and Sweden's integration into the North Atlantic Alliance is increasing the tension along the Russia-NATO line of contact, Russian Armed Forces Chief of General Staff Valery Gerasimov said.

"The practical steps toward Sweden's and Finland's soonest possible integration into the alliance show that, under the farfetched pretext of a Russian threat, Washington is seeking to move NATO as close to our borders as possible by adding new satellites to it," Gerasimov said at a briefing for foreign defense attaches on Thursday.

"The North Atlantic Alliance's actions are only increasing the tension and lowering the level of security precisely along the Russia-NATO line of contact," he said.

NATO's activities are continuing to considerably affect the security situation in Europe, he said.

"The West's actions have also resulted in virtually dismantling the arms control system that took shape over the previous decades. The New START Treaty is all that's left of the entire set of arms control tools," he said.

In the wake of the restrictions related to the Covid-19 pandemic, "not all mechanisms of this agreement are working the way it was intended before signing the agreements," he said.

"On top of those problems are sanction restrictions on any contacts at the military level thoughtlessly imposed by European countries," Gerasimov said.

va kp kl

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DANWS00020221222eicm006k5


Supreme Court of Finland Decision: Persecution Freedom of speech
5188 字
2022 年 12 月 30 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2022 SIA Impact Media
Helsinki: The Supreme Court of Finland has issued the following decision:

Persecution

Freedom of speech

Diary number: R2020/680

Date of administration: 18/02/2022

Volume: 269

ECLI identifier: ECLI:FI:KKO:2022:8

A had published a large number of messages mocking and disparaging journalist B on the public pages of Facebook and Twitter, of which B had received information. At the same time, A had sent B numerous private messages containing proposals to meet.

A was considered to have repeatedly contacted B through his publications and messages. When A's conduct was also unlawful and likely to cause anxiety in B, A's reason was considered persecution.

RL 25 chapter 7 section a

Case processing in lower courts Appeal in the Supreme Court Decision of the Supreme Court

Processing of the case in lower rights

Prosecution in Helsinki district court

The prosecutor demanded that A be punished for, among other things, stalking (October 9, 2014-February 23, 2016). According to the description of the indictment (count 1), A had repeatedly and unjustifiably harassed B by threatening, contacting and in other comparable ways in a way that had caused fear and anxiety in B. A had published a very large number of messages related to B on Twitter, in which he had used derogatory terms about B, questioned his professional skills as a journalist, made derogatory comments about his appearance, and shared material that disparaged him and whose content was distorted. In the messages, A had called B a NATO pee, spread information about B's drug conviction in his youth, and spread a mocking song about B. B's personal Twitter username was attached to the messages, In addition, A had repeatedly approached B in the Facebook messaging service with, among other things, various invitations and meeting proposals, which B had rejected. Furthermore, A had published several articles mocking B in some Facebook groups and on his own Facebook pages, and had provided B with a plaster cast of the bronze warrior statue, which B had found threatening and oppressive considering the symbolism associated with the statue. The partial acts described in the indictment formed an entity based on a unified motivational basis, in which A's activities had been long-lasting and wide-ranging.

District court judgment of 18 October 2018 No. 18/144694

The district court read stalking as A's cause in accordance with the crime description of the indictment explained above.

The district court considered that it had been reliably shown that A had proceeded as described in the description of the charge. Even though A's partial acts had been of minor importance individually, the partial acts formed an entity based on a unified motivational basis, the background of which was B's writings related to Russian information influence. The partial acts had to be considered to have created a condition that seriously interfered with B's quality of life, which had become frightening or oppressive and dominated his life. With his messages and comments related to B's person, A clearly aimed to undermine and mock the credibility of B, who worked as a journalist, which is why the procedure was unlawful and intentional. A's activities had continued for almost 1.5 years, were wide-ranging and caused fear and anxiety in B.

The case has been resolved by district judges Mitja Korjakoff, Essi Konttinen-Di Nardo and Janne Pitkävirta.

Judgment of the Helsinki Court of Appeal 14 July 2020 No. 20/124654

A appealed to the Court of Appeal and demanded that the charge be dismissed.

The Court of Appeal considered that the procedure according to the description of the act, which included sending messages on social media, can in itself meet the hallmarks of stalking. The contacts referred to in the indictment had been different and had been numerous. When evaluating the repetition of the procedure, the Court of Appeal took into account the fact that it was quite typical and effortless to send several messages on social media even during the same day. In social media, the threshold for sending messages can be lower and communication is typically more colorful. A's contacts had been related to a topic of general interest that B's editor had covered in his work and to an article published by B about it. The journalist participates in the public debate with his work, and he must also tolerate a critical attitude towards his work. Admittedly, the messages had unnecessarily discussed matters related to B's person, such as his appearance, had used disparaging and disparaging expressions, and had questioned his professionalism. However, the content of the individual messages was irrelevant at best, and they were not capable of causing fear and anxiety as intended by the law. B had himself been in contact with A on Facebook, or at least had a somewhat sympathetic or permissive attitude towards his contacts. The Court of Appeal considered that it had not been shown that A should have understood that B reacted to the contact with reluctance to such an extent that he should have understood that his procedure was unlawful. The Court of Appeal dismissed the charge of stalking in point 1. used disparaging and disparaging expressions and questioned his professionalism. However, the content of the individual messages was irrelevant at best, and they were not capable of causing fear and anxiety as intended by the law. B had himself been in contact with A on Facebook, or at least had a somewhat sympathetic or permissive attitude towards his contacts. The Court of Appeal considered that it had not been shown that A should have understood that B reacted to the contact with reluctance to such an extent that he should have understood that his procedure was unlawful. The Court of Appeal dismissed the charge of stalking in point 1. used disparaging and disparaging expressions and questioned his professionalism. However, the content of the individual messages was irrelevant at best, and they were not capable of causing fear and anxiety as intended by the law. B had himself been in contact with A on Facebook, or at least had a somewhat sympathetic or permissive attitude towards his contacts. The Court of Appeal considered that it had not been shown that A should have understood that B reacted to the contact with reluctance to such an extent that he should have understood that his procedure was unlawful. The Court of Appeal dismissed the charge of stalking in point 1. and they were not capable of causing fear and anxiety as intended by the law. B had himself been in contact with A on Facebook, or at least had a somewhat sympathetic or permissive attitude towards his contacts. The Court of Appeal considered that it had not been shown that A should have understood that B reacted to the contact with reluctance to such an extent that he should have understood that his procedure was unlawful. The Court of Appeal dismissed the charge of stalking in point 1. and they were not capable of causing fear and anxiety as intended by the law. B had himself been in contact with A on Facebook, or at least had a somewhat sympathetic or permissive attitude towards his contacts. The Court of Appeal considered that it had not been shown that A should have understood that B reacted to the contact with reluctance to such an extent that he should have understood that his procedure was unlawful. The Court of Appeal dismissed the charge of stalking in paragraph 1.

The Court of Appeal sentenced A to a three-month suspended prison sentence in count 4 of inciting gross defamation.

The matter has been resolved by Court of Appeal advisors Tapio Vanamo and Tarja Ryhänen-Dahlman and assessor Silja Leino.

Appeal to the Supreme Court

B was granted leave to appeal based on Chapter 30, Section 3, Subsection 2, Section 2 of the Code of Judicial Procedure, limited to the question of whether A was guilty of stalking by the procedure deemed settled by the Court of Appeal.

B demanded in his appeal that A be convicted of stalking.

In his reply, A demanded that B's appeal be dismissed.

The decision of the Supreme Court

Reasoning

The background of the case and the presentation of questions in the Supreme Court

1. A has been accused of stalking B with his messages and writings on social media. First, A has sent private messages to B on Facebook between 9 October 2014 and 28 August 2015 and 29 January and 2 February 2016. Secondly, A has published messages in the public Russian troll army group on Facebook and on his own public Facebook pages from 24.11.2014 to 20.12.2015, and thirdly, A has published messages on Twitter from 26.4.2015 to 23.2.2016, about which B has received a notification. A has also sent B a copy of the bronze warrior statue. The messages were related to an article written by B, which discussed the so-called troll factory operating in Russia. However, the main content of the messages has been comments directed at B's person.

2. A has denied being guilty of stalking, but has admitted to having done the above-mentioned actions. The messages have been presented as written evidence in the case.

3. As a result of B's complaint, the Supreme Court has a question as to whether A has been guilty of stalking (count 1) by his actions, which have been considered cleared by the court of appeals.

Stalking hallmarks

4. Pursuant to Chapter 25, Section 7a of the Criminal Code, anyone who repeatedly threatens, follows, observes, contacts or otherwise unlawfully persecutes another in a manner comparable to these, is convicted of stalking in such a way that it is apt to cause fear or anxiety in the persecuted.

5. The hallmark set of stalking thus consists of hallmarks describing different ways of doing things, the illegality of the procedure and the so-called abstract danger condition. In stalking, it is essential that the assessment is not a single act, but a whole made up of sub-acts. In fact, the code sets a requirement that acts specified in the law or similar to them are done repeatedly. The acts of stalking take place against the will of the targeted person. However, an explicit prohibition is not a prerequisite for the act being part of persecution (HE 19/2013 vp p. 51).

Supreme Court Evaluation

Messages sent by A

6. The Facebook messages have started when B has sent A a friend request and stated that he wants to meet him. The reason for the contact was that, according to B, A had published incorrect information about him. A and B have discussed the matter via Facebook messages, after which B has announced on 9 October 2014 that, contrary to A's wishes, he will not attend the press conference planned by A.

7. After B's message on 9 October 2014, A has sent numerous messages to B via Facebook, which have included, among other things, invitations, call requests and meeting proposals. A has invited B to, for example, breakfast, lunch, the theater and various conferences. The messaging has been sporadic, but on some days A has sent B several Facebook messages. B has rejected or ignored A's proposals. B has mostly not responded to messages. At times, however, he has briefly responded to A and asked him to stop spreading lies about him on the internet. In addition, B has sent individual messages to A on his own initiative, such as a link to a music video and a picture of himself with a copy of the bronze warrior statue sent by A. A has brought out in his messages, that he had not written negative messages about B elsewhere for some time and that he would not write if B agreed to the meeting. The Supreme Court states that the messages sent by A have not been so much offensive in content, but condescending in tone. However, frequent and one-sided meeting proposals in particular can be considered awkward and pressing.

8. Partly at the same time as the one-on-one messaging on Facebook, A has published at least 150-170 messages related to B on Twitter, which have been visible to everyone. The messages have been mocking in their content and tone and belittling B as a person and especially as a female journalist. A has, among other things, called B a pee Alice, a NATO piss and a troll. In one message, A has attached a link to a mock song about B, and in two other messages, he has referred to B's old criminal conviction. He has informed two of B's superiors about the second of the publications concerning the criminal conviction by mentioning their usernames in the publication. A has attached B's Twitter username to most of his Twitter posts, or it has been included in the message thread by being added by someone else, 9. A's writings on the public Facebook pages mentioned in point 1 have been similar in tone and content to his Twitter messages. There have been more than 100 Facebook messages.

Does A's conduct meet the hallmarks of stalking?

10. In the indictment, it has been alleged that A stalked B by threatening, contacting and in other comparable ways. The Supreme Court states that with regard to the code of conduct, it is sufficient that one of the conduct mentioned in the regulation is fulfilled.

11. The private messages sent by A directly to B via Facebook and the delivery of the statue are clearly contact as defined in the hallmarks of stalking. It can be considered more open to interpretation whether publishing messages on Twitter and Facebook's public pages fulfills the hallmark of contact.

12. In the government's proposal that led to the enactment of the penalty provision on stalking (HE 19/2013 vp p. 51), it has been stated that contact may also take place by sending a message intended for the target on a forum accessible to the public. It is obvious that A has meant that his Twitter messages and public Facebook messages will also come to B's knowledge when he has attached B's username to the messages. In this regard, it is not important whether B has used the available means to prevent notifications from publications to him. The Supreme Court thus considers, like the Court of Appeal, that Twitter messages and public Facebook messages have been contact.

13. In his messages, A has not even covertly referred to using violence or violating B's personal integrity. Threatening used as a sign of stalking does not in itself mean the same as illegal threatening that fulfills an independent crime, but it can also refer to other types of unpleasant or undesirable consequences, the implementation of which is in the power of the person making the threat. However, A's writings can't be considered threatening even when evaluated in this way, but his behavior can be evaluated in all respects as contact.

Was A's procedure unlawful?

14. The procedure that implements the hallmarks of stalking must be unlawful. The different methods of stalking are in a different position in terms of the unlawfulness required for the procedure to be punishable, such that, for example, contact can be justified in some cases, but threatening only rarely (HE 19/2013 vp p. 52). In this case, A's contacts have included numerous direct messages and public messages using different media.

15. Sending private messages has started on October 2, 2014, mainly as a matter-of-fact, mutual conversation. The charge only concerns the messages of A that he has sent after 9 October 2014, when B had refused to come to the press conference planned by A. As described in section 7, A has repeatedly sent private messages with meeting proposals, despite the fact that B has rejected the proposals and generally failed to respond to them. The Supreme Court considers that the sending of numerous messages has happened against B's will and has meant disturbing him. However, it is justified to evaluate the unauthorizedness of private contacts as well as their effectiveness together with other simultaneous activities of A.

16. The public Twitter and Facebook messages described in points 8 and 9 of A have been related to B's writings and appearances regarding Russian information influence. As a result, the illegality of A's publications must also be assessed in light of fundamental rights. On the one hand, the question is about A's freedom of speech, protected by Article 12 of the Constitution and Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and on the other hand, B's private life, protected by Article 10 of the Constitution and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The question is also about the protection of B's freedom of speech, who works as a journalist.

17. The protection of freedom of speech is not unlimited. According to Article 10, paragraph 2 of the Human Rights Convention, freedom of speech can be restricted, but only when such restrictions are stipulated by law and the restriction is necessary in a democratic society to protect the rights of others. Freedom of speech does not apply, for example, to the presentation of hate speech or illegal threats, and it is limited by the protection of another's honor and other private lives and the penal provisions that protect them.

18. According to the jurisprudence of the Court of Human Rights, the contracting state has a positive obligation to protect freedom of expression. Accordingly, the state has an obligation to create an environment that is favorable for participation in public debate (Dink v. Turkey, 14 September 2010, paragraph 137). In the recommendations issued by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on April 13, 2016 (CM/Rec (2016)4, point 9), member states are also urged to take measures to protect journalists' freedom of expression in public debate, especially in order to combat the harassment and belittling that female journalists often experience on the internet. Similar calls for measures to protect journalists from attacks aimed at silencing them have been presented, for example, by the United Nations Human Rights Committee (general statement no. 34, 12.9.2011, 19. In several decisions, the Supreme Court has dealt with the principles on the basis of which freedom of speech and the protection of private life must be weighed against each other (e.g. KKO 2013:50, 2013:100, KKO 2018:51, KKO 2018:81, KKO 2019:81 and KKO 2022:1 ). Restrictions on freedom of speech must, in principle, be viewed with particular caution when it comes to a discussion of general interest. Freedom of speech can be used in all kinds of publishing tools, and it also applies to presenting offensive, exaggerated and disturbing opinions. Expressions must be examined in their context, in which case exaggerated and harsh language commonly used in online discussions can be taken into account (KKO 2019:81, sections 21 and 22). When assessing the violation of privacy, importance is given, among other things, to the position of the person concerned, to the

20. Today, these principles are stipulated in the limitation provisions, which are included in the penal provisions concerning defamation and the dissemination of information that violates private life (Criminal Code, Chapter 24, Section 9, Subsections 3 and 4, and Criminal Code, Chapter 24, Section 8, Subsections 2 and 3). The protection of a so-called public figure is narrower, but only to the extent that it is a question of criticizing him in public activities or disseminating information that may affect the evaluation of his public activities. An expression presented to discuss a matter of public importance is also not a crime if its presentation, taking into account its content, the rights of others and other circumstances, does not clearly exceed what can be considered acceptable.

21. Chapter 25 § 7 a of the Criminal Code regarding stalking does not contain similar limitation and weighting provisions. Freedom of speech, as well as restrictions on public figures, can only have a criminal law significance in certain types of persecution, either through the method of doing it or the motives of the perpetrator. However, for example, so-called targeting is typically targeted at a person because of this public activity and in ways that the criminalization of stalking aims to combat.

22. The Supreme Court's jurisprudence on the fact that freedom of speech can justify the use of otherwise punishable expressions or the publication of information or hints has developed in the decision-making practice of the Human Rights Court, relying on the specific provisions previously included in Chapter 24 of the Criminal Code. The Supreme Court considers that the evaluation criteria developed in this way can also be applied when the unlawfulness of publicly presented messages is assessed in connection with persecution.

23. The Supreme Court states that although A's public messages have originated from discussing a matter of public importance, his publications have little to do with the influence of information under discussion or the article written by B. They mainly focus on B's person, such as her appearance, and use expressions and nicknames that emphasize her gender. The messages are mean-spirited and belittling throughout, without being particularly rough in their genre. Comments directed at the person and insulting have not even been necessary to present a negative opinion or attitude.

24. The Supreme Court considers the content of the messages to show that A has not so much participated in the general discussion with his publications or brought up issues that would have an impact in terms of evaluating B's public activities, but rather that A has tried to limit the discussion and to silence B and others who write about influencing information .

25. The Supreme Court considers that A's freedom of speech has not given him the right to repeatedly publish messages and writings that violate B's privacy and freedom of speech. The procedure has therefore been unlawful. Even private messages can be considered unauthorized also when evaluated from this perspective. Since the purpose of the procedure, judging from A's public messages, was to belittle, insult and silence B, the Supreme Court considers that A also could not have been mistaken about the illegality of his procedure.

Has A's actions been likely to cause fear or anxiety?

26. Fulfillment of the characteristics of stalking does not require fear or anxiety to be caused, but it is sufficient that it is a typical consequence of the procedure. According to the justification of the law, the starting point of this assessment is the average person, but the essential circumstances related to the person in the target's position are taken into account, such as his age or special vulnerability (HE 19/2013 vp p. 52). In this case, the relevant circumstance is to consider B's position as a journalist whose job description essentially included activities on social media.

27. In the government's presentation (HE 19/2013 vp p. 52) it has been stated that if the perpetrator is not perceived as dangerous and the actions are not very serious, the procedure may not be suitable for causing fear in the target, but rather anxiety. However, anxiety may be as disabling as fear for the victim of persecution. On the other hand, the Law Committee has emphasized in its report (LaVM 11/2013 vp p. 9) that anxiety must be comparable in terms of harmfulness to fear in order for it to be the anxiety referred to in the regulation.

28. Repetition and continuity of acts increase the harmfulness and seriousness of the procedure. The totality of the repeated acts thus affects the abstract danger included in the set of signs. In the justification of the legal section, it is stated that a condition that seriously disturbs a person's quality of life, consisting of partial acts, can become frightening or distressing and dominate his life, even though the acts described in the characteristics of the act, when they remain isolated, usually do not cause such a condition (HE 19/2013 vp p. 51).

29. The Supreme Court states that A's communication does not convey the image of a person causing physical danger. Individual actions, such as posting a bronze warrior statue with symbolic value or posting a picture of a machine gun designated as the secret weapon of the troll army in a Facebook group, do not give rise to a different assessment of this. The Supreme Court considers that A's procedure was not capable of causing fear of violation of personal integrity.

30. However, A's activities have continued for almost a year and a half and have included not only public communication mocking, sexist and belittling B, but also disturbing and persistent private communication with pressured meeting proposals. As stated in section 8, A has displayed B's previous criminal conviction and at the same time also delivered it for information to B's superiors. A's procedure has made it difficult for B to continue his work as a journalist within the scope of his chosen topic. B has not been able to influence A's actions, which have weakened his quality of life and have been unpredictable in quality.

31. As stated above, persecution has to be evaluated from the totality formed by the partial acts. The anxiety referred to in the penal provision for stalking can generally be considered a vague fear or worry about something unpleasant happening. Assessed individually, none of A's messages or publications have been capable of creating a condition that seriously disturbs the quality of life. However, it is obvious that the continuous, taking on new forms and unpredictable in terms of content has been apt to cause in B anxiety comparable to fear in terms of its harmfulness. The act thus also fulfills this hallmark of persecution. The occurrence of anxiety was foreseeable by A and he could not have made a mistake.

Conclusion and reasoning

32. Based on the grounds presented above, the Supreme Court considers that A has repeatedly contacted B unlawfully in such a way that it was likely to cause anxiety in B. A is therefore guilty of stalking in count 1 from 9 October 2014 to 23 February 2016 as follows:

From 9 October 2014 to 28 August 2015 and 29 January to 2 February 2016, A has sent numerous private messages to B via Facebook, which have included, among other things, invitations, call requests and meeting proposals. At the end of March 2015, A has delivered to B a plaster cast of the so-called from the bronze warrior statue. From 24.11.2014 to 20.12.2015, A has published several articles mocking B in the public Russian Troll Army group on Facebook and on his own public Facebook pages, in which he has, among other things, used B as "cute-B" and "horrible-B" ".

On April 26, 2015-February 23, 2016, A has published a large number of messages related to B on Twitter, in which he has used derogatory terms about B, questioned his professionalism as a journalist, made derogatory comments about his appearance, and shared material that disparaged him and whose content was distorted. In the messages, A has, among other things, called B a NATO pee, spread information about B's drug conviction in his youth, and spread a song mocking B. B's personal Twitter username is attached to the messages, which is why B has received a separate notification of the publication of each message.

Punitive sanction

33. Pursuant to Chapter 25, Section 7a of the Criminal Code, stalking is punishable by a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of two years. The scale of punishment is the same as, for example, for illegal threats and coercion. The basic provisions on measuring the punishment are in Chapter 6, Section 3, Subsection 1 and Section 4 of the Criminal Code. Attention must therefore be paid to the harmfulness and dangerousness of the crime, the effects of the act, and other culpability of the perpetrator that is evident from the crime.

34. In this case, when the persecution has been carried out through, for example, public Twitter messages and Facebook pages, the decision-making practice of the Human Rights Court in freedom of expression crimes must also be taken into account when determining the punishment. The Human Rights Court has considered that criminal sanctions are problematic in terms of exercising freedom of speech, and especially the threat of imprisonment is only compatible with Article 10 of the Human Rights Convention in very exceptional cases, such as for hate speech, racist writing or incitement to violence. This especially applies to crimes committed by professional journalists, but the imposition of prison sentences on private individuals has also been considered excessive (for example, Mariapori v. Finland, 6 July 2010, paragraph 67).

35. A's act was apt to cause and did cause significant anxiety in B. In the procedure attributed to A, the main thing has not been that individual messages have insulted B's honor and reputation or presented information that is offensive to his private life, but that his life and work as a journalist have been repeatedly and for a long time disturbed. The act has violated B's private life as well as his freedom of speech, and as a result of the act, B's opportunities to exercise his profession as a journalist freely and in a manner corresponding to his training have been substantially weakened.

36. A's obvious motivation has been to prevent public discussion about Russia's influence on information. From the messages he sent to B, it appears that A has consciously tried to influence B's decision-making and actions with his writings. A has himself characterized his activities as information warfare.

37. For the above reasons, the crime must be considered harmful and reprehensible in its motives. The act shows greater than usual guilt in A. On these grounds, the fine cannot be considered sufficient, but A must be sentenced to imprisonment. The Supreme Court considers that the fair penalty for the act attributed to A is 60 days in prison, which can be sentenced as a conditional sentence like the lower rights.

38. After granting A a partial leave to appeal, the Supreme Court has rejected the incitement to gross defamation, which was read as A's cause in the Court of Appeal. Accordingly, the three-month prison sentence sentenced by the Court of Appeal must be reduced.

This is an automated translated version of the story which may have translation errors. Please always refer to the original story[https://finlex.fi/fi/oikeus/kko/kko/2022/20220008].

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020221230eicu000ax


Supreme Court of Finland Decision: Incitement against a national group Freedom of speech
4746 字
2022 年 12 月 31 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2022 SIA Impact Media
Helsinki: The Supreme Court of Finland has issued the following decision:

Incitement against a national group

Freedom of speech

Diary number: R2021/197

Date of administration: 15/11/2022

Volume: 1755

ECLI identifier: ECLI:FI:KKO:2022:63

The defendant had published and distributed, among other things, on his open YouTube channel, videos of two speeches given by a person in English, which the defendant had subtitled in different languages. The speaker who appeared in the videos had, among other things, insulted immigrants and people who believe in Islam.

The Supreme Court held, based on the grounds evident in its decision, that the defendant had committed two acts of incitement against a national group.

Case processing in lower courts Appeal in the Supreme Court Decision of the Supreme Court

Processing of the case in lower rights

Judgment of the Oulu District Court on February 5, 2020, No. 20/104853

The district court considered it settled that A was guilty of incitement against a national group in count 1 between August 6, 2016 and May 17, 2017, and in count 2 between September 27, 2016 and May 17, 2017.

In charge 1, A had published 24 videos on his open YouTube channel from August 6 to November 27, 2016, which had contained a speech in English given by a person on August 5, 2016 in connection with a demonstration in Helsinki, subtitled by A in Finnish, Swedish, French, Italian, Arabic and several Finnish dialects . On August 7, 2016, A had also published the same speech with Finnish subtitles on his own Facebook account under the name "Frenchman in itisä - now with Finnish subtitles". A had included in his Facebook update a link to a video he had published on his YouTube channel under the name "Frenchman tykiitta Itissä", which contained the same speech. The speaker had insulted immigrants and people of Islamic faith by calling them brutes, arrogant, stupid, worthless and sick. The speaker had threatened the group in question by stating, that they should not even exist, that they should be banned in every civilized society, that one day all of them, including the young, will be thrown out, and that one day they will be defeated. The different language versions of the video had 222-32,013 views by May 17, 2017.

In charge 2, A had published a video on his open YouTube channel on September 27, 2016 called "Frenchman goes 9/11", which had also included the English speech given by the person referred to in charge 1 in connection with the demonstration in Helsinki on September 11, 2016, which A had subtitled in Finnish. The speaker had told about cases in which Muslims had allegedly committed serious human rights crimes against Christians and other people. After dealing with the acts of violence allegedly committed by Islamic extremists, as described above, the speaker had slandered people of Islam more broadly by claiming or at least implying that Muslims living as immigrants in several different countries had generally committed serious crimes, such as murders of Christians and burning of churches. The video had 2,435 views on 5/17.

In charge 2, the beginning of the speech, in which the speaker criticized the acts of violence he had described, and the rest of it, in which the speaker dealt more broadly with Muslims living in different countries, formed a solid entity from the listener's point of view, on the basis of which the listener had the impression that, according to the speaker, Muslims in general had committed acts of violence. Among other things, the speaker had asked the question: "Are Muslims stupid or what is it about?" and stated that "You have killed enough Christians." "You destroyed churches." The speaker had also threatened the group in question by stating that "Now we will throw you out, whether you like it or not. We are not prepared to use violence. But if you press us. If you really insist. One way or another. You go back to where you came from. " and "You have no choice. You are leaving here."

The district court considered that it had been shown that in the videos published by A, in charge 1, Muslims and immigrants were depicted as inferior to others, thus violating their human dignity and freedom of religion. In the speech of charge 2, the speaker had made an indirect threat to use violence against Muslims and a threat to completely eradicate Islam from Finland. The threat had been included in a whole, which had also included direct threats or insulting and slanderous statements. The content of the videos referred to in both charges was apt to cause contempt and even hatred towards Muslims and immigrants. Even if the person in question was, as A claimed, a politician or gave a speech at a political event, it was important for a politician or a speaker at such an event to avoid expressions in his speech, which were apt to fuel intolerance. As stated above, the videos were hate speech, which did not fall within the scope of the protection of freedom of speech.

As the subtitler of the videos, A had become aware of the content of the videos. By publishing the videos, A had deliberately tried to spread the content to a wide audience. The purpose of the distribution of the videos was not the sincere dissemination of information, but the purpose was to promote the distribution of racist material. A was responsible for the content of the material he distributed.

The district court sentenced A to a fine of 70 days for two counts of incitement against a people's group.

The case has been resolved by district judge Johanna Savolainen.

Rovaniemi Court of Appeal judgment 30 December 2020 no. 20/151617

A appealed to the Court of Appeal and demanded that the charge be dismissed.

The Court of Appeal considered that from the videos of indictment 1, as a whole, one got the impression that the things the speaker was talking about concerned Muslims and immigrants in general. The viewer was left with the impression that Islam and the murders and terrorism referred to by the speaker had a clear connection with all people who profess Islam and that all people who profess Islam were intolerant, wanting to subjugate people of other religions under their power. In addition, the videos as a whole gave the impression that all people professing Islam had unpleasant character traits, were inferior to others, and that because of their religion, they were so different compared to people of other religions that they should not even exist.

According to the Court of Appeal, from the video of indictment 2 as a whole, one got the impression that the mass murders and terror referred to by the speaker had a clear connection to the Islamic faith and to all people who profess the Islamic faith. In addition, the video gave the impression that those who profess Islam as a group of people had committed various violent and terrorist acts against Christians. The video also gave the impression that all people professing Islam were intolerant towards Christians and wanted Islam to replace Christianity. In addition, the video threatened Muslims as a national group with removal from the country and the eradication of Islam from Finland.

The Court of Appeal found the tone of the videos in charges 1 and 2 to be strongly generalizing and one-sided. Terrorism, murders, subjugation of women and disrespect of other religions, as well as defining human dignity as inferior to other ethnic groups, were directly connected to the Islamic faith. Because of this, the videos were aimed at those who profess the Islamic faith in general, and they actually claimed that people who profess the Islamic faith are terrorists, criminals and have unpleasant character traits, and that the ethnic group professing the Islamic faith is inferior to other ethnic groups. The videos distributed by A to the public therefore slandered and insulted a people group that professes the Islamic faith on the basis of religion. In addition, in the video in charge 2, Muslims as a people group were threatened with illegal removal from the country based on their religion.

In his appeal to the Court of Appeal, A had claimed that reporting on various public events was part of his job and that he had shared the videos in a manner commonly used in editorial work. The Court of Appeal did not consider A's reasons for the distribution of the videos to be such that they would have justified the distribution of videos that threaten, slander and insult Muslims as a national group. A had not added any objective or balancing sections to the videos, based on which the viewer would have had a fairer picture of the subject of the videos. The videos subtitled and distributed by A were by their very nature apt to arouse intolerance, contempt and even hatred towards Muslims in the public. The videos were not to be considered factual, for example related to immigration policy, presented within the limits of freedom of speech, even in a harsh form as acceptable criticism or permitted exaggeration or provocation. It had not been a sincere purpose of communicating information, but the purpose had actually been to promote the spread of racist material.

The Court of Appeal did not change the outcome of the district court's verdict.

The case has been resolved by the members of the Court of Appeal, Tapio Kamppinen, Virve Salo and Terhi Mokko. Presenter Mervi Tuulensola.

Appeal to the Supreme Court

Leave to appeal was granted.

A demanded in his appeal that the charge be dismissed.

In his response, the prosecutor demanded that the complaint be dismissed.

The decision of the Supreme Court

Reasoning

Background of the matter

1. From 6 August to 27 November 2016, A has published 24 videos on his open YouTube channel, which have included a speech in English given by a person on 5 August 2016 in connection with a demonstration in Helsinki, which A has subtitled in Finnish, Swedish, French, Italian, Arabic and in several Finnish languages in dialects (count 1). On August 7, 2016, A published the same speech with Finnish subtitles also on his own Facebook account. On September 27, 2016, A published a video on his open YouTube channel called "Frenchman goes 9/11", which contained a speech in English by the same person in connection with the demonstration in Helsinki on September 11, 2016 and subtitled by A in Finnish (indictment 2).

2. The district court has found A guilty of two incitements against a national group and sentenced him to a fine of 70 days. The Court of Appeal has not changed the outcome of the district court's verdict.

A question to be decided by the Supreme Court

3. The question to be resolved in the Supreme Court is whether A is guilty of incitement against a national group by his actions.

The applicable penalty provision and its interpretation

4. According to Chapter 11, Section 10 of the Penal Code, anyone who makes available to the public or otherwise disseminates or keeps available to the public information, opinion or other message that threatens, slanders or insults a group based on race, skin color, origin, on the basis of national or ethnic origin, religion or belief, sexual orientation or disability or on other grounds comparable to them.

5. According to the rationale of the provision (HE 317/2010 vp p. 42), when applying the penalty provision and delimiting criminality, it is important to take into account the provision's relationship to the freedom of speech protected by the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. Communication must not be interfered with more than is necessary, taking into account the importance of freedom of speech in a democratic rule of law. Thus, for example, even harsh criticism of immigration and foreigner policy or those responsible for it does not in itself meet the hallmarks of a crime. However, threatening, insulting or slandering ethnic groups is punishable. A typical punitive procedure would be the dissemination of information, opinions or other messages in which violence or discrimination against a group is considered acceptable or desirable, or people are compared to animals, to parasites and so on or in general they are alleged to be criminals or presented as inferior and so on. The importance of freedom of speech has been emphasized, for example, in the fields of social and political debate. According to the reasons, the proposed provision of the criminal law does not limit the freedom to discuss socially relevant issues. In the context of political and social debate, which is part of the core area of freedom of speech, restrictions must be treated more strictly than, for example, in commercial advertising. According to the reasons, the proposed provision of the criminal law does not limit the freedom to discuss socially relevant issues. In the context of political and social debate, which is part of the core area of freedom of speech, restrictions must be treated more strictly than, for example, in commercial advertising. According to the reasons, the proposed provision of the criminal law does not limit the freedom to discuss socially relevant issues. In the context of political and social debate, which is part of the core area of freedom of speech, restrictions must be treated more strictly than, for example, in commercial advertising.

6. The central idea of the protection of freedom of speech is the right to express, publish and receive information, opinions and other messages without being hindered by anyone (KKO 2022:1, section 6). Freedom of speech can be used in all kinds of publishing tools, and it also applies to presenting offensive, exaggerated and disturbing opinions. Expressions must be examined taking into account the context in which the expression is presented (KKO 2022:8, point 19 and KKO 2019:81, point 22).

7. However, the protection of freedom of speech is not unlimited. According to Article 10, paragraph 2 of the Human Rights Convention, freedom of speech can be restricted when such restrictions are stipulated by law and the restriction is necessary in a democratic society to protect the rights of others. Based on the decision-making practice of the European Court of Human Rights, it can be concluded that sentencing to a criminal sanction has come into question despite the protection of freedom of speech, mainly when basic and human rights can be considered violated in the form of incitement to hatred or violence. Hate speech that could offend individuals or groups of individuals has not been deemed to deserve the protection of freedom of speech (KKO 2012:58, paragraph 35 and the ruling practice of the human rights court referred to in it and KKO 2022:8, paragraph 17).

8. The limits of freedom of speech in political writing related to immigration are affected by the decision of the Human Rights Court in the case Féret v. Belgium, 16.7.2009. The Human Rights Court has held that the conviction of the chairman of the nationalist party and member of parliament for the crime of incitement to a prison sentence and the loss of his election eligibility due to his political criticism of immigrants had not violated Article 10 of the Human Rights Convention on freedom of expression. In his writings, the politician had considered foreigners who immigrated to the country to be criminals, who came to the country to take advantage of the benefits derived from settling in the country. According to the decision, such speeches were apt to arouse in the public, especially in persons less familiar with the issues, contempt and in some cases even hatred towards foreigners. Racist discrimination and xenophobia in all their forms had to be opposed as far as possible and even when the speech did not call for any particular violent or otherwise criminal act. The decision held that the appellant's position as a parliamentarian did not reduce his responsibility and that it was essential that politicians avoid expressions in their public speeches that were apt to arouse and maintain intolerance. The stereotypical slogans or expressions used were apt to put the discussion outside of rational debate, which increased the harmful effects of racist speeches. when the speech did not call for any specific violent or otherwise criminal act. The decision held that the appellant's position as a parliamentarian did not reduce his responsibility and that it was essential that politicians avoid expressions in their public speeches that were apt to arouse and maintain intolerance. The stereotypical slogans or expressions used were apt to put the discussion outside of rational debate, which increased the harmful effects of racist speeches. when the speech did not call for any specific violent or otherwise criminal act. The decision held that the appellant's position as a parliamentarian did not reduce his responsibility and that it was essential that politicians avoid expressions in their public speeches that were apt to arouse and maintain intolerance. The stereotypical slogans or expressions used were apt to put the discussion outside of rational debate, which increased the harmful effects of racist speeches.

9. Regulations regarding hate speech and prohibitions of, for example, discrimination based on ethnic origin or religion are contained in numerous international agreements and declarations that also bind Finland (for example, the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination of 21 December 1965, Articles 4 and 5). In Finland, the Constitutional Law Committee has emphasized the importance of combating hate speech and referred to the definition of hate speech by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe (PeVL 52/2014 vp p. 4). According to this definition, hate speech is all forms of expression that spread, incite, promote or justify ethnic hatred that is based on intolerance.

10. In its jurisprudence regarding hate speech, the Court of Human Rights has on the one hand limited freedom of speech based on Article 10, paragraph 2 of the Convention on Human Rights, and on the other hand has applied Article 17, which excludes freedom of speech and contains the prohibition of abuse of rights. The last-mentioned article has been applied to hate speech, the content of which has been contrary to the ultimate values expressed by the European Convention on Human Rights (for example Norwood v. United Kingdom 16.11.2004 and Pavel Ivanov v. Russia 20.2.2007, paragraph 1). However, the Court has emphasized that Article 17 must be applied only exceptionally and in extreme cases as a last resort to show the limits of freedom of expression (Paksas v. Lithuania 6.1.2011, paragraph 87 and Perinçek v. Switzerland, 15.10.2015, paragraphs 115 and 282).

Assessment in this case

The content of the speeches published by A

11. The charge of incitement against a people's group was based on the fact that A had published on his open YouTube channel the video recordings in connection with the demonstration on August 5. and 11.9.2016 from the English-language speeches. A had also prepared Finnish subtitles for the recordings, among other things.

12. In the speech of charge 1, among other things, immigrants and Muslims are characterized as "brutal, arrogant, stupid, worthless and sick". According to the speaker, the groups in question should not exist. The speaker also states that "one day we will throw you out".

13. In the speech of charge 2, reference is made to various historical events related to clashes between Muslims and Christians. In addition, the speaker announces, among other things, that Muslims will be "thrown out".

14. The Supreme Court states that expressions like the one described in the indictment are typical examples of slanderous and insulting messages referred to in Chapter 11, Section 10 of the Criminal Code. The expressions in question are apt to incite intolerance and even hatred towards the ethnic group they are targeted at. The Supreme Court accepts the lower courts' assessment that immigrants and Muslims have been threatened, slandered and insulted in the speeches. The Supreme Court also considers that the messages do not give background to historical events in a factual and neutral way, but that the references contained in the messages have most obviously been used to present a generalizing claim or hint about the brutality of the ethnic groups in question. It is therefore a question of an incorrect and misleading statement that characterizes the entire group in this respect as well.

15. The speeches do not contain a direct call for violence, and the references used in the statements do not directly or immediately threaten the physical safety of immigrants or Muslims. However, the Supreme Court states that the speaker implies that immigrants and Muslims will be removed from the country and that, if necessary, it would also be prepared to resort to violence. The speaker can therefore be considered to at least consider it acceptable that, in order to achieve his goal, violence is ultimately directed at these ethnic groups. It is thus a question based on intolerance and an insulting and hateful expression of the human dignity of the targeted group, which questions the right of immigrants and Muslims to live in Finland.

16. The Supreme Court states on the grounds stated above that the expressions used in the speeches can be understood as statements containing hate speech, which in principle do not enjoy the protection of freedom of speech. However, the justification of expressions must be examined by taking into account the context of their presentation and A's role in publishing the speeches made by another person (see the decisions Jersild v. Denmark 23.9.1994, paragraph 31 and Gündüz v. Turkey, paragraph 42).

17. As stated above, the speeches referred to in the indictment did not involve hate speech inciting direct violence. The Supreme Court considers that, taking into account the context, the role of A, and the content and seriousness of the expressions, it is not such an exceptional activity that the prohibition of the abuse of rights in Article 17 of the Human Rights Convention applies to it. Because of that, the punishability of A's procedure must be evaluated from the point of view of the limitations set for freedom of speech in Article 10, Paragraph 2 of the Human Rights Convention.

Supreme Court Evaluation

18. The speeches referred to in the indictment have been clarified in connection with the held demonstrations. According to A, the demonstrations have been related to the activities of a movement that has since been registered as a party. The topics of the speeches can be considered to be related to immigration. Immigration is a socially significant topic, and in the context of the discussion, restrictions on freedom of speech must be interpreted narrowly, as stated above. Article 10, paragraph 2 of the Human Rights Convention only allows for a limited limitation of political speech or discussion of issues of general interest, and the freedom of political discussion can only be limited on compelling grounds. However, the Court of Human Rights has emphasized that that even the freedom of political discussion was not unlimited and that a democratic and pluralistic society was based on tolerance and human equality. The position of the speaker of discriminatory and offensive statements as a parliamentarian has not reduced his responsibility, and it is essential that politicians also avoid expressions in their public speeches that are apt to arouse and maintain intolerance (for example, the above-mentioned Féret v. Belgium, paragraphs 63 and 64).

19. Therefore, and taking into account what has been stated above in paragraphs 12 and 13 about the content of the speeches published by A, the Supreme Court considers that the fact that the speeches were originally presented in demonstrations with political features does not remove the punitiveness of the expressions contained in the speeches and justifies their presentation.

20. A has also referred to the journalistic nature of his activities in the case. Based on the report presented in the case, the videos have been published on an open YouTube channel, where they have been freely viewable by an unlimited audience. The purpose of the procedure was most obviously to make the speeches available to the widest possible audience. By doing so, A can be considered to have participated in the public discussion on the subject and in the transmission of information.

21. The Human Rights Court has itself emphasized the importance of media freedom of speech (for example, Satakunta Markkinapörssi Oy and Satamedia Oy v. Finland 27 June 2017, paragraph 126). The decision practice of the Human Rights Court has also recognized that the internet enables a user-oriented way of using freedom of speech (for example, Delfi AS v. Estonia 16 June 2015, paragraph 110). The Internet has been found to enable the sharing of political content that is ignored by the mainstream media, which promotes citizen journalism (Cengiz and others v. Turkey 1 December 2015, paragraph 52). The Human Rights Court has stated that compliance with the ethical guidelines of journalism is important and even emphasized in the online environment (Stoll v. Switzerland 10 December 2007, paragraph 104).

22. According to the Human Rights Court, however, the press does not have unlimited freedom of speech, even when reporting on important topics of public interest. The protection of freedom of speech requires that journalists act in good faith and take the facts into account and provide reliable and accurate information in accordance with the ethical guidelines of journalism (for example, Axel Springer AG v. Germany, 7 February 2012, paragraph 93). The same principle has been found to also apply to other parties participating in public debate (Steel and Morris v. the United Kingdom 15 February 2005, paragraph 90).

23. In the case of Jersild v. Denmark, a television journalist was sentenced to punishment due to the fact that the program he prepared had presented statements defaming race and ethnic origin. The Human Rights Court concluded that the journalist's freedom of speech had been violated. When evaluating the statements presented in the program, the human rights court drew attention to the fact that the journalist had clearly distinguished himself from the interviewed young people who made defamatory statements, for example by describing them as persons belonging to youth extremist groups. The reporter had also dismissed some of the young people's claims as untrue. Overall, the interview gave the impression that racist opinions were part of the general anti-social attitude of the interviewed group. Thus, the program had included balancing ingredients.

24. In the case at hand, A has published the speeches as such, with the exception of subtitles corresponding to their content. The videos referred to in the indictment have not included any editorial or other content in addition to speeches. A himself has stated that his contribution was limited to adding subtitles. The fact that A has said that he also published the interview he prepared about the speaker on the same channel does not give reason to evaluate the matter differently.

25. The Supreme Court considers, taking into account the above-mentioned facts, that when publishing the videos, A has not carried out such editorial measures, on the basis of which the activity could be equated with journalistic work. Consequently, the points he relied on are not relevant when assessing the criminality of the statements described in the indictment.

26. The Supreme Court states that A is responsible for the material he makes available to the public, even if it is not entirely produced by him alone. A has known the content of the videos because he has subtitled the videos according to their content. The Supreme Court considers that A must also have understood that the opinions he spread were at least slanderous and insulting in nature.

27. On the basis of the above-mentioned grounds, the Supreme Court considers A to be guilty of the two acts of incitement against the ethnic group, which have been attributed to him in the lower courts.

28. The Supreme Court approves the decision of the Court of Appeal in the aspects concerning the penalty.

This is an automated translated version of the story which may have translation errors. Please always refer to the original story[https://finlex.fi/fi/oikeus/kko/kko/2022/20220063].

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020221231eicv00074


Supreme Court of Finland Decision: Litigation attorney - License to act as a litigation attorney - Revocation of license Litigation procedure
4932 字
2023 年 1 月 9 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Helsinki: The Supreme Court of Finland has issued the following decision on (28 February 2019):

Litigation attorney - License to act as a litigation attorney - Revocation of license

Litigation procedure

Diary number: S2017/238

Date of administration: 28/02/2019

Volume: 337

ECLI identifier: ECLI:FI:KKO:2019:18

Over the course of about 10 months, the licensed legal assistant had sent e-mails to judges, authorities and other parties that contained several offensive and unfounded claims. In addition, the messages had required measures from the recipients, the implementation of which was not possible according to the current legal order. Based on the grounds mentioned in the Supreme Court's decision, it was considered that the long-term and large-scale distribution of the messages showed a lack of judgment that seriously jeopardizes the legal assistant's ability to properly monitor the legal security of his clients and, in this regard, to take care of the conditions for the administration of justice. The messages were therefore considered to indicate

Also a question about the procedure of the Court of Appeal. (Voice.)

L on licensed legal assistants § 2, § 20

Case processing in lower courts Appeal in the Supreme Court

Interim measures

Decision of the Supreme Court

Processing of the case in lower rights

Decision of the Judicial Assistant Board on 22 October 2015

In its decision, the court assistant board stated, among other things, that the licensed court assistant A had, over a long period of time, accused various authorities of illegal activity and claimed that the authorities were guilty of very serious crimes and manipulation of other authorities, with numerous pressuring and irrelevant messages. In addition, the board stated that A had demanded different parties to take action in his own case by means that were not in accordance with Finnish legal order. A's improper conduct showed a very deep mistrust of the various authorities and seriously undermined the trust that A is capable of properly running the affairs of his principals and overseeing their legal protection, as well as acting appropriately and in accordance with the interests of his principals in the courts and other authorities.

The court assistant board considered that there were weighty and acceptable grounds for restricting A's freedom of business as stipulated in the law on licensed court assistants. When weighing different interests against each other, the legal protection of the parties and the conditions for proper administration of justice had to be placed before A's personal interests.

Therefore, the board of trial assistants considered that A was to be considered obviously unfit for the position of a trial attorney and assistant, and revoked A's license to act as a trial attorney and assistant.

The matter has been resolved by the members of the board of trial assistants Marianne Wagner-Prenner, Liisa Talvitie, Marja Virtanen, Pekka Viljanen and Filip Markelin. Presenter Riikka Meroma.

Decision of the Helsinki Court of Appeal on March 17, 2017

A appealed to the Court of Appeal, considering that he did not have any lack, deficiency or illness that would affect his work so adversely that he could not act as a legal assistant. The messages sent by A had not been inappropriate or oppressive. The permission to act as a trial attorney and assistant could not be revoked due to differences of opinion not related to professional practice or because the recipients of the messages sent by A might have been upset by the messages.

The Chancellor of the Exchequer announced that he has nothing to say about A's complaint.

In its decision, the Court of Appeal stated, among other things, that the goal of the law on licensed legal assistants had been to improve the legal protection of the parties involved in legal proceedings and the conditions for proper administration of justice by raising the quality level of the work of legal assistants and legal assistants. High-class professional ethics were part of the professionalism that could be required of licensed court assistants.

The large-scale sending of the messages in question to parties exercising legislative and judicial power showed, along with the content of the messages, an obvious lack of judgment. For the reasons he mentioned and those mentioned in the board's decision, the Court of Appeal considered that A was to be considered obviously unfit for the position of trial attorney and assistant, which is why his license to act in said position had to be revoked.

The matter has been resolved by members of the Court of Appeal Liisa Lehtimäki, Risto Jalanko, Birgitta Lemström, Juha Saarenvirta, Heikki Rautiola, Malla Sunell (dissenting) and Tiina Isokäntä (dissenting). Presented by Kristian Sjöblom.

The members of the Court of Appeal who disagreed with the outcome of the decision stated that according to the law on licensed legal assistants and its preliminary works, the reason leading to the denial of the license had to be such that it seriously affected the person's ability to properly perform the task of a legal assistant in an obvious way from an objective assessment. The obvious impropriety was unequivocally connected to the performance of the assistant's duties. Revoking a granted permit meant an even sharper interference with the individual's legal position than denying the permit. The concept of obvious inappropriateness mentioned in the law had to be interpreted narrowly in the case. Taking into account the fact that A's improper conduct in itself was related to his own case, the procedure could not be considered as a basis as intended by law, which would prevent the proper handling of the task of legal assistant and on the basis of which A could be considered to be obviously unsuited to the task of legal assistant as intended in the provision. The decision to revoke the license of the court assistant board therefore had to be annulled.

Appeal to the Supreme Court

A was granted leave to appeal.

In his appeal, A demanded that the Court of Appeal's decision be overturned and the case returned to the Court of Appeal for retrial, because the Court of Appeal had acted incorrectly in transferring the case to be heard in a strengthened session and because the Court of Appeal layman, who was the chairman of the composition of the Court of Appeal, had been prevented from hearing the matter. Alternatively, A demanded that the decisions of the Court of Appeal and the Trial Counsel Board be overturned and that his license to work as a trial counsel is not revoked.

Interim measures

The Supreme Court requested a statement from the Chancellor of the Exchequer on A's appeal and a statement from the Helsinki Court of Appeal on the basis on which the case had been transferred to the enhanced hearing.

The Chancellor of Justice and the Court of Appeals attorney Liisa Lehtimäki gave the requested statements.

An opportunity was reserved for A to recite the statements of the Chancellor of Justice and Lehtimäki. A gave the requested statement about Lehtimäki's statement.

The decision of the Supreme Court

Reasoning

Background of the matter

1. On January 30, 2014, the Board of Legal Advisers granted A a license to act as a legal representative and legal assistant.

2. In the years 2014 and 2015, A has sent widely distributed e-mails to various judges, authorities and other parties over a period of about 10 months, in which he has criticized the courts and other authorities and demanded various measures from them in his own case. On the basis of these e-mails, the court assistant board has, on its own initiative, accepted for investigation the question of whether A still fulfills the conditions for granting a license stipulated in Section 2 of the Act on Licensed Court Assistants (Licensed Lawyers Act), or whether his license should be revoked pursuant to Section 20, subsection 1, point 2 of said law.

3. The board of trial assistants has deemed A to be obviously unfit for the position of a trial attorney and assistant and has therefore revoked A's license to act as a trial attorney and assistant. Regarding A's appealed decision, the Court of Appeal has delivered an oral hearing in the case, where A has been heard. After the oral hearing, the case has been moved to be dealt with in a strengthened session of the Court of Appeal. The decision to move to a strengthened session was made by the layman of the Court of Appeal who acted as his deputy when the President of the Court of Appeal was prevented. After conducting a new oral hearing in the case, the Court of Appeal has rejected A's appeal and upheld the decision of the trial assistant board.

Questions in the Supreme Court

4. As a result of A's appeal, the question in the Supreme Court is whether the Court of Appeal acted incorrectly in transferring the case to be heard in a strengthened session after the oral hearing. In addition, the question is whether, based on the messages he sent, A can be considered to be obviously unfit to act as a legal representative and assistant. First, however, it is necessary to resolve A's claim, according to which the Court of Appeal attorney who moved the case to the enhanced session and chaired the panel would have been prevented from dealing with the case.

Obstruction claim

5. A has considered that the Court of Appeal attorney was prevented from dealing with the matter, because on August 18, 2014, he had filed a criminal complaint against him on the same basis as the one at issue in this case.

6. In his statement given at the request of the Supreme Court, the representative of the Court of Appeal stated that on August 7, 2014, while acting as deputy to the President of the Court of Appeal, he had delivered to the police an email message sent by A to the President on the same day, in which A had threatened a member of the Court of Appeal with force. He had not filed a criminal complaint. His procedure had corresponded to the practice followed in the Court of Appeal, according to which threats to the safety of staff are always reported to the police.

7. The question to be resolved in the Court of Appeal is whether the license granted to A to act as a legal representative and legal assistant should be revoked. The Supreme Court states that when sending the aforementioned e-mail message to the police, the appellate lawyer who participated in the proceedings of the case has not dealt with the same matter or part of it in the manner referred to in Chapter 13, Section 7, Subsection 2 of the Code of Judicial Procedure. As a result, he has also not become A's counterparty as referred to in Section 6, Subsection 1, Subsection 1 of the said chapter. However, due to A's claim, the case still needs to be assessed whether there is a ground for obstruction according to Chapter 13, Section 7, Subsection 3 of the Code of Judicial Conduct, i.e. whether there is any such circumstance comparable to the circumstance referred to in Chapter 13 of the Code of Judicial Conduct, which gives justified reason to doubt the impartiality of the judge in the case.

8. The Supreme Court states that the e-mail message sent by A on August 7, 2014 and further forwarded by the Court of Appeal was not part of the trial file when the matter was discussed in the Board of Trial Counselors and the Court of Appeal, and thus their decisions were not even partially based on this message. The message in question did not criticize or threaten the appeals court judge, and it has not appeared in the case that he filed a criminal complaint about A's conduct, as A has claimed. Prejudice is not only shown by the fact that the Court of Appeals layman, as a substitute for the President of the Court of Appeals, has forwarded the said message to the police.

9. Based on these grounds, the Supreme Court considers that there has been no justified reason to doubt the impartiality of the Court of Appeal. Thus, he has not been prevented from transferring the matter to be dealt with in a strengthened session and from participating in its resolution.

Transferring the matter to be dealt with in a strengthened session

Applicable regulations

10. In this respect, Section 8 c of the Court of Appeals Act (568/2015), which was repealed on January 1, 2017 when the Courts Act came into force, applies. According to its subsection 1, the president of the court of appeals can transfer the necessary parts of the jurisdictional case to be heard in a plenary session or in a strengthened session, if when considering the solution of the case or part of it, it turns out that the composition is deviating from the position taken by the Supreme Court or the court of appeals or another court of appeals. Also, an otherwise fundamentally significant or far-reaching matter or part of it can be transferred to a plenary session or a strengthened session. A case in which an oral hearing has been delivered or is to be delivered may not, without a special reason, be moved to a strengthened session or plenary session for resolution. According to subsection 2, the president decides to transfer the case to a strengthened session. According to subsection 3, the composition of the enhanced session of the Court of Appeal consists of seven members. The strengthened session includes the president as chairman, as well as the members who have previously dealt with the matter, who are still in office, and the necessary number of additional members drawn from the permanent members. Currently, the provisions corresponding to what has been explained above are found in Chapter 2, Section 8a of the Code of Judicial Conduct.

Court of Appeal procedure

11. After A's appeal on 21.12.2015 about the decision of the board of trial assistants to the court of appeals, the matter was first discussed in the court of appeals in a three-member composition. In this composition, an oral hearing was delivered on August 29, 2016, at the end of which A was informed that the aim is to issue a decision in the case within 30 days. After this, on November 23, 2016, the Court of Appeal lawyer, acting as the president's deputy, ordered that the matter be transferred to a strengthened session. Pursuant to Section 8 c subsection 3 of the Court of Appeals Act, the mentioned Court of Appeal lawyer has acted as his deputy when the president is unable to do so. In addition, three additional members have been selected for the composition in a lottery conducted with closed lottery tickets. Next, on December 13, 2016, it was decided to deliver 2.1. 2017 in a strengthened composition, a new oral hearing. After A was called out of this session after freezing, the recording of A's hearing in the previous session was listened to in the session. The decision of the Court of Appeal was issued on March 17, 2017.

12. It appears from the statement submitted by the Court of Appeals representative to the Supreme Court that, while the president was prevented, he had moved the case to be heard in a strengthened session, because he had considered the case to be important or far-reaching in principle as referred to in section 8c of the Court of Appeals Act (568/2015). In this consideration, according to his report, the Court of Appeal lawyer had taken the following points into account.

13. The principle importance and wide-ranging nature of the case was shown by the fact that the legislation regarding licensed court assistants is quite new and that there are only a few solutions regarding the interpretation of the conditions for granting and revoking a license. Inappropriateness as a basis for revoking a license has so far been assessed in the insolvency of a legal assistant, but not previously in a situation similar to A's actions. Revoking a license can be considered a more drastic interference with fundamental rights than denying a license. A decision to revoke a license on the basis of a sanction other than a disciplinary one may otherwise have a wider impact than just the case in question. In the case, a balance had to be made between, on the one hand, the fundamental rights of freedom of speech and freedom of business, and, on the other hand, the legal security of the trial assistant's principals and the maintenance of proper administration of justice. The principle importance of the case had also been shown by the fact that the composition of the Court of Appeal had been deviating from the unanimous decision of the board of trial assistants after the vote.

Supreme Court Evaluation

14. Regarding the conditions for transferring the case, the Supreme Court states the following.

15. The regulation of Section 8 c of the Court of Appeals Act leaves the president of the Court of Appeal or his deputy a relatively large amount of discretion in relation to when a matter is assessed to be important or far-reaching in principle in such a way that it is justified to deal with it in a strengthened composition. When an oral hearing has been delivered or will be delivered in the case, this discretion is limited in the regulation so that a special reason is required for the transfer.

16. The legislation regarding licensed lawyers is quite new and it is not clear from the law or its preambles how the law should be interpreted under the circumstances of the present case. Nor has it been previously assessed in the decision-making practice of the supervisory or legal assistant board, or in the case law, whether the licensed legal assistant's procedure like the one under consideration can result in the assistant being considered to have lost his eligibility to act as a legal assistant.

17. The question of whether the conduct of a licensed legal assistant in a role other than that of an assistant is relevant when assessing his apparent unfitness for his role has considerable principled importance for such legal assistants themselves. Taking into account the goals of the regulation, this question also has a broader principled significance in terms of the whole assistant system and the appropriateness of the administration of justice. In addition, taking into account the fact that the case has had to weigh up different fundamental rights in a difficult situation of interpretation, the Supreme Court considers that the case has been fundamentally significant and far-reaching as meant in section 8 c subsection 1 of the Court of Appeals Act.

18. However, A has considered that the Court of Appeals representative had in fact decided to transfer the case to a strengthened session after the case had already been processed by the three-member composition of the Court of Appeals, in order to obtain such a composition of the Court of Appeals that would end up with a decision regarding the cancellation of A's license.

19. As a result, the Supreme Court states that it appears from the explanation given by the Court of Appeals attorney that he had taken the question of transferring the case to a strengthened session for consideration at the request of the President of the Court of Appeals, while he was unable to do so. The composition of the enhanced session was determined in accordance with Section 8 c subsection 3 of the Court of Appeals Act, in such a way that the Court of Appeals lawyer in question served as the president's deputy chairman and the three members who had dealt with the case before, as well as the necessary number of members drawn from the permanent members, acted as members.

20. According to Section 8 c, subsection 3 of the Court of Appeals Act, the duties of the Court of Appeals layman as the president's deputy have therefore included acting as chairman of the strengthened session. As stated above, the Court of Appeal attorney has also not been an obstacle in the case. The other members of the strengthened session have also been determined as required by section 8 c subsection 3 of the Court of Appeals Act. Therefore, the members of the Court of Appeal who had been in the three-member composition to come to the position of overturning the board's decision have also been included in the composition. The Court of Appeal attorney has therefore not influenced the determination of the composition of the session, which was inappropriately strengthened as A claimed.

21. However, the decision to transfer the case to a strengthened hearing was made in the Court of Appeal after the oral proceedings were completed. According to Section 8 c (568/2015) subsection 1 of the Court of Appeals Act, this can only be done for a special reason.

22. Regarding this condition, the Supreme Court states that it is not clear from the law, nor from its preambles, what is meant by a special reason in the mentioned legal section. When assessing the existence of a special reason, attention can first be paid to how strongly the principled importance or broad scope of the case advocates solving the case in a strengthened session.

23. Since a special reason is required only in situations where the Court of Appeal has delivered an oral hearing or will deliver one, it is justified to consider the requirement of a special reason also related to the fact that the hearing of the case in the strengthened session can be assessed in these situations as causing either the parties involved or the Court of Appeal more inconvenience than usual and a delay in the hearing of the case . Especially in the situation where an oral hearing has already been organized in the case, where evidence has been received, safeguarding the principle of immediacy may require that the evidence has to be received again in a strengthened hearing. In view of these circumstances, it is justified to require that the case is not moved to a strengthened session on light grounds after the submission of the oral proceedings.

24. In this case, an oral hearing had been provided in the case, with the aim that an opportunity had been arranged for A to be heard orally in his case. Thus, the oral hearing had not been submitted to receive evidence, and only A had been heard. When assessing the necessity of an enhanced hearing, it has therefore been possible to assume that conducting a new oral hearing would not cause A special inconvenience or costs, significantly delay the handling of the case, or otherwise be inappropriate from the point of view of the Court of Appeal. An opportunity has been reserved for A to be personally present also in the new oral hearing delivered in the strengthened session.

25. The delivery of a new oral hearing has thus not been accompanied by any circumstances that would have spoken against transferring the case to a strengthened hearing. On the other hand, the principled importance and wide-ranging scope of the case have advocated solving the case in a strengthened session. According to his report, the Court of Appeal's attorney has taken the above-mentioned factors into account when evaluating the transfer of the case to a strengthened session. The Supreme Court considers that the Court of Appeal attorney has not exceeded his discretion when he came to the conclusion that there was not only the grounds referred to in Section 8 c of the Court of Appeals Act, but also a special reason referred to in the law for transferring the case to a strengthened session after the oral hearing of the Court of Appeal.

26. It is clear from the statement of the Court of Appeal that, when making the decision to transfer the case to a strengthened session, he was aware that the three-member composition of the Court of Appeal was deviating from the unanimous decision of the board of trial assistants and ended up accepting A's appeal and canceling the decision to revoke the permit. According to A, this shows that the reason for transferring the case to the enhanced hearing had actually been to make it possible to reach a decision rejecting A's appeal in the enhanced hearing.

27. Therefore, the matter still needs to be evaluated, whether the Court of Appeal's procedure has given reason to suspect that the specific reasons for moving to a strengthened hearing have not been objective, so that the procedure has not appeared fair from A's point of view according to the impartiality test, where the decisive yardstick is an external objective observer formed picture of the matter (see Academy Trading LTD et al. v. Greece 4.4.2000, paragraph 45, Sutyagin v. Russia 3.5.2011, paragraph 182 and Morice v. France Grand Chamber 23.4.2015, paragraphs 77—78). Attention must also be paid to what has been established in the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, that although there was no single procedural error or deficiency in the trial, which as such would have led to a violation, 28. In this regard, the Supreme Court states that it is quite common in the appeals court that the transfer to a strengthened composition is only made at the stage when the decision of the composition that first dealt with the matter is known. This is the procedure in accordance with the rules when transferring a case to a strengthened division or plenary session in the Supreme Court, and apparently also often in the courts of appeals, and in any case, at least when the transfer is based on the fact that the opinion of the three-member composition differs from the legal principle or interpretation of the law adopted by the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeal or another court of appeal.

29. In this case, the transfer was not based on the last-mentioned circumstances, but on the principled importance or broad scope of the matter. However, the regulation on transferring the Court of Appeal to an enhanced session does not prevent a fundamentally significant or far-reaching case from being transferred to an enhanced session only after the oral hearing has been delivered and the decision of the three-member panel is known. The special reason for moving to a strengthened session does not therefore require that the three-member composition has not had time to deal with the matter and form its position on it. The purpose of the regulation, on the contrary, is to get the opinion of the Court of Appeal as weighted and authoritative as possible on a fundamentally significant or far-reaching issue, regardless of whether which position has been reached in the three-member composition, possibly after an oral discussion. The regulation regarding the transfer of the case would largely lose its meaning if the transfer could only be made on the condition that the three-member composition has not had time to evaluate the case.

30. In this case, the transfer of the case to be decided by the strengthened session has been clearly supported by the fact that, as stated above, the matter to be evaluated was a matter of considerable importance and far-reaching in principle, for which there has been no decision practice and where the three-member composition of the Court of Appeal was in a difficult situation, which required the weighing of fundamental rights, reaching a voting solution. Thus, it has been shown that the grounds for the transfer of the case presented by the Court of Appeal were acceptable, even objectively.

Conclusions

31. There were legal grounds for transferring the case to the enhanced session of the Court of Appeal. The composition of the Court of Appeal in the strengthened session is also determined in accordance with the law. Also, nothing has come to light in the case that could be considered to have given A justified reason to suspect that the transfer to the enhanced session would not have taken place on objective grounds or that the legal composition of the enhanced session would not have acted independently and free of side effects when resolving the matter. A's doubts related to this cannot be considered justified solely on the basis that, based on what has emerged in the case, he feels deep mistrust towards the judiciary and other public officials.

32. Based on the above-mentioned grounds, the Supreme Court considers that the Court of Appeal has not acted incorrectly in transferring the case to be processed in a strengthened session. The procedure has also not given A an objectively justified reason to doubt the impartiality, independence or fairness of the procedure. Thus, when the case was handled in the Court of Appeals, there was no trial error, which would require the case to be returned to the Court of Appeals.

This is an automated translated version of the story which may have translation errors. Please always refer to the original story[https://finlex.fi/fi/oikeus/kko/kko/2019/20190018].

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020230110ej190006j


News; Domestic
New U.S. Moves Against Mercenary Group Aiding Russia's War; Anti-Abortion Activists Hold First March For Life Rally Since End Of Roe; GOP-led Committee Says, Why Is DOJ Scared To Cooperate With Probes; Source: Alec Baldwin Intends To Finish Production Of "Rust" Despite Facing Criminal Charges In Deadly Shooting; Report: Suspect In Idaho Student Killings Visited Restaurant Where Two Of The Victims Worked; Damar Hamlin Facing "Lengthy Recover" Despite Improving Condition. Aired 6-7p ET
Wolf Blitzer, Alex Marquardt, Frederik Pleitgen, Natasha Bertrand, Nic Robertson, Phil Mattingly, Andrew McCabe, Elie Honig, Nia-Malika Henderson, Van Jones, Joan Biskupic, Brian Todd, Chloe Melas, Veronica Miracle, Coy Wire
7602 字
2023 年 1 月 20 日
CNN: The Situation Room
CNNTSR
英文
Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2023 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[18:00:00]

WOLF BLITZER, CNN ANCHOR: Happening now, as Ukrainian forces train for the next big battle against Russia, the Biden administration is taking new action against the mercenary group aiding Vladimir Putin's war. This as the United States and Germany are in a standoff right now over sending tanks to Ukraine. We'll discuss it all with the Ukrainian ambassador to the United States.

Also tonight, the U.S. Justice Department signals it won't comply with all House Republican demands for information about investigations, and that includes the Biden documents probe that's hanging over the president as he today marks exactly two years in office.

Anti-abortion activists hold their annual march here in Washington for the first time since Roe v. Wade was overturned. They're declaring they have fresh resolve, even as some in their movement are being slammed by former President Trump supposedly being disloyal to him.

Welcome to our viewers here in the United States and around the world. I'm Wolf Blitzer. You're in The Situation Room.

Let's get right to all of the new moves by the United States and its allies responding to Ukraine's urgent appeals for more help against Russian aggression. CNN Alex Marquardt has the latest on what western nations are doing and still not doing at this truly pivotal moment in the war.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Tonight, the U.S. is taking action against Russia's Wagner mercenary group, a private army which Vladimir Putin has become increasingly dependent on to carry on operations in Ukraine, including the eastern city of Bakhmut where the fighting has raged. The U.S. now designating Wagner a transnational criminal organization.

JOHN KIRBY, NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS: It will open up additional avenues for us to continue to not only sanction Wagner and put more squeeze on their ability to do business around the world but will assist others in doing the same.

MARQUARDT: The White House also released new satellite imagery, showing Russian rail cars heading into North Korea and being filled up and sent back with rockets and missiles destined for use by Wagner.

Of the 50,000 Wagner mercenaries in Ukraine, the White House said, 80 percent of them are convicts recruited from Russian prisons, deepening the fight as Ukraine calls for more help.

PRES. VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINE: Hundreds of thank you are not hundreds of tanks. I cannot put words instead of guns (ph).

MARQUARDT: Tonight, a desperate plea from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to defense officials from the U.S. and allied countries meeting in Germany to discuss further lethal aid for Ukraine.

LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: Based up on the progress that we've made today, I'm confident that Ukraine's partners from around the globe are determined to meet this moment.

MARQUARDT: Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin hosting the meeting on the heels of the U.S. announcing a new massive $2.5 billion aid package but no progress in breaking a critical log jam, convincing a reluctant Germany to allow transfers of its coveted Leopard 2 tanks.

BORIS PISTORIUS, FEDERAL MINISTER OF DEFENSE, GERMANY: We are not really hesitating, we are just very careful in balance and all the pros and cons.

MARQUARDT: Germany has said it doesn't want to be alone but the United Kingdom has committed to sending their tanks. Other European countries are also eagerly awaiting German permission to send Leopards that they hold.

AUSTIN: They have not made a decision on the provision of the Leopard tanks. What we're really focused on is making sure that Ukraine has the capability that it needs to be successful right now.

MARQUARDT: Germany and the U.S. are now denying that Germany is requiring American M1 Abrams tanks be sent along side German tanks. U.S. officials have been arguing for the Leopard saying the Abrams makes little sense for Ukraine. It's a gas guzzling beast that is complex to operate and difficult to maintain.

SABRINA SINGH, PENTAGON DEPUTY PRESS SECRETARY: This is a tank that requires jet fuel, whereas the Leopard and the Challenger, it's a different engine. They require diesel. It's a little bit easier to maintain. They can maneuver across large portions of territory before they need to refuel.

MARQUARDT: While Germany's Leopard 2 is a modern heavy tank, with a large number already in Europe, it easier to support and be trained on with an ability to accurately hit moving targets with its night vision, laser range finders.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

MARQUARDT (on camera): Impatience is growing with Germany over their foot dragging with these tanks, the NATO alliance now being tested. Wolf, today there was a meeting on the sidelines of that Ramstein meeting of the European countries that have these German Leopard tanks but can't send them to Ukraine because they need that German permission. This is because of export laws.

Now, Poland, in particular is getting very frustrated.

[18:05:02]

They says they've got 14 of these Leopard tanks that are ready to go to Ukraine and they say they will either get that German permission or they will, in their words, do the right thing. The Polish foreign minister said that the price of hesitation over these tanks is Ukrainian bloodshed.

BLITZER: Yes. President Zelenskyy says they desperately need these battle tanks in order to deal with the Russian aggression.

All right, thank you very, very much, Alex Marquardt, reporting for us.

And now let's go to Ukraine where a top commander is speaking exclusively to CNN about what his troops need to do battle against Russia now and in the months ahead. He spoke with CNN's Fred Pleitgen who is on the ground in Ukraine.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Preparing to defend against a second gigantic attack, even as they're already under assault by Russia. Ukrainian units held large- scale drills to prepare for bigger battles to come.

The head of Ukrainian joint forces command tells me, we need to know what exactly to prepare the forces for and how they should be prepared, he says. That's why this is so important.

We're in the Chernobyl exclusion zone, site of the worst nuclear disaster in history. Ukraine's Special Forces also practicing urban combat in the abandoned buildings.

The U.S. and allies believe the Russians could mount a massive offensive once the spring comes. That's why the Ukrainians are getting their forces ready even as they're already fighting the Russians on several fronts in this country.

The Ukrainians say that to win, they need more modern western weapons, especially main battle tanks. In terms of quality, of course, there's a big difference, the general says, because the fire control systems of western equipment are far superior to Russian weapons.

At the battles in places like Bakhmut in Eastern Ukraine remain brutal and casualties mount, Ukraine's leadership says it's grateful for the massive military aid announced Ramstein meeting. But Kyiv is disappointed Germany still hasn't signed off on sending Leopard 2 main battle tanks, which would be key to help and turn the tide, a top presidential adviser tells me.

Our guys won't leave the battlefield even if they aren't provided with new equipment, he says, but more and more will die. This must stop. We want our people to have a better chance of saving their own lives.

The Ukrainian says the new aid announce Friday will go a long way to help them beat Russia back, and Mykhailo Podolyak says he hopes the U.S. and its allies will keep weapons flowing in the long run.

I think our allies have the perfect understanding of the price we are paying, he says, that it's very important for Russia to lose. They understand the nature of this war, the nature of Russia, and why it is impossible to negotiate with them.

The Ukrainians say they need to grasp the initiative before the Russians can recover from their losses and they're gearing up for what could be a brutal spring.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

PLEITGEN (on camera): But, Wolf, the Ukrainians also say there's a whole another facet to this as well. They say they are having a lot of trouble sourcing spare parts for the Soviet-era tanks and also ammunition as well. So, on the one hand, those western main battle tanks, it's about improving their capabilities but it's also about staying in the fight in the long run, and especially with that possible spring offensive by the Russians looming as well, Wolf.

BLITZER: Yes. That's what everybody is bracing for, this Russian spring offensive. Fred Pleitgen in Kyiv for us, stay safe over there, thank you very much.

Let's get more on all of this. Joining us now, the former ambassador to Ukraine, William Taylor, also with us CNN International Diplomatic Editor Nic Robertson and CNN White House Reporter Natasha Bertrand, she's doing a lot of reporting on this.

Natasha, I know you've been reporting specifically on if decision to designate the so-called Wagner Group a transnational criminal organization. The U.S. also declassified various images of Russian trains traveling from North Korea with weapons for Wagner fighters. What did the U.S. see that convince them to take this important step?

NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes, Wolf. Well, the U.S. are seeing a number of concerning signs coming out of Russia with regard to the kind of competing power centers that are emerging between this mercenary organization, Wagner Group, and, of course, the Russian defense ministry and the regular Russian army.

But most concerning, of course, is the idea that Vladimir Putin, the Russian president, appears to be leading more on this Russian mercenary group, which is 80 percent made up of convicts in Ukraine right now than the regular Russian army, and the Wagner Group appears to be getting help and equipment from the North Koreans now.

The U.S. released that imagery earlier today showing Russian rail cars traveling to and from North Korea to, according to the U.S., pick up missiles and other military equipment for used in the war in Ukraine.

So the U.S. now is watching very closely to see what Yevgeny Prigozhin, the head of Wagner Group, does moving forward, because he, of course, is competing for influence with the Russian defense minister.

[18:10:06]

And who is going to come out on top here? That is really the question that the U.S. is watching, because while the Russian army has committed a number of war crimes, according to the U.S., a number of atrocities, the Wagner Group is also committing a number of major human rights violations inside Ukraine and they're known to be especially brutal.

So, as they continue their fight across Ukraine, taking cities perhaps, including Soledar and Bakhmut, the U.S. is saying we need to try to stop them from basically being able to maintain that initiative, which they're getting really from criminal organizations around the world. Remember that they are not only limited to the operations that they are conducting inside Ukraine. They're also operating in Africa, in Syria and elsewhere, Wolf.

BLITZER: Yes. The U.S. estimates right now that there are about 50,000 Wagner Group fighters in Ukraine right now, about 10,000 contractors and 40,000 convicts deployed to fight with the Russian military.

Nic, what more can you tell us about these very brutal Wagner mercenaries?

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Yes. Earlier this week, Wolf, one of the unit commanders, who was fighting for Wagner, escaped because of the atrocities he saw happening around and he escape to Norway. He said part of what Wagner is doing with prisoners, if they refuse to fight, if they try to leave the line, if they try to go over to the Ukrainian side, they're quite simply killing them off. Prigozhin is racking up huge casualties among these convicts, using them essentially as cannon fodder. Some do end up going back to their families but many of them apparently, according to this unit commander, are quite simply buried in the woods in Ukraine, in that way, Prigozhin, Wagner don't have to pay out to the insurance to the relatives of those fallen fighters, former convicts. So, there's that side of it.

What Wagner has been doing is really raising its profile recently over the past few months, appearing more and more at the frontline, appearing recruitment videos, recruiting those prisoners back last year here. It has been, until now, a covert essential extension of the Kremlin, doing the things around the world the Kremlin doesn't want to acknowledge. BLITZER: Ambassador Taylor, let me get your thoughts. Can Putin really sustain this war as he sends more and more troops to the so- called meat grinder in the east?

WILLIAM TAYLOR, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE: He can't, Wolf. As you are reporting, as both reports show, Wagner is picking up the slack that the Russian military is leaving. The Wagner Group, mercenaries with fighting largely with these prisoners, is not able to continue to push this. They're having the only success in the group.

But what that shows, Wolf, is that there is a real problem within the armed forces and the military forces of Russia. The Wagner folks are competing with the Russian military. So, that's a real problem. They're going to have a problem going forward.

BLITZER: They certainly are. Ambassador William Taylor, thank you all very much. Nic Robertson, Natasha Bertrand, thanks to you guys as well.

Just ahead, the Ukrainian ambassador to the United States will join us live. We'll discuss the standoff over sending western tanks to that country and much more. There you see her. We're about to discuss major issues. That's coming up next right here in The Situation Room.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:15:00]

BLITZER: Tonight, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says there is no alternative to getting western tanks to help fight the Russians after a discussion among key allies ended today in another stalemate.

Joining us now, the Ukrainian Ambassador to the United States, Oksana Markarova. Ambassador, thank you so much for joining us.

As you know, despite the extraordinary support pledged from the allies, are you disappointed today's meeting at Ramstein, in Germany, didn't include a decision on western tanks, either the German-made Leopards or the U.S.-made Abrams?

OKSANA MARKAROVA, UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES: Well, let me first say, Wolf, what we are very grateful for, for the amazing package from the U.S., with Strykers for the first time and all as a good capabilities, for the unity that once again was shown by more than 50 countries that has provided us with so many needed items and the range of the countries, from U.K. to Finland, to Denmark, to Estonia, to Poland, to Germany, I don't even want to miss someone, but also the leadership that U.S. continues to show, and as President Zelenskyy says, yes, unfortunately, the decision on tanks was not taken today, but we will continue working on it as we need those tanks now.

BLITZER: So, Ambassador, what is your message, first of all, to Germany right now?

MARKAROVA: Well, the message to all our friends and allies, to be frank, that in order -- this capability, the tanks, as well as long- range and everything else we are discussing, is very much needed now so that our brave defenders can be protected, also we can maneuver, we can fire, and actually we can go back on the counteroffensive and we can preempt this future attacks that Russian is actually planning to expand during the spring.

BLITZER: Yes. The U.S. believes the Russians are preparing a major spring offensive against Ukraine. That could happen in the next couple of months or so.

As you know, the U.S. is arguing, we're talking about the Biden administration, arguing that the Abrams tanks are more difficult to maintain. What are you hearing from your American partners, Ambassador? Do you believe the U.S. eventually will provide those tanks to Ukraine?

MARKAROVA: We are looking for all the capabilities. As we discussed from the beginning, we need all of them, and the faster we get this capability, the better. Now, among the capabilities, of course, we are consulting with our partners what would be the most effective one, what can we get in large numbers, maintain on the battlefield, repair if necessary, and also have it in large numbers.

[18:20:06]

Whether it's Leopards, Abrams or any other capability, you know, we are ready to discuss, and we are discussing it with our partners and allies. It looks like the Leopard is something that a number of allies are ready to discuss with us, have in quantity and would be a little bit easier to maintain and repair. But again, as we discussed, and as Pentagon said publicly, no -- there is no discussion that is not being held at the moment.

So, again, the time is of the essence here. And we heard this from President Zelenskyy, we heard it from Secretary Austin, we heard this from General Milley because this is true, we have to be very quick with these decisions and we have to get these capabilities as soon as possible to save lives but also faster just to get to peace, which is very important for all of us in Europe but also globally.

BLITZER: Yes, you clearly need those battle tanks to preempt what is expected to be a major Russian military offensive against Ukraine coming in the spring, when the weather gets a little bit better.

As you know the United States is formally designating the so-called Wagner Group, that infamous Russian mercenary group, as a transnational criminal organization. How far will that go, Ambassador? What kind of impact will that have on the battlefield in Ukraine?

MARKAROVA: Well, first of all, those thugs are criminals and they have already been already designated by U.S. during the previous year and sanctioned by the U.S. whatever designation we can add to that, and clearly isolate them. But not only them, isolate Russia and designate Russia as a terrorist and aggressor, I think it's very needed to do so. And as you know, Ukraine also formally initiated the suspension of Russia's seat at the Security Council in the U.N. I think this is time and this is the year, if Russia does not stop their aggressive actions and their war crimes, we have to be more decisive, too.

BLITZER: Ambassador Oksana Markarova, thank you so much for joining us. Good luck to you and good luck to all the people of Ukraine. We appreciate you joining us very much.

MARKAROVA: Thank you to the American people.

BLITZER: Thank you.

Coming up, the White House, the U.S. Justice Department and House Republicans all weighing right now on the Biden documents probe. We're going to bring you new reaction to the growing investigation. That's next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:25:00]

BLITZER: New developments tonight in the Biden classified document saga, the Justice Department signaling it won't comply with all Republican demands for information, and that includes the investigation into President Joe Biden's handling of government records.

Let's go to our Chief White House Correspondent Phil Mattingly. He's got an update for us. Phil, first of all, what are you hearing over there at the White House?

PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Wolf, the House Judiciary Committee Republicans immediately responded on Twitter, the Justice Department saying why is the Justice Department, quote, so scared to comply with their investigation? It was a very political response to what to some degree from the Justice Department's perspective is tied to precedent in terms of how they're operating. But you can expect political responses from the White House too when it comes to the two House Republican investigations that are currently underway right now, as it relates to the classified documents.

Now, up to this point, despite several request from the House Oversight Committee and the House Judiciary Committee, the White House has not responded. But I am being told right now that the expectation is the response is going to much track with what we have seen from House Republicans in terms of their attacks and their approach.

One White House official telling me that based on some of the new exceedingly pro-Trump members that were added to the committees, it shows that those committees will likely be more of a sideshow than anything else. To some degree, it will be driven entirely by pursuing, according to this official, a political agenda, not any type of legislative or oversight work. And that should give you a read, Wolf, in the week ahead when responses have deadlines of where is the White House is going to land on this. Officials have made clear, they will comply with as they called them good faith efforts for oversight, but everything we've heard over the course of the last several days is implying that they don't believe anything that they have heard from House Republicans is in good faith.

And it's important to note how different that posture is from their posture with the special counsel throughout this process, including a very unsettled week last week as new developments seem to appear day after day. White House officials have made clear repeatedly, they will comply, they will cooperate in every way with the special counsel investigation that is still in the early stages. That is very much not the message you're getting when it comes to House Republican investigations, they comply in good faith. But they don't think that's the case. I think it's pretty clear they are going to be combative, Wolf.

BLITZER: Certainly is. Phil Mattingly at the White House, thank you very much.

Let's continue the discussion right now with our Senior Law Enforcement Analyst Andrew McCabe and CNN Senior Legal Analyst Elie Honig.

Andrew, how do you interpret this signal from the U.S. Justice Department to the House Judiciary Committee?

ANDREW MCCABE, CNN SENIOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ANALYST: I think it was absolutely predictable, Wolf. So, if you read the letter, the five- page letter that the department sent over to -- in response to Chairman Jordan's requests, it's really interesting. It spans about three pages going through the basics of how the committee is expected to interact with the department, which is really interesting, because Jordan certainly knows these details.

But they're kind of covering all the background data first and then, of course, they get to the last part of the letter where they make it clear that they are going to stand on long-established DOJ precedent and not share material and reports and information from ongoing criminal investigations with Congress.

[18:30:14]

They cite precedent going back as early as 1941, several quotes, the decisions from the Reagan administration and other precedents in the 80's. So, this is not a new position from the DOJ and it's vitally important for them to maintain it.

BLITZER: From your perspective, Elie, I'm wondering why you believe the attorney general is drawing this line in the sand right now.

ELIE HONIG, CNN SENIOR LEGAL ANALYST: Well, Wolf, this goes to the heart of everything that the Justice Department is about. It goes to its core principles, to its most fundamental aspect. And here is why. If DOJ were to crossed this line, if DOJ were to testify, if Merrick Garland were to go in front of Capitol Hill and start testifying about pending ongoing investigations, it would be disastrous. It would compromise those investigations, potentially fatally. It would expose cooperators, informants, it could give people who are being investigated a chance to tamper with evidence or witnesses or to flee. It would be a complete disaster, and DOJ has an obligation to protect the rights of people under investigation.

So, I don't care, and I don't think DOJ cares if we're talking about the investigation into Joe Biden or Donald Trump or Hunter Biden or Rudy Giuliani or anybody else. That is a bright line in the sand. Merrick Garland is absolutely right to protect DOJ's independence and say, I'll testify but not about specific ongoing cases.

BLITZER: On that point, Andrew, the Department of Justice is pledging to accommodate lawmakers' requests, where possible. So, what exactly does that mean?

MCCABE: Well, it means that the department is reserving for itself the opportunity to make those sorts of decisions that Elie has just talk about, right? They're going -- it's very clear from the letter they are going to try to identify appropriate witnesses when they have a request for information. They want adequate time to prepare those witnesses two weeks before anybody would prepare. They'll send the right folks. They'll negotiate in good faith in terms of who goes and says what and what sort of questions they respond to.

But at the end of the day, it is the responsibility of the attorney general to determine what's appropriate for the department to share, and they are reserving that discretion for themselves appropriately so.

BLITZER: Yes, good point. Andrew McCabe, Elie Honig, guys, thank you very, very much.

I want to right now bring in our CNN Political Commentator Van Jones, CNN Senior Political Analyst Nia-Malika Henderson as well.

Nia, this move will undoubtedly frustrate House Republicans, and they are the majority in the House of Representatives right now, who are eager to use their new oversight power. Should we expect a major, major battle, a major fight?

NIA-MALIKA HENDERSON, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL ANALYST: I think that's right. And you can hear from the House Judiciary Committee already saying, what is the DOJ hiding, right? And I think it's mainly going to be a rhetorical fight. You saw that the DOJ is saying this is within a longstanding precedent that they shouldn't be sharing information about ongoing investigations. And so now I think you'll going to hear from this House committee, which is eager I think to probe the Biden administration, certainly in a way that Republicans weren't interested in probing the Trump administration.

So, I think in some ways we saw this coming but it also speaks to what Republicans on that very committee did, too, right? I mean, when it came to January 6th, they stonewalled that committee, right? Jim Jordan is on that committee. He is the head of that committee, and Andy Biggs is also on that committee. They were subpoenaed and they refused to comply, essentially saying that this was a committee, the January 6th committee, that was too partisan. And so in some ways, turnabout is fair play in this instance.

BLITZER: Is the stance from the Department of Justice, Van, likely welcome news for the Biden administration?

VAN JONES, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Well, it may be and it may not be, but I will say this. The Republicans are playing on people's lack of understanding of how our government works, and, by the way, showing zero respect for U.S. law enforcement.

The Department of Justice, those are the top cops. It's perfectly fine for Congress to send information to the top cops. But for the top cops to be asked to give information away in the middle of the investigation on national television, that is not right that. That is not how we do things. It's a perversion of the Constitution that they claim to uphold.

And so I think that one of the things we have to do a good job, this is -- it's completely normal for DOJ to say we're not going to do this. It's abnormal for Republicans in Congress to insist they do it. The only thing that is weird here is that we're not allowing the Department of Justice to do its job the way it's done for 100 years.

BLITZER: At the same time, Van, as you know, the White House is certainly trying to keep the focus, especially on the second anniversary of Biden's inauguration, to keep the focus on its accomplishments, as far as its agenda is concerned.

[18:35:05]

But this debacle over the documents is not going away any time soon. Is the administration, do you believe, handling all of this correctly from a messaging standpoint?

JONES: Well, it's hard to message a mess. The reality is they should have done a better job with these documents in the first place. When the first one showed up, they should have looked everywhere and turned it all over at once. So, they've got a mess to try to message on top of that. But that is not the same as saying there is a criminal conspiracy here to do something negative.

Don't forget, the reason people were so freaked out about what Donald Trump was doing was he had a big old pile of stuff. He wouldn't give it over, and some people were scared, is somebody going to sell this overseas? Is there something happening here that's nefarious? That's not what we have. With Biden, you've got some incompetence in his team that they need to get straightened out, but there is no threat to the country here. What needs to happen is they need to get the mess straightened out and they get the message on track.

BLITZER: Nia, what do you think?

HENDERSON: Listen, I think they clearly stumbled out of the gate with this. They have the special counsel now. They sort to fear that. But, listen, it kind of means that it's off their plate, they don't have to worry about the messaging. They can just turn everything over to the special counsel. They can cooperate, as they have been doing so far. At some point, he's going to announce that he's going to run for re- election, I think, after the state of the union. That has been derailed. There are lots of frustrations I think initially with the way that the White House handled this. But it seems like they've gotten back on track in terms of messaging around all of this.

BLITZER: Nia-Malika Henderson and Van Jones, guys, thank you very, very much.

Just ahead, the lead investigator into the U.S. Supreme Court leak of its landmark Roe versus Wade ruling is speaking out now for the first time. We'll be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:40:00]

BLITZER: New information tonight about the investigation into the shocking leak of the U.S. Supreme Court ruling that overturned Roe versus Wade.

CNN Senior Supreme Court Analyst Joan Biskupic is here in The Situation Room for the latest. Joan, Supreme Court marshal investigated this leak, and I understand she's providing all sorts of detailed information.

JOAN BISKUPIC, CNN SENIOR SUPREME COURT ANALYST: Yes. And there was a new development this afternoon about the justices themselves. Yesterday, Wolf, the report said that she had interviewed several people. She had investigated in many ways. They had not found the culprit but they revealed all sort of shortcomings in their security.

There was a lingering question, though. Had the justices themselves been interviewed as the law clerks had and other employees? Today, she put out a statement just about an hour or two ago saying, during the course of the investigation, I spoke with each of the justices, several on multiple occasions, and the justices had actively cooperated. She said there was no reason to suspect that they were implicated or that their spouses were implicated. But she did say that they did not sign any sworn affidavits.

BLITZER: But the court employees, 97 of them, did sign sworn affidavits.

BISKUPIC: They did, and they swore them under penalty of perjury for any kind of lie.

And there was an interesting note in the report yesterday where she said that some of the law clerks had admitted that they had spoken to spouses about the draft opinion reversing Roe v. Wade, and the vote count, and that those employees had to do back and annotate, that was the verb she used, their affidavit so that they could be truthful. But there was that kind of scrutiny for employees but not that kind of scrutiny for the justices.

BLITZER: Yes, pretty important and historic. Thank you very much, Joan Biskupic, helping us, I appreciate, what's going on. Meanwhile, emboldened anti-abortion activists held their annual March for Life here in Washington today, the first since the U.S. Supreme Court overturned Roe versus Wade.

CNN's Brian Todd is working this story for us. He's out there on the streets of Washington. You talked to a lot of the people taking part, Brian. What did they tell you?

BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Wolf, they told us as much of a celebration as this was today of the overturning of Roe v. Wade, it is now time to change tactics and get creative.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

TODD (voice over): Tonight, anti-abortion activists marking the first Right to Life march since the Supreme Court overturned Roe versus Wade.

MELANIE SOBERON, MARCHER FROM NEW YORK: The right to life is the most fundamental right.

TODD: But since that legal victory, the anti-abortion movement now at a crossroads regarding strategy. The battle now being waged in states around the country deciding whether to restrict abortion.

CHRISTINE DOWELL, MARCHER FROM FLORIDA: The fact that it goes back to the states is -- the battle is just beginning.

TODD: And new tensions between the anti-abortion movement and Donald Trump. In 2020, Donald Trump became the first sitting president to appear at this march. Trump also appointing three Supreme Court justices who ruled that there is not a constitutional right to an abortion, a win for evangelicals. But there are some sign the relationship has since soured. Some evangelical leaders now warning Trump not to take them for granted in his third presidential bid, others even saying it's time to support someone else. This week, Trump bitterly lashing out at those who haven't fallen in line.

DONALD TRUMP, FORMER U.S. PRESIDENT: That's a sign of disloyalty. There's great disloyalty in the world o politics, and that's a sign of disloyalty because nobody has ever done more for right to life than Donald Trump.

DANIEL STRAUSS, SENIOR POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT, THE NEW REPUBLIC: It's a tell about how Trump is surveying the landscape and realizing that this is not the same arena that he was in, in 2016. And this time around, it's pretty clear that that same community is not so transfixed on the former president.

TODD: Evangelicals are likely to have other options besides Trump.

LAURA BARRON-LOPEZ, WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT, PBS: I think you can potentially see candidates like Kristi Noem, governor of North Dakota, as well as Ron DeSantis try to run to the right of Trump on an issue like abortion. TODD: But Trump has warned evangelicals that hard-line, no exemption stances on abortion, hurts some candidates in the midterms and complained that pro-life activists didn't help Republicans enough in last Novembers vote after their success against Roe.

[18:45:05]

TRUMP: I was a little disappointed because I thought they could have fought much harder during the election, during the '22 election.

TODD: Abortion rights supporters won ballot initiatives last year in Michigan, Kentucky, and Kansas, and claimed the abortion rights fight helped them in the midterms, a potential warning to Republican presidential hopefuls.

STRAUSS: Any candidate likely to win over hand and fist a large amount of evangelical voters or anti-abortion voters may have trouble in the general election.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

TODD (on camera): As for Trump and the evangelicals, some Trump advisers say they're not worried about the repercussions of Trump's criticism of evangelicals, they say that he remains in contact with some top evangelical leaders and that the result that Trump delivered for them on abortion and other issues, they are confident that will help him with that group in the Republican primaries -- Wolf.

BLITZER: All right. Brian, thank you very much. Brian Todd reporting.

Coming up, new information about actor Alec Baldwin and his ill-fated movie following a deadly on set shooting that resulted now in criminal charges.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:50:26]

BLITZER: Just in, a source is now telling CNN that actor Alec Baldwin intends to finish production of the movie "Rust," which was halted after a deadly on-set shooting in which the actor is now charged.

CNN entertainment reporter Chloe Melas has the latest, getting new information.

Chloe, Baldwin is one of two people, of course, charged with involuntary manslaughter in the death of the movie's cinematographer.

What's the latest? What are you hearing?

CHLOE MELAS, CNN ENTERTAINMENT REPORTER: So we know that Alec Baldwin and certain members of production of the film plan to go back, Wolf, and finish the film this spring. The intention was that this was part of a civil settlement in order to avoid going to court and hashing this out and that the profits would go to Halyna Hutchins widow, to her son, and now, everything has sort of been up in the air ever since these charges yesterday.

But a source close to Baldwin telling me that he has every intention of going back to finish this film. Obviously, there are a lot of questions left unanswered and this potential trial looming over them, Wolf.

I also want to point out that Halyna Hutchins' husband, Matthew, he put out a statement when this civil settlement was reached, saying that he did not feel like anybody should be blamed, but yesterday a new statement from him and the family stating that they support these criminal charges. So you can imagine that things are rather acrimonious going into filming the rest of "Rust".

BLITZER: Clearly a lot going on. Chloe Melas, thank you very much for that new information.

We're also following new information about the man charged in the brutal slayings of four University of Idaho students.

CNN's Veronica Miracle has been working the story for us.

Veronica, so what can you tell us?

VERONICA MIRACLE, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Wolf, we understand that Bryan Kohberger visited the restaurant where two of those victims worked before the murders took place. That's according to "People" magazine. The magazine apparently spoke with a former employee, who said that he visited twice there and also noted that while there was nothing suspicious about those particular visits, he ordered vegan pizza and wanted to make sure that his food did not touch any animal products.

We have previously reported that Xana Kernodle and Madison Mogen both worked at the Mad Greek restaurant in Moscow, Idaho. I spoke with an employee back in November who said that both of the girls were very just positive and so wonderful to be around at that workplace. It's really unclear, though, if either of those victims were at the restaurant when Kohberger visited or if he ever interacted with those victims at the restaurant.

Law enforcement apparently aware of those visits and has interviewed employees and owners of the restaurant. That's also according to "People" magazine. Kohberger is scheduled to appear in June before a judge where that judge will decide if there is enough evidence to go forward with a trial -- Wolf.

BLITZER: All right, Veronica. Thank you very much. Veronica Miracle reporting.

Just ahead, we're learning new information right now about Damar Hamlin's recovery and whether he'll attend Sunday's playoff showdown between the Buffalo Bills and the Cincinnati Bengals.

We'll be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK) [18:57:42]

BLITZER: As my hometown Buffalo Bills prepare for a major playoff matchup against the Cincinnati Bengals this Sunday, we're getting new information about Damar Hamlin's condition.

CNN sports anchor Coy Wire is joining us. He's outside the Bills Stadium in Orchard Park outside of Buffalo. He's got details.

Coy, it's what -- it's been nearly three weeks since Damar Hamlin's on-field collapse during that earlier game against the Bengals. What are you learning about his recovery as the Bills get ready for this big game on Sunday?

COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: Wolf, I got an update that reminds of just how scary and nearly fatal Damar Hamlin's injury was. His business rep Jordan Rooney told me earlier today that Damar still requires oxygen. He gets winded easily. His heart is monitored regularly, and he has a lengthy recovery ahead of him.

He also says that Damar is staying positive. He's ready to overcome. His teammates, Wolf, are feeling not only uplifted but they also feel more settled now that Damar has been back around the team, in the building behind me. Here's what some of his other teammates have had to say this week.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOSH ALLEN, BUFFALO BILLS QUARTERBACK: It's been good to see him, you know, with a smile on his face and, you know, guys love having him back in the building.

DION DAWKINS, BUFFALO BILLS OFFENSIVE TACKLE: To see 3 just smile and just wave and put his hearts up and keep pushing, you know, it's I guess a positive energy bubble that's just floating around the facility.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WIRE: Energy bubble. Like, Wolf, that was you in this stadium last weekend when you were here.

Damar Hamlin continues to unite this team and countless others. Check these out, Wolf. The entire team will be freed up as star offensive lineman Dion Dawkins said. All posting these Damar Hamlin number 3 pendants that the team will be wearing.

There's a Hamlin quote on the back, Wolf. It says: If you get a chance to show some love today, do it. It won't cost you anything.

Huge wave of support, Wolf, for Damar, of course, and also these Buffalo Bills, who have become a bit of America's team, if you will, here over these past several weeks.

BLITZER: It's just a coincidence, I'm sure, but it's interesting, coy. Give me your thoughts. That the game starts at 3:00 p.m. Eastern. WIRE: You know, it really is incredible. That number has been popping up so many times over and over again, and it's really taken over. I talked to two fans yesterday, Wolf, Emily and Erin, repping the Bengals and the Bills, and they started a joint fan base Facebook page, hearts for Hamlin and Higgins.

They're rallying together to raise heart health awareness and encouraging folks to get CPR lessons and, of course, raising money to help those who need it.

BLITZER: And we, of course, wish Damar Hamlin only, only the very best. Coy, thank you very much. We'll stay in very close touch.

To our viewers, thanks very much for watching.

"ERIN BURNETT OUTFRONT" starts right now.

Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNTSR0020230121ej1k00001


News; International
White House Working To Shift Focus Off Mishandling Documents; Pompeo's New Book; Germany Stalls On Tanks For Ukraine; Alec Baldwin To Finish "Rust" Despite Manslaughter Charges; Idaho Student Killings Suspect Visited Restaurant Where Two Victims Worked; China Downplays COVID-19 Surge As Millions Travel For Lunar New Year; Tech Industry Layoffs. Aired 5-6a ET
Kim Brunhuber, Manu Raju, Omar Jimenez, Phil Mattingly, Salma Abdelaziz, Nick Watt, Anderson Cooper, Erin Burnett, Nic Robertson, Ivan Watson, Paul La Monica
6983 字
2023 年 1 月 21 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2023 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[05:00:00]

(JOINED IN PROGRESS)

KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): We'll look at how this impacts both President Biden and Trump's investigations.

Plus, huge layoffs at Google, the company announcing thousands of job cuts. We'll look at what this signals for other tech companies.

And the Bills and Bengals face off again this weekend, just weeks after Damar Hamlin went into cardiac arrest on the field. Sports anchor Andy Scholes joins me to look at how the team is preparing for the big game.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (voice-over): Live from CNN Center, this is CNN NEWSROOM with Kim Brunhuber.

BRUNHUBER: The U.S. Justice Department is signaling that it likely won't cooperate with congressional investigations into President Biden's mishandling of classified documents.

That was the message in a letter sent to House Judiciary chairman Jim Jordan. The committee responded by accusing the DOJ of being, quote, "scared to cooperate" with the probe into how sensitive paperwork ended up in the president's home in Delaware.

Some Democrats are urging the president to be open about what happened.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SEN. BEN CARDIN (D-MD): I want to see complete transparency on how this is handled and brought forward to the American people. I'm convinced there was no intent by the president to do something that was wrong.

MANU RAJU, CNN CHIEF CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Do you think this hurts him politically, are you concerned about that? CARDIN: Well, this is a matter that needs to get -- the president needs to get behind. He has to get all the information out. He has to square it away and make it clear there was no intent here, that it was kept in a place that did not compromise national security of America.

And that there are steps in place today to make sure this does not happen in the future.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER: The White House is focusing hard on shifting the focus away from the investigation. Chief White House correspondent Phil Mattingly reports.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN CHIEF WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: For President Biden on the two-year anniversary of being sworn into office, the issue that had been consuming his administration for the better part of two weeks was nowhere to be seen.

When the president appeared publicly, speaking to members of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, a very lengthy appearance in which the classified documents that are now being investigated never came up at all.

What the president wanted to talk about is his success on his agenda items, legislative success in the first two years, which really laid the groundwork for the year ahead. That is what they want to focus on.

Also the political and legislative opportunities they see in that year ahead, even as House Republicans hold the majority for the first time since Biden has been in office. To some degree, this is a critical part of their strategy as it pertains to the investigation.

Once again, not answering any questions about that investigation that is now underway; instead, focusing on the president's agenda, focusing on what they have accomplished and want to accomplish.

It's already laid the groundwork for a State of the Union address that's less than a moth away. Obviously the investigation is critical to White House officials, at least the team that is working on it. They know it exists and that it poses risks but they also know they don't have any control over where the special counsel ends up taking things.

But senior White House officials believe, when all is said and done, it will show that they did the right things in terms of those documents, found in two different locations.

And they believe what people care most about, particularly the people who may be voting for the current president in 2024, is far more about the economy and policy issues they have pursued than any kind of investigation.

It is a calculation; to some degree, a bet but one White House officials and the president as well believe that it is very much the case -- Phil Mattingly, CNN, the White House.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BRUNHUBER: Meanwhile, Republicans in the House say it's irresponsible for the Biden administration refuse to negotiate on the debt ceiling. The center's borrowing limit, they want the limit linked to spending cuts.

The threshold was reached Thursday at $31.4 trillion. As a result, Washington is taking extraordinary steps to ensure the government pays its bills. That will hold until around the summer.

But if Capitol Hill can't agree on a new limit by then, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen told CNN's Christiane Amanpour the effects would be felt around the world. Here she is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JANET YELLEN, U.S. TREASURY SECRETARY: A failure to make payments that are due, whether it's to bondholders or to Social Security recipients or to our military, would undoubtedly cause a recession in the U.S. economy and could cause a global financial crisis.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER: The election is still more than a year away but the Republican race for the White House is already heating up.

In his new memoir, former Trump secretary of state Mike Pompeo accuses former U.N. Ambassador Nikki Haley of plotting with president Trump's daughter and son-in-law to try to become vice president.

Haley denies the allegations, saying she never had such conversations. Haley, a major Trump supporter during the last election, indicated she may be joining the race for the White House.

[05:05:00]

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

NIKKI HALEY, FORMER U.S. AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N.: I had a great working relationship with the president. What I'll tell you is the survival of America matters. And it's bigger than one person.

And when you're looking at the future of America, I think it's time for new generational change. I don't think you need to be 80 years old to go be a leader in D.C. I think we need a young generation to come in, step up and really start fixing things.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER: And we'll have more on the 2024 presidential race coming up in the next hour with Amara Walker and Boris Sanchez.

The controversial U.S. Republican lawmaker George Santos is facing new and, frankly, bizarre claims this weekend. Santos has been under intense scrutiny after making questionable claims about his life and achievements. Now we're learning he allegedly has a very flamboyant alter ego. Our Omar Jimenez explains.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

QUESTION: Congressman, do you any comments on the Ethics Committee?

OMAR JIMENEZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Here, among the members of Congress, he is known as George Santos.

But in Brazil, a local performer claims Santos was Kitara Ravache, that he once performed as a drag queen, something the New York congressman strongly denies, tweeting, "The media continues to make outrageous claims about my life, while I'm working to deliver results. I will not be distracted nor fazed by this."

It appears to be just one of the names Santos has used over the years.

GREGORY MOREY-PARKER, SANTOS' FORMER ROOMMATE: I've always known him as Anthony Devolder. I've never known him as George Santos.

JIMENEZ: And that's his former roommate.

MOREY-PARKER: I don't understand that he go one by one to everyone in his district and literally pull the wool over their eyes, like how --

JIMENEZ: But it's not just the name or alleged activity in his free time. It's the stories he tells, which appear to be just that, including one about 9/11.

REP. GEORGE SANTOS (R-NY): I get emotional, my parents were both down there the day of the attacks. Fortunately, none of them passed.

My mom was a 9/11 survivor. She was on the South Tower and she made it out.

JIMENEZ: His mom was actually in Brazil at the time, according to immigration records. And on a 2003 form, she said she hadn't been to the U.S. since 1999.

Santos also claimed his grandparents survived the Holocaust and fled Europe to escape Jewish persecution. That's false, genealogy records show.

During his campaign, he claimed he worked at Citigroup and Goldman Sachs, later admitting that that wasn't true. While running for Congress on Long Island he claimed he graduated from Baruch College and NYU, he now admits he didn't.

QUESTION: What's your reaction to members of your -- ?

JIMENEZ: Despite all of these lies, George Santos is now a freshman congressman. He's been named to low level committees by the slim GOP majority. And there are no immediate signs Republican leadership will stop him from walking the halls. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He hasn't committed a crime. He hasn't been indicted on anything at this point. And in this country, you're innocent until proven guilty.

JIMENEZ: Leaving those he's deceived to sit and watch, like two military veterans who say Santos promised to raise funds for lifesaving surgery for one of their dogs in 2016. But that instead, he took off with the money. The dog later died.

RICH OSTHOFF, NAVY VETERAN: The dog saved my life at least two times. When I first got out of the service, I was depressed. I was having nightmares. Bad, bad memories about things that happen. Not more related but other things that the military does to you.

JIMENEZ: Santos denies this ever happened. He told CNN in a statement in part, anyone that knows me knows I go to hell and back for a dog and especially a veteran.

And the veteran's response to Santos was, "He said he'd go to hell and back, well, then," quote, "go to hell, George."

As you can imagine, there are a lot of investigations swirling around Santos. Federal prosecutors are looking into his finances. A watchdog group filed a complaint against him with the Federal Election Commission. Law enforcement in Brazil say they intend to reinstate charges against him connected to a stolen checkbook in 2008.

A complaint has been filed with the Office of Congressional Ethics. All the while, Santos has denied any wrongdoing and is proceeding forward with his freshman term of Congress, tweeting that, "these distractions won't stop me."

At this point, there are a lot of distractions -- Omar Jimenez, CNN, New York.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

(MUSIC PLAYING)

BRUNHUBER: Despite intense negotiations among the West's most senior defense officials, Germany still won't agree to send its Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine. Thousands of the heavy tanks are already deployed to more than a dozen nearby European countries but they can't be sent to Ukraine without Germany's OK.

Even without the big armorer, Ukraine still receiving sophisticated new weapons and equipment that require training and much of the defense meeting in Germany was aimed at coordinating those shipments.

[05:10:00]

BRUNHUBER: U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin offered no hint whether the U.S. might be willing to send its own top of the line battle tanks to Ukraine. Here he is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) GEN. LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE: What we're really focused on is making sure that Ukraine has the capability that it needs to be successful right now. There are tanks in that -- in that -- those offerings.

Poland, for example, continues to offer tanks and will provide tanks if other countries will offer some tank capability as well. I don't have any announcements to make on M-1s. And you heard the German minister of defense say that they have not made a decision on Leopards.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER: Among the latest security packages from Ukraine's allies, the U.S., for the first time, will be sending 90 Stryker armored vehicles, designed to move troops swiftly across the battlefield in snow, mud or sand and they're lighter and more agile than the Bradley fighting vehicle.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER (voice-over): All this happens as the U.S. turns up the heat on the mercenaries serving as Russia's shock troops. The Wagner group is led by a Russian oligarch, Yevgeny Prigozhin, who is on the right in this video. Now the White House is moving to designate them as a transnational criminal organization.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ADM. JOHN KIRBY (RET.), COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS, WHITE HOUSE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL: It will open up additional avenues for us to continue to not only sanction Wagner and put more squeeze on their ability to do business around the world but will assist others in doing the same.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER: Washington is also releasing new pictures of North Korea's alleged arms shipments to mercenaries. U.S. officials believe this train carried the first batch of Pyongyang's weapons for Wagner in November and that there will be more to come.

Salma Abdelaziz is monitoring multiple developments related to Ukraine and she is joining us from London.

First, on Wagner, what's led to the decision and concretely what does it mean?

SALMA ABDELAZIZ, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It shows how concerned the U.S. is about Wagner's expanding role on the ground and the rise of its leader.

Over the course of the last few weeks and months, Prigozhin's openly criticized Russia's organized army, openly criticized the defense ministry, saying they're failing to make gains on the ground, failing to provide weapons that the troops need.

Instead he is pointing to his mercenary group as being successful, as being behind some of the gains we've seen in recent days and weeks. This momentum that has been regained by Russian forces.

The United States says there are some 50,000 members of Wagner on the ground in Ukraine. But about 40,000 of them, according to U.S. officials, are convicts. So concerns about Wagner using the prison system within Russia as the manpower on the ground.

Then, of course, finally, you mentioned this, the connections to other groups, other organizations in other countries, as the transnational part of this designation. It's important to remember Wagner does not just operate in Ukraine; it operates in the Middle East in places like Syria and across Africa, as well.

So in addition to the U.S. making this announcement, it also declassified these images that I know you have, that show or the U.S. says it shows these images of Russian rail cars going to North Korea to pick up arms and weapons, that are then used by Wagner on the ground in Ukraine.

Of course it's not just North Korea that's been providing weapons to replenish Russia's arsenal on the ground; Iran, as well, has been accused by the United States of giving drones, ballistic missiles, again, replenishing that arsenal.

This is absolutely significant at a time that we're seeing Russia regain momentum and make small but significant gains in places like Bakhmut. Kim.

BRUNHUBER: All right. One of the other major angles we've been covering these past few days has been whether Germany would allow Leopard tanks to be sent to Ukraine. You've been watching that.

What's the latest?

ABDELAZIZ: A rare moment of disagreement or standoff, if you will, among Western allies that really have, from the start of the conflict, been quite unified, been quite in lockstep. Germany showing its reluctance to allow these tanks, the Leopard 2 tanks, to be used in Ukraine.

It is also Germany that has to sign off for some over a dozen countries in Europe that holds about 2,000 of these tanks to potentially begin to deploy those tanks on the ground.

CNN has reported earlier -- and I have to indicate Germany has denied that this is the reason behind its reluctance. But CNN has reported that Germany is looking to the United States as well to deploy Abram (sic) tanks.

Now the U.S. has made the argument, U.S. officials have made the argument, that those are less practical than Germany's tanks.

Now Germany still continues to review this information. There is a decision that is expected in the coming days. But absolutely, for President Zelenskyy, this cannot come soon enough. He wants to see these tanks on the ground right now. I want you to take a listen to what he said.

[05:15:00]

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Today's Ramstein will strengthen our resilience. Our partners are principled in their approach. They will support Ukraine as long as necessary for our victory.

Yes, we still have to fight for the supply of modern tanks. But every day we make it more obvious that there is no alternative to the fact that the decision on tanks must be taken.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

ABDELAZIZ: Now this is ever more important, of course, as I mentioned, gains being made on the ground by Russia. This is absolutely important for President Zelenskyy's outcomes on the battlefield.

BRUNHUBER: Absolutely. All right, Salma Abdelaziz, thank you so much from London.

Facing criminal charges for the death of a crew member on his movie, "Rust," but actor Alec Baldwin is saying the movie will continue as planned.

Plus a U.S. outlet reporting new details about the suspect in the killings of four Idaho college students. That and a conversation with the reporter after the break. Stay with us.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(MUSIC PLAYING)

BRUNHUBER: A source close to Alec Baldwin tells CNN the actor- producer intends to finish the movie "Rust" --

[05:20:00]

BRUNHUBER: -- despite facing involuntary manslaughter charges for the shooting death of a crew member.

The film's cinematographer, Halyna Hutchins, was shot when a supposedly prop gun that Baldwin was holding fired a real bullet, killing Hutchins and wounding the director. Nick Watt has more.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NICK WATT, CNN ANCHOR AND NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Hilaria Baldwin appeared to create a diversion.

HILARIA BALDWIN, ALEC'S WIFE: Guys, you're hurting me.

WATT: While husband Alex slipped out of their Manhattan apartment.

This afternoon, the press pack caught coming home. He is not talking.

Baldwin's lawyers say he was blindsided by the criminal charges.

Baldwin himself told CNN just a few months ago --

ALEC BALDWIN, ACTOR: They're not -- they're not going to charge anybody in my mind. Criminal charges are things you avoid unless you know you can make a case.

WATT: Baldwin was a producer on "Rust" and an actor. He was pointing the gun, not knowing it was loaded, toward cinematographer Halyna Hutchins when it went off, killing her.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: He's been charged with both. He was the actor that pulled the trigger, so certainly he is charged as an actor.

WATT: Baldwin denies he pulled the trigger and an actor charged for an accident on set is raising some eyebrows.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Actors cannot be expected and are not expected to do final safety checks.

BALDWIN: My job is not to concentrate on whether the gun is safe. We have people there for that.

WATT: Like the armorer, Hannah Gutierrez Reed, who is charged with involuntary manslaughter along with Baldwin.

Baldwin says the first assistant director, Dave Halls, actually handed him the weapon, told him it was safe.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We stand very firm that he did not have the hand of the gun to Alec Baldwin.

WATT: Halls has signed a plea agreement for the charge of negligent use of a deadly weapon. Still unanswered, how did live ammunition even get on to the set?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: We have an idea.

WATT: So can she share that idea?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I can't. And the reason I can't is we have given that information to the district attorney and they need to do their own follow-up.

WATT: Accidents like this are very, very rare. Brandon Lee, son of Bruce, was killed on the film set nearly 30 years ago, hit by a bullet fragments fire from a prop gun that should have been empty.

Criminal charges were never filed. This actor was holding the gun.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I mean, what happened to Brandon was a tragic accident. And it's something that I'm -- that I'm going to live with.

WATT: However, this criminal case against Alec Baldwin plays out, he will live with what happened to Halyna.

A. BALDWIN: The toughest part is we can never bring her back. Never. There's nothing we can do to undo that. And give anything to undo that. And we can't.

WATT: Now a civil settlement was reached with Halyna Hutchins' family months ago. Part of the deal: her husband, Matthew, will serve as an executive producer on "Rust" if filming resumes.

Now at the time, Matthew Hutchins said that he had, quote, "no interest" in recriminations or attribution of blame that his wife's death was a terrible accident. But now the family says that these charges are, quote, "warranted" and, by the way, if Alec Baldwin is convicted, jail time is a possibility -- Nick Watt, CNN, Los Angeles.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BRUNHUBER: Both Alec Baldwin and the armorer say they weren't aware the prop gun had live ammunition.

Gabrielle Pickle, the film's line producer, was on location in New Mexico when the tragedy happened. She joined CNN's Anderson Cooper for an exclusive interview, in which she was asked about the live ammunition and her reaction to the criminal charges. Here she is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GABRIELLE PICKLE, LINE PRODUCER, "RUST": I don't know that I can speak to that. I don't know what the D.A. has. I feel awful for everyone involved. Yes, my heart goes out to them.

ANDERSON COOPER, CNN HOST: I think a lot of people obviously want to try to understand how live ammunition ended up on the set in the first place. At this stage, are you -- is anybody any closer to understanding how that actually happened?

PICKLE: I have been asking that question for 15 months. It is so mind-blowing to me. I didn't believe it for, honestly, for months, that it was live ammo. Once the FBI ballistics report came back, there was no disputing it.

But it was absolutely unfathomable. Had I known about it, it would have been immediately addressed. It's a fireable offense, huge safety violation. And had any crew or cast member known, I'm fully confident they would have also reported it and shut it down immediately.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER: "People" magazine reports that suspect in the murders of four Idaho college students visited a restaurant, where two of the victims worked in the weeks before the killings.

[05:25:00]

BRUNHUBER: Citing a former employee, the outlet claims that Bryan Kohberger went to the Mad Greek restaurant in Moscow, Idaho, at least twice and ordered vegan pizza. Madison Mogen and Xana Kernodle were both servers there but the restaurant itself denied the report in a Facebook post.

The reporter who worked on the story described to CNN's Erin Burnett what he was told.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

STEVE HELLING, SENIOR CRIME WRITER, "PEOPLE": He had certain dietary requirements. He was a strict vegan and he wanted to make sure that none of his food touched animal products.

So this was -- obviously it's a pizza place that has vegan options that are far beyond like a pineapple pizza but actual vegan pizzas. And he was always ordering those.

ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: Yes, that kind of bizarre obsession with it stood out.

All right. So Instagram, I mentioned, after the technical, issues that you reported that there was an Instagram apart that authorities believe belonged to Kohberger. We have been able to compete in this but you have reported this.

A series of messages to one of the victims saying, "Hey, how are you?"

And kept doing it.

What more have you learned about that?

HELLING: None of those messages were strange. None of those messages were aggressive or threatening or anything like that. But yes, he was trying to make some sort of contact with this person.

And also he was sending notes, saying, "Hey, how are you?"

But police believe that those actually went into another folder and she wasn't following him back. So she may not have ever seen them.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER: CNN hasn't been able to verify this reporting. A gag order prevents parties in the case from commenting beyond what is in the court record. Kohberger has not yet entered a plea. But a Pennsylvania attorney who handled his extradition told NBC News, quote, "he believes he is going to be exonerated."

A weapon that Kyiv describes as a must-have remains off limits for now. Still ahead, why Ukraine still isn't getting what they say they need to win the war against Russia. Plus, for the first time since the coronavirus outbreak, millions of people in China are traveling for the Lunar New Year holiday. Right after the break, fears jamming people into buses and trains could spark a new COVID surge.

Stay with us.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[05:30:00]

(MUSIC PLAYING)

BRUNHUBER: Welcome back to all of you watching here in the United States, Canada and around the world. I'm Kim Brunhuber, there is CNN NEWSROOM. Let's get you up to speed with the latest developments related to Ukraine.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER (voice-over): The U.S. is turning up the heat on Russia's Wagner mercenaries, whose boss is on the right in this video. Washington is moving to declare Wagner a transnational criminal organization, which will be followed by new sanctions on the group and its global network of supporters.

The U.S. is also releasing pictures of North Korea's alleged arms shipment to Wagner. Officials believe this train brought in rockets and missiles for the mercenary army in November and that more shipments will follow.

Ukraine's deputy foreign minister is still hoping Germany will come around and support sending Leopard tanks to Kyiv. Berlin failed to reach an agreement on that on Friday. Germany says they will make a decision as soon as possible. But other supporters are growing impatient.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER: In the meantime, the allies are trying to downplay the rift and talk about the other firepower that's on the way. Nic Robertson has that story.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): Amidst rare disagreement, Ukraine's allies, at a U.S.-led meeting in Germany, failed to agree on their biggest challenge yet: whether to send German-made Leopard tanks to Ukraine.

BORIS PISTORIUS, GERMAN DEFENSE MINISTER (through translator): All the pros and cons have to be weighed very carefully. We cannot all say today when a decision will be made nor will that decision on the Leopard tanks will be. ROBERTSON (voice-over): Ukraine's President Zelenskyy, concerned about a Russian spring offensive, told the meeting, allies need to speed up or more Ukrainians will die.

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: Time remains a Russian weapon. We have to speed up not hundreds of thank you but now hundreds of tanks.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): The meeting's host tried to paper over the cracks, talk top urgency and unity, not differences over tanks.

AUSTIN: This isn't really about one single platform. And so our goal -- and I think we've been fairly successful at doing this and bringing together capability -- is to provide the capability that Ukraine needs to be successful in the near term.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): Ukraine says it needs 300 of the Leopard 2 tanks; about 2,000 are currently in use with its allies. But those allies need German permission to reexport them. Ministers of some of those nations met on the margins at Ramstein, one of them Poland.

MARIUSZ BLASZCZAK, POLISH DEFENSE MINISTER (through translator): I'm convinced that building this coalition will be successful, just as the issue of transferring Patriot systems to Ukraine was successful.

ROBERTSON (voice-over): But despite disagreement over tanks, the threat of a Russian spring offensive has triggered a surge in military hardware pledged to Ukraine recently. The U.S. alone committing 90 Stryker combat vehicles, 59 Bradley fighting vehicles and 350 up- armored Humvees Thursday. Sweden, Denmark, the U.K., Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Portugal, France and Germany, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and others together sending multiple battalions worth of offensive capability.

The talks Friday trying to sync it all up.

GEN. MARK MILLEY, CHAIRMAN, U.S. JOINT CHIEFS: For all these different nations that are here today, to assemble all of the equipment, get it all synchronized, get the Ukrainian troops trained, et cetera, that will be a very, very heavy lift.

ROBERTSON: Milley's analysis, even if Ukraine can sync up its forces with all the armaments coming their way, they still won't be able to retake all their lost territory this year. The issue of Ukraine needing modern battlefield tanks is far from over -- Nic Robertson, CNN, London.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BRUNHUBER: Fears are growing that China could see a new surge in COVID-19 infections as more than 5 million people are expected to travel by train and air to their hometowns today alone to celebrate the Lunar New Year holiday.

There were more than 9 million travelers on Friday. The government estimates there will be more than 2 billion trips across China this holiday season.

[05:35:00]

BRUNHUBER: A huge uptick after Beijing's strict zero-COVID policy was lifted last month. Officials say the virus is what they call a relatively low level and the number of COVID patients in hospitals is declining. But many doubt the official government assessment.

Lockdowns have taken a toll on Chinese society, which is only now starting to come to grips with the enormous costs of the government's failed policy. CNN's Ivan Watson reports from Hong Kong.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): A population on the move.

After three years of restrictions due to their government's war on COVID, Chinese can finally travel again, just in time for the upcoming Lunar New Year holiday. In pre-pandemic times, this was described as the world's largest annual human migration.

"I haven't been home in three years," says this man at the main Beijing train station. Millions of Chinese people are traveling, as COVID-19 spreads out of control.

WATSON: Chinese officials say COVID infections have passed their peak in many parts of the country but there are clearly still concerns about the scale of the outbreak.

For example, here in Hong Kong, authorities require all of these travelers arriving on high- speed trains from mainland China to get negative COVID test first before they can cross the border.

WATSON (voice-over): Last month, Beijing abruptly scrapped its strict zero COVID policy. The ensuing surge of sick people putting a strain on hospitals and health workers. Several social media videos showed nurses sick with COVID collapsing on the job.

"I felt unwell," says this nurse in Shandong. "It had been a week that I had COVID-19 until that day when I finally collapsed."

Over the weekend, health officials who once prided themselves on keeping COVID out of China, abruptly raised the COVID death toll since early December, from several dozen COVID deaths to nearly 60,000 people killed by COVID. But the official U-turn on COVID has had other unintended consequences.

At a factory in Chongqing, workers pelted police with what appeared to be boxes of COVID tests.

Some biotech companies withholding salaries or laying off workers after the government suddenly stopped demanding the population take millions of COVID tests a day.

GEORGE MAGNUS, RESEARCH ASSOCIATE, UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD CHINA CENTER: The implementation of zero COVID and the abrupt and unprepared manner in which it was abandoned, it speaks to a chronic government's failure.

WATSON (voice-over): One of China's richest provinces, Guangdong, spent around $22 billion over three years on pandemic prevention.

MAGNUS: A lot of these local governments are highly indebted. They've got big cash flow problems. This is a big problem that the central government and local governments will have to sort out in this coming decade but COVID just kind of made it worse, really.

WATSON: For now, uncertainty over public health and government finances has done little to dampen a palpable sense of excitement. Understandable as Chinese emerge from pandemic lockdown to celebrate the Year of the Rabbit, the biggest holiday of the year -- Ivan Watson, CNN, Hong Kong.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BRUNHUBER: New Zealand will soon have a new leader. The country's education minister, Chris Hipkins, is set to replace Jacinda Ardern as prime minister following her shocking resignation announcement earlier this week.

The ruling Labour Party says it will meet Sunday afternoon to endorse the nomination and confirm Hipkins as prime minister. Ardern said Thursday she doesn't have the energy to seek re-election in October's general election.

At least 15 people have been injured after a bomb blast derailed a passenger train in southwestern Pakistan. The explosion knocked eight carriages and the engine completely off the rails.

A provincial government official added the mountainous area where the attack happened has made the search and rescue operation difficult. A militant separatist group, which wants independence from the region, has claimed responsibility for the bombing.

Still ahead, Google is the latest in the tech industry to be hit by layoffs as parent company Alphabet says it will let go of 12,000 employees. That's next.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[05:40:00]

(MUSIC PLAYING)

BRUNHUBER: Unfortunately, there's no letup in the tech industry layoffs. Google's parent company is among the latest to announce job cuts. Alphabet says it's letting 12,000 employees go, about 6 percent of its work force.

The CEO says Alphabet overhired when the economy was hot. And that's been a trend in Silicon Valley. More than 200,000 tech jobs have been lost since the start of last year. CNN's Paul La Monica explains the mass tech layoffs.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PAUL LA MONICA, CNNMONEY DIGITAL CORRESPONDENT: For all of the tech giants, that's why we've seen layoff announcements at Amazon, at Facebook parent Meta, at Microsoft, now you have Alphabet joining this unhappy parade of companies that realize that, when times were good, they ramped up.

Times aren't necessarily as good as they were a few years ago. And everyone's bracing for the most telegraphed recession probably in modern history. So we have job cuts. It's not surprising.

It's very unfortunate, though, and it wouldn't surprise me, though, if we see further job announcements, layoff announcements from other big tech companies.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER: For more on this, I'm joined by Margaret O'Mara, a University of Washington tech historian and joins me from Seattle, Washington.

Thank you so much for being with us. We just heard the reporter there, is the explanation as simple as that?

Tech companies grew too quickly during the good times?

MARGARET O'MARA, TECH HISTORIAN, UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON: Yes. I mean, it's been a time of really extraordinary growth, particularly the last years, three years of the pandemic, when everyone was moving to working at home.

Or many people were moving to work at home and to learn at home and ordering things in from places like Amazon and other tech companies. And that stimulated incredible demand that caused the growth of these companies, for them to hire like crazy.

And they kind of followed suit. As one company would hire a lot of people, so would others. And now the reverse is happening.

BRUNHUBER: Interesting.

So is there a certain type of tech worker who's been more vulnerable to these layoffs or is it all across the board?

O'MARA: Yes, it's across the board. Look, tech -- the people who have the really highly specialized engineering skills are always the most in demand and I think will continue to be.

[05:45:00]

O'MARA: Look, these companies are -- they're trying to retrench a bit and to prioritize. The very big platforms do a lot of things. And they're having to select what are the things we're going to double down on and focus on.

A real emerging trend is AI. You see it with -- both with Microsoft and at Google out of a concentration on how do we kind of stay at the cutting edge and compete with that.

And maybe moving away from some other projects that were moon shots or products that weren't going as well as they hoped. But there's -- you know, it's going to be a real variety across the sector.

BRUNHUBER: So according to one report, the number of layoffs in the sector were the highest since the dotcom crash of more than 20 years ago.

As a tech historian, put what we're seeing now into context.

O'MARA: Yes. Well, this is different than the dotcom crash. Look, there's some similarities. Then in 2000-2001 you had rising interest rates, you had macroeconomic conditions that were affecting the flow of capital into the tech market, both startups and big companies.

There was a lot of froth and hype around certain things. We could say a good parallel to the dotcom hype was crypto, which, even before the layoffs of recent months, was already entering its winter.

But I think what's really different is the scale of tech. In 1999 and 2000, the industry was much smaller. It was important and growing and exciting but it was not the thing on which everything else ran. The companies were not as large.

So the scale is quite different and the variety of things that these companies do and provide and the backbone that they provide for other companies is much greater.

BRUNHUBER: So I mean, tech forms such a huge part of the infrastructure, as you just said. But as a sector it only makes up about, what, 2 percent of jobs in the American economy.

But even though it's small relative to the rest of the American work force, obviously the big worry for the rest of us is a ripple effect.

So is what we're seeing now the canary in the coal mine?

Or could it actually eventually lead to broader downturn, do you think?

O'MARA: Yes. It -- it's hard to see. You know, I'm a history professor, so I don't like predicting the future. I know it can be a dangerous game. But you know, there is going to be a ripple effect.

Look, if tech is a highly geographically concentrated industry, concentrated in my city in Seattle and the Bay Area but also other cities around the world. Significant tech sectors, they're going to feel that pain more sharply.

It's not just the layoffs in companies, it's the retailers that depend on these tech workers to come and buy their lunch there or -- and significantly, commercial real estate, which already was getting upended by the pandemic and so much white-collar work going in.

You know, tech companies were leasing a lot of square footage over the last three years. Now they're pulling back. So that's going to have a big effect.

BRUNHUBER: Appreciate your time and your historical perspective on what we're seeing now. Margaret O'Mara, thank you so much.

O'MARA: Thank you.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BRUNHUBER: Still ahead, Buffalo Bills safety Damar Hamlin has been back at the team facility. But his recovery is far from over. New details on his condition coming up. Please stay with us.

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[05:50:00]

(MUSIC PLAYING)

(SPORTS)

[05:55:00]

(SPORTS)

BRUNHUBER: That wraps this hour of CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Kim Brunhuber. Follow me on Twitter. "CNN THIS MORNING" is next.

Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020230121ej1l000m9


Daily Headline News for February 8, 2023
3405 字
2023 年 2 月 8 日 16:00 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS General Newswire
DANWS
英文
© 2023 Interfax-America, Inc.
Digest of headline news as of 7:00 p.m. Moscow time on February 8:

BUSINESS & FINANCE

*** DOLLAR RISES ABOVE 72 RUBLES FOR FIRST TIME SINCE JAN 9

The dollar, the euro and the yuan accelerated their gains on the Moscow Exchange Wednesday afternoon.

The dollar rose above 72 rubles/$1 for the first time since January 9, and the euro is trading near 78 rubles, while the yuan is at its maximum since the beginning of May 2022.

*** RUSSIAN AUTHORITIES DISCUSSING WITH LARGE BUSINESSES ONE-TIME VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION TO BUDGET FROM 2022 PROFITS - BELOUSOV

The Russian authorities are discussing with large businesses a one-time voluntary contribution to the budget from profits generated during the financially successful year of 2022; and this would not entail raising taxes, but, rather, would be like paying a windfall tax, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov told reporters.

According to the Federal State Statistics Service (Rosstat), Russian enterprises generated combined pre-tax profit (profit minus losses) of 16.6 trillion rubles in the first half of 2022, a rise of 32% year-on-year. However, the dynamics deteriorated somewhat in the second half of the year, with a balance of 20.2 trillion rubles in 9M 2022 that was already 2.7% year-on-year lower. Rosstat intends to publish full-year data in March.

"Yes, a voluntary contribution from businesses is under discussion; a one-time contribution. The fact is that last year's financial results were very good, and many companies, especially in the first half of the year for the first three quarters, generated solid, positive results. The topic is currently under discussion, I would say," Belousov told reporters on Wednesday.

*** RUSSIAN COMPANIES THAT GENERATED WINDFALL PROFITS IN 2021-22 SHOULD CONTRIBUTE VOLUNTARILY TO BUDGET - FINANCE MINISTRY

Large Russian companies that generated market windfall profits in 2021-2022 should contribute voluntarily to the federal budget, and it would not be fair to hike profit tax in general in order to resolve the matter of replenishing the government's coffers, the Finance Ministry said in a statement.

"The Russian government does not support the proposal to increase the rate of the corporate profit tax, as the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RSPP) has proposed. Additional market revenues have not been generated in the entire economy as a whole, but, rather, only in individual sectors and for individual taxpayers. Accordingly, the measure will affect different sectors of the economy at unequal rates," the Finance Ministry said in the statement.

"First of all, it is necessary here to consider those who have generated excess profits over the previous two years, and take the decision on contributions based on this, as it is expected to be voluntary on the part of RSPP members," the Finance Ministry notes.

*** FREE ECONOMIC ZONE MAY APPEAR IN RUSSIA'S NEW REGIONS

The possibility of establishing a free economic zone in Russia's new regions is under consideration, Russian Construction, Housing and Utilities Minister Irek Faizullin said.

"Similar steps [to create free economic zones] are also ongoing as part of the implementation of the socioeconomic development of the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions, the Donetsk and Lugansk republics," Faizullin said at a government Q&A session in the State Duma on Wednesday.

A total of 116 organizations and branches were opened in Crimea's free economic zone in 2022, and investments of 22 billion rubles were raised, he said.

In fall 2022, the Construction, Housing and Utilities Ministry was appointed to oversee the socioeconomic development of Crimea, Sevastopol and Russia's four new regions.

*** PM'S SPOKESMAN DENIES REPORT THAT GOVT PRESSURING CENTRAL BANK TO LOWER KEY INTEREST RATE

A spokesman for the Russian government has denied a report that the Cabinet is pressuring the Central Bank to lower the key interest rate.

"The Bloomberg report about pressure from the government of the Russian Federation on the Bank of Russia on the issue of lowering the key rate is not true," Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin's press secretary Boris Belyakov said.

"The Cabinet and Central Bank are in constant contact, including on the issues of working out measures to support the economy amid sanctions, and act within the boundaries of their authority and function," Belyakov said.

He added that the "publication of such information is always sensitive for businesses and citizens," and "such misinformation is speculation with the aim of influencing the development of the situation in the economy."

*** GDP GROWTH SCENARIO FOR RUSSIA IN 2023 POSSIBLE - BELOUSOV

A growth scenario for the Russian economy in 2023 is possible, the government will take measures to implement it, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov told reporters.

"There are opportunities for growth in 2023, this is a probabilistic case. In this sense, the IMF evaluates us even better than we do ourselves," he said, commenting on the likelihood of the latest forecast by the IMF, which expects the Russian economy to grow in 2023, materializing.

"I have already said that we will keep within a 1% decline [in 2023], because the first quarter of 2022 was very positive [growth in the first quarter of 2022 was 3.5%], so there is a statistical effect - the high base effect, but then many things will depend on intra-year dynamics - and we have the opportunity to achieve growth for 2023," Belousov said.

*** RUSSIA TO MAKE DECISION IN MARCH ON ADVISABILITY OF RESPONSE MEASURES TO EMBARGO, PRICE CAPS ON RUSSIAN FUELS - NOVAK

Russia will decide by March on the advisability of retaliatory measures to the February 5 EU and G7 embargo and price ceiling for Russian fuel, Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak told reporters.

"We are now studying the new decisions adopted [by the EU and G7 on the embargo and price co on fuel from Russia] to understand the feasibility of [retaliatory measures]. Prior to March, of course, there will be decisions," he said.

*** FORTUM WARNS OF UNCERTAINTIES REGARDING RUSSIA EXIT, INCL. REGULATORY APPROVALS

Fortum will need more time to complete its exit from Russia due to "significant uncertainties," including regulatory approvals, related to the ongoing divestment process, the Finnish energy company reported on Tuesday.

Due to the increasingly complex operating environment and prolonged uncertainty regarding Fortum's Russian operations, the company will record additional pre-tax impairments of about 990 million euros related to its Russia segment in its fourth quarter 2022 results.

This includes about 550 million euros related to fixed assets for Fortum's Russia segment, about 250 million euros related to Fortum's ownership in TGC-1 and joint ventures and 190 million euros in write downs mainly related to wind assets.

*** VESTAS ENDS ALL ACTIVITY IN RUSSIA, LEAVING STRANDED ASSETS AND CASH IDLE

Danish renewable energy equipment manufacturer Vestas has chosen the most uncompromising option for exiting Russia, one that other companies have so far preferred not to take.

Vestas was a wind power technology partner of Fortum in Russia. The company announced its exit from the country in the spring, after the special military operation in Ukraine had begun. Vestas had quite a presence in Russia, with two production sites: Vestas Manufacturing Rus, which manufactures composite blades for wind turbines, began operations in December 2018 in Ulyanovsk, and was, according to the Russian Industry and Trade Ministry, supposed to have been mothballed by the end of 2022; and together with Rusnano, the company also launched manufacturing of wind turbine gondolas at the Liebherr plant in Dzerzhinsk.

Vestas said in its annual report on Wednesday that the "environment in and around Russia" left it with "no viable options to continue to pursue orderly corporate property liquidations and activity wind down." As a result, the company on January 31 therefore "exited Russia by putting a full stop to all remaining corporate activities in Russia without delay, including terminating remaining employees and leaving stranded assets including cash idle."

*** NORNICKEL-ROSATOM JV RECEIVES KOLMOZERSKOYE LITHIUM FIELD LICENSE

Polar Lithium LLC, a joint venture between Rosatom state nuclear energy corporation and Norilsk Nickel, has received the license for the Kolmozerskoye lithium deposit, Russia's biggest, Nornickel said in a statement.

The Federal Subsurface Resources agency held an auction for the right to develop and mine the deposit with a starting price of 1.56 billion rubles. The license is valid 20 years.

*** VEON CONFIRMS PLANS TO CLOSE DEAL BY JUNE 1 TO SELL VIMPELCOM AFTER OBTAINING PERMISSION FROM RUSSIAN AUTHORITIES

VEON intends to close the deal to sell VimpelCom within the established timeframe by June 1, the holding said in a statement.

VEON announced the timeframe when the deal was first announced, though indicated that everything would depend on obtaining permission from the Russian regulators.

The company has announced that the deal has received approval from the government commission on foreign investment and the Federal Anti-monopoly Service (FAS).

*** RUSSIAN AGRICULTURE MINISTRY DISTRIBUTES QUOTA ON GRAIN EXPORTS AMONG 203 COMPANIES

Russia's Agriculture Ministry has distributed the quota on grain exports among 203 companies, according to the ministry's order posted on the Telegram channel of the Grain Exporters Union.

The quota enters into effect on February 15 this year, and it is distributed traditionally, granting the leading exporters the largest share. Consequently, RIF Trading House's quota is 4.909 million tonnes, Grain Gates LLC's is 3.242 million tonnes, Aston's is 2.774 million tonnes, and Viterra Rus LLC's is 2.114 million tonnes. OZK Trading, a subsidiary of United Grain Company, has a quota of 1.1 million tonnes.

*** LEGENDAGRO STARTS EXPORTING GRAIN TO CHINA THROUGH ZARUBINO PORT

Legendagro Group has begun shipping grain to China through the Zarubino port in Primorye, the Far East and Arctic Development Corporation (FEDC) reported.

The Russian-Chinese group's Legendagro Logistics, a resident of the Free Port of Vladivostok, shipped more 10,000 tonnes of corn through Troitsa Bay Seaport LLC, a stevedoring company at the Zarubino port, at the beginning of February. The shipment is expected to arrive at the Qingdao port in Shandong province in a few days.

*** BELARUS LIFTS RESTRICTIONS ON FOOD EXPORTS TO NEIGHBORING EU STATES

Belarus has lifted restrictions on food exports to Poland, Lithuania and Latvia from every Belarusian region that put such restrictions in place in the past. The respective resolution of the Brest Regional Executive Committee has been published on the national website of legal information, following similar decisions of the Vitebsk and Grodno regional executive committees. The decisions took effect after their official publishing and would stay in force through 2023.

The resolutions say that the ban on exports of goods by individuals for personal use outside the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) customs territory under the list and in quantities specified in the appendix to Belarusian Government Resolution No. 224 dated April 12, 2022, did not apply to the goods purchased by individuals for exports to Poland, Lithuania and Latvia.

*** KAZAKHSTAN REQUIRES INT'L TRAVEL PASSPORT OF FOREIGNERS SEEKING PERMANENT RESIDENCE

Kazakhstan has amended the rules for applying for permanent residence for foreigners, the Kazakh Interior Ministry said in a statement.

"Citizens of countries, which have relevant migration agreements with Kazakhstan, may enter, depart, transit, travel and temporarily stay in our country on the basis of domestic documents. However, foreigners seeking permanent residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan need an international travel passport as an identification document of a foreign citizen or a stateless person, which confirms their legal status," the statement, published on the ministry's information website Polisia.kz, said.

POLITICS & SOCIETY

*** RUSSIAN MEDICAL TEAM TO BE SENT TO TURKEY TO AID QUAKE VICTIMS - RUSSIAN HEALTH MINISTRY

A team of 11 doctors from leading federal medical centers of the Russian Health Ministry will be sent to Turkey to help victims of the devastating quake, Alexei Kuznetsov, assistant to the Russian health minister, said.

"A medical team will be sent to Turkey today to provide medical assistance to the quake victims on the orders from Russian President Vladimir Putin," Kuznetsov told reporters on Wednesday.

The eleven-member team will include traumatologists, neurosurgeons, surgeons, pediatric surgeons and anesthesiologists-resuscitators from leading federal medical centers of the Russian Health Ministry, he said.

*** DEATH TOLL FROM QUAKE IN TURKEY EXCEEDS 8,500

The death toll from a strong quake in Turkey has reached 8,547, while the number of those injured has exceeded 49,000, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Wednesday.

"The number of deaths from the quake with the epicenter in the Kahramanmaras province has reached 8,574, while 49,133 people have been injured and 6,444 buildings have been destroyed," Erdogan said in Kahramanmaras, where he arrived on Wednesday to coordinate search-and-rescue efforts. The Anadolu news agency quoted his statement.

Meanwhile, the EFE agency reported 2,662 deaths in the quake in Syria. The overall death toll in both countries has exceeded 11,200.

*** RUSSIA, MAURITANIA SHOULD BOOST ECONOMIC TIES - LAVROV

Moscow and Nouakchott deem it necessary to enhance economic ties, especially direct contacts between business entities of the two countries, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said following a meeting with Mauritanian President Mohamed Ould Ghazouani on Wednesday.

"We had a very interesting, substantive conversation with the Mauritanian president, with the participation of the foreign minister and aides to Mr. President. We focused primarily on the state of our bilateral relations. We agreed to celebrate worthily the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations next year. That period was full of intensive cooperation in various areas: in the trade and economic sphere, humanitarian, educational and, certainly, in the foreign policy field," Lavrov said.

*** GERMANY MULLING OPTIONS TO SEIZE FROZEN RUSSIAN FUNDS FOR UKRAINE - RUSSIA'S AMBASSADOR

Germany is exploring the possibility of seizing frozen Russian government funds for Ukraine, Russia's ambassador to Germany, Sergei Nechayev said in an interview with Izvestia published on Wednesday.

"Options are being explored for seizing frozen state funds of Russia for the benefit of Ukraine. If there is any debate about this, then only about how to justify the confiscation plans correctly in legal terms and make them look plausible. But our counterparties should not deceive themselves," Nechayev said.

He said "such a move will be fatal in terms of the appeal of German jurisdiction for foreign capital, and will also incur our retaliatory steps."

*** WEST SUPPLIED BILLIONS WORTH OF WEAPONS TO AFGHANISTAN - RUSSIA'S SECURITY COUNCIL SECRETARY

Weapons worth tens of billions of dollars were supplied by Western countries to Afghanistan, Russian Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev said.

"Furthermore, there is also weapons left in large numbers by the Western coalition during its retreat. I am talking about 1,000 armored vehicles and armored personnel carriers, dozens of planes and helicopters, hundreds of artillery weapons, mortars, anti-tank and anti-aircraft systems, as well as hundreds of thousands of heavy weapons and small arms worth tens of billions of dollars," Patrushev said on Wednesday at a multilateral meeting of security council secretaries on the Afghan problem.

These weapons may provoke more intense fighting between various Afghan groups and may be sold on the black market, including to terrorists in third countries, he said.

*** RUSSIAN PLANE WITH HUMANITARIAN AID HEADED TO IRAN - RUSSIAN EMERGENCY SITUATIONS MINISTRY

The Russian Emergency Situations Ministry will deliver humanitarian aid to Iran on the government's orders, the ministry press service said.

"An Ilyushin Il-76 plane of the Russian Emergency Situations Ministry has departed from the Zhukovsky Airport to deliver humanitarian aid to the Islamic Republic of Iran. Humanitarian cargo with a total weight of 35 tonnes will be delivered on the orders from the government of the Russian Federation," the press service said.

The humanitarian aid includes sugar, flour, vegetable oil, tents, warm blankets, stoves and a mobile power plant.

*** STATE PROSECUTOR REQUESTS 23-YEAR TERM FOR RUSSIAN EX-GOVERNOR IN MURDER CASE

The state prosecutor has asked the court to sentence Sergei Furgal, a former governor of Russia's Khabarovsk Territory found guilty by a jury of murders, to 23 years in a high-security penal colony, a spokesperson for the Moscow Region Court told Interfax on Wednesday.

"The state prosecutor asked the court to conclusively sentence Sergei Furgal to 23 years in a high-security correctional facility," the spokesperson said.

The state prosecutor requested terms of 10.5 years, 17 years and 22 years in a high-security penitentiary to three other defendants in this case - Marat Kadyrov, Andrei Palei and Andrei Karepov.

*** MOSCOW HELSINKI GROUP WEBSITE BLOCKED IN RUSSIA

The Federal Service for Supervision of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media (Roskomnadzor) has blocked the website of the Moscow Helsinki Group human rights organization in Russia.

Access to the Moscow Helsinki Group website was restricted in Russia, according to the Roskomnadzor universal service for checking restrictions on access to websites and webpages. The service does not indicate who demanded the website be added to the register of information prohibited in Russia.

*** BELARUSIAN COURT GIVES 8-YEAR TERM TO POLISH TV JOURNALIST POCZOBUT

The Grodno Regional Court on Wednesday handed down an eight-year term in an enhanced-security penal colony to Andrzej Poczobut, a journalist of Poland's Polonia international public television channel and a Union of Poles in Belarus activist, the press service for the Belarusian Supreme Court said.

"In accordance with Part 2 of Article 72 of the Criminal Code, for the totality of the crimes committed, Andrzej Poczobut was sentenced to eight years in an enhanced-security correctional facility by partly adding up the penalties," the press service said.

*** ARMENIAN FM SAYS READY TO MEET WITH RUSSIAN, AZERBAIJANI COUNTERPARTS

Armenian Foreign Minister Ararat Mirzoyan has declared the readiness to meet with the foreign ministers of Russia and Azerbaijan, Sergei Lavrov and Jeyhun Bayramov, in Moscow.

"We have not cancelled the meeting of foreign ministers in Moscow, we have postponed it. We will hold the meeting at a certain convenient moment. The meeting may take place in Moscow or elsewhere. The choice of venue is important but does not have an exceptional significance for the process. We stand ready for another meeting in Moscow," Mirzoyan said at a joint press conference with Croatian Foreign Minister Gordan Grlic-Radman in Yerevan on Wednesday.

*** GEORGIAN PRESIDENT CRITICIZES AUTHORITIES, OPPOSITION OVER SAAKASHVILI SITUATION

Georgia has become a hostage of the situation with former Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili, Georgian President Salome Zourabichvili said. She urged that the issue be removed from the political domain for the country to develop and become a EU candidate.

Zourabichvili's administration published her statement on Tuesday in the wake of the Tbilisi City Court ruling, which dismissed a motion from Saakashvili's lawyers for health-related deferral of his imprisonment, ordering to stay in custody.

"This judgment has sentenced the Georgian people to go round in a vicious circle and remain a hostage of this situation," Zourabichvili said in the statement, while stressing that she refrained from assessing the court's ruling.

*** EU REAFFIRMS COURSE TOWARD MOLDOVA'S EUROPEAN INTEGRATION

The European Union - Moldova Association Council reaffirmed its commitment to Moldova's European development perspective at a meeting in Brussels on February 7.

"The future of Moldova and its citizens lies within the European Union," the Council said in a joint statement circulated by the EU Delegation to Moldova on Wednesday.

"The EU welcomed Moldova's considerable efforts to continue with its reform agenda and fulfil the nine steps identified in the commission's opinion in order to advance towards future EU membership. Moldova underlined its determination to meet the necessary requirements in order to start accession negotiations as soon as possible," it said.

*** LONDON IMPOSES SANCTIONS ON 8 RUSSIAN BUSINESSPEOPLE, 6 COMPANIES

The United Kingdom has added eight Russian businesspeople and six Russian companies to its sanction list, a statement circulated by the UK government on Wednesday says.

In particular, the sanctions announced by London apply to Russian presidential commissioner for businesspeople's rights Boris Titov, his son Pavel Titov, Regnum news agency owner Sergei Rudnov, Aerostart company owner Viktor Myachin, R-Pharm pharmaceutical company owner and Board Chairman Alexey Repik, shareholder of Bank Rossiya and National Media Group Svetlana Krivonogikh, former presidential aide and Deputy Chairman of the Board of the System Operator of the Unified Energy System Evgeny Shkolov, and Nikolay Egorov, former deputy chairman of Russia's largest private oil refinery, it said.

ar aa ak

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DANWS00020230208ej28004v1


Daily Headline News for February 8, 2023
3405 字
2023 年 2 月 8 日 16:00 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS Business and Financial Newswire
DAIBN
英文
© 2023 Interfax-America, Inc.
Digest of headline news as of 7:00 p.m. Moscow time on February 8:

BUSINESS & FINANCE

*** DOLLAR RISES ABOVE 72 RUBLES FOR FIRST TIME SINCE JAN 9

The dollar, the euro and the yuan accelerated their gains on the Moscow Exchange Wednesday afternoon.

The dollar rose above 72 rubles/$1 for the first time since January 9, and the euro is trading near 78 rubles, while the yuan is at its maximum since the beginning of May 2022.

*** RUSSIAN AUTHORITIES DISCUSSING WITH LARGE BUSINESSES ONE-TIME VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION TO BUDGET FROM 2022 PROFITS - BELOUSOV

The Russian authorities are discussing with large businesses a one-time voluntary contribution to the budget from profits generated during the financially successful year of 2022; and this would not entail raising taxes, but, rather, would be like paying a windfall tax, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov told reporters.

According to the Federal State Statistics Service (Rosstat), Russian enterprises generated combined pre-tax profit (profit minus losses) of 16.6 trillion rubles in the first half of 2022, a rise of 32% year-on-year. However, the dynamics deteriorated somewhat in the second half of the year, with a balance of 20.2 trillion rubles in 9M 2022 that was already 2.7% year-on-year lower. Rosstat intends to publish full-year data in March.

"Yes, a voluntary contribution from businesses is under discussion; a one-time contribution. The fact is that last year's financial results were very good, and many companies, especially in the first half of the year for the first three quarters, generated solid, positive results. The topic is currently under discussion, I would say," Belousov told reporters on Wednesday.

*** RUSSIAN COMPANIES THAT GENERATED WINDFALL PROFITS IN 2021-22 SHOULD CONTRIBUTE VOLUNTARILY TO BUDGET - FINANCE MINISTRY

Large Russian companies that generated market windfall profits in 2021-2022 should contribute voluntarily to the federal budget, and it would not be fair to hike profit tax in general in order to resolve the matter of replenishing the government's coffers, the Finance Ministry said in a statement.

"The Russian government does not support the proposal to increase the rate of the corporate profit tax, as the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RSPP) has proposed. Additional market revenues have not been generated in the entire economy as a whole, but, rather, only in individual sectors and for individual taxpayers. Accordingly, the measure will affect different sectors of the economy at unequal rates," the Finance Ministry said in the statement.

"First of all, it is necessary here to consider those who have generated excess profits over the previous two years, and take the decision on contributions based on this, as it is expected to be voluntary on the part of RSPP members," the Finance Ministry notes.

*** FREE ECONOMIC ZONE MAY APPEAR IN RUSSIA'S NEW REGIONS

The possibility of establishing a free economic zone in Russia's new regions is under consideration, Russian Construction, Housing and Utilities Minister Irek Faizullin said.

"Similar steps [to create free economic zones] are also ongoing as part of the implementation of the socioeconomic development of the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions, the Donetsk and Lugansk republics," Faizullin said at a government Q&A session in the State Duma on Wednesday.

A total of 116 organizations and branches were opened in Crimea's free economic zone in 2022, and investments of 22 billion rubles were raised, he said.

In fall 2022, the Construction, Housing and Utilities Ministry was appointed to oversee the socioeconomic development of Crimea, Sevastopol and Russia's four new regions.

*** PM'S SPOKESMAN DENIES REPORT THAT GOVT PRESSURING CENTRAL BANK TO LOWER KEY INTEREST RATE

A spokesman for the Russian government has denied a report that the Cabinet is pressuring the Central Bank to lower the key interest rate.

"The Bloomberg report about pressure from the government of the Russian Federation on the Bank of Russia on the issue of lowering the key rate is not true," Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin's press secretary Boris Belyakov said.

"The Cabinet and Central Bank are in constant contact, including on the issues of working out measures to support the economy amid sanctions, and act within the boundaries of their authority and function," Belyakov said.

He added that the "publication of such information is always sensitive for businesses and citizens," and "such misinformation is speculation with the aim of influencing the development of the situation in the economy."

*** GDP GROWTH SCENARIO FOR RUSSIA IN 2023 POSSIBLE - BELOUSOV

A growth scenario for the Russian economy in 2023 is possible, the government will take measures to implement it, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov told reporters.

"There are opportunities for growth in 2023, this is a probabilistic case. In this sense, the IMF evaluates us even better than we do ourselves," he said, commenting on the likelihood of the latest forecast by the IMF, which expects the Russian economy to grow in 2023, materializing.

"I have already said that we will keep within a 1% decline [in 2023], because the first quarter of 2022 was very positive [growth in the first quarter of 2022 was 3.5%], so there is a statistical effect - the high base effect, but then many things will depend on intra-year dynamics - and we have the opportunity to achieve growth for 2023," Belousov said.

*** RUSSIA TO MAKE DECISION IN MARCH ON ADVISABILITY OF RESPONSE MEASURES TO EMBARGO, PRICE CAPS ON RUSSIAN FUELS - NOVAK

Russia will decide by March on the advisability of retaliatory measures to the February 5 EU and G7 embargo and price ceiling for Russian fuel, Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak told reporters.

"We are now studying the new decisions adopted [by the EU and G7 on the embargo and price co on fuel from Russia] to understand the feasibility of [retaliatory measures]. Prior to March, of course, there will be decisions," he said.

*** FORTUM WARNS OF UNCERTAINTIES REGARDING RUSSIA EXIT, INCL. REGULATORY APPROVALS

Fortum will need more time to complete its exit from Russia due to "significant uncertainties," including regulatory approvals, related to the ongoing divestment process, the Finnish energy company reported on Tuesday.

Due to the increasingly complex operating environment and prolonged uncertainty regarding Fortum's Russian operations, the company will record additional pre-tax impairments of about 990 million euros related to its Russia segment in its fourth quarter 2022 results.

This includes about 550 million euros related to fixed assets for Fortum's Russia segment, about 250 million euros related to Fortum's ownership in TGC-1 and joint ventures and 190 million euros in write downs mainly related to wind assets.

*** VESTAS ENDS ALL ACTIVITY IN RUSSIA, LEAVING STRANDED ASSETS AND CASH IDLE

Danish renewable energy equipment manufacturer Vestas has chosen the most uncompromising option for exiting Russia, one that other companies have so far preferred not to take.

Vestas was a wind power technology partner of Fortum in Russia. The company announced its exit from the country in the spring, after the special military operation in Ukraine had begun. Vestas had quite a presence in Russia, with two production sites: Vestas Manufacturing Rus, which manufactures composite blades for wind turbines, began operations in December 2018 in Ulyanovsk, and was, according to the Russian Industry and Trade Ministry, supposed to have been mothballed by the end of 2022; and together with Rusnano, the company also launched manufacturing of wind turbine gondolas at the Liebherr plant in Dzerzhinsk.

Vestas said in its annual report on Wednesday that the "environment in and around Russia" left it with "no viable options to continue to pursue orderly corporate property liquidations and activity wind down." As a result, the company on January 31 therefore "exited Russia by putting a full stop to all remaining corporate activities in Russia without delay, including terminating remaining employees and leaving stranded assets including cash idle."

*** NORNICKEL-ROSATOM JV RECEIVES KOLMOZERSKOYE LITHIUM FIELD LICENSE

Polar Lithium LLC, a joint venture between Rosatom state nuclear energy corporation and Norilsk Nickel, has received the license for the Kolmozerskoye lithium deposit, Russia's biggest, Nornickel said in a statement.

The Federal Subsurface Resources agency held an auction for the right to develop and mine the deposit with a starting price of 1.56 billion rubles. The license is valid 20 years.

*** VEON CONFIRMS PLANS TO CLOSE DEAL BY JUNE 1 TO SELL VIMPELCOM AFTER OBTAINING PERMISSION FROM RUSSIAN AUTHORITIES

VEON intends to close the deal to sell VimpelCom within the established timeframe by June 1, the holding said in a statement.

VEON announced the timeframe when the deal was first announced, though indicated that everything would depend on obtaining permission from the Russian regulators.

The company has announced that the deal has received approval from the government commission on foreign investment and the Federal Anti-monopoly Service (FAS).

*** RUSSIAN AGRICULTURE MINISTRY DISTRIBUTES QUOTA ON GRAIN EXPORTS AMONG 203 COMPANIES

Russia's Agriculture Ministry has distributed the quota on grain exports among 203 companies, according to the ministry's order posted on the Telegram channel of the Grain Exporters Union.

The quota enters into effect on February 15 this year, and it is distributed traditionally, granting the leading exporters the largest share. Consequently, RIF Trading House's quota is 4.909 million tonnes, Grain Gates LLC's is 3.242 million tonnes, Aston's is 2.774 million tonnes, and Viterra Rus LLC's is 2.114 million tonnes. OZK Trading, a subsidiary of United Grain Company, has a quota of 1.1 million tonnes.

*** LEGENDAGRO STARTS EXPORTING GRAIN TO CHINA THROUGH ZARUBINO PORT

Legendagro Group has begun shipping grain to China through the Zarubino port in Primorye, the Far East and Arctic Development Corporation (FEDC) reported.

The Russian-Chinese group's Legendagro Logistics, a resident of the Free Port of Vladivostok, shipped more 10,000 tonnes of corn through Troitsa Bay Seaport LLC, a stevedoring company at the Zarubino port, at the beginning of February. The shipment is expected to arrive at the Qingdao port in Shandong province in a few days.

*** BELARUS LIFTS RESTRICTIONS ON FOOD EXPORTS TO NEIGHBORING EU STATES

Belarus has lifted restrictions on food exports to Poland, Lithuania and Latvia from every Belarusian region that put such restrictions in place in the past. The respective resolution of the Brest Regional Executive Committee has been published on the national website of legal information, following similar decisions of the Vitebsk and Grodno regional executive committees. The decisions took effect after their official publishing and would stay in force through 2023.

The resolutions say that the ban on exports of goods by individuals for personal use outside the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) customs territory under the list and in quantities specified in the appendix to Belarusian Government Resolution No. 224 dated April 12, 2022, did not apply to the goods purchased by individuals for exports to Poland, Lithuania and Latvia.

*** KAZAKHSTAN REQUIRES INT'L TRAVEL PASSPORT OF FOREIGNERS SEEKING PERMANENT RESIDENCE

Kazakhstan has amended the rules for applying for permanent residence for foreigners, the Kazakh Interior Ministry said in a statement.

"Citizens of countries, which have relevant migration agreements with Kazakhstan, may enter, depart, transit, travel and temporarily stay in our country on the basis of domestic documents. However, foreigners seeking permanent residence in the Republic of Kazakhstan need an international travel passport as an identification document of a foreign citizen or a stateless person, which confirms their legal status," the statement, published on the ministry's information website Polisia.kz, said.

POLITICS & SOCIETY

*** RUSSIAN MEDICAL TEAM TO BE SENT TO TURKEY TO AID QUAKE VICTIMS - RUSSIAN HEALTH MINISTRY

A team of 11 doctors from leading federal medical centers of the Russian Health Ministry will be sent to Turkey to help victims of the devastating quake, Alexei Kuznetsov, assistant to the Russian health minister, said.

"A medical team will be sent to Turkey today to provide medical assistance to the quake victims on the orders from Russian President Vladimir Putin," Kuznetsov told reporters on Wednesday.

The eleven-member team will include traumatologists, neurosurgeons, surgeons, pediatric surgeons and anesthesiologists-resuscitators from leading federal medical centers of the Russian Health Ministry, he said.

*** DEATH TOLL FROM QUAKE IN TURKEY EXCEEDS 8,500

The death toll from a strong quake in Turkey has reached 8,547, while the number of those injured has exceeded 49,000, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Wednesday.

"The number of deaths from the quake with the epicenter in the Kahramanmaras province has reached 8,574, while 49,133 people have been injured and 6,444 buildings have been destroyed," Erdogan said in Kahramanmaras, where he arrived on Wednesday to coordinate search-and-rescue efforts. The Anadolu news agency quoted his statement.

Meanwhile, the EFE agency reported 2,662 deaths in the quake in Syria. The overall death toll in both countries has exceeded 11,200.

*** RUSSIA, MAURITANIA SHOULD BOOST ECONOMIC TIES - LAVROV

Moscow and Nouakchott deem it necessary to enhance economic ties, especially direct contacts between business entities of the two countries, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said following a meeting with Mauritanian President Mohamed Ould Ghazouani on Wednesday.

"We had a very interesting, substantive conversation with the Mauritanian president, with the participation of the foreign minister and aides to Mr. President. We focused primarily on the state of our bilateral relations. We agreed to celebrate worthily the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations next year. That period was full of intensive cooperation in various areas: in the trade and economic sphere, humanitarian, educational and, certainly, in the foreign policy field," Lavrov said.

*** GERMANY MULLING OPTIONS TO SEIZE FROZEN RUSSIAN FUNDS FOR UKRAINE - RUSSIA'S AMBASSADOR

Germany is exploring the possibility of seizing frozen Russian government funds for Ukraine, Russia's ambassador to Germany, Sergei Nechayev said in an interview with Izvestia published on Wednesday.

"Options are being explored for seizing frozen state funds of Russia for the benefit of Ukraine. If there is any debate about this, then only about how to justify the confiscation plans correctly in legal terms and make them look plausible. But our counterparties should not deceive themselves," Nechayev said.

He said "such a move will be fatal in terms of the appeal of German jurisdiction for foreign capital, and will also incur our retaliatory steps."

*** WEST SUPPLIED BILLIONS WORTH OF WEAPONS TO AFGHANISTAN - RUSSIA'S SECURITY COUNCIL SECRETARY

Weapons worth tens of billions of dollars were supplied by Western countries to Afghanistan, Russian Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev said.

"Furthermore, there is also weapons left in large numbers by the Western coalition during its retreat. I am talking about 1,000 armored vehicles and armored personnel carriers, dozens of planes and helicopters, hundreds of artillery weapons, mortars, anti-tank and anti-aircraft systems, as well as hundreds of thousands of heavy weapons and small arms worth tens of billions of dollars," Patrushev said on Wednesday at a multilateral meeting of security council secretaries on the Afghan problem.

These weapons may provoke more intense fighting between various Afghan groups and may be sold on the black market, including to terrorists in third countries, he said.

*** RUSSIAN PLANE WITH HUMANITARIAN AID HEADED TO IRAN - RUSSIAN EMERGENCY SITUATIONS MINISTRY

The Russian Emergency Situations Ministry will deliver humanitarian aid to Iran on the government's orders, the ministry press service said.

"An Ilyushin Il-76 plane of the Russian Emergency Situations Ministry has departed from the Zhukovsky Airport to deliver humanitarian aid to the Islamic Republic of Iran. Humanitarian cargo with a total weight of 35 tonnes will be delivered on the orders from the government of the Russian Federation," the press service said.

The humanitarian aid includes sugar, flour, vegetable oil, tents, warm blankets, stoves and a mobile power plant.

*** STATE PROSECUTOR REQUESTS 23-YEAR TERM FOR RUSSIAN EX-GOVERNOR IN MURDER CASE

The state prosecutor has asked the court to sentence Sergei Furgal, a former governor of Russia's Khabarovsk Territory found guilty by a jury of murders, to 23 years in a high-security penal colony, a spokesperson for the Moscow Region Court told Interfax on Wednesday.

"The state prosecutor asked the court to conclusively sentence Sergei Furgal to 23 years in a high-security correctional facility," the spokesperson said.

The state prosecutor requested terms of 10.5 years, 17 years and 22 years in a high-security penitentiary to three other defendants in this case - Marat Kadyrov, Andrei Palei and Andrei Karepov.

*** MOSCOW HELSINKI GROUP WEBSITE BLOCKED IN RUSSIA

The Federal Service for Supervision of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media (Roskomnadzor) has blocked the website of the Moscow Helsinki Group human rights organization in Russia.

Access to the Moscow Helsinki Group website was restricted in Russia, according to the Roskomnadzor universal service for checking restrictions on access to websites and webpages. The service does not indicate who demanded the website be added to the register of information prohibited in Russia.

*** BELARUSIAN COURT GIVES 8-YEAR TERM TO POLISH TV JOURNALIST POCZOBUT

The Grodno Regional Court on Wednesday handed down an eight-year term in an enhanced-security penal colony to Andrzej Poczobut, a journalist of Poland's Polonia international public television channel and a Union of Poles in Belarus activist, the press service for the Belarusian Supreme Court said.

"In accordance with Part 2 of Article 72 of the Criminal Code, for the totality of the crimes committed, Andrzej Poczobut was sentenced to eight years in an enhanced-security correctional facility by partly adding up the penalties," the press service said.

*** ARMENIAN FM SAYS READY TO MEET WITH RUSSIAN, AZERBAIJANI COUNTERPARTS

Armenian Foreign Minister Ararat Mirzoyan has declared the readiness to meet with the foreign ministers of Russia and Azerbaijan, Sergei Lavrov and Jeyhun Bayramov, in Moscow.

"We have not cancelled the meeting of foreign ministers in Moscow, we have postponed it. We will hold the meeting at a certain convenient moment. The meeting may take place in Moscow or elsewhere. The choice of venue is important but does not have an exceptional significance for the process. We stand ready for another meeting in Moscow," Mirzoyan said at a joint press conference with Croatian Foreign Minister Gordan Grlic-Radman in Yerevan on Wednesday.

*** GEORGIAN PRESIDENT CRITICIZES AUTHORITIES, OPPOSITION OVER SAAKASHVILI SITUATION

Georgia has become a hostage of the situation with former Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili, Georgian President Salome Zourabichvili said. She urged that the issue be removed from the political domain for the country to develop and become a EU candidate.

Zourabichvili's administration published her statement on Tuesday in the wake of the Tbilisi City Court ruling, which dismissed a motion from Saakashvili's lawyers for health-related deferral of his imprisonment, ordering to stay in custody.

"This judgment has sentenced the Georgian people to go round in a vicious circle and remain a hostage of this situation," Zourabichvili said in the statement, while stressing that she refrained from assessing the court's ruling.

*** EU REAFFIRMS COURSE TOWARD MOLDOVA'S EUROPEAN INTEGRATION

The European Union - Moldova Association Council reaffirmed its commitment to Moldova's European development perspective at a meeting in Brussels on February 7.

"The future of Moldova and its citizens lies within the European Union," the Council said in a joint statement circulated by the EU Delegation to Moldova on Wednesday.

"The EU welcomed Moldova's considerable efforts to continue with its reform agenda and fulfil the nine steps identified in the commission's opinion in order to advance towards future EU membership. Moldova underlined its determination to meet the necessary requirements in order to start accession negotiations as soon as possible," it said.

*** LONDON IMPOSES SANCTIONS ON 8 RUSSIAN BUSINESSPEOPLE, 6 COMPANIES

The United Kingdom has added eight Russian businesspeople and six Russian companies to its sanction list, a statement circulated by the UK government on Wednesday says.

In particular, the sanctions announced by London apply to Russian presidential commissioner for businesspeople's rights Boris Titov, his son Pavel Titov, Regnum news agency owner Sergei Rudnov, Aerostart company owner Viktor Myachin, R-Pharm pharmaceutical company owner and Board Chairman Alexey Repik, shareholder of Bank Rossiya and National Media Group Svetlana Krivonogikh, former presidential aide and Deputy Chairman of the Board of the System Operator of the Unified Energy System Evgeny Shkolov, and Nikolay Egorov, former deputy chairman of Russia's largest private oil refinery, it said.

ar aa ak

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DAIBN00020230208ej28005sd


Yesterday in Brief for February 9, 2023
3448 字
2023 年 2 月 9 日 08:38 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS Business and Financial Newswire
DAIBN
英文
© 2023 Interfax-America, Inc.
Digest of headline news from February 8 to 11:35 a.m. Moscow time on February 9:

BUSINESS & FINANCE

*** RUSSIAN STOCK MARKET OPENS MORNING SESSION WITH GAINS, MOEX INDEX UP 0.3%, LED BY TATNEFT

By 10:01:20 MSK the MOEX Russia index was 2258.38 (+0.28%); prices for benchmark stocks on the Moscow Exchange rose up to 1.5%.

The biggest advancers among ruble-priced benchmark stocks on the Moscow Exchange were Tatneft (+1.5%), Aeroflot (+1.3%), Rosneft (+1.1%), Polymetal (+1%), Sistema (+0.8%), Polyus (+0.7%), Surgutneftegas (+0.6%), Gazprom (+0.4%), Magnit (+0.4%), Gazprom Neft (+0.3%), RusHydro (+0.3%), Yandex (+0.3%), TCS Group Holding receipts (+0.3%), Alrosa (+0.2%), Lukoil (+0.2%), Sberbank prefs (+0.2%), Surgutneftegas prefs (+0.2%), Norilsk Nickel (+0.2%), Sberbank (+0.1%), Severstal (+0.1%), Mobile TeleSystems (+0.1%), VTB (+0.1%), OZON receipts (+0.1%).

The biggest decliners among ruble-priced benchmark stocks on the Moscow Exchange were Inter RAO (-0.3%), Moscow Exchange (-0.2%), Novatek (-0.2%), UC Rusal (-0.1%).

*** RUBLE DECLINES MODERATELY AGAINST DOLLAR, YUAN AT OPENING AMID MIXED SIGNALS ON GLOBAL CAPITAL MARKETS

The dollar and the yuan have risen moderately against the ruble on the Moscow Exchange at the opening of trading on Thursday, and the Russian currency is trending downward amid mixed signals on global capital markets.

The dollar was up 29.25 kopecks to 72.595 rubles/$1 from the previous closing after the first minute of trading; and the U.S. greenback was 1.02 rubles higher than the current official rate.

The yuan was up 4.5 kopecks to 10.715 rubles/yuan by this time on the Moscow Exchange.

*** RUSSIAN CORE SECTOR OUTPUT FELL 4.3% IN DEC, 1.3% IN 2022 - ROSSTAT

Core sector output in Russia fell 4.3% year-on-year in December 2022, the State Statistics Service (Rosstat) said.

Output fell 2.4% in November, 2.6% in October, 3.0% in September, 1.0% in August, 2.5% in July, 4.5% in June, 3.5% in May and 2.7% in April. It rose 1.7% in March, 5.0% in February and 7.8% in January.

*** RUSSIAN AUTHORITIES DISCUSSING WITH LARGE BUSINESSES ONE-TIME VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION TO BUDGET FROM 2022 PROFITS - BELOUSOV

The Russian authorities are discussing with large businesses a one-time voluntary contribution to the budget from profits generated during the financially successful year of 2022; and this would not entail raising taxes, but, rather, would be like paying a windfall tax, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov told reporters.

According to the Federal State Statistics Service (Rosstat), Russian enterprises generated combined pre-tax profit (profit minus losses) of 16.6 trillion rubles in the first half of 2022, a rise of 32% year-on-year. However, the dynamics deteriorated somewhat in the second half of the year, with a balance of 20.2 trillion rubles in 9M 2022 that was already 2.7% year-on-year lower. Rosstat intends to publish full-year data in March.

"Yes, a voluntary contribution from businesses is under discussion; a one-time contribution. The fact is that last year's financial results were very good, and many companies, especially in the first half of the year for the first three quarters, generated solid, positive results. The topic is currently under discussion, I would say," Belousov told reporters on Wednesday.

*** FREE ECONOMIC ZONE MAY APPEAR IN RUSSIA'S NEW REGIONS

The possibility of establishing a free economic zone in Russia's new regions is under consideration, Russian Construction, Housing and Utilities Minister Irek Faizullin said.

"Similar steps [to create free economic zones] are also ongoing as part of the implementation of the socioeconomic development of the Kherson and Zaporozhye regions, the Donetsk and Lugansk republics," Faizullin said at a government Q&A session in the State Duma on Wednesday.

A total of 116 organizations and branches were opened in Crimea's free economic zone in 2022, and investments of 22 billion rubles were raised, he said.

*** GDP GROWTH SCENARIO FOR RUSSIA IN 2023 POSSIBLE - BELOUSOV

A growth scenario for the Russian economy in 2023 is possible, the government will take measures to implement it, First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov told reporters.

"There are opportunities for growth in 2023, this is a probabilistic case. In this sense, the IMF evaluates us even better than we do ourselves," he said, commenting on the likelihood of the latest forecast by the IMF, which expects the Russian economy to grow in 2023, materializing.

"I have already said that we will keep within a 1% decline [in 2023], because the first quarter of 2022 was very positive [growth in the first quarter of 2022 was 3.5%], so there is a statistical effect - the high base effect, but then many things will depend on intra-year dynamics - and we have the opportunity to achieve growth for 2023," Belousov said.

*** RUSSIA AND CHINA SIGN INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT ON GAS SUPPLIES VIA FAR EAST ROUTE, TO BE RATIFIED

Russia and China have signed an intergovernmental agreement on gas supplies via the Far East route, Russia's Energy Ministry said in statement.

"The agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the People's Republic of China on cooperation in the area of natural gas supplies from the Russian Federation to the People's Republic of China via the Far East route, as signed in Moscow and Beijing on January 31, 2023," according to the draft federal law on ratifying the document, as prepared by the Russian Energy Ministry.

The draft documents have been posted on the federal portal of draft regulatory legal acts.

*** KAZMUNAYGAS AND LUKOIL TO RECEIVE 50% STAKE EACH IN PROJECT TO DEVELOP KALAMKAS-SEA AND KHAZAR FIELDS

Kazakhstan's KazMunayGas (KMG) and Russia's Lukoil will have equal stakes in the project to develop the Kalamkas-Sea and Khazar fields located in Kazakhstan's sector of the Caspian Sea, KMG's press service said.

"The stakes in the project will be distributed as follows, with KMG having 50%, and Lukoil having 50%," KMG said in a comment to an inquiry from Interfax.

*** REGULATOR GIVES GREEN LIGHT FOR TATNEFT TO ACQUIRE NOKIAN TYRES BUSINESS IN RUSSIA

Russia's Federal Antimonopoly Service (FAS) has approved applications from oil company Tatneft to acquire a number of legal entities from Finnish tire manufacturer Nokian Tyres, the regulator told Interfax.

"The FAS of Russia has approved three applications from PJSC Tatneft regarding the acquisition of equity stakes in the amount of 100% in Nokian Tyres LLC, Hakka Invest LLC and Nokian Shina LLC from Nokian Tyres," a spokesman for the regulator said.

The FAS said that if the transaction is subject to provisions of presidential decree No. 618 it can be carried out only after receiving permission from the government commission for control over foreign investment.

*** FORTUM WARNS OF UNCERTAINTIES REGARDING RUSSIA EXIT, INCL. REGULATORY APPROVALS

Fortum will need more time to complete its exit from Russia due to "significant uncertainties," including regulatory approvals, related to the ongoing divestment process, the Finnish energy company reported on Tuesday.

Due to the increasingly complex operating environment and prolonged uncertainty regarding Fortum's Russian operations, the company will record additional pre-tax impairments of about 990 million euros related to its Russia segment in its fourth quarter 2022 results.

This includes about 550 million euros related to fixed assets for Fortum's Russia segment, about 250 million euros related to Fortum's ownership in TGC-1 and joint ventures and 190 million euros in write downs mainly related to wind assets.

*** VESTAS ENDS ALL ACTIVITY IN RUSSIA, LEAVING STRANDED ASSETS AND CASH IDLE

Danish renewable energy equipment manufacturer Vestas has chosen the most uncompromising option for exiting Russia, one that other companies have so far preferred not to take.

Vestas was a wind power technology partner of Fortum in Russia. The company announced its exit from the country in the spring, after the special military operation in Ukraine had begun. Vestas had quite a presence in Russia, with two production sites: Vestas Manufacturing Rus, which manufactures composite blades for wind turbines, began operations in December 2018 in Ulyanovsk, and was, according to the Russian Industry and Trade Ministry, supposed to have been mothballed by the end of 2022; and together with Rusnano, the company also launched manufacturing of wind turbine gondolas at the Liebherr plant in Dzerzhinsk.

Vestas said in its annual report on Wednesday that the "environment in and around Russia" left it with "no viable options to continue to pursue orderly corporate property liquidations and activity wind down." As a result, the company on January 31 therefore "exited Russia by putting a full stop to all remaining corporate activities in Russia without delay, including terminating remaining employees and leaving stranded assets including cash idle."

*** NORNICKEL-ROSATOM JV RECEIVES KOLMOZERSKOYE LITHIUM FIELD LICENSE

Polar Lithium LLC, a joint venture between Rosatom state nuclear energy corporation and Norilsk Nickel, has received the license for the Kolmozerskoye lithium deposit, Russia's biggest, Nornickel said in a statement.

The Federal Subsurface Resources agency held an auction for the right to develop and mine the deposit with a starting price of 1.56 billion rubles. The license is valid 20 years.

*** VEON CONFIRMS PLANS TO CLOSE DEAL BY JUNE 1 TO SELL VIMPELCOM AFTER OBTAINING PERMISSION FROM RUSSIAN AUTHORITIES

VEON intends to close the deal to sell VimpelCom within the established timeframe by June 1, the holding said in a statement.

VEON announced the timeframe when the deal was first announced, though indicated that everything would depend on obtaining permission from the Russian regulators.

The company has announced that the deal has received approval from the government commission on foreign investment and the Federal Anti-monopoly Service (FAS).

*** RUSSIAN AGRICULTURE MINISTRY DISTRIBUTES QUOTA ON GRAIN EXPORTS AMONG 203 COMPANIES

Russia's Agriculture Ministry has distributed the quota on grain exports among 203 companies, according to the ministry's order posted on the Telegram channel of the Grain Exporters Union.

The quota enters into effect on February 15 this year, and it is distributed traditionally, granting the leading exporters the largest share. Consequently, RIF Trading House's quota is 4.909 million tonnes, Grain Gates LLC's is 3.242 million tonnes, Aston's is 2.774 million tonnes, and Viterra Rus LLC's is 2.114 million tonnes. OZK Trading, a subsidiary of United Grain Company, has a quota of 1.1 million tonnes.

POLITICS & SOCIETY

*** INT'L TERRORIST GROUPS BECOMING MORE ACTIVE IN AFGHANISTAN - PUTIN

The situation in Afghanistan has not been normalizing since the U.S. troops' withdrawal from the country; on the contrary, Al Qaeda (terrorist organization banned in Russia) is building up its potential in the country, Russian President Vladimir Putin said.

"After the U.S. Armed Forces fled Afghanistan, the situation in this country, regrettably, is not getting any better, while international terrorist organizations, including Al Qaeda, which is building up its potential, are becoming more and more active, and you all know it perfectly well," Putin said at meeting of the multilateral commission of Security Council secretaries and national security advisors on the Afghan problem.

*** RUSSIAN MEDICAL TEAM TO BE SENT TO TURKEY TO AID QUAKE VICTIMS - RUSSIAN HEALTH MINISTRY

A team of 11 doctors from leading federal medical centers of the Russian Health Ministry will be sent to Turkey to help victims of the devastating quake, Alexei Kuznetsov, assistant to the Russian health minister, said.

"A medical team will be sent to Turkey today to provide medical assistance to the quake victims on the orders from Russian President Vladimir Putin," Kuznetsov told reporters on Wednesday.

The eleven-member team will include traumatologists, neurosurgeons, surgeons, pediatric surgeons and anesthesiologists-resuscitators from leading federal medical centers of the Russian Health Ministry, he said.

*** DEATH TOLL SURPASSES 12,000 IN TURKEY AFTER EARTHQUAKE - MEDIA

The death toll from the earthquake in Turkey has risen to over 12,000 and the number of those injured stands at nearly 63,000 the Anadolu news agency said on Thursday.

"A total of 12,391 people have died and 62,914 have been injured," the news agency said, citing data from the Turkish Emergency Management Agency.

CNN has estimated Syria's death toll from the earthquake at 2,992.

*** RUSSIA, MAURITANIA SHOULD BOOST ECONOMIC TIES - LAVROV

Moscow and Nouakchott deem it necessary to enhance economic ties, especially direct contacts between business entities of the two countries, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said following a meeting with Mauritanian President Mohamed Ould Ghazouani on Wednesday.

"We had a very interesting, substantive conversation with the Mauritanian president, with the participation of the foreign minister and aides to Mr. President. We focused primarily on the state of our bilateral relations. We agreed to celebrate worthily the 60th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations next year. That period was full of intensive cooperation in various areas: in the trade and economic sphere, humanitarian, educational and, certainly, in the foreign policy field," Lavrov said.

*** GERMANY MULLING OPTIONS TO SEIZE FROZEN RUSSIAN FUNDS FOR UKRAINE - RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR

Germany is exploring the possibility of seizing frozen Russian government funds for Ukraine, Russia's ambassador to Germany, Sergei Nechayev said in an interview with Izvestia published on Wednesday.

"Options are being explored for seizing frozen state funds of Russia for the benefit of Ukraine. If there is any debate about this, then only about how to justify the confiscation plans correctly in legal terms and make them look plausible. But our counterparties should not deceive themselves," Nechayev said.

He said "such a move will be fatal in terms of the appeal of German jurisdiction for foreign capital, and will also incur our retaliatory steps."

*** RUSSIA BANS ENTRY TO ITS TERRITORY FOR 77 U.S. CITIZENS, INCLUDING GOVERNORS OF SEVERAL STATES

The Russian Foreign Ministry on Wednesday announced the Russian authorities' decision to ban the entry into Russia to 77 United States citizens, a significant number of whom are governors and secretaries of U.S. states.

"In response to Washington's continued expansion of the list of Russian citizens against whom individual sanctions are being imposed, the entry into the Russian Federation is permanently banned for 77 Americans," the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

Those U.S. citizens who head the authorities in the states, a number of federal agencies, as well as companies involved in the supply of weapons to Kiev were added to the stop list this time based on the principle of reciprocity, it said.

*** RUSSIA'S PROGRESS MS-22 RESUPPLY SHIP INSERTED INTO ORBIT

A Soyuz-2.1a launch vehicle has inserted the Progress MS-22 resupply ship into orbit, Russia's Roscosmos state corporation said in a stream.

The spaceship separated from the third stage at 9:25 a.m. and headed to the International Space Station (ISS). Its two-day journey will end at 11:47 a.m. on February 11 with docking to the Zvezda module.

The Soyuz-2.1a LV coupled with Progress MS-22 successfully blasted off Launch Pad 31 of the Baikonur Cosmodrome at 9:15 a.m. on Thursday.

*** RUSSIAN PLANE WITH HUMANITARIAN AID HEADED TO IRAN - RUSSIAN EMERGENCY SITUATIONS MINISTRY

The Russian Emergency Situations Ministry will deliver humanitarian aid to Iran on the government's orders, the ministry press service said.

"An Ilyushin Il-76 plane of the Russian Emergency Situations Ministry has departed from the Zhukovsky Airport to deliver humanitarian aid to the Islamic Republic of Iran. Humanitarian cargo with a total weight of 35 tonnes will be delivered on the orders from the government of the Russian Federation," the press service said.

The humanitarian aid includes sugar, flour, vegetable oil, tents, warm blankets, stoves and a mobile power plant.

*** STATE PROSECUTOR REQUESTS 23-YEAR TERM FOR RUSSIAN EX-GOVERNOR IN MURDER CASE

The state prosecutor has asked the court to sentence Sergei Furgal, a former governor of Russia's Khabarovsk Territory found guilty by a jury of murders, to 23 years in a high-security penal colony, a spokesperson for the Moscow Region Court told Interfax on Wednesday.

"The state prosecutor asked the court to conclusively sentence Sergei Furgal to 23 years in a high-security correctional facility," the spokesperson said.

The state prosecutor requested terms of 10.5 years, 17 years and 22 years in a high-security penitentiary to three other defendants in this case - Marat Kadyrov, Andrei Palei and Andrei Karepov.

*** MOSCOW HELSINKI GROUP WEBSITE BLOCKED IN RUSSIA

The Federal Service for Supervision of Communications, Information Technology and Mass Media (Roskomnadzor) has blocked the website of the Moscow Helsinki Group human rights organization in Russia.

Access to the Moscow Helsinki Group website was restricted in Russia, according to the Roskomnadzor universal service for checking restrictions on access to websites and webpages. The service does not indicate who demanded the website be added to the register of information prohibited in Russia.

*** BELARUSIAN COURT GIVES 8-YEAR TERM TO POLISH TV JOURNALIST POCZOBUT

The Grodno Regional Court on Wednesday handed down an eight-year term in an enhanced-security penal colony to Andrzej Poczobut, a journalist of Poland's Polonia international public television channel and a Union of Poles in Belarus activist, the press service for the Belarusian Supreme Court said.

"In accordance with Part 2 of Article 72 of the Criminal Code, for the totality of the crimes committed, Andrzej Poczobut was sentenced to eight years in an enhanced-security correctional facility by partly adding up the penalties," the press service said.

*** ARMENIAN FM SAYS READY TO MEET WITH RUSSIAN, AZERBAIJANI COUNTERPARTS

Armenian Foreign Minister Ararat Mirzoyan has declared the readiness to meet with the foreign ministers of Russia and Azerbaijan, Sergei Lavrov and Jeyhun Bayramov, in Moscow.

"We have not cancelled the meeting of foreign ministers in Moscow, we have postponed it. We will hold the meeting at a certain convenient moment. The meeting may take place in Moscow or elsewhere. The choice of venue is important but does not have an exceptional significance for the process. We stand ready for another meeting in Moscow," Mirzoyan said at a joint press conference with Croatian Foreign Minister Gordan Grlic-Radman in Yerevan on Wednesday.

*** GEORGIAN PRESIDENT CRITICIZES AUTHORITIES, OPPOSITION OVER SAAKASHVILI SITUATION

Georgia has become a hostage of the situation with former Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili, Georgian President Salome Zourabichvili said. She urged that the issue be removed from the political domain for the country to develop and become a EU candidate.

Zourabichvili's administration published her statement on Tuesday in the wake of the Tbilisi City Court ruling, which dismissed a motion from Saakashvili's lawyers for health-related deferral of his imprisonment, ordering to stay in custody.

"This judgment has sentenced the Georgian people to go round in a vicious circle and remain a hostage of this situation," Zourabichvili said in the statement, while stressing that she refrained from assessing the court's ruling.

*** EU REAFFIRMS COURSE TOWARD MOLDOVA'S EUROPEAN INTEGRATION

The European Union - Moldova Association Council reaffirmed its commitment to Moldova's European development perspective at a meeting in Brussels on February 7.

"The future of Moldova and its citizens lies within the European Union," the Council said in a joint statement circulated by the EU Delegation to Moldova on Wednesday.

"The EU welcomed Moldova's considerable efforts to continue with its reform agenda and fulfil the nine steps identified in the commission's opinion in order to advance towards future EU membership. Moldova underlined its determination to meet the necessary requirements in order to start accession negotiations as soon as possible," it said.

*** LONDON IMPOSES SANCTIONS ON 8 RUSSIAN BUSINESSPEOPLE, 6 COMPANIES

The United Kingdom has added eight Russian businesspeople and six Russian companies to its sanction list, a statement circulated by the UK government on Wednesday says.

In particular, the sanctions announced by London apply to Russian presidential commissioner for businesspeople's rights Boris Titov, his son Pavel Titov, Regnum news agency owner Sergei Rudnov, Aerostart company owner Viktor Myachin, R-Pharm pharmaceutical company owner and Board Chairman Alexey Repik, shareholder of Bank Rossiya and National Media Group Svetlana Krivonogikh, former presidential aide and Deputy Chairman of the Board of the System Operator of the Unified Energy System Evgeny Shkolov, and Nikolay Egorov, former deputy chairman of Russia's largest private oil refinery, it said.

ar aa ak

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DAIBN00020230209ej29001p5


FSRU developer Excelerate to buy 700,000 mt/year of LNG from Plaquemines
Corey Paul
431 字
2023 年 2 月 28 日
Platts Commodity News
PLATT
英文
Copyright 2023. Platts. All Rights Reserved.
(Platts)--28Feb2023/1025 am EST/1525 GMT

**Supplies sold free-on-board under 20-year deal

**Initial phase of Plaquemines reached FID in May

**Venture Global builds support for second phase

Venture Global will sell 700,000 mt/year of long-term supplies from its Plaquemines LNG export terminal in Louisiana to Excelerate Energy, a US-based company that develops LNG import infrastructure in foreign markets, the companies announced Feb. 28.

The sale and purchase agreement represents more commercial momentum for Venture Global as it works to commercially sanction the second phase of Plaquemines, which would be similar in size to the 13 million mt/year capacity first phase that is already under construction in Louisiana. Venture Global commercially sanctioned the $13.2 billion first phase of Plaquemines in May 2022, along with associated Gator Express pipeline, and expects the LNG project to come online in late 2024.

The agreement with Excelerate, which will see the regasification developer buy LNG from Plaquemines free-on-board over a 20-year term, came just days after Venture Global announced signing two other long-term deals with China Gas Holdings. Under those deals, China Gas will buy 1 million mt/year LNG on a free-on-board basis from Plaquemines LNG and another 1 million mt/year from the Venture Global's proposed CP2 LNG export facility, which would also be built in Louisiana.

Venture Global's first LNG export terminal, the 10-million mt/year Calcasieu Pass LNG terminal in Louisiana, began producing LNG in early 2022.

Excelerate, which went public in 2022, operates a fleet of 10 floating storage and regasification units and has pivoted over the past year toward Europe from an initial focus on developing LNG infrastructure to serve emerging markets where gas can replace coal and support economic growth.

Excelerate recently delivered its Exemplar FSRU to Finland, which is is now up and running at the Finnish port of Inkoo, southwest of capital city Helsinki. The FSRU is Finland's first large-scale floating LNG import terminal and a key part of the country's efforts to replace Russian gas supplies after Russia's Gazprom halted exports to Finland in May 2022.

Excelerate also expects to deploy another floating LNG import terminal, its Excelsior FSRU, in 2023 at the German port of Wilhelmshaven.

Excelerate operates in other countries that include Brazil, Argentina, the United Arab Emirates, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

-- Corey Paul, Corey.Paul@spglobal.com

-- Edited by Derek Sands, newsdesk@spglobal.com

Platts, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc.

文件 PLATT00020230228ej2s002s2


News, Rationale, Market Commentary, and Notes; News
FSRU developer Excelerate to buy 700,000 mt/year of LNG from Plaquemines
Corey Paul
418 字
2023 年 2 月 28 日
Platts Gas Daily
GASD
ISSN: 0885-5935, Volume 40, Issue 39
英文
© 2023 S&P Global
* Supplies sold free-on-board under 20-year deal

* Initial phase of Plaquemines reached FID in May

* Venture Global builds support for second phase

Venture Global will sell 700,000 mt/year of long-term supplies from its Plaquemines LNG export terminal in Louisiana to Excelerate Energy, a US-based company that develops LNG import infrastructure in foreign markets, the companies announced Feb. 28.

The sale and purchase agreement represents more commercial momentum for Venture Global as it works to commercially sanction the second phase of Plaquemines, which would be similar in size to the 13 million mt/year capacity first phase that is already under construction in Louisiana. Venture Global commercially sanctioned the $13.2 billion first phase of Plaquemines in May 2022, along with associated Gator Express pipeline, and expects the LNG project to come online in late 2024.

The agreement with Excelerate, which will see the regasification developer buy LNG from Plaquemines free-on-board over a 20-year term, came just days after Venture Global announced signing two other long-term deals with China Gas Holdings. Under those deals, China Gas will buy 1 million mt/year LNG on a free-on-board basis from Plaquemines LNG and another 1 million mt/year from the Venture Global’s proposed CP2 LNG export facility, which would also be built in Louisiana.

Venture Global's first LNG export terminal, the 10-million mt/year Calcasieu Pass LNG terminal in Louisiana, began producing LNG in early 2022.

Excelerate, which went public in 2022, operates a fleet of 10 floating storage and regasification units and has pivoted over the past year toward Europe from an initial focus on developing LNG infrastructure to serve emerging markets where gas can replace coal and support economic growth.

Excelerate recently delivered its Exemplar FSRU to Finland, which is is now up and running at the Finnish port of Inkoo, southwest of capital city Helsinki. The FSRU is Finland’s first large-scale floating LNG import terminal and a key part of the country’s efforts to replace Russian gas supplies after Russia’s Gazprom halted exports to Finland in May 2022.

Excelerate also expects to deploy another floating LNG import terminal, its Excelsior FSRU, in 2023 at the German port of Wilhelmshaven.

Excelerate operates in other countries that include Brazil, Argentina, the United Arab Emirates, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

Corey Paul

S&P Global

文件 GASD000020230314ej2s00002


Market Commentary, News, Notes; News
FSRU developer Excelerate to buy 700,000 mt/year of LNG from Plaquemines
Corey Paul
416 字
2023 年 2 月 28 日
Platts LNG Daily
LNGDAILY
Volume 20, Issue 41
英文
© 2023 S&P Global
* Supplies sold free-on-board under 20-year deal

* Initial phase of Plaquemines reached FID in May

* Venture Global builds support for second phase

Venture Global will sell 700,000 mt/year of long-term supplies from its Plaquemines LNG export terminal in Louisiana to Excelerate Energy, a US-based company that develops LNG import infrastructure in foreign markets, the companies announced Feb. 28.

The sale and purchase agreement represents more commercial momentum for Venture Global as it works to commercially sanction the second phase of Plaquemines, which would be similar in size to the 13 million mt/year capacity first phase that is already under construction in Louisiana. Venture Global commercially sanctioned the $13.2 billion first phase of Plaquemines in May 2022, along with associated Gator Express pipeline, and expects the LNG project to come online in late 2024.

The agreement with Excelerate, which will see the regasification developer buy LNG from Plaquemines free-on-board over a 20-year term, came just days after Venture Global announced signing two other long-term deals with China Gas Holdings. Under those deals, China Gas will buy 1 million mt/year LNG on a free-on-board basis from Plaquemines LNG and another 1 million mt/year from the Venture Global’s proposed CP2 LNG export facility, which would also be built in Louisiana.

Venture Global's first LNG export terminal, the 10-million mt/year Calcasieu Pass LNG terminal in Louisiana, began producing LNG in early 2022.

Excelerate, which went public in 2022, operates a fleet of 10 floating storage and regasification units and has pivoted over the past year toward Europe from an initial focus on developing LNG infrastructure to serve emerging markets where gas can replace coal and support economic growth.

Excelerate recently delivered its Exemplar FSRU to Finland, which is is now up and running at the Finnish port of Inkoo, southwest of capital city Helsinki. The FSRU is Finland’s first large-scale floating LNG import terminal and a key part of the country’s efforts to replace Russian gas supplies after Russia’s Gazprom halted exports to Finland in May 2022.

Excelerate also expects to deploy another floating LNG import terminal, its Excelsior FSRU, in 2023 at the German port of Wilhelmshaven.

Excelerate operates in other countries that include Brazil, Argentina, the United Arab Emirates, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

Corey Paul

S&P Global

文件 LNGDAILY20230314ej2s0000p


Platts
Floating storage, regasification company Excelerate to buy LNG from Plaquemines
Corey Paul
348 字
2023 年 3 月 1 日
SNL Energy Finance Daily
ENFD
Issue: 118509
英文
Copyright © 2023 by S&P Global Market Intelligence, a division of S&P Global Inc. All rights reserved.
Venture Global LNG will sell 700,000 tonnes per year of long-term liquefied natural gas supplies from its Plaquemines LNG export terminal in Louisiana to Excelerate Energy Inc., a U.S.-based company that develops LNG import infrastructure in foreign markets, the companies said Feb. 28.

The sale and purchase agreement represents more commercial momentum for Venture Global as it works to commercially sanction the second phase of Plaquemines, which would be similar in size to the 13 million t/y first phase that is under construction in Louisiana.

Venture Global commercially sanctioned the $13.2 billion first phase of Plaquemines in May 2022, along with the associated Venture Global Gator Express LLC pipeline, and expects the LNG project to come online in late 2024.

The agreement with Excelerate, which would see the regasification developer buy LNG from Plaquemines free-on-board over a 20-year term, came just days after Venture Global announced two long-term deals with China Gas Holdings Ltd.

Excelerate, which went public in 2022, operates a fleet of 10 floating storage and regasification units and has pivoted over the past year toward Europe from an initial focus on developing LNG infrastructure to serve emerging markets where gas can replace coal and support economic growth.

Excelerate recently delivered the Exemplar floating terminal, which is now up and running at the Finnish port of Inkoo, southwest of capital city Helsinki. The vessel is Finland's first large-scale floating LNG import terminal and a key part of the country's efforts to replace Russian gas supplies after Russia's PJSC Gazprom halted exports to Finland in May 2022.

Excelerate also expects to deploy another floating LNG import terminal, the Excelsior, in 2023 at the German port of Wilhelmshaven.

S&P Global Commodity Insights reporter Corey Paul produces content for distribution on Platts Dimensions Pro. S&P Global Commodity Insights is owned by S&P Global Inc.

S&P Global Commodity Insights produces content for distribution on S&P Capital IQ Pro.

S&P Global Market Intelligence

文件 ENFD000020230302ej3100004


News; LNG
FSRU developer Excelerate to buy 700,000 mt/year of LNG from Plaquemines
Corey Paul
413 字
2023 年 3 月 2 日
Platts Inside F.E.R.C.'s Gas Market Report
GMR
ISSN: 8756-3711
英文
© 2023 S&P Global
* Supplies sold free-on-board under 20-year deal

* Initial phase of Plaquemines reached FID in May

* Venture Global builds support for second phase

Venture Global will sell 700,000 mt/year of long-term supplies from its Plaquemines LNG export terminal in Louisiana to Excelerate Energy, a US-based company that develops LNG import infrastructure in foreign markets, the companies announced Feb. 28.

The sale and purchase agreement represents more commercial momentum for Venture Global as it works to commercially sanction the second phase of Plaquemines, which would be similar in size to the 13 million mt/year capacity first phase that is already under construction in Louisiana. Venture Global commercially sanctioned the $13.2 billion first phase of Plaquemines in May 2022, along with associated Gator Express pipeline, and expects the LNG project to come online in late 2024.

The agreement with Excelerate, which will see the regasification developer buy LNG from Plaquemines free-on-board over a 20-year term, came just days after Venture Global announced signing two other long-term deals with China Gas Holdings. Under those deals, China Gas will buy 1 million mt/year LNG on a free-on-board basis from Plaquemines LNG and another 1 million mt/year from the Venture Global’s proposed CP2 LNG export facility, which would also be built in Louisiana.

Venture Global's first LNG export terminal, the 10-million mt/year Calcasieu Pass LNG terminal in Louisiana, began producing LNG in early 2022.

Excelerate, which went public in 2022, operates a fleet of 10 floating storage and regasification units and has pivoted over the past year toward Europe from an initial focus on developing LNG infrastructure to serve emerging markets where gas can replace coal and support economic growth.

Excelerate recently delivered its Exemplar FSRU to Finland, which is is now up and running at the Finnish port of Inkoo, southwest of capital city Helsinki. The FSRU is Finland’s first large-scale floating LNG import terminal and a key part of the country’s efforts to replace Russian gas supplies after Russia’s Gazprom halted exports to Finland in May 2022.

Excelerate also expects to deploy another floating LNG import terminal, its Excelsior FSRU, in 2023 at the German port of Wilhelmshaven.

Excelerate operates in other countries that include Brazil, Argentina, the United Arab Emirates, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

Corey Paul

S&P Global

文件 GMR0000020230316ej320000m


Foreign
The US must show Erdogan a stick and a carrot by the summer, says an American expert*** TRANSLATED ***
Niilo Simojoki
930 字
2023 年 3 月 8 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2023. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
According to John R. Den, the deadline for Finland's and Sweden's NATO ratifications is the May elections in Turkey rather than the July NATO summit. According to CNN's sources, the approval of memberships may stretch far into the future.

July's NATO summit in Vilnius has become some kind of unofficial final limit for Finland and Sweden joining NATO. John R. Deni, a top US security policy expert, sees the end point rather as the Turkish elections, which are scheduled to be held in mid-May.

In an interview with STT, Deni says that the summit in Lithuania would be a perfect opportunity to celebrate the joining of two new members to the defense alliance. By finally agreeing to the ratifications, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan could receive a lot of positive attention at the same time.

- I think this is exactly how the matter should be sold to Erdogan, Deni, research professor of security studies, says by phone from the United States.

According to him, the summit can also be used as a stick by making the matter clear to the Turkish president in good time:

- If the matter(ratifications) has not been taken care of by the first round of the presidential elections, you can be sure that you will be isolated at the summit- figuratively and quite literally, Deni formulates the core message to Erdogan.

A mere hint of economic sanctions could be enough

Deni reminds that, for example, in the United States, the Vilnius summit is especially expected to discuss the mutual burden-sharing between NATO countries in defense, and in no case do we want the ongoing accession process to steal the show and spoil the meeting.

The time of the US's"strategic patience" towards Turkey is running out from the end of spring.

But what, according to Den, could the United States do? For example, it could be communicated to Turkey that the United States is considering economic sanctions. This would be even more effective if the important export countries for Turkey, Germany and Great Britain, were included.

- If we could coordinate the matter with the British and the Germans, it would be a good opportunity to influence the thinking in Erdogan's inner circle. Because if exports decrease, it will make Erdogan's situation even worse- especially if there is a second round of voting in the presidential election, Deni reasons.

Before possible sanction measures, the matter would be discussed behind the scenes of diplomacy, and if the project did not go ahead, it might"accidentally" leak to the media, for example, according to Deni.

- The mere knowledge that something like this is being discussed would immediately affect the market, he estimates.

Bases in Turkey important for both

Deni admits that right now- in the aftermath of Turkey's massive earthquake- hinting at sanctions could seem"frankly cruel". On the other hand, the disaster has also weakened Erdogan's position.

Another possibility to influence Turkey, according to Den, would be to reconsider the US military presence in Turkey. The United States has, among other things, the Incirlik air base and an important radar station in Turkey, as well as other forces more or less permanently stationed in the country.

According to Den, there is a reason to be very careful in this direction, because the United States and NATO also benefit a lot from the facilities in question. For example, replacing a radar station that functions as part of the European missile defense system and detects missile launches would be very difficult.

- But the Turks also benefit significantly from these in the form of jobs and other economic benefits, as well as a positive political reputation for the country, Deni reminds.

Hungarian President: Finland's eastern border a problem for NATO

According to diplomatic and official sources of the NATO countries interviewed by the news channel CNN, the realization of Finland's and Sweden's NATO memberships by the July summit does not look at all as bright as has been publicly assured. However, some of the interviewed sources are hopeful and believe that NATO is so beneficial for Turkey and the two new members for NATO that the matter must be resolved soon.

However, the majority of those interviewed by CNN consider the probability that Erdogan's mind would change before Vilnius to be virtually non-existent. According to some diplomats and officials, Finland may join NATO without Sweden, but it is also possible that neither candidate country will be admitted to NATO for a long time.

In that case, the question would be how NATO works in a situation that is completely contrary to the oft-repeated mantra of Western unity and plays directly into Russian President Vladimir Putin's pocket.

Although almost all attention is focused on Turkey, we should also not forget Hungary, which also pledges its ratification and has a very understanding attitude towards Russia. Recent comments from Budapest indicate that the delay is perhaps not just about teasing and repayment of fish debts incurred within the EU, but about something more fundamental.

The Speaker of the Hungarian Parliament, Laszlo Köver, stated a few days ago in an interview with the Hungarian Hir TV channel that Finland's long land border with Russia increases the possibility of a conflict between NATO and Russia. According to this thinking, Finland joining NATO would reduce NATO's security.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020230308ej38001gt


President of Ukraine - President of Ukraine met with the Prime Minister of Finland who is on a visit to Ukraine
President of Ukraine published this content on 10 Mar 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 10 Mar 2023 15:00:48 UTC.
1203 字
2023 年 3 月 10 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format

President of Ukraine met with the Prime Minister of Finland who is on a visit to Ukraine

* Home

* News[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news]

* Current events[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/last]

President of Ukraine met with the Prime Minister of Finland who is on a visit to Ukraine

10 March 2023 - 15:47

[Link][https://www.president.gov.ua/storage/j-image-storage/31/52/09/c57335bcdae0278c5c9cad63c88c98db_1678447559_extra_large.jpeg]

President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyy met with Prime Minister of Finland Sanna Marin who is on a visit to Ukraine.

[Link][https://www.president.gov.ua/storage/j-image-storage/31/53/41/23e292eb6457bc88046a8902582e3e38_1678448429_extra_large.jpeg]

"A true friend of Ukraine, a defender of a free Europe, Prime Minister of Finland Sanna Marin is in Kyiv today. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs. Prime Minister for honoring the memory of the defenders who gave their lives for Ukraine and the memory of our Hero Dmytro Kotsiubailo, "Da Vinci", whom Ukraine bid final farewell today," the President said during a meeting with media representatives following the negotiations with the Prime Minister of Finland in Kyiv.

The Head of State also noted that before the meeting with him, Sanna Marin had visited wounded Ukrainian soldiers undergoing treatment in a Kyiv hospital.

"It is very important that we equally respect the heroism of our warriors who defend freedom in our country and around the world at the cost of their lives," the President of Ukraine said.

The key topics of the leaders' talks in Kyiv were defense and security.

Volodymyr Zelenskyy expressed gratitude to Finland for the defense support packages provided to our country, as well as for its effective participation in the tank coalition.

"I am sure we will further strengthen this area of our cooperation for the sake of both our nations, our independence and sovereignty - of Ukraine, Finland and our European neighbors," he said.

[Link][https://www.president.gov.ua/storage/j-image-storage/31/52/37/4d272e06938adb967b225a0983091233_1678447561_extra_large.jpeg]

The parties also discussed the issue of increasing sanction pressure on the Russian Federation.

"It is important to jointly prevent the terrorist state from evading the EU sanctions through trade with third countries. First of all, it concerns the goods that are important for the military-industrial complex of the terrorist state and its other industries that directly support and sponsor the war and Russian aggression," the President emphasized.

He thanked Finland for its assistance to Ukraine after the missile attacks on the Ukrainian energy sector, including the transfer of equipment that is really important for people.

The Head of State also emphasized the importance of putting pressure on all legal entities and individuals of the terrorist state involved in the attack on Ukraine's energy system, in the missile program, as well as on entities of other states that help Russia to carry out missile terror.

"We must come to the point where global sanctions must be imposed and completely block any opportunities to restore the missile potential of the Russian Federation, to receive new drones, new technologies, and so on," Volodymyr Zelenskyy said.

The talks in Kyiv also focused on bringing the terrorist state to justice.

[Link][https://www.president.gov.ua/storage/j-image-storage/31/54/41/e3335e80e22359640903f54f32a4bd21_1678455256_extra_large.jpeg]

"I thank Finland for joining the core group on the establishment of a special tribunal for Russia's aggression against Ukraine and condemning this aggression. I also thank you for your very practical contribution to the investigation of Russia's war crimes in Ukraine, for supporting the efforts of the International Criminal Court and our efforts in the European Court of Human Rights. Together, we must ensure justice for all those who suffered from the aggression and Russian occupation, and punish the aggressor and every Russian murderer for what they have done," the President of Ukraine said.

Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Sanna Marin also discussed in detail the issues of recovery of our country after the victory.

"For us today, it is important not only to rebuild entire industries, but also to help our people. We are talking about schools, universities, and homes for Ukrainians. And I am grateful that Mrs. Prime Minister agreed to visit one of the schools after our meeting in Irpin," the Head of State noted.

In addition, as the President emphasized, Ukraine appreciates Finland's support for international initiatives, in particular the humanitarian program Grain from Ukraine.

"And, of course, I am grateful for the willingness to work together with us on the implementation of the points of the Ukrainian Peace Formula. This issue was also raised today. In this context, we discussed countering the ecocide organized by the Russian Federation. Finland is ready for coordination with other partners in the fulfillment of this item of the formula," the Head of State said.

Volodymyr Zelenskyy also thanked Finland for supporting Ukraine on its path to full membership in the European Union and NATO.

The President emphasized that Finland's new defense package for Ukraine is something that strengthens us on the battlefield - the field of our victory.

[Link][https://www.president.gov.ua/storage/j-image-storage/31/54/33/52fa59cc17fd78da9463bf64df5138c4_1678455256_extra_large.jpeg]

For her part, Sanna Marin noted that Finland has recently provided Ukraine with the 14th defense assistance package, which includes heavy weapons. She emphasized that her country would continue to support Ukraine.

Also, according to her, Finland has allocated a support package for the education sector, and is helping with energy equipment.

Sanna Marin noted that Finland joined the group of countries that aim to ensure Russia's accountability for the crime of aggression against Ukraine and supports the establishment of an international center in The Hague to prosecute and convict crimes of aggression.

"We support President Zelenskyy's Peace Formula and want this plan to start working. It is only lasting peace that can give our family of European countries, the Euro-Atlantic family, calm and prosperity. We want Ukraine to join NATO as one of the allies," said Sanna Marin.

According to her, Finland also supports the fight against corruption in Ukraine so that it can move towards European integration and is ready to provide all necessary assistance.

"I am very pleased to meet with Mr. President Zelenskyy in person today in Kyiv. You are a symbol of courage, bravery and the prospect of a better future for Europe," the Finnish Prime Minister summarized.

A number of documents were signed during Sanna Marin's visit to Ukraine. In particular, Deputy Prime Minister for Reconstruction of Ukraine - Minister for Communities, Territories and Infrastructure Development of Ukraine Oleksandr Kubrakov and Minister of the Environment and Climate Change of the Republic of Finland Maria Ohisalo signed a Memorandum of Understanding between the governments of Ukraine and Finland.

Another Memorandum of Understanding was signed by Minister of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources of Ukraine Ruslan Strilets and Maria Ohisalo.

v

Videos

ph

Meeting of the President of Ukraine with the Prime Minister of Finland

10 March 2023 - 13:44

PreviousNext

ph

Meeting of the President of Ukraine with the Prime Minister of Finland

10 March 2023 - 13:44

* Original Link[https://www.president.gov.ua/en/news/prezident-ukrayini-zustrivsya-z-premyer-ministrom-finlyandiy-81549]

Disclaimer

President of Ukraine published this content on 10 March 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 10 March 2023 15:03:31 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020230310ej3a00f79


Hungary has approved Finland joining NATO. But its delays raise deeper concerns.
Petr Tůma
1726 字
2023 年 3 月 29 日
Atlantic Council
ATLCNCL
英文
Copyright 2023. Atlantic Council of the United States, Inc.
On Monday, Hungary’s legislature approved Finland’s accession to NATO, 265 days after Helsinki signed the protocols to join. The vote moves the long-delayed process forward, but it still leaves unaddressed both when exactly Hungary will take up Sweden’s accession and why the Hungarian government has taken so long. After all, it took the first twenty-eight NATO members fewer than ninety days to ratify both Finland and Sweden’s accession. Hungary and Turkey have been the holdouts, and while they have shared this status, it is important to look at the differences in how Budapest and Ankara have handled the process. Doing so raises new concerns about Hungary’s approach to the Alliance beyond the specific issue of this enlargement.

The reasons Turkey has taken longer are well documented[https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/new-atlanticist/what-turkey-really-wants-from-sweden-nato-pkk/] . Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been quite clear on his major interests related to arms exports and in particular to Stockholm’s attitude toward Kurdish groups with alleged links to the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK), which is designated as a terrorist organization by Turkey, the United States, and the European Union (EU). And Turkey’s lengthy process toward ratification has strained Alliance cohesion and made happy its enemies, such as Russian President Vladimir Putin. That’s not a small deal.

Still, Turkey early on presented detailed arguments and conditions that allies could debate and sort out. In contrast, Budapest has been opaque on the reasons why it delayed ratification on Finland and continues to do so for Sweden. Given that other allies delivered[https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/commentary/trackers-and-data-visualizations/when-will-sweden-and-finland-join-nato-tracking-the-ratification-process-across-the-alliance/] more than six months ago, lack of time has long ceased to be an acceptable excuse.

The biggest concern with Hungary now is less that it might keep Sweden in limbo for a few more months before ratification, and more that it might do so without plausible arguments. Leaving no room for a meaningful discussion, Budapest impedes the basis on which the Alliance deals with critical issues and inhibits the bedrock foundation of democratic life itself: open and purposeful debate.

Lack of time?

For months, Budapest has signaled that the ratification of Sweden and Finland was merely a matter of finding a time slot for lawmakers to vote. After the Nordic pair signed accession protocols in July, a few other NATO members—where the enlargement agreement is a more complex process and goes through their national assemblies—struggled to find time for a few months last spring and summer, as parliamentarians were heading for summer recess. Some convened extra sessions to advance the ratification, while Hungarians continued postponing it.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán’s Fidesz—together with its coalition partner the Christian Democratic People’s Party (KDNP)—has a strong majority in the National Assembly. Moreover, Fidesz has become a kind of a one-man party that will comply with its leader’s wish, with a satellite KDNP that will always follow. If Orbán wanted ratification passed earlier, he could have easily done so.

In fact, all parliamentary parties—as confirmed[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/hungary-backs-finnish-swedish-nato-membership-unclear-on-ratification-date/] by Deputy Speaker Csaba Hende—seemed to be aligned in favor of Finland and Sweden, except for the far-right Our Homeland Movement, and their votes are not enough to prevent ratification. When the opposition and foreign media asked after several delays about the timeline for the ratification, the ruling Fidesz, including Gergely Gulyás[https://www.politico.eu/article/hungary-to-ratify-sweden-and-finlands-nato-membership/] , Orbán’s chief of staff, indicated that it would be done by the end of 2022 . That dragged out into early 2023 and, finally, into late March—but only for Finland. In the meantime, several Fidesz lawmakers began raising reservations[https://www.thelocal.se/20230224/hungarys-president-orban-says-mps-unenthusiastic-about-sweden-nato-bid/] regarding Finland and Sweden’s bid, which came in handy for Orbán, who could then start saying Hungary needed more time to deal with ratification.

Follow the EU money

Does Budapest have a particular issue with Sweden’s or Finland’s accession? It does not appear so. Hungary has supported expansion before, and nothing is publicly known that accounts for the current delay. Diplomats who were in touch with their Hungarian counterparts on this particular question told me they are not aware of anything substantial, aside from concerns related to occasional Finnish and Swedish critiques of democratic backsliding and the erosion of rule of law in Hungary—a mainstream position within Europe. As the pressure from allies grew—including several NATO members that recently asked for an explanation from Hungarian ambassadors—Budapest gradually picked that line. Orbán’s political director in a recent Twitter post[https://twitter.com/BalazsOrban_HU/status/1638972259845959701] pointed out a few of the concrete cases from the past where Swedes, including Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson, were not mincing their words in criticizing Hungary. But on March 23, Kristersson met his Hungarian counterpart at the EU summit in Brussels and hoped for more clarification[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-03-24/hungary-delays-sweden-nato-vote-after-rule-of-law-criticism?leadSource=uverify%20wall] on the hold-up. He commented afterward: “I didn’t get an actual explanation, only the message that they have no intention of delaying any country’s accession… I don’t see any reason for the delay.”

Hungary’s obstruction does not, then, seem to be about Finland or Sweden specifically. Orbán would likely equally interfere if there were other countries joining. For him, it seems to be a matter of questioning liberal and democratic values and the related world order that NATO is here to defend. It’s part of his balancing act between the West and the rest, a way to show—both abroad and at home—that Hungary has a voice that others should hear and respect.

Hungary is also suspected of using its obstructions as a bargaining chip, and likely less in relation to NATO or the United States than with respect to the EU. Orbán may hope that the bargaining chip of ratification can help unlock part of the fifteen billion dollars envisioned by the EU[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/hungary-must-bolster-judiciary-very-soon-recover-billions-eu-top-official-2023-02-18/] for Hungary from COVID recovery and other funds. That pot of funding includes free grants as well as cheap EU loans but is now frozen over concerns about the rule of law in Hungary. The European Commission linked the release of part of this money to conditions such as strengthening judicial independence and tackling corruption.

In this context, it’s interesting to hear from Budapest that parliament could not properly focus on NATO’s enlargement now because it must rush implementation of the reforms requested by Brussels, as the European Commission should have started the evaluation process on March 15. The reality seems to be, instead, that Budapest did not care for a long time about the Commission’s requests and now could really feel under pressure.

It’s also worth remembering that Sweden currently holds the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union, thus some in Budapest may have thought that Stockholm could be of more use than Helsinki in delivering the frozen funds. Yet this is not so much the agenda of the Council and the presidency, but rather of the Commission.

The world saw Budapest playing a similar game many times recently when stalling the EU sanction packages targeting Russia or opposing nineteen billion dollars of financial aid to Kyiv. And there’s a pattern: In the end, a compromise was always reached with Budapest not leaving empty-handed[https://www.politico.eu/article/eu-deal-hungary-drop-vetoe-recovery-plan-approved-funding-freeze-ukraine-aid/] .

In Turkey’s shade

The news of Hungary’s readiness to initiate the ratification of Finland came just after Erdogan announced[https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/new-atlanticist/experts-react-turkey-moves-to-approve-finlands-nato-membership-where-does-that-leave-sweden/] Turkey’s decision to do so. There were more concerns regarding Sweden in Budapest, but no talk about splitting the two candidate countries’ accession. A Hungarian parliamentary delegation went to Stockholm and Helsinki recently, with Hungarian lawmakers sending positive messages[https://www.pbs.org/newshour/world/delegation-from-hungary-supports-swedens-nato-application] afterward regarding the ratification. That makes the current Hungarian decision all the more surprising. Orbán uses Erdogan’s shade. Without Turkey hindering enlargement, Hungary would probably be already on board. Orbán could have dragged it out for a while but does not seem to want to be the last one to ratify.

It is too much to say that Orbán is merely following Erdogan. He’s playing his own game, developing his own art of the deal, and hiding behind Turkey. But if Turkey proceeds to Sweden’s ratification after its May 14 parliamentary and presidential elections—and hopefully before the NATO summit in Lithuania in July—then it is likely that Hungary will do the same, though Budapest may seek its own sweetener for doing so.

At a business forum in Budapest this month, Orbán said[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-03-09/hungary-needs-to-think-hard-about-future-russia-relations-orban#xj4y7vzkg] : “I understand the need to rebuild Russian-European relations after the war but that’s far from realistic… That’s why Hungary’s foreign and economic policy need to think hard about what sort of relations we can establish and maintain with Russia in the next ten to fifteen years.” A few days later, reports emerged[https://www.ft.com/content/52707196-4882-45af-9342-59413472c443] that Budapest is considering whether to give French and German companies a larger role in the enlargement of its Soviet-designed Paks nuclear power plant, where two new reactors are slated to be built by Russian state-owned Rosatom and financed mostly from a Russian state loan. It would be a positive development if Budapest reshapes a project that gives Moscow strong leverage over Hungarian infrastructure. Yet the move appears to made more out of necessity than virtue, given that the war in Ukraine and Western sanctions call into question the long-term viability of Russia’s role in the project.

Elsewhere, Hungary continues with its leniency towards Moscow. Recently, Budapest was the only EU country to push[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-03-20/hungary-blocked-joint-eu-statement-on-putin-s-icc-arrest-warrant?leadSource=uverify%20wall] back against the International Criminal Court arrest warrant against Putin, preventing the European Union from issuing a joint statement. Hungary also reiterated its opposition[https://apnews.com/article/nato-hungary-ukraine-rights-minorities-3b6581af80d5d51d511ac666eeef9288] to NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg’s decision to convene a session of the NATO-Ukraine Commission next week.

Even if Hungary does finally approve NATO enlargement for both Finland and Sweden, the allies should not get their hopes up too high for a more cooperative approach overall. This pattern of obstruction will likely arise in other situations for other countries. That’s why Hungary should not be underestimated as mere mirroring of Turkey. The problem of an unreliable Hungary will long outlast this foot-dragging over Sweden and Finland, and allies should start looking for appropriate tools to deal with an outlier that’s weakening the system from within.

Petr Tůma is a visiting fellow at the Atlantic Council’s Europe Center and career Czech diplomat.

Atlantic Council of the United States, Inc.

文件 ATLCNCL020230329ej3t00001


News; Domestic
22 Killed, Dozens Injured By Tornadoes And Storms Across U.S.; Trump Lawyers Question If He Can Get Fair Trial In New York City; Pope To Preside Over Holy Week Events After Leaving Hospital. Aired 3-4a ET
Michael Holmes, Adrienne Broaddus, Derek Van Dam, Katelyn Polantz, Polo Sandoval, Dianne Gallagher, Clare Sebastian, Hadas Gold, David Culver, Coy Wire
7612 字
2023 年 4 月 2 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2023 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[03:00:00]

MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Hello and welcome to our viewers here in the United States and all around the world. I'm Michael Holmes. I appreciate your company.

Coming up here on CNN Newsroom --

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MAYOR FRANK SCOTT JR., LITTLE ROCK ARKANSAS: The flattening of homes, the flattening of businesses in a matter of minutes.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOLMES: -- coming to terms with a disaster. Residents are looking at how to rebuild after a wave of deadly tornado slams into parts of the U.S.

Can he get a fair trial? Some supporters of former U.S. President Donald Trump are already casting doubt ahead of his court appearance in New York on Tuesday.

And Pope Francis is expected to participate in Palm Sunday mass at St. Peter's Basilica just a day after leaving the hospital.

And we begin with those powerful storms that battered parts of the U.S., and the death toll is rising yet again. At least 22 people were killed, dozens more injured after tornadoes and storms hit on Friday and Saturday, the latest fatality just hours ago in Delaware.

And this is what it looks like in Wynne, Arkansas, where four people were killed. The mayor told CNN her city was basically cut in half by the damage. The storm so powerful, it ripped the turf off the football field at the high school.

Similar scenes in the state capital, Little Rock, where at least one person was killed and 50 hospitalized, many of the tornadoes moving so quickly, people had little time to prepare, like this driver who rode out the storm in his van.

Neighborhoods and businesses were decimated. Little Rock's mayor telling CNN the damage to his town is simply staggering.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SCOTT: Impact is devastating. It just came out of nowhere. Clearly, we know it was coming. Everyone took cover as it relates to the emergency response from that standpoint. But just to see the devastation of the impact of the flattening of homes, the flattening of businesses in a matter of minutes.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOLMES: In Illinois, one person was killed, at least 28 injured when the roof collapsed during a concert at a theater in Belvidere on Friday night.

CNN's Adrienne Broaddus filed this report.

ADRIENNE BROADDUS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: At least 260 people were inside the Apollo Theater when the roof collapsed. We want to show you the view from above. Take a look. You can see some of the damage and devastation. We're told at least 28 people were transported to the hospital. Five of them were described to have serious injuries. At least one person was killed. People who gathered here last night were here for a concert.

Meanwhile, throughout the day on Saturday, crews started the cleanup process. A fence was put up as well as barricades to keep people away, but that did not stop people from the neighborhood and the community, stopping by to take pictures. One person told me she was devastated when she learned what had happened here. She says, the Apollo Theater is a place where she has so many memories. But for now, her thoughts are with the people who were injured.

Adrienne Broaddus, CNN, Belvidere, Illinois.

HOLMES: Now to the south, the small city of Wynne, Arkansas, is reeling after four residents were killed as a ferocious storm ripped through that town. But as Meteorologist Derek Van Dam tells us, the people there are showing resiliency in the face of nature's wrath.

DEREK VAN DAM, CNN METEOROLOGIST: We're in Wynne, Arkansas, where cleanup is underway. You can see construction vehicles, Bobcats working overtime to clear debris.

We were talking to my crew just a few moments ago, and it reminds us of the set of a blockbuster movie. Look at this church behind me. There's a steeple that was completely torn off the top of the building, smashed into the adjacent building, took down some trees along with it, just incredible amounts of damage, people coming outdoors to assess.

What we have behind us here is the Wynne High School, the home of the Yellow Jackets. And I had an incredible moment with a gentleman that was walking through the parking lot draped with an American flag over his shoulders. And I asked him where he had found the flag, and he said that it was beyond the high school blown from that top of the flagpole there.

[03:05:06]

And it was -- he was determined to hoist that thing back up in a sign of solidarity and in a sign of determination that when Arkansas will rebuild and they will get through this traumatic, devastating tornado.

Look at this. We have electrical poles snapped, power lines taken down, trees completely toppled over homes and businesses decimated. I have talked to some of the first responders. They go from home to home, to business to business and putting these Xs on the sides of the walls there to signify and identify that there are no people left inside of these businesses.

But you can see the Bobcats here. They're going to help clear out this debris. Just down this road, you can see the amount of trees. This is really just a drop in the bucket as the utility crews, the first responders, the ambulances, the police, the fire marshals all work in a coordinated effort to get the cleanup underway. We're going to keep watching the potential for more severe weather across the Central U.S. for next week, so everybody here on high alert. Back to you.

HOLMES: Donald Trump's legal team is already looking ahead to a potential trial even before knowing the criminal charges against him, and they're questioning whether Trump can get a fair trial in heavily Democratic New York. But they might be getting ahead of themselves. First, the indictment, of course, must be unsealed. We expect that to happen at Tuesday's arraignment in Manhattan.

CNN's Polo Sandoval with the latest on security preparations at the courthouse, but we begin with Katelyn Polantz in Washington.

KATELYN POLANTZ, CNN SENIOR CRIME AND JUSTICE REPORTER: Donald Trump will have a busy day in court on Tuesday when he becomes the first former president or president of the United States to ever face the criminal justice system as a defendant in a case. He's going to be reporting to the courthouse in Manhattan where he is charged around hush money payments, his business empire.

We don't know exactly what the charges will be, but Tuesday is the day that we are expecting to learn quite a bit and also see Donald Trump moving around that courthouse at least into the courtroom if there are not cameras inside the courtroom itself.

We do know that Trump will be processed as any criminal defendant would be. He'll be fingerprinted, he'll be photographed. We also know that when he enters that courtroom, he's going to be facing the judge for the very first time. The charges that he faces will be read to him.

He hasn't learned what those charges are at this point. We do not know what they are either, and neither do his lawyers. We expect there to be 30 or more and at least one felony in that bunch. It's a lot of things to be charged with for it only to be misdemeanors. And we do expect the Donald Trump will say he is not guilty at this time. That's the plea. He will enter so that this case can move toward a trial. But as he faces the judge for the first time, this is a judge that Trump has already criticized publicly. And so there's a question of whether the judge is going to want to bring that up, respond to it or if the prosecutors wanted to be considered as they move forward and get the plan set for how this case is going to progress to trial.

On CNN on Friday, Kaitlan Collins was asking Trump's attorney, Tim Parlatore, is not anyone counseling Donald Trump, maybe not to criticize the judge at this point. He is going before him just in a couple of days. This is what Tim Parlatore responded.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TIMOTHY PARLATORE, DONALD TRUMP'S ATTORNEY: Well, you know, here's the problem. You have a client who is also a presidential candidate. And so it's not like a normal situation where you tell the client, hey, don't say anything, don't talk about anything, because the case is the single most important thing in their life.

I know Judge Merchan. I've tried a case in front of him before. He can be tough. I don't think that it's necessarily going to be something that's going to change his ability to evaluate the facts and the law in this case.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

POLANTZ: So, there's Donald Trump's -- one of his defense lawyers toning down the rhetoric about the judge. We also know that they do plan to try and have the case dismissed. But at the end of the day, it all will be up to the judge to look at the law here and determine whether all of these charges or some of them will go to trial for the first possible trial of a former president of the United States on criminal charges.

Katelyn Polantz CNN, Washington.

POLO SANDOVAL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Security in Lower Manhattan likely to intensify as we get closer to the day that former president Donald Trump travels here to New York City to officially face those charges that were filed by the Manhattan district attorney on Thursday.

This will come with major logistical and security considerations. Security, for example, we have seen the last several days, the NYPD set up additional lights, additional cameras surrounding the building that you see behind me, which is where those court proceedings will be housed in come Tuesday. According to several sources, we have also witnessed an increased NYPD presence surrounding the building, as well as court officers that have been asked to work through the weekend.

[03:10:09]

Also, what you don't see behind the scenes, which is the intelligence operation, intelligence officials scouring the internet to identify any potential threats. And we also know that Governor Kathy Hochul of the state of New York has reached out to New York City officials and offering state resources should that be needed, though, the New York City mayor's office, making it very clear that they have not identified any credible threats so far.

In terms of the logistics, it's certainly going to be a massive undertaken when it comes to what we have seen between Secret Service and the NYPD. They're certainly familiar with the practices that come with transporting former presidents in and out of New York City.

However, given the unusual circumstances, our colleague, John Miller, reporting that it is very likely that the booking process will be modified, that we do expect the former president to travel here come Tuesday to face those charges, he would be taken upstairs in the building that you see behind me to a detective squad, fingerprinted, then taken before an arraignment judge and then potentially be released on a P.R. bond.

So, it's certainly everything that we expect come Tuesday. But in terms of the security presence, it will only continue to grow as we get closer to that day.

Polo Sandoval, CNN, New York.

HOLMES: Pope Francis joked with reporters after he was discharged from the hospital. Coming up, an update on his health as the Vatican gears up for the start of the holiest week in the Christian calendar.

Also, The Wall Street Journal urging Russia to release one of its reporters. When we come back, I'll speak with a colleague of Evan Gershkovich about his arrest.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[03:15:00]

HOLMES: Pope Francis is expected to preside over Palm Sunday services at the Vatican in a short time from now, although he's not expected to actually celebrate mass. It is the start of the Holy Week celebrations leading up to Easter. The 86-year-old pontiff was discharged from the hospital Saturday morning after being treated for bronchitis.

Brittney Griner, U.S. athlete once imprisoned in Russia, is expressing her concern for an American journalist currently held in the country. In a statement, Griner urged the U.S. to bring home Evan Gershkovich, who was arrested last week on suspicion of spying.

His employer, The Wall Street Journal, is also demanding his release. The newspaper says, quote, Evans case is a vicious affront to a free press and should spur outrage in all free people and governments throughout the world. No reporters should ever be detained for simply doing their job.

Gordon Fairclough is the world coverage chief at The Wall Street Journal. He joins me now from London. And, sorry under these circumstances, I wanted to ask you first. Do you know any more about Evans current situation, where he is, how he is?

GORDON FAIRCLOUGH, WORLD COVERAGE CHIEF, THE WALL STREET JOURNAL: Yes. Hi. Thanks Michael. Thank you for having me. So, Evan is being held in a prison in Moscow. He still has not had access to his lawyer, nor have U.S. diplomats been allowed to visit him. So, we are quite concerned about his situation.

HOLMES: Yes, I can imagine. You know, I think it's important to give -- to make Evan known as the person and the journalist and not let him become a, quote, Russian prisoner and The Journal did publish a terrific piece about him and his love of Russia. Tell us a bit about Evan, the man.

FAIRCLOUGH: We did. He is really is an incredible young journalist, I would say, one of the top American journalists of his generation, really. His parents were Soviet immigrates and he grew up speaking Russian. And I think that really gave him a lifelong fascination with Russia and the Russian people and made him really determined to go and cover that story.

HOLMES: I'm sure you or others at The Journal have spoken with his family. How they reacted, how are they doing?

FAIRCLOUGH: You know, I think as you would expect, it's awfully frightening when one of your loved ones is arrested simply for doing his job.

HOLMES: We, of course, know what's happened with others held by Russia, how long they've been kept in some cases. The sad truth is that espionage trials in Russia almost always end in a conviction. What do you want to see the Biden administration to do to sort of head this off?

FAIRCLOUGH: Well, we're doing everything in our power to secure Evan's release. We're working very closely with the State Department and all the relevant U.S. government officials and we're going to keep doing that until Evan is home safely.

HOLMES: What's been the effect of current U.S.-Russia tensions on the ability of foreign journalists to even work in Russia, do their job? I mean, it seems like tiptoeing through a mine field, not knowing what the mines are, let alone where they are.

FAIRCLOUGH: It is. You know, I think, Evan and all American journalists are being turned into pawns in a geopolitical game at the moment, which I think is incredibly unfortunate and dangerous. You know, through the course of this year or over the past year, Russia has enacted increasing restrictions on press freedom and free speech, all of which have made things much more hazardous for journalists trying to do their work.

HOLMES: So, do you think Russia is sending a message in terms of journalists writ large? And also how easy is it to be accused of espionage in Russia, how much of a weapon is that for authorities there?

FAIRCLOUGH: Clearly, it's a it's a strong weapon. You know, our journalists and I'm sure yours are routinely surveilled and followed. Efforts are made to intimidate them.

[03:20:00]

Authorities try to intimidate sources not to talk to reporters. So, it's clearly a -- you know, it's a dangerous situation to be operating in.

I think it's also very important, though, that that the world be informed about what's going on in Russia. But I think you're right, Michael. I think this is not just an attack on Evan or on The Wall Street Journal. It really is an attack on journalism and a free press, which is committed to just reporting the facts.

HOLMES: It certainly seems like he was just doing his job, as the article in The Wall Street Journal about him points out that does it feel to you like he's been taken for a trade or could it be more than that?

FAIRCLOUGH: You know, Michael, I think we don't really know. I think, though, history has shown that we're in the middle of a sort of a trend these days of governments looking at effectively taking hostages in order to achieve their geopolitical gains.

HOLMES: How risky then would you say it is for American journalists or others to be working in Russia right now? Many foreign journalists, of course, have already left. Would you advise those still there to do the same if you were their boss, leave?

FAIRCLOUGH: Well, I can tell you we've withdrawn our bureau chief from Moscow. I think that in a situation like this where somebody can be or has been arrested simply for doing his job, I think it's clearly a very perilous situation.

HOLMES: Yes, and we're all thinking of him, too. He is a colleague. Gordon Fairclough, thanks so much. Good luck with what you're doing. I know you're doing everything you can.

FAIRCLUGH: Thanks for having me.

HOLMES: All right. In the heartbroken city of Nashville, Tennessee, funerals were held on Saturday for two of the six victims of Monday's school shooting. Families mourning a popular substitute teacher and the nine-year-old daughter of the school's church pastor,

NN's Dianne Gallagher was there.

DIANNE GALLAGHER, CNN CORRESPONDENT: A very somber Saturday here in Nashville, Tennessee, as a community says goodbye to two of the six victims in that school shooting on Monday at Covenant Presbyterian Church, which is the same site as the Covenant School where the shooting happened. Mourners gathered to say goodbye to nine-year-old Hallie Scruggs.

Hallie Scruggs' father is the pastor of the church and described her as incredibly smart, feisty enough to keep up with her three brothers and her four boy cousins, a love for life that kept her smiling and running and jumping and playing and always on the go, like a nine- year-old should be. Just before Hallie's funeral, the community said goodbye to 61-year- old Cynthia Peak. She was called Cindy by her friends, according to the governor of Tennessee, who said that Cindy was one of his wife's best friends. And she was actually due to have dinner with the governor and the first lady of Tennessee on Monday night, the same day, of course, that she was killed.

A state representative from Louisiana said that he grew up with Cindy Peak and called her a great friend. She was kind and said that her entire hometown of Leesville, Louisiana, is in mourning right now. And the mourning here in Nashville will continue on Sunday as nine-year- old Will Kinney will be laid to rest.

Diane Gallagher, CNN, Nashville, Tennessee.

HOLMES: The Security Council takes political fire from Ukraine as Russia assumes the leadership of the influential U.N. body. Well, now, President Zelenskyy is telling the council it's time to reform itself. We will explain when we come back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[03:25:00]

HOLMES: Russia's presidency of the Security Council got off to a bit of a rough start as Ukraine cried foul right away. Moscow took over the month-long rotating leadership of the council on Saturday, which means the country that invaded its neighbor and whose president is accused of war crimes now leads the body that deals with global peace and security. Moscow now has more leverage to influence U.N. meetings on Ukraine and promote its view of the war that it started.

Ukraine's foreign minister urged other Security Council members in this tweet to prevent Russia from abusing its presidency, while President Zelenskyy says it is time for the council to reform..

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: Russia is chairing the U.N. Security. It is hard to imagine anything that proves more the total bankruptcy of such an institution. There is no form of terror that Russia has not already committed and there will be no reason that will stop the reform of global institutions, in particular the U.N. Security Council, the reform that is obviously overdue to prevent a terrorist state and any other state that wants to be a terrorist from destroying the peace. Terrorist must lose, must be held accountable for terror and not preside anywhere.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOLMES: Meanwhile, Russia's Wagner mercenaries could be trying to stake their claim near the center of the besieged city of Bakhmut.

For more, Clare Sebastian joins me now from London. Clare, Wagner fighters apparently raising their flag near the center of Bakhmut, but that battle is far from over. How significant is it? CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Michael, not the first time we've seen Wagner --a video emerging of a Wagner flag being raised over by Bakhmut. This was posted on Saturday to Wagner-affiliated telegram channel. It shows the flag being flown on a building, which is just west of the Bakhmutka River, which sort of backs up reports that we've seen coming out of both sides in the last few days, that Russia has taken up positions along that river, potentially even crossed in certain places, which is relatively significant. But this is, if you look closer, only a few blocks away from neighborhoods that we already knew to be in Russian control.

So, it shows just how incremental and slow and grinding this battle is. We know that the destruction in that town is intense. I think the snow somewhat masks it in that video, and we know that there's been a lot of expenditure of manpower and ammunition on both sides and that continues. The regional military administration, the Ukrainian official in that area reporting two civilians were killed in the fighting on Saturday. And we know that Moscow is showing no signs of backing down. Just on Saturday as well, the defense minister is saying that they are stepping up production of military equipment and in particular ammunition for the battlefield.

[03:30:02]

All this, of course, as questions are asked about when and if either side might make some kind of decisive move. We know that Ukraine has taken delivery in the past week of western armored vehicles and British tanks, and maybe they're hinting at it, getting set to use them in some kind of upcoming spring counteroffensive.

But as of yet, this remains a brutal, grinding battle of attrition, Michael.

HOLMES: Yes. I want to ask you about something else too, Ukraine taking action against the top Orthodox Church leader, which is part of what's been a long simmering issue, isn't it?

SEBASTIAN: Yes. So, the context of this, and it's it started the issues before the war, but in particular, since then, there's a couple of branches of the Ukrainian orthodox church. There's the originally Moscow-affiliated branch, which is called the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, which officially split from the Moscow patriarchy in May of last year. Of course, the Moscow patriarchy very pr- war, Patriarch Kirill, a very close ally of Vladimir Putin, has called this holy war.

So, the Ukrainian branch split with that but the authorities in Ukraine still believed that they have ties, and they have now accused the Metropolitan Pavel, who runs the key of Pechersk Monastery in the center of Kyiv, that famous golden domed building. They've accused him of inciting religious hatred, justifying and denying Russia's armed aggression. You can see him in a hearing in which he appeared on Saturdays. He's now being fitted with an ankle bracelet.

Very politically charged because it's coming at the same time, Michael, as he and his allies are refusing to leave that monastery in the center of Kyiv, even though the Ukrainian authorities are saying that a deadline has passed for them to do so.

So, this continues to be a, as I say, politically charged very controversial area, but the security services in Ukraine believe that this is being used by Moscow, the church is being used by Moscow for its own information purposes, they say, to try to split Ukrainian society.

HOLMES: Yes. Clare, thanks so much, Clare Sebastian there in London for us.

Now, crucial parliamentary elections are now underway in Finland that could pivot that country significantly to the right. The ruling liberal coalition of Prime Minister Sanna Marin is locked in a three- way time with two right-wing parties. The election comes just as Finland is about to join NATO, of course, which is hugely consequential, given Finland's long border with Russia.

But, domestically, there has been growing discontent among some fins towards the government liberal policies, and that has created an opportunity for candidates on the right. Preliminary election results are expected later today.

Illicit versions of the drug fentanyl are causing tens of thousands of deaths. Ahead, how chemicals used to make the synthetic opioid move internationally before the final product lands in the U.S.

And U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris wraps up her three-nation trip to Africa calling for greater private investment. We will show you the groundbreaking farms visited on her final day. We'll be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[03:35:00]

HOLMES: In Israel, protests against judicial reforms have continued even after the prime minister temporarily suspended the plans. Tens of thousands of people showed up in Tel Aviv on Saturday, many marching through the streets, waving flags, blowing horns and chanting pro- democracy slogans. Some also urged the government to completely scrap the reform plan instead of just putting it off by a month.

CNN's Hadas Gold reports.

HADAS GOLD, CNN JERUSALEM CORRESPONDENT: So, this is the 13th week in a row now that tens of thousands, if not, hundreds of thousands of Israelis have taken to the streets in protest of this judicial overhaul that would give, in essence, the Israeli parliament, the politicians in power, a lot of say over the Israeli judiciary.

Now, these protesters are still out here on the street on a Saturday night despite the fact that last week, the Israeli government led by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced that they were going to be causing the legislation at least for one month to allow time for negotiations. But for many of these protesters, essentially, they don't believe it. They don't believe Benjamin Netanyahu and they say that they're going to continue coming out to the streets to protest until this legislation is completely off the table.

Many of the protesters that I've talked to say they're willing to give the compromise reform that's being discussed right now a chance, but they still feel as though that their idea of Israeli democracy and the independence of the judiciary is still very much at risk. And that's why they're continuing to come out to the streets in massive numbers as a way they feel of protecting the Israeli democracy.

Hadas Gold, CNN, Tel Aviv.

HOLMES: In Iran, a brazen attack on a woman and her friend for not wearing a hijab has reportedly resulted in the women being arrested. Surveillance video shows an agitated man confronting the women in a shop and then, as you see there, pelting them with yogurt. The man was pushed out of the store and charged with disturbance of order. But the women were reportedly arrested too for hijab violations.

It comes of course after months of protests across Iran that erupted when a young woman died in custody after being detained for not wearing the headscarf.

A U.K. nonprofit group says three British men have been detained in Afghanistan by the Taliban. The Presidium Network tweeted that it is working closely with two of the detainee's families concerning their detention and is trying to secure their release.

The nonprofit's co-founders told Sky News that one of the men was accused of having an illegal firearm in his hotel room but that the incident was a misunderstanding. He added that there's no reason to believe the detainees have been subjected to any negative treatment in custody.

The U.S. vice president, Kamala Harris, has wrapped up a three-nation visit to Subsaharan Africa with a call to invest in the continent's future. Harris toured a farm outside Zambia's capital, where entrepreneurs using technology to help improve crop production. And she announced $7 billion has been raised among private investors to help fund climate change programs, the type of initiative, she says, the U.S. will continue to encourage.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KAMALA HARRIS, U.S. VICE PRESIDENT: We have launched new initiatives to strengthen our business ties. We have also advanced our work to support democracy and good governance on the continent, which will invariably create greater stability, predictability, the type that businesses require and need to invest.

[03:40:04]

In each of these engagements, it has been clear there was a strong desire from leaders on this continent, from young entrepreneurs on this continent, to increase investments on this continent.

(END VIDEO CLIP) HOLMES: Now, with drug overdose deaths continuing to hover at near record levels in the U.S., the Food and Drug Administration has approved an over-the-counter version of the opioid antidote, Narcan. Narcan works on opioids with fentanyl and can quickly reverse the effects of an overdose.

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says more than a million people have died of overdoses in two decades.

CNN's David Culver takes a look now at how the drug gets from China through Mexico and onto the streets of the U.S.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The U.S.'s largest port of entry also its busiest. Each day, more than 100,000 people into the U.S. through the San Ysidro crossing. About 800 Customs and Border Protection officers tasked with keeping the bad from seeping through this part of the border.

MARIZA MARIN, SAN YSIDRO PORT DIRECTOR, U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION: A very difficult and complex job for them, too, in a matter of moments and sometimes seconds, identify whether it's someone presents a threat coming into this nation or not.

CULVER: Among the deadliest threats, illicit fentanyl.

MARIN: So, you want to feel the door to make sure doesn't feel heavy, and there's nothing in there.

CULVER: The CBP tells us that more than half of all the fentanyl found that the U.S. borders comes from ports here in San Diego. Officials say this is ground zero for illicit fentanyl smuggling.

MARIN: We will probably double what we saw last year within the next month or two.

CULVER: That's double the amount of fentanyl seized in all of 2022 in just the first four months of this year.

But before the fentanyl even reaches the U.S. border, you need to know where it's coming from. And for that we start not over there in Mexico but in China.

Specifically Shijiazhuang, China, a city some 200 miles south of Beijing, known for manufacturing, pharmaceutical drugs and once a major hub for fentanyl production. In May 2019, facing mounting U.S. pressure, China took a major step and banned the production and sale of all known forms of fentanyl, including any variants of the drug.

MATT DONAHUE, FORMER CHIEF OPERATIONS, DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION: That was a big step. That stopped fentanyl, fentanyl, the powder coming in from China direct in the United States.

CULVER: Matt Donahue worked for the DEA for more than three decades, retiring last year as its chief of foreign operations. While he says finished fentanyl is no longer flowing out of China, precursor chemicals, the ingredients to make fentanyl, are.

DONAHUE: If you can get to the precursor chemicals, you're going to have less fentanyl. If you have less fentanyl, you have less overdose deaths.

CULVER: Using that same approach in recent years, the U.S. levied new sanctions against a handful of Chinese chemical manufacturers to combat the global illicit drug trade. We looked into one of them, Hebei Atun Trading Company, accused of being involved in fentanyl precursor chemical sales.

Public records show the company was dissolved in 2021, but our investigation found the same email address once listed for Hebei Atun now linked to this Chinese company, Shanxi Naipu, registered just days after Hebei Atun began to shut down. And look at Hebei Atun's Facebook page, still active, it links to Shanxi Naipu. Not to mention the WhatsApp contacts advertised for both companies, the same.

So, I texted a number listed on one of Shanxi Naipu's four websites. Without even mentioning the word fentanyl, the seller, Linda Wang, asked if we wanted this substance, which can be used to make fentanyl. Wang then sent me this full menu of chemical products. A closer look reveals these are mostly precursors, legal to buy, but ones that chemists tell us can be used to manufacturer illicit drugs, from fentanyl to cocaine. The company offers fast delivery and safety shipping.

Door-to-door to USA.

CULVER: Logan Pauley is an intelligence analyst who has been investigating the flow of fentanyl precursors out of China for years. We showed him our conversation with Wong.

They have a warehouse in Mexico City.

LOGAN PAULEY, INTELLIGENCE ANALYST: Wow.

We wondered if Wang would reveal any ties to the sanction company.

My colleagues tell me, you are the same company as Hebei Atun. You're now called Shanxi Naipu Import and Export. Ha, ha, yes, smiley face, sorry, I don't want to cheat you.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I think it's wild that they confirmed that they're the same company.

In an email responding to our request for comment, Shanxi Naipu told us we are not related at all to Hebei Atun, adding that they bought the sanctioned company's Facebook account, email and cell phone number in order to, quote, attract internet traffic. They also deny selling the fentanyl precursor that they offered to us in multiple exchanges.

[03:45:01]

And the company denies having any warehouses in the U.S. or Mexico, stressing that everything they sell is legal. We found hundreds of other Chinese chemical companies selling the same fentanyl precursors legally.

I mean, does this show, do you think, that U.S. sanctions aren't working or aren't effective?

PAULEY: The way in which the system is being exploited by these Chinese companies makes it hard to enforce everything.

CULVER: Another problem, when one precursor is banned, a substitute chemical quickly takes its place.

ALEXANDRA EVANS, CHEMIST, D.C. DEPARTMENT OF FORENSIC SCIENCE: So, what they're doing now is they're buying compounds that are structurally very, very similar.

CULVER: Chemists point out the ease of creating a substitute ingredient called amassed precursor. Simply put, make one small chemical change, and it's no longer a banned precursor but a legal substitute, one that's readily available to purchase by essentially anyone with internet access. DEA officials tell us the majority of precursors shipped directly to Mexico, where cartels cook up fentanyl in secret labs.

We wanted to see for ourselves. Traveling into the state of Sinaloa, cartel country, as some see it, we got exclusive access with the Mexican Army as they hunt for drug labs. They took us to their latest fentanyl lab bust, this unassuming home.

That white building right there, that's the fentanyl lab.

CULVER: The army says they seized 270,000 pills here all containing fentanyl.

Soldiers keep watch 24/7, preserving the scenes for prosecutors and preventing cartel members from restarting production here.

Despite what we saw and scenes like these, Mexico's president claims here in Mexico, we do not produce fentanyl, he said, instead turning it on the U.S., essentially asking why the U.S. can't fix its own social decay, comments that immediately made headlines across the country. China's foreign ministry points the finger in the same direction. They told us, quote, using China as a scapegoat will not solve the drug crisis in the United States.

With U.S. drug overdoses at record levels and a relentless demand for opioids blame shifts from one country to another. International cooperation appears increasingly unlikely.

DONAHUE: If we had Mexico actually working with us, you can actually work against precursors coming in and actually target Chinese companies from Mexico.

CULVER: Instead, the burden falls here on the U.S. southern border where drugs continue to pour in. They found obviously a significant amount of drugs in the back trunk. So, we will continue over this way and get out of their way because they're going to continue to investigate that finding.

Do you see yourself as the last line of defense?

MARIN: We're the last line of defense holding the border. But we're the first line of defense in the expansion and whole of government outreach approach. It's not just an enforcement mission. It's a humanitarian mission.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CULVER (on camera): And it really is a humanitarian mission, as the port director put it, especially here in the U.S., where drug overdose deaths continue to hover near records. Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas recently referred to fentanyl as the single greatest challenge we face as a country. So, it raises the question, what can be done.

Well, experts tell us one thing that could be incredibly helpful is to go after the individual business owners rather than just the companies. Shanxi Naipu, the company that we engaged with through this reporting, well, they say they're taking steps to stop the negative influence, as they put it, that the U.S. sanction company, Hebei Atun, has had on their company. And we're just noticing that several of the Shanxi Naipu websites are now offline. The seller, Linda, who we were speaking with, according to the company, she no longer works with them.

David Culver, CNN.

HOLMES: Now, we have word of the first conviction in the fatal Rust movie set shooting. Assistant Director David Halls has been sentenced to six months probation. That's part of a plea deal for his role in the death of the cinema photographer, Halyna Hutchins. Halls handed Actor Alec Baldwin the gun in the moments leading up to the shooting.

Along with probation, Halls agreed to testify in all future trials. Both Alec Baldwin and the film's armorer have pleaded not guilty to involuntary manslaughter.

Still to come on the program, the final four down to the final two, we will tell you which schools will be competing for the NCAA Men's Basketball Championship on Monday.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[03:50:00]

HOLMES: After weeks of some incredible basketball and some dramatic upsets, March Madness is almost over. San Diego State and Connecticut will face off on Monday for the championship.

CNN's Coy Wire has the highlights from the final four in Houston. COY WIRE, CNN SPORTS ANCHOR: San Diego State Head Coach Brian Dutcher used to walk around campus and hand out free tickets to San Diego State games, and now his team has just drilled a buzzer beater to send the Aztecs to its first ever national title game on Monday.

Florida Atlantic, they led admirably most of the game. They were up just one, though, and missed the shot with nine seconds to go. And instead of calling time out, Coach Dutcher decided to let his players play. Lamont Butler with the ball, it looked like time was going to run out, he rises, fires and money. San Diego State going to the title game on a legendary March Madness buzzer beater. Aztecs rushed the floor.

Some of the students told us that they drove about 1,500 miles, drove 20 hours to be here in Houston. Their hearts erupt with elation while at the same time hearts and dreams are shattered for Florida Atlantic. They fought so hard. They had never had a single tournament win before this March Madness, but they made it all the way to within a second of the title game.

San Diego State winning 70-71 will now face Yukon for a chance at one shining moment.

[03:55:03]

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LAMONT BUTLER, SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY GUARD: The plan was just to get down here. They cut me off a little bit. I looked up. It was two seconds left, so I got to a shot that I'm comfortable with, and I hit it.

DUSTY MAY, FLORIDA ATLANTIC UNIVERSITY COACH: I didn't have my best game. A couple of guys didn't have their best game and we're not going to dwell on it. We're going to hug each other for this season, and then we'll start thinking about how we can improve individually and collectively.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WIRE: Now, in the late game, Coach Dan Hurley's Yukon Huskies in control the entire way. They take down Miami 72 59, advancing to their first title game since 2014. Star center Adama Sanogo scoring a game high 21 points, 10 rebounds. He grew up in Bamako, Mali. Five older sisters, one younger brother, playing soccer until he was 12 before finding his love for basketball.

He speaks four languages and he speaks life into Huskies nation as they are now, just one win away from a fifth national title.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ADAMA SANOGO, UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT FORWARD: There's a lot of teams that want to play on Monday. So, it means a lot to us. It means like everything worked for a (INAUDIBLE) season like payoff. Right now, we've just got to keep going and still liking and be able to go on Monday night.

JIM LARRANAGA, UNIVERSITY OF MIAMI COACH: We really never able to just relax and play our game. We were pretty much at a character the whole night. But these guys are great, great guys, great players. We've had a sensational season. And they will have memories that will last a lifetime, and so will I.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WIRE: Monday night right here on this court, one team is going to rise to the occasion and cut down the nets as national champions. Who wants it? It was said that this was going to be the most unpredictable final four ever and it's certainly living up to the hype.

HOLMES: Cory Wire there.

Thanks for spending part of your day with me. I'm Michael Holmes. We will leave you with a live look from St. Peter's Square, where Pope Francis is expected to take part in Palm Sunday mass this morning. We'll have a live report coming up in the next hour. That will be with Laila Harrak who picks up our coverage after the break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[04:00:00]

Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020230403ej4200001


World news
Russia-Ukraine war – as it happened: Finland joins Nato in move Moscow says increases risks of wider conflict
Tobi Thomas (now); Martin Belam and Helen Sullivan (earlier)
9034 字
2023 年 4 月 4 日 18:24 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2023. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
Country joins alliance in move Moscow says is an ‘encroachment on Russia’s security’Russia-Ukraine war at a glance

block-time published-time 6.53pm BST

Summary

*

Finland has become the 31st member of Nato after its foreign minister, Pekka Haavisto, signed an accession document and handed it to the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, at a ceremony in Brussels[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/apr/04/finland-nato-member-brussels-ceremony].

*

Sergei Shoigu, Russia’s defence minister, said the accession of Finland increased the risks of wider conflict.

*

A Ukrainian soldier pleaded “partly guilty” on Tuesday at Russia’s first trial for war crimes in connection with its military campaign in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/apr/04/russia-ukraine-war-live-finland-to-officially-join-nato-russia-drone-strikes-hit-odesa-port].

*

Russian investigators formally charged Darya Trepova, a 26-year-old woman, with terrorism offences over the killing of the pro-war military blogger Vladlen Tatarsky[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/apr/04/russia-ukraine-war-live-finland-to-officially-join-nato-russia-drone-strikes-hit-odesa-port] in a bomb blast in St Petersburg.

*

Alexander Lukashenko, the leader of Belarus, will travel to Moscow on Wednesday for two days of talks with the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, the Kremlin has said.

*

Lithuania’s parliament decided on Tuesday to ban Russian nationals from purchasing real estate[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/apr/04/russia-ukraine-war-live-finland-to-officially-join-nato-russia-drone-strikes-hit-odesa-port] in the Baltic country, citing risks to national security.

*

Polish farmers are threatening to derail a visit to Warsaw by Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, over claims that Ukrainian grain is flooding their market, in a move that would provide Russia with valuable evidence of a crack in western solidarity[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/apr/04/russia-ukraine-war-live-finland-to-officially-join-nato-russia-drone-strikes-hit-odesa-port].

*

Russia’s state-owned Tass news agency has reported that the number of people injured in the St Petersburg cafe explosion that killed the prominent military blogger Vladlen Tatarsky has risen to 40[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/apr/04/russia-ukraine-war-live-finland-to-officially-join-nato-russia-drone-strikes-hit-odesa-port?page=with:block-642bc86b8f082fad6b846e96&filterKeyEvents=false].

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.07pm BST

block-time published-time 6.19pm BST

Reuters reporters have spoken to Finns living close to the Russian border about their thoughts of Finland’s new Nato membership. Below you can read an excerpt of their reports.

“I feel it’s a good thing that Finland is joining Nato. We have been here next to Russia for ages,” said Outi Lehtimaki, 59, a designer in Helsinki. “My father was in the war with the Russians so this is like a personal thing to me.”

Senja Veihlanen, a 25-year-old baker said: “In some ways I think it will make Finland a safer place but then again we don’t know what Russia will do. It’s a big question for me.”

In Virolahti, near the Russian border due east of Helsinki, retired Finnish combat engineer Ilkka Lansivaara had hung his own Nato flag from the side of his house.

“It’s a special day for Finland,” said Lansivaara, 70, a former soldier whose father was an air force pilot during the second world war. “Now we have power also behind us, not just our own forces,” he added.

Matti Seppala, 78, a retired warehouse worker who grew up near the border said joining would bolster Finland’s security even if he was not scared of Russian “sabre rattling”.

“I supported joining, you never know with the big brother, what they will do,” he said.

In Vaalimaa, once a busy crossing point for Finns and Russians almost midway between Helsinki and St Petersburg, border guard Markus Haapasaari watched the now just slow trickle of traffic. Finland’s new status hadn’t sunk in for him yet, he said.

The Ukraine invasion, which Moscow calls a “special military operation”, has led both Finland and Sweden to abandon decades of military non-alignment and seek safety in the Nato camp.

The accession of Finland with its 1,300-km (810-mile) border with Russia roughly doubles Nato’s land frontier facing Moscow at a time when east-west relations have hit their lowest point in decades.

Across the border in St Petersburg, a Russian resident of the city who gave his name only as Nikolai said, “Finland is making problems for itself by joining (Nato) … we used to consider it a brotherly country of the capitalist world, the closest to us in spirit, in relations, in mutually-beneficial economic relations. But now we will consider it as a state that is unfriendly to us.”

Ruled by czarist Russia for more than a century, Finland gained independence in 1917. It then desperately fended off a Soviet invasion in 1939 and for a time sided with Nazi Germany in a bid to win back lost territory.

As the war ended with allied victory, Finland found itself compelled to spend decades maintaining friendly and accommodating relations with its eastern neighbour and treading a sometimes precarious path of neutrality through the cold war.

Memories of Finland’s close relations with Moscow to preserve independence – a tactic known as “Finlandisation” – run deep for many Finns.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.50pm BST

block-time published-time 5.22pm BST

Reuters reports that citizens of St Petersburg, the Russian city closest to Finland, accused their neighbour of turning its back on them by joining the western military alliance Nato, following their government’s line that the accession was a hostile act.

Before Russia sent its armed forces into Ukraine early last year, people in Russia’s second city had been fond of visiting the Finnish capital Helsinki, about five hours’ drive away.

“I don’t think anything will change for us,” said St Petersburg resident Yevgeny, who like others declined to give his surname. “It’ll only get worse for the Finns because we won’t go there, and they’ll only incur losses from this.”

Another resident, Nikolai, said Finland was “making problems for itself”.

“We used to consider it a brotherly country of the capitalist world, the closest to us in spirit, in relations, in mutually-beneficial economic relations,” he said. “But now we’ll consider it as a state that is unfriendly to us.”

None of the five people Reuters spoke to sympathised with Finland’s decision to give up its neutrality because of Russia’s military campaign in Ukraine, also a neighbour of Russia.

What Russia calls a “special military operation” in Ukraine to defuse a purported Nato threat to Russian security has echoes of the 1939 Soviet invasion of Finland, formerly part of the Russian empire, which resulted in Finland ceding a large part of its territory.

“This is just a conspiracy by the Anglo-Saxon world,” said Vasily, echoing the stance taken by the Kremlin. “We have always had good neighbourly relations with Finland.”

Another citizen, Alexei, had a recommendation for Finland: “If they wanted to unite with Russia against Nato, then I would be glad.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.35pm BST

block-time published-time 4.41pm BST

The US has pledged a further $2.6bn in weapons and munition to aid Ukraine.

The military assistance includes air surveillance radars, anti-tank rockets and fuel trucks, the Pentagon announced on Tuesday, as Ukraine prepares to mount a spring offensive against Russia.

In a statement, the US Department of Defense said:

Today, the Department of Defense (DoD) announces critical new security assistance for Ukraine. This includes the authorization of a Presidential Drawdown of security assistance with more ammunition for US-provided HIMARS, air defense interceptors, and artillery rounds that Ukraine is using to defend itself, as well as anti-armor systems, small arms, heavy equipment transport vehicles, and maintenance support essential to strengthening Ukraine’s defenders on the battlefield valued at up to $500mn.

In addition, we are announcing a significant package of air defense capabilities, as well as artillery and tank ammunition, mortar systems, rockets, and anti-armor systems using $2.1bn in Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative (USAI) funds.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.19pm BST

block-time published-time 4.33pm BST

The Russian finance ministry said it had paid out 6.6bn roubles in full settlement of a 2042 eurobond coupon.

More soon …

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.45pm BST

block-time published-time 4.15pm BST

Sergei Shoigu, Russia’s defence minister, has said Finland’s accession to Nato increased the risks of wider conflict. In an address to the leadership of Russia’s armed forces he also said that Belarusian jets were now capable of carrying Russian nuclear missiles, a development likely to ratchet up tension

*

Russia-Ukraine war live: Finland joins Nato in move Moscow says increases risks of wider conflict[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/apr/04/russia-ukraine-war-live-finland-to-officially-join-nato-russia-drone-strikes-hit-odesa-port?filterKeyEvents=false&page=with:block-642bf3a08f0857487d41a02e]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.16pm BST

block-time published-time 4.03pm BST

You can read the Guardian’s full report here of Finland becoming Nato’s 31st member.

Finland has become the 31st member of Nato after its foreign minister, Pekka Haavisto, signed an accession document and handed it to the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, at a ceremony in Brussels.

The handover marks the formal accession of Russia’s western neighbour to the world’s largest military alliance, completing an accelerated application process launched last May, when Finland and neighbouring Sweden[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/15/finland-formally-confirms-intention-to-join-nato-russia] abandoned decades of military nonalignment to seek security as Nato members after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

“President Putin had as a declared goal of the invasion of Ukraine to get less Nato[https://www.theguardian.com/world/nato],” the alliance’s secretary general, the former Norwegian prime minister Jens Stoltenberg, said shortly before the ceremony. “He is getting exactly the opposite.”

Stoltenberg added: “Finland today, and soon also Sweden will become a full-fledged member of the alliance.” Finland’s membership “removes the room for miscalculation in Moscow about Nato’s readiness to protect Finland”, he said.

The blue and white flag of Finland will shortly be raised alongside those of its partners outside Nato headquarters.

Related: Finland becomes 31st member of Nato in Brussels ceremony[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/apr/04/finland-nato-member-brussels-ceremony]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.18pm BST

block-time published-time 3.55pm BST

Summary of the day so far …

*

Finland has become the 31st member of Nato after its foreign minister, Pekka Haavisto, signed an accession document and handed it to the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, at a ceremony in Brussels. The handover marks the formal accession of Russia’s western neighbour to the world’s largest military alliance, completing an accelerated application process launched last May, when Finland and neighbouring Sweden[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/15/finland-formally-confirms-intention-to-join-nato-russia] abandoned decades of military nonalignment to seek security as Nato members after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

*

“Russian President Vladimir Putin had as a declared goal of the invasion of Ukraine to get less Nato[https://www.theguardian.com/world/nato],” the alliance’s secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, said shortly before the ceremony. “He is getting exactly the opposite”. Stoltenberg added: “Finland today, and soon also Sweden, will become a full-fledged member of the alliance.” Finland’s membership “removes the room for miscalculation in Moscow about Nato’s readiness to protect Finland”, he said.

*

Sergei Shoigu, Russia’s defence minister, said the accession of Finland increased the risks of wider conflict. In an address to the leadership of Russia’s armed forces he also said that Belarusian jets are now capable of carrying Russian nuclear missiles, in a move likely to ratchet up tension.

*

Russia’s commissioner for children’s rights, who was accused by the international criminal court (ICC) alongside Putin of war crimes in Ukraine, said on Tuesday that the ICC’s allegations were false and unclear. Maria Lvova-Belova also said Russia had accepted more than 5 million refugees from Ukraine’s Donbas region, including 730,000 children, since February 2022. The ICC said it had information that hundreds of children had been taken from orphanages and care homes in areas of Ukraine claimed by Russia. Some of those children, the ICC said, had been given up for adoption in Russia. Lvova-Belova insisted her commission was not aware of a single case of a child from eastern Ukraine being separated from their biological relatives and being transferred to a foster home.

*

Russian investigators on Tuesday formally charged Darya Trepova, a 26-year-old woman, with terrorism offences over the killing of pro-war military blogger Vladlen Tatarsky in a bomb blast in St Petersburg. Tatarsky, a cheerleader for Russia’s military campaign in Ukraine whose real name was Maxim Fomin, was killed on Sunday in an explosion in a cafe where he was due to talk. The committee, which investigates major crimes, said it had charged Trepova with committing “a terrorist act by an organised group that caused intentional death”. It said she had acted under instructions from people working on behalf of Ukraine.

*

A Ukrainian soldier pleaded “partly guilty” on Tuesday at Russia’s first trial for war crimes in connection with its military campaign in Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine]. Anton Cherednik, a member of Ukraine’s naval infantry, faced charges in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don of trying to seize power by force, of using prohibited methods of warfare and of murdering a civilian in Mariupol in March last year in the conflict’s early days. It was the first time Russia had accused a member of Ukraine’s armed forces of war crimes, according to Russian news outlets and the court’s press service.

*

Polish farmers are threatening to derail a visit to Warsaw by Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, over claims that Ukrainian grain is flooding their market, in a move that would provide Russia with valuable evidence of a crack in western solidarity. Ukraine’s president is scheduled to visit Poland’s capital on Wednesday to express his gratitude for the country’s solidarity over the war with Russia, but Polish grain producers are warning they could take to the streets to “ruin” the occasion.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.16pm BST

block-time published-time 3.24pm BST

Zelenskiy congratulates Finland on joining Nato

Volodymyr Zelenskiy has offered his congratulations to Finland on the country’s accession to Nato. In a post on Telegram, Ukraine’s president said:

My sincere congratulations to Finland and President Sauli Niinistö on joining Nato on the 74th anniversary of its founding. Amid Russian aggression, the alliance became the only effective guarantee of security in the region. We expect that the Vilnius Nato Summit will bring Ukraine closer to our Euro-Atlantic goal.

block-time published-time 3.19pm BST

Suspilne, Ukraine’s state broadcaster, is reporting that “about 260 houses on 30 streets were flooded in the Kramatorsk community of the Donetsk region”.

Pavlo Kyrylenko, Ukraine’s governor of Donetsk, posted to Telegram, saying “on one of the ponds, the water discharge sluice is partially destroyed, as a result of which there is an uncontrolled discharge of water.”

He said: “We are creating a concrete barrier and clearing the channel of the river there to minimise the consequences of the spill, we are relocating people from the affected houses to temporary housing.”

It is unclear from initial reports what has caused the damage.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.23pm BST

block-time published-time 3.04pm BST

Finland formally becomes 31st member of Nato

Finland has become the 31st member of Nato after its foreign minister, Pekka Haavisto, signed an accession document and handed it to the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, at a ceremony in Brussels.

The handover marks the formal accession of Russia’s western neighbour to the world’s largest military alliance, completing an accelerated application process launched last May, when Finland and neighbouring Sweden[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/15/finland-formally-confirms-intention-to-join-nato-russia] abandoned decades of military nonalignment to seek security as Nato members after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

“President Putin had as a declared goal of the invasion of Ukraine to get less Nato[https://www.theguardian.com/world/nato],” the alliance’s secretary general, the former Norwegian prime minister Jens Stoltenberg, said shortly before the ceremony. “He is getting exactly the opposite.”

Stoltenberg added: “Finland today, and soon also Sweden will become a full-fledged member of the alliance.” Finland’s membership “removes the room for miscalculation in Moscow about Nato’s readiness to protect Finland”, he said.

Nato’s border with Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] will roughly double with the accession of Finland, which shares a 1,340km (832 mile) border with its eastern neighbour. Moscow has warned it will bolster its defences in the region if necessary.

Interactive[https://interactive.guim.co.uk/uploader/embed/2023/04/archive-zip/giv-13425YItzBOd4mz7J/]

Turkey became the last Nato member to ratify Finland’s application last week, but Turkey and Hungary continue to delay Sweden’s application, with Ankara accusing Stockholm of sheltering Kurdish militants and Budapest angry about Swedish criticism of the rule of law in Hungary.

Finland’s accession falls on the 74th anniversary of the signing of Nato’s founding Washington Treaty on 4 April 1949.

Finland’s president, Sauli Niinistö, (L) and Nato secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, leave after a press conference during the Nato foreign affairs ministers’ meeting in Brussels. Photograph: Kenzo Tribouillard/AFP/Getty Images

The Kremlin spokesperson, Dmitry Peskov, said on Tuesday that Nato’s expansion to embrace Finland was an “encroachment on our security and on Russia’s national interests”, adding that Moscow would watch closely for any Nato military deployments there.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.43pm BST

block-time published-time 2.48pm BST

Ukrainian soldier pleads 'partly guilty' at Russia's first trial for war crimes

A Ukrainian soldier pleaded “partly guilty” on Tuesday at Russia’s first trial for war crimes in connection with its military campaign in Ukraine.

Anton Cherednik, a member of Ukraine’s naval infantry, faced charges in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don of trying to seize power by force, of using prohibited methods of warfare and of murdering a civilian in Mariupol in March last year in the conflict’s early days.

It was the first time Russia had accused a member of Ukraine’s armed forces of war crimes, according to Russian news outlets and the court’s press service.

Outside the court, his lawyer Vladimir Bakulov said Cherednik had pleaded “partly guilty” and had requested a meeting with the judge to explain his position. The case will resume next week, Reuters says Russian news agencies reported.

Anton Cherednik, a Ukrainian serviceman captured in Mariupol and accused of killing a civilian in March 2022, sits in the defendant’s cage and speaks with his lawyer during a hearing in the Southern District military court in Rostov-on-Don, Russia. Photograph: EPA

Prosecutors say Cherednik detained two men in Mariupol, ordering them to speak Ukrainian, and shot one of them who did not use correct pronunciation, the Tass news agency reported.

Russian forces seized Mariupol last May after weeks of attritional fighting.

Ukraine has already tried and sentenced a number of Russian soldiers for killing unarmed civilians.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.55pm BST

block-time published-time 2.42pm BST

Polish farmers are threatening to derail a visit to Warsaw by Volodymyr Zelenskiy over claims that Ukrainian grain is flooding their market, in a move that would provide Russia with valuable evidence of a crack in western solidarity.

Ukraine’s president is scheduled to visit Poland’s capital on Wednesday to express his gratitude for the country’s solidarity over the war with Russia, but Polish grain producers are warning they could take to the streets to “ruin” the occasion.

“Warsaw should think the thing over,” said Marcin Sobczuk, the head of the Zamosc Farmers’ Association, in an interview with the Polish news website Interia. He said the association was ready to “spoil” the visit, adding: “There are a lot of ideas, but it is too early to talk about it.”

As part of an EU initiative, all tariffs and quotas have been lifted on Ukrainian grain exports into the bloc’s 27 member states in order to facilitate the product’s transit around the world, including to Africa, where a Russian blockade on Ukrainian exports has been particularly painful.

The grain has, however, failed to move out of some eastern EU countries, including Poland[https://www.theguardian.com/world/poland], Hungary and Romania, forcing down prices in those countries and fuelling resentment in farming communities.

Read more of Daniel Boffey’s report here: Polish farmers threaten to ‘ruin’ Zelenskiy visit amid grain dispute[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/apr/04/polish-farmers-threaten-to-ruin-zelenskiy-visit-amid-grain-dispute]

Related: Polish farmers threaten to ‘ruin’ Zelenskiy visit amid grain dispute[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/apr/04/polish-farmers-threaten-to-ruin-zelenskiy-visit-amid-grain-dispute]

block-time published-time 2.32pm BST

Here are some of the images from the ceremony in Brussels which admitted Finland to the Nato military alliance.

Finnish Foreign Affairs Minister Pekka Haavisto (L) hands over Finland's accession to Nato documents to US secretary of state Antony Blinken (R) and Nato Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg (C), during a joining ceremony at Nato headquarters in Brussels. Photograph: Johanna Geron/AFP/Getty Images Finland's President Sauli Niinisto (L) and Nato Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg give a press conference in Brussels. Photograph: Kenzo Tribouillard/AFP/Getty Images

block-time published-time 2.26pm BST

Alexander Lukashenko, the leader of Belarus, will travel to Moscow on Wednesday for two days of talks with the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, the Kremlin has said.

Reuters reports that according to the Kremlin spokesperson, Dmitry Peskov, last week the two leaders would discuss Lukashenko’s call for an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine at a face-to-face meeting.

Putin and Lukashenko would hold talks on “topical bilateral and international issues” on 5 April, before a meeting of the Supreme Council of the Union State the following day, the Kremlin said in an announcement published on Tuesday.

Russia and Belarus are formally part of a Union State, a borderless union and alliance between the two ex-Soviet countries, though longstanding plans for closer integration of their economies have repeatedly stalled.

Moscow is Belarus’s key political and financial backer, while Lukashenko allowed Putin to use Belarus’s territory as a launchpad for Russia’s invasion of Ukraine last year.

Last month Putin said Russia would deploy tactical nuclear weapons to Belarus.

Sergei Shoigu, the defence minister, said on Tuesday that Russia was boosting Belarus’ nuclear capabilities in response to Finland joining the Nato military alliance.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.37pm BST

block-time published-time 2.00pm BST

Finland formally joined the Nato military alliance on Tuesday in a historic policy shift brought on by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, drawing a threat from Moscow of “countermeasures”.

Reuters reports that Finland’s accession roughly doubles the length of the border that Nato shares with Russia, while bolstering its eastern flank as the war in Ukraine grinds on with no resolution in sight.

The Finnish foreign minister, Pekka Haavisto, completed the accession process by handing over an official document to US Secretary of State Antony Blinken at Nato headquarters in Brussels.

The Nato secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, welcoming Finland to its ranks, noted that Vladimir Putin had cited opposing Nato expansion as one justification for his invasion.

“He is getting exactly the opposite... Finland today, and soon also Sweden will become a full-fledged member of the alliance,” Stoltenberg said in Brussels.

The Kremlin said Russia would be forced to take “countermeasures” to Finland’s accession. The defence minister, Sergei Shoigu, said the move raised the prospect of the conflict in Ukraine escalating further.

Russia said on Monday it would strengthen its military capacity in its western and northwestern regions in response to Finland joining Nato.

The Ukrainian government also hailed Finland’s move. President Volodymyr Zelenskiy’s chief of staff, Andriy Yermak, wrote on Telegram: “FI made the right choice. Nato is also a key goal for Ukraine.”

But the invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 prompted Finns to seek security under Nato’s collective defence pact, which states that an attack on one member is an attack on all.

The Kremlin spokesperson, Dmitry Peskov, said the Nato expansion was an “encroachment on our security and on Russia’s national interests”. Moscow would watch closely for any Nato military deployments in Finland, he said.

Blinken said: “I’m tempted to say this is maybe the one thing we can thank Mr Putin for. Because he once again here precipitated something he claims to want to prevent.”

Finland becomes the 31st member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation on 4 April. Photograph: Mauri Ratilainen/EPA

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.11pm BST

block-time published-time 1.51pm BST

Finland becomes Nato member

Finland became a member of Nato on Tuesday, completing a historic security policy shift triggered by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Pekka Haavisto, the Finnish foreign minister, completed the accession process by handing over an official document to the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, at Nato headquarters in Brussels.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.51pm BST

block-time published-time 1.37pm BST

Darya Trepova charged with terrorism offences over St Petersburg cafe explosion

Reuters reports that Russian investigators on Tuesday formally charged Darya Trepova, a 26-year-old woman, with terrorism offences over the killing of the pro-war military blogger Vladlen Tatarsky in a bomb blast in St Petersburg.

Tatarsky, a cheerleader for Russia’s military campaign in Ukraine whose real name was Maxim Fomin, was killed on Sunday in an explosion in a cafe where he was due to talk.

The investigative committee, which looks into major crimes, said it had charged Trepova with committing “a terrorist act by an organised group that caused intentional death”.

It said she had acted under instructions from people working on behalf of Ukraine.

Trepova was transferred from St Petersburg to Moscow, where prosecutors were due to ask the Basmanny district court later on Tuesday to remand her in pre-trial detention.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.49pm BST

block-time published-time 12.51pm BST

A new Lithuanian bid to push the European Union to impose sanctions on Russia’s nuclear energy industry includes proposed exemptions for Hungary and a two-year period to phase out existing contracts, according to a document seen by Reuters.

Reuters reports that unlike similar proposals by the EU’s Russia hawks earlier on, the latest plan from Vilnius includes a nuanced approach, an apparent attempt to win over sceptics in Budapest and elsewhere.

“It is proposed to introduce individual restrictive measures for Rosatom,” says the policy proposal dated March 17, which has not been released publicly.

“In addition, it is appropriate to introduce a derogation on the basis of which operations, contracts or other agreements concluded with Rosatom could be still executed for a fixed period of time allowing European Union member states to complete the execution of these contracts or other agreements.”

The document proposed setting that at two years.

The EU has slapped 10 rounds of sanctions on Russia since it invaded Ukraine in Febraury, 2022, but hundreds of millions of euros worth of trade with Russia’s nuclear energy industry has not been directly affected.

All EU countries must agree for the bloc to impose sanctions and Budapest – where Rosatom is to expand the Paks nuclear power plant – has vowed to oppose any curbs on Russian nuclear energy industry.

The Lithuanian proposal sought to address that by offering Budapest specific carve-outs of up to nine years for Paks.

Otherwise, the sanctions proposed by Lithuania would ban new investments in Russia’s civil nuclear energy sector, prevent new cooperation agreements with Rosatom, and end imports of enriched uranium from Russia, with opt-outs for France and others who have running contracts there.

The detail of the proposal is reported here for the first time.

Lithuania’s foreign minister, Gabrielius Landsbergis, spoke of it in broader terms on arriving for talks with his EU peers in Brussels on 20 March. He said the plan amounted to “an onion approach”.

“That means that it has a lot of layers to choose from. We can peel all those that we cannot … agree upon,” he told reporters.

“But still there are things that we can sanction when it comes to board members, it can be new contracts, it can be a lot of things taking into consideration those countries who have existing contracts and existing projects that need to be safeguarded.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.33pm BST

block-time published-time 11.56am BST

Vladimir Putin has achieved the opposite of his Ukraine war aims by triggering Finland’s “historic” accession to Nato on Tuesday, the alliance’s chief, Jens Stoltenberg, said, declaring Sweden would also join soon.

Reuters reports:

“President Putin had as a declared goal of the invasion of Ukraine to get less Nato,” he told reporters at Nato’s Brussels headquarters, speaking hours before Finland was officially to become a member of the military alliance.

“He is getting exactly the opposite... Finland today, and soon also Sweden will become a full fledged member of the alliance,” Stoltenberg said.

Later on Tuesday, Nato was to hold a ceremony at its headquarters marking Finland’s accession.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February last year pushed Finland and its neighbour Sweden to apply for Nato membership, abandoning decades of military non-alignment.

The final hurdle to Finland’s membership was removed last week when Turkey’s parliament voted to ratify Helsinki’s application even as it kept Sweden’s bid on hold.

Finland has an 810-mile border with Russia, meaning Nato’s frontier with Russia will roughly double in length, and the move drew a pledge from Moscow that it will beef up its forces in border regions.

Responding to Moscow’s latest announcements, Stoltenberg said Nato was constantly assessing its own posture, holding more exercises and having more presence in the Nordic region.

He also played down Putin’s pledge to station tactical nuclear weapons in Belarus.

“So far, we haven’t seen any changes in Russia’s nuclear posture that require any changes in our posture, but we will remain vigilant, we monitor closely what they do, and we will take the necessary steps to always ensure that we have credible deterrence for all our allies.”

Stoltenberg said Nato’s Nordic enlargement was not meant to provoke a conflict but preserve peace.

“By (Finland) becoming a full-fledged member, we are removing the room for miscalculation in Moscow, about Nato’s readiness to protect Finland, and that makes Finland safer and NATO stronger”, he noted.

The Kremlin’s spokesperson, Dmitry Peskov, said the expansion of Nato was an “encroachment on our security and on Russia’s national interests” and that Moscow would watch closely for any Nato military deployments in Finland.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.10pm BST

block-time published-time 11.25am BST

Reuters reports that the United States and European Union will confront any attempts to destabilise global energy markets, the two sides said on Tuesday after a meeting of officials in Brussels where they discussed the fallout in energy markets of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

“The two sides reiterated their strong commitment to directly confront, with adequate measures, all efforts to further destabilise the global energy situation and to circumvent sanctions,” they said in a joint statement.

block-time published-time 11.11am BST

Finland's entry into Nato 'encroachment on Russia's security', says Kremlin spokesperson

The Russian state-owned news agency RIA is carrying remarks from the Kremlin spokesperson, Dmitry Peskov. It reports:

Peskov said that Finland’s entry into Nato (scheduled for today) is another aggravation of the situation, the expansion of the alliance is an encroachment on Russia’s security.

At the same time, he noted that this whole situation is fundamentally different from the problem with Ukraine – Finland has never been anti-Russia.

Reuters reports Peskov called Helsinki’s move to join the bloc an “encroachment” on Russia’s security and said the structure of Nato was hostile towards Russia. He said Russia would be forced to take “countermeasures” to ensure Russia’s security.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.27pm BST

block-time published-time 11.03am BST

Summary of the day so far …

*

Finland’s accession to Nato later on Tuesday will be a historic event and direct result of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Nato chief Jens Stoltenberg said, adding the alliance would ensure that Sweden will also become a full-fledged member. “President Putin had as a declared goal of the invasion of Ukraine to get less Nato,” he told reporters ahead of a meeting of the alliance’s foreign ministers. “He is getting exactly the opposite.”

*

Finland will become the 31st member of the world’s biggest military alliance on Tuesday. Stoltenberg said Turkey, the last country to ratify Finland’s membership, would hand its official texts[https://viewer.gutools.co.uk/world/2023/apr/03/finland-to-join-nato-on-tuesday-as-russia-sounds-border-warning] to the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, on Tuesday. Stoltenberg said he would then invite Finland to do the same.

*

Sergei Shoigu, Russia’s defence minister, said the accession of Finland increased the risks of wider conflict. In an address to the leadership of Russia’s armed forces he also said that Belarusian jets are now capable of carrying Russian nuclear missiles, in a move likely to ratchet up tension.

*

Russia’s commissioner for children’s rights, who was accused by the international criminal court (ICC) alongside President Vladimir Putin of war crimes in Ukraine, said on Tuesday that the ICC’s allegations were false and unclear. Maria Lvova-Belova also said Russia had accepted more than 5 million refugees from Ukraine’s Donbas region, including 730,000 children, since February 2022. The ICC said it had information that hundreds of children had been taken from orphanages and care homes in areas of Ukraine claimed by Russia. Some of those children, the ICC said, had been given up for adoption in Russia. Lvova-Belova insisted her commission was not aware of a single case of a child from eastern Ukraine being separated from their biological relatives and being transferred to a foster home.

*

Ukrainian defence forces destroyed 14 of 17 Iranian-made Shahed drones Russia launched overnight, Ukraine’s military has said, with 13 drones destroyed over the Odesa region in the country’s south-west. Ukraine’s South military command said one drone hit an enterprise in the Odesa region, causing a fire, which was eliminated by the morning.

*

Alexei Kulemzin, the mayor of occupied Donetsk, has posted to his Telegram channel to say that a school in the Petrovsky district of the city has been damaged by shelling from Ukrainian forces.

*

Russia ’s state-owned Tass news agency has reported that the number of people injured in the St Petersburg cafe explosion that killed the prominent military blogger Vladlen Tatarsky has risen to 40.

*

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has posted on his official Telegram channel about a meeting he held yesterday that included among its guests Mike Pompeo, the former US secretary of state under President Donald Trump.

*

Lithuania ’s parliament decided on Tuesday to ban non-resident Russian nationals from purchasing real estate in the Baltic country, citing risks to national security.

That is it from me, Martin Belam, for now. I will be back later. Tobi Thomas will be here shortly to take you through the next few hours of our live coverage.

block-time published-time 10.45am BST

Stoltenberg: Putin is getting opposite of what he wanted with Nato enlargement due to Ukraine war

Finland’s accession to Nato on Tuesday will be a historic event and direct result of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the Nato chief, Jens Stoltenberg, has said, adding the alliance would ensure that Sweden will also become a full-fledged member.

“President Putin had as a declared goal of the invasion of Ukraine to get less Nato,” he told reporters ahead of a meeting of the alliance’s foreign ministers.

“He is getting exactly the opposite … Finland today, and soon also Sweden will become a full-fledged member of the alliance,” he said.

The Nato secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, speaks to the press before a foreign affairs ministers’ meeting in Brussels. Photograph: Kenzo Tribouillard/AFP/Getty Images

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.48am BST

block-time published-time 10.37am BST

Finland’s Nato accession creates risks of a significant expansion of conflict, the Russia defence minister said today.

Sergei Shoigu was addressing in public a leadership meeting of the Russian armed forces. Reuters reports that Shoigu said Nato is strengthening its anti-Russian course, and that Finland’s entry into the alliance risked expanding conflict.

He also said that Belarusian jets are now capable of carrying Russian nuclear missiles, in a move that is likely to ratchet up tension.

block-time published-time 10.13am BST

Lithuania bans non-resident Russian nationals from purchasing real estate

Lithuania’s parliament decided on Tuesday to ban Russian nationals from purchasing real estate in the Baltic country, citing risks to national security.

Reuters reports the ban, which will be in place until 2024, would not apply to Russians who are granted residency in the country.

Parliament also halted the issuing of new visas to nationals of Russia and its ally Belarus.

Many of the citizens of those two countries who carry other travel documents, such as previously issued visas, will be subject to “individual extended checks” at the border to determine if they pose a threat to national security.

block-time published-time 9.43am BST

Lvova-Belova says ICC charges over deported Ukrainian children 'false and unclear'

Russia’s commissioner for children’s rights, who was accused by the international criminal court (ICC) alongside President Vladimir Putin of war crimes in Ukraine, said on Tuesday that the ICC’s allegations were false and unclear. Maria Lvova-Belova also said Russia had accepted more than 5 million refugees from Ukraine’s Donbas region, including 730,000 children, since February 2022.

Reuters reports Lvova-Belova told a news conference in Moscow that the consent of children’s parents was always sought and that the commission always acted in the best interests of the child. If there were any specific problems with specific families, she said she was ready to help solve them.

She insisted her commission was not aware of a single case of a child from eastern Ukraine being separated from their biological relatives and being transferred to a foster home.

Russia’s presidential commissioner for children’s rights, Maria Lvova-Belova, attends a news conference in Moscow. Photograph: Maxim Shemetov/Reuters

The Hague-based ICC on 17 March issued arrest warrants for Putin and Lvova-Belova for the war crime of unlawfully deporting children from areas of Ukraine occupied by Russian forces.

The ICC said it had information that hundreds of children had been taken from orphanages and care homes in areas of Ukraine claimed by Russia. Some of those children, the ICC said, had been given up for adoption in Russia.

“It is unclear to the presidential commissioner for children’s rights what the international criminal court’s allegations specifically consist of and what they are based on,” Lvova-Belova’s commission said in a separate statement about its work, released before the news conference.

“The use of the formulation ‘unlawful deportation of population (children)‘ in the ICC’s official statement causes bewilderment,” it said.

It said it had also not received any documents about the case from the ICC, whose jurisdiction Russia does not recognise.

The commission said Donetsk and Luhansk, two Ukrainian regions that Russia has claimed to annex, had asked Russia to accept civilians, including orphans and children whose parents were missing.

The Kremlin has said the ICC arrest warrant is an outrageously partisan decision but meaningless. Russian officials deny war crimes in Ukraine and say the west has ignored what it says are Ukrainian war crimes.

Putin allies have attempted to cast the ICC, which countries including Russia, China and the US do not recognise, as a “legal nonentity” that had never done anything significant.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.16am BST

block-time published-time 9.22am BST

Ukrainian players do not get enough support from women’s tennis governing body WTA amid Russia’s invasion of their country, Elina Svitolina said on Tuesday.

Svitolina spoke to support fellow Ukrainian player Lesia Tsurenko, who said she withdrew from the Indian Wells tournament because of a panic attack brought on by a conversation the 33-year-old had days earlier with WTA chief executive Steve Simon about tennis’s response to the Russian invasion.

Elina Svitolina reacts after a shot against Yulia Putintseva of Kazakhstan during action at the Charleston Open tennis tournament. Photograph: Mic Smith/AP

“We are afraid, we feel empty. What is happening to Lesia is very sad. People who haven’t experienced it can’t really understand what it feels like to have no home, to feel safe nowhere, to have family in Ukraine, under the bombs, to know that Ukrainian cities are being destroyed. It’s both fear and a great emptiness,” Reuters reports Svitolina told French sports daily L’Équipe.

block-time published-time 9.15am BST

China has a moral duty to contribute to the establishment of peace in Ukraine, and must not support the aggressor in the war started by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the European Union’s top diplomat said on Tuesday.

“China has a moral duty to contribute to a fair peace, they cannot be siding with the aggressor,” Reuters reports EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said after a meeting with US secretary of state Antony Blinken in Brussels.

block-time published-time 9.08am BST

Maria Alekseyevna Lvova-Belova, the Russian children’s rights commissioner who the international criminal court (ICC) in The Hague has issued an arrest warrant for, is giving a press conference this morning.

One of the topics she will address, she has said on her Telegram channel, is “current urgent tasks, including in the new regions of the country”, which is a reference to the four regions of Ukraine that the Russian Federation claims to have annexed.

We’ll bring you any key lines that emerge.

block-time published-time 8.47am BST

Alexei Kulemzin, the mayor of occupied Donetsk, has posted to his Telegram channel to say that a school in the Petrovsky district of the city has been damaged by shelling from Ukrainian forces. He reported that the “entrance doors, roof, and glazing were damaged”. The claims have not been independently verified.

block-time published-time 8.38am BST

Volodymyr Zelenskiy has posted on his official Telegram channel about a meeting he held yesterday that included among its guests Mike Pompeo, the former US secretary of state under President Donald Trump. Ukraine’s president posted:

Yesterday, I had a meeting with a delegation of politicians, businessmen and representatives of charitable organisations from the US, led by former US secretary of state Mike Pompeo.

Such visits and meetings are a powerful signal of support for Ukrainians in our struggle for freedom and democracy. The US stands by us and fights with us for common goals. We feel bipartisan support, support from the White House. Comprehensive American support is very important for us.

block-time published-time 7.51am BST

Russia’s state-owned Tass news agency has reported that the number of people injured in the St Petersburg cafe explosion that killed the prominent military blogger Vladlen Tatarsky has risen to 40. It quotes a statement from the press service of the Russian health ministry:

According to operational data, as a result of an incident in a cafe in St. Petersburg, 40 people sought medical help, including three minors.

Tass also reports that 25 of the casualties remain in hospital, with five in a condition described as “serious”.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 8.01am BST

block-time published-time 7.48am BST

This is the latest news summary from Suspilne, Ukraine's state broadcaster:

At night, the Russian Federation attacked Ukraine from the south with 17 “Shahed” drones: 14 of them were destroyed by air defence forces. In the Odesa region, a business was hit, there were no casualties.

In the morning, Russian troops shelled Kupyansk in the Kharkiv region. As a result of the impact, an economic building caught fire, the state emergency service reported. On 3 April, one man was injured as a result of shelling in the Chuhuiv district.

During the day, Russian troops shelled the Kherson region 61 times: ten shells were aimed at a residential quarter and the territory of a medical facility, one person died.

In Donetsk region, four people were killed by shelling of the Russian army last night, two in Toretsk, one each in Avdiivka and Torske. Three more residents of the region were injured.

block-time published-time 7.25am BST

Suspilne, Ukraine's state broadcaster, is reporting that overnight there has been shelling in the Sumy region – specifically in the communities of Seredyna-Buda and Esmansk. It reports “there are injuries and damage”, citing the regional authority. The claims have not been independently verified.

block-time published-time 6.46am BST

UK defence ministry says Russia likely looking to sponsor alternatives to Wagner

The UK Ministry of Defence has posted its daily update, in which it says Russia may be looking to sponsor and develop alternatives to Wagner – private military companies that could eventually replace Wagner.

“This takes place in the context of the high-profile feud between the Russian Ministry of Defence and the Wagner group. Russia’s military leadership likely wants a replacement PMC that it has more control over. However, no other known Russian PMC currently approaches Wagner’s size or power.”

enltrLatest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine - 4 April 2023.

Find out more about Defence Intelligence's use of language: https://t.co/oUYAi2Vhia[https://t.co/oUYAi2Vhia]

???? #StandWithUkraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithUkraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] ???? pic.twitter.com/a485dL48wL[https://t.co/a485dL48wL]

— Ministry of Defence ???? (@DefenceHQ) April 4, 2023[https://twitter.com/DefenceHQ/status/1643123656275423237?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.40am BST

block-time published-time 6.32am BST

Ukrainian defence forces destroyed 14 of 17 Iranian-made Shahed drones Russia launched overnight, Ukraine’s military has said, with 13 drones destroyed over the Odesa region in the country’s south-west.

“In total, up to 17 launches of UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle) attacks were recorded, presumably from the eastern coast area of the Sea of Azov,” the command said in a statement on the Telegram messaging app.

Ukraine’s South military command said one drone hit an enterprise in the Odesa region, causing a fire, which was eliminated by the morning.

“According to preliminary information, there were no human losses,” the command said.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.41am BST

block-time published-time 6.16am BST

Russian President Vladimir Putin has given his consent to transfer 94.8bn roubles ($1.21bn) to Shell for its stake in the Far East Sakhalin-2 gas project, Russian daily Kommersant reported.

Russian gas company Novatek has received Putin’s consent to transfer the money to Shell, the newspaper reported citing sources familiar with the matter.

Novatek said on Monday it had submitted an application to acquire a stake in Sakhalin Energy, the operator of the Sakahlin-2 gas project.

block-time published-time 6.03am BST

Why does Finland’s accession into Nato matter?

So, why does Finland’s accession into Nato matter?

First, Finland’s Nato membership will double the length of the alliance’s border with Russia, with which Finland shares a 1,300 km border. It has also happened extraordinarily fast – completing the ratification in well under a year still makes this the fastest membership process in the alliance’s recent history.

Joining Nato places Finland under the alliance’s article five, the collective defence pledge that an attack on one member “shall be considered an attack against them all”.

If one of the allies were to invoke the article, and the other allies are unanimous in agreeing that the member is indeed under attack, each will take “such action as it deems necessary, including the use of armed force, to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area.”

During the cold war, this principle translated as an effective US security guarantee for smaller allies facing the implied threat of the Soviet Union and its Warsaw Pact allies in Europe.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.23am BST

block-time published-time 5.48am BST

Russian drones strike Ukraine’s port of Odesa: officials

Russian drones struck the strategic Ukrainian port of Odesa, local authorities said early this morning, adding that “damage” had been recorded.

“The enemy has just struck Odesa and the Odesa district with attack UAVs,” local authorities said in a statement on Facebook, referring to unmanned aerial vehicles.

“There is damage,” the statement said without providing further details.

Citing the head of the Odesa district military administration, Yuriy Kruk, the statement said Ukraine’s air defence forces were at work and warned of a possible second wave of attacks.

No other details were immediately provided.

block-time published-time 5.40am BST

Finland to officially join Nato

Russia has said it will bolster its defences near its 1,300km border with Finland[https://www.theguardian.com/world/finland] after the Nato secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, announced that the Nordic country would formally join the transatlantic defence alliance on Tuesday.

The accession marks the end of an accelerated process that began last May, when Finland and neighbouring Sweden[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/15/finland-formally-confirms-intention-to-join-nato-russia] abandoned decades of military nonalignment to seek security as Nato members after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Turkey last week[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/mar/31/finland-to-formally-join-nato-within-days-nato-announces] became the last of the alliance’s 30 member states to ratify Finland’s application, but Turkey and Hungary continue to hold up Sweden’s bid. Stockholm said last week it was not sure it would join in time for a planned Nato summit in July.

“Tomorrow we will welcome Finland as the 31st member of Nato[https://www.theguardian.com/world/nato], making Finland safer and our alliance stronger,” Stoltenberg said in Brussels on Monday. “We will raise the Finnish flag for the first time here at Nato headquarters.”

Ankara and Helsinki would hand their official texts to the US secretary of state, Antony Blinken, on Tuesday, at which point Finland would become a Nato member, he said, describing the moment as “historic”.

Related: Finland to join Nato on Tuesday as Russia sounds border warning[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/apr/03/finland-to-join-nato-on-tuesday-as-russia-sounds-border-warning]

block-time published-time 5.33am BST

Opening summary

Hello, this is the Guardian’s continuing live coverage of the war in Ukraine. My name is Helen Sullivan and I’ll be bringing you the latest news as it happens.

Today Finland will officially join Nato. The alliance will welcome Finland as its 31st member in a flag-raising ceremony at Nato headquarters on the outskirts of Brussels.

And Russian drones struck the strategic Ukrainian port of Odesa, local authorities said in the early hours of Tuesday, adding that “damage” had been recorded.

More on these stories shortly. In the meantime, here are the key recent developments:

*

Ukraine has said Russian forces are “very far” from capturing the eastern town of Bakhmut and that fighting raged around the city administration building where the Wagner mercenary group claims to have raised the Russian flag. Six civilians were killed and eight wounded in Russian shelling of Kostiantynivka near Bakhmut, a senior Ukrainian official said.

*

Former US secretary of state Mike Pompeo visited Ukraine on Monday and said he would work towards Washington supplying F-16 fighter jets and long-range missiles for the country’s war against Russia. Asked whether he would back providing Ukraine with F-16 fighter jets and long-range missiles Pompeo said: “Yes. And the training and the software and all the things needed to actually protect and defend your own land.”

*

Pompeo’s visit coincides with discussion in the United States around how much further support should be given to Ukraine. Washington has already provided $30bn in military aid since the beginning of what Moscow calls its “special military operation”.

*

Russian police have arrested a woman suspected of delivering a bomb that killed a prominent pro-war Russian military blogger in a blast in a cafe in central St Petersburg on Sunday. Vladlen Tatarsky, whose real name was Maxim Fomin, was killed by a bomb blast [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/apr/02/russian-pro-war-military-blogger-killed-blast-st-petersburg-vladlen-tatarsky] as he hosted a discussion with other pro-war commentators at a cafe on the banks of the Neva River in the historic heart of the city. Police said they had identified a woman called Darya Trepova[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/apr/03/russian-police-arrest-woman-over-bombing-that-killed-pro-war-blogger-vladlen-tatarsky] as the suspect and that she was arrested in a flat in St Petersburg after a search on Monday morning.

*

The West is trying to put a wedge between Russia and China’s friendship, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said in an interview. Lavrov also said that the EU had “lost’ Russia and that Moscow may get tough with Europe if need be.

*

Russia’s commissioner for children’s rights, who is wanted by the international criminal court on war crimes charges arising in Ukraine, is likely to brief an informal meeting of the UN security council, according to a note seen by Reuters.

*

Zelenskiy has paid tribute to the courage of nearly 400 villagers in north Ukraine who were held in a school basement under Russian occupation for 27 days before they were set free a year ago. The Ukrainian leader travelled to Yahidne on Monday, where he gave a speech[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/apr/03/russia-ukraine-war-live-moscow-to-station-nuclear-weapons-near-belaruss-western-border-envoy-says?page=with:block-642ad8868f08cfbe54d09696#block-642ad8868f08cfbe54d09696] recalling how villagers were kept captive in a space of less than 200 sq metres during the first month of Russia’s February 2022 invasion.

*

Zelenskiy is scheduled to visit Poland on Wednesday for talks with his Polish counterpart, Andrzej Duda. Zelenskiy will be accompanied by his wife, Olena Zelenska, during his first official visit to Warsaw[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/apr/03/russia-ukraine-war-live-moscow-to-station-nuclear-weapons-near-belaruss-western-border-envoy-says?page=with:block-642aaae28f082fad6b8464e5#block-642aaae28f082fad6b8464e5] since Russia’s invasion 13 months ago. Zelenskiy is also expected to hold talks with Poland’s prime minister, Mateusz Morawiecki.

*

Poland has already delivered the first batch of Soviet-era MiG-29 fighter jets to Ukraine, according to the Polish presidential office’s head of international policy, Marcin Przydacz. He did not specify how many jets had been transferred[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/apr/03/russia-ukraine-war-live-moscow-to-station-nuclear-weapons-near-belaruss-western-border-envoy-says?page=with:block-642aaf2e8f08cfbe54d09467#block-642aaf2e8f08cfbe54d09467]. Poland’s president, Andrzej Duda, last month said [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/mar/16/ukraine-poland-fighter-jets-mig-29] Warsaw would hand over the first four MiG-29 to Ukraine.

*

Evan Gershkovich, the US journalist arrested on espionage charges in Russia last week, has appealed against his detention through his lawyers, according to a report[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/apr/03/russia-ukraine-war-live-moscow-to-station-nuclear-weapons-near-belaruss-western-border-envoy-says?page=with:block-642adf678f08cfbe54d096fc#block-642adf678f08cfbe54d096fc]. The Nato secretary general, Jens Stoltenberg, said Gershkovich’s arrest was “of concern” and called for his “immediate release”[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/apr/03/russia-ukraine-war-live-moscow-to-station-nuclear-weapons-near-belaruss-western-border-envoy-says?page=with:block-642ac9af8f08b958e74b0d0e#block-642ac9af8f08b958e74b0d0e]. The US government is “pushing hard” [https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/apr/03/russia-ukraine-war-live-moscow-to-station-nuclear-weapons-near-belaruss-western-border-envoy-says?page=with:block-642af3418f08cfbe54d0982b#block-642af3418f08cfbe54d0982b] for the release of Evan Gershkovich, the White House said on Monday.

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020230404ej44000e2


Humans getting worn out like clothes, By Owei Lakemfa
Owei Lakemfa
1204 字
2023 年 4 月 8 日
The Premium Times
HPREMT
英文
© 2023 The Premium Times
Nigeria, April 8 -- The world is changing at a dizzying pace. Two powerful blocs that can determine the future of humanity are rapidly solidifying. The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), donning military fatigue, leading in the arms race with a mindset to conquer, is digging in to preserve the old world order.

On Tuesday, 4 April, Finland, its newest recruit, took the salute at the NATO Headquarters in Brussels before Anthony Blinken, United States, US, Secretary of State who represented his country. The US is the Supreme Commander of the alliance.

As Finnish President Sauli Niinisto engaged in a flag-raising ceremony to an uncertain future, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg mocked Russia, saying with little Finland joining, President Vladimir Putin has failed to "slam NATO's door shut".

Indeed, the recruitment of Finland is likely to heighten tension between NATO and Russia as Finland shares a 1,340- kilometre border with the latter, effectively doubling the border stretch between the two antagonists. Russia sees Finland joining the alliance as a provocation and an attempt by NATO to encircle it; a main reason for its war in Ukraine.

Finland was part of Russia from 1809 until its independence on December 6, 1917. Compared to Russia, Finland is but a fingerling; the former's 16, 376,870 km landmass is over 48 times that of Finland with a 338,440 total landmass. Russia's 143.4 million population is over 25 times Finland's 5,601,347 population. Militarily, while Russia has 5,977 nuclear warheads, Finland has none. Its only nuclear plant is powered by Russian technology. Economically, Finland gets 60-70 per cent of its gas from Russia.

There may be debates whether it made sense for Finland to join NATO, but what may not be debatable is that if there were to be an armed conflict between NATO and Russia, Finland will be a sitting duck.

The second bloc firming up is the BRICS, the acronym for the Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa coalition which wears the overall of a factory worker. It appears interested only in an economic alliance that would create a new world economic order free from dollar dictates.

New countries have joined the BRICS, including Bangladesh and Uruguay and two American allies: Egypt and the United Arab Emirates. Some other countries like Iran have lined up to join; but perhaps the most sensational is Saudi Arabia, one of America's biggest allies. Yes, the same country which agreed its oil will only be priced in the American dollar which then became the only currency recognised by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, OPEC. This was what gave rise to the petrol dollar world and the dollar consolidating itself as the reserve currency of the world.

Also, the US which accounts for 37 per cent of all world arms exports has perhaps its biggest customer in Saudi Arabia which buys up one-quarter of those arms.

The US has, in return, shielded Saudi Arabia on issues of gross human rights violations, subjugation of women, the liberal use of the death penalty which includes beheading, elimination of perceived enemies and crimes against humanity such as the deliberate bombing of schools, hospitals and markets in Yemen. So, Saudi Arabia turning to BRICS is not just a major diplomatic shift, but also, a rethink of its international relations policies.

Saudi Arabia stunned the world at the World Economic Summit in January 2023 when its Finance Minister, Mohammed al-Jadaan, said: "There are no issues with discussing how we settle our trade arrangements, whether it is in the US dollar, whether it is the euro, whether it is the Saudi riyal". He further clarified Saudi Arabia's apparent new attitude to the dollar: "We enjoy a very strategic relationship with China and we enjoy that same strategic relationship with other nations, including the US, and we want to develop that with Europe and other countries who are willing and able to work with us."

A month earlier, Chinese President Xi Jinping, during a visit to the Gulf, had told Arab leaders that his country wants to buy oil and gas in its own yuan currency. China buys one quarter of Saudi oil.

The US has often weaponised the dollar in its selective sanctions against countries. But it backfired when it did the same thing in sanctioning Russia over the war in Ukraine. Russia did not only break the sanction with the Ruble becoming the most enhanced currency in 2022, but some other countries decided to break with the dollar so if the US were to sanction them, the effects will not be devastating. With that, the race towards de-dollarisation was on.

China and Brazil ditched the dollar by agreeing to trade in their own currencies, while India and Malaysia agreed to trade in the Indian rupee in addition to other currencies.

In another surprise, France, a staunch ally of the US, closed a liquefied natural gas, LNG, trade with China, not in dollars, but in yuan! French President Emmanuel Macron perhaps in trying to reassure the US he is not shifting alliances, last Wednesday during a tour to Beijing, warned China not to supply arms to its Russian ally.

This of course is a joke. China does not appear to have a choice in the matter as it is aware that if NATO is able to defeat Russia, it will be the next target. So for China, Russia surviving the NATO onslaught, is in its strategic national interest.

The battles, of course, are being fought on various turfs such as US moving against China's TikTok on the basis of security concerns; that its data collection can be used by China. Pray, what about the data collection by American companies like Apple and Snap? Are they not used by the US and its security services?

Whatever forms or shapes a changing world takes, a likely clash between the Euro-American alliance spearheaded by NATO and a counter force represented by BRICS, would see the rest of the world either joining one of the sides, or being helpless spectators because we lack the balls to create an alternative force.

Even as the universe appears to be changing rapidly, the world order of the poor and the rich; the developed countries with means, and the underdeveloped countries, are not changing . So it is a world in which rapid changes are taking place, but essentially things remain the same.

When I was a 13-year-old at the Methodist Boys High School, MBHS, Lagos we read a book in Yoruba language which featured a conversation between a young man and an elder. The former said: "See how the world is changing!" The elder replied: "No, it is not the world that is changing; it is humans that are getting worn out like clothes."

Owei Lakemfa, a former secretary general of African workers, is a human rights activist, journalist and author.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from Premium Times.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

Premium Times Services Limited

文件 HPREMT0020230407ej48000xd


News
Putin's gulag economy is failing and Russia's decline is accelerating
DAVID CHANCE
1060 字
2023 年 4 月 13 日
Irish Independent
IINM
1; National
12
英文
(c) 2023 Independent Newspapers Ireland Ltd
Y

OU can have any colour car so long as it is white, black, or green. That's not a riff on Henry Ford's "any colour so long as it's black", it is The Moscow Times reporting earlier this year that buyers of Lada and Niva models from Russia's largest carmaker AvtoVaz have a palette of just three colours.

Not being able to own a bright red Lada isn't the worst thing in life, but it does illustrate that sanctions imposed in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine have hurt.

As foreign carmakers quit the country, Russian auto output in 2022 fell by 67pc to levels not seen since 1991. While the disappearance of foreign marques helped AvtoVaz to top the car league, its own sales fell 46pc. Reuters reported recently that parts shortages had forced the company to bring forward its annual threeweek summer shutdown.

That's a pattern that is repeated across a range of consumer durables as Russia moved its economy onto a war footing and the state has closed its grip on the private sector. Things weren't that great even before sanctions - to be sure Russia has patched up its budget and debt vulnerabilities but since Vladimir Putin returned to the presidency in 2012, the economy has stagnated.

Sure, Joe Biden's "shock-andawe" didn't sink the economy and a predicted 8.5pc slump from the International Monetary Fund was way off the mark as rising energy prices and a shift to war-time production boosted output.

But those headlines last year about how Europe's demand for Russian energy was keeping prices high and feeding the Kremlin war machine are over and Moscow faces the prospect of rising budget deficits to keep the show on the road.

Even as exports hit a record $591bn (€541bn) in 2022, dwarfing Russia's import bill, the country was still the only major oil producer to slide into recession with a 2.1pc decline in gross domestic product.

Sanctions have ramped up again with an EU embargo and the G7 price cap on seaborne Russian crude oil shipments, both of which have already hit volumes and the price Russia can realise from sales, which will apply pressure to this year's budget. Moscow had already raided its rainy day fund for $53bn in 2022 when its finances were boosted by those strong oil prices.

Russia's problems however go well beyond the ramp-up in sanctions in the past 12 months. Although it had built up hefty currency reserves and fixed its budget after the shocks of 1998 and 2008, the economy was not doing well.

in 2012, Russia was classified as a 'high income' country by the World Bank. Since then, and more specifically since the invasion of Crimea in 2014, the country has slid back into 'middle income' status. Although solvent, Russia's economy was was a high going nowhere even before its tanks rolled into Ukraine last February. Since 2014, it had been modelling sanctions on its financial sector and companies, as well as balancing the budget at an oil price of $45 a barrel.

It has not been run to maximise welfare for a considerable period of time. Its officials - including the well-regarded central bank governor Elvira Nabiullina - have created a stable macroeconomic environment in terms of small deficits, low public debt and - until last year - low inflation, thus making the country less vulnerable to shocks and sanctions. With the war in Ukraine, the shift away from an economy that meets the demands of its consumers has become far more pronounced.

According to a World Bank analysis published last week, military needs and import substitution have driven growth in sectors like fabricated metals - up 10pc, computers and electronics - up 4.1pc, and medical products which rose 12pc.

Russia should, by now, have diversified its economy. It has not and local manufacturing capacity is limited, even that needed to feed its invasion. Only 30pc of machine tools are made there and local industry doesn't have the capacity to cover rising demand. It is a pure commodity play that is more reliant on energy exports than ever.

The sanctions themselves aren't going to bring Russia's aggression to an end. They do however make it more costly to pursue, both economically and politically, and the choices made by the Russian government are going to linger for some time, as the Bank of Finland's Institute for Emerging Economies, which specialises in Russia analysis, notes.

The biggest from an Russia will

It is also a country in the throes of a demographic crisis where deaths have exceeded births since 2016. Throwing hundreds of thousands of young men into a war will only make that worse, and combat deaths - put by some at 60,000 to 70,000 - will shift the demographics even more unfavourably.

It also now appears that up to half a million talented young Russians have chosen exile since Putin's invasion, many of them skilled, educated workers.

The Gaidar Institute, an independent think tank, estimates nearly a third of industrial enterprises face record labour shortages because of Putin's military mobilisation.

"It is difficult to reconcile an economic path that involves decoupling from the West and maintaining a war footing with a separate path that delivers sustained economic growth and a better standard of living for average Russians.

After a year of war, it seems that Russia's economic policymakers have chosen the first path," the Bank of Finland researchers wrote in their latest report.

It's now time to ramp-up sanctions again. Instead of capping prices of its crude oil blend at $60 a barrel, that could be squeezed down to $30. There's also no reason for the EU not to sanction Gazprombank. In the long term, the biggest winner from an enfeebled Russia will be China. It is a huge importer of food and energy and having Russia act as your filling station and breadbasket must be appealing. No wonder Xi Jinping is buddying up to Putin.

Russia has stagnated since Putin retook presidency in 2012 In 2012, Russia was classified as a high income country The biggest winner from an enfeebled Russia will be China

Independent Newspapers Ireland Limited

文件 IINM000020230413ej4d0002t


Human rights diplomacy Navigating an era of polarization
Chatham House Research Publications, 2023 年 4 月 19 日, 17463 字, (英文)
Chatham House, the Royal Institute of International Affairs, is a world-leading policy institute based in London. Our mission is to help governments and societies build a sustainably secure, prosperous and just world.

Bad time for 'other' Sergej Kozlovs Sanction lists bedevil those with names of targeted figures
Monika Pronczuk
997 字
2023 年 4 月 21 日
The Capital (Annapolis)
CPGN
A.7
英文
Copyright (c) 2023 The Capital (Annapolis). Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS - During the past year, Sergej Kozlov has been flagged by banks as a possible international terrorist on several occasions. The first time, he had been trying to find out why his salary was late. The second, he had been attempting to pay a dog groomer for giving his Great Dane a trim. And last month, it happened when he wanted to transfer money to a colleague.

At first, he was bewildered. Kozlov is a 40-year-old Russian-language teacher in the Lithuanian city of Kaunas. He has never had any dealings with terrorists.

But then Kozlov discovered there was another Sergej Kozlov living some 1,000 miles away. That Kozlov, 59, is "chair of the government" of the so-called Luhansk People's Republic, a region in eastern Ukraine that Russia has illegally annexed. That Kozlov is under sanctions from the European Union, Australia, Britain, Canada and Ukraine.

Sharing the name (which can be spelled in different ways) has meant trouble for Kozlov, the teacher. "It is hilarious and sad at the same time," he said.

Since Russia invaded Ukraine, the European Union has imposed various punishments on Moscow, including a near-total embargo on Russian oil, curbs on trade and restrictions on financial transactions. It has also blacklisted about 1,500 people and 205 companies that Brussels considers responsible for "undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine."

One unforeseen consequence is that people with similar names to those under sanctions have found some everyday actions become frustratingly complicated.

Andrei Makaroff, a 20-year-old music student from Finland, shares the predicament of Kozlov in Lithuania.

In February, Makaroff was moving out of his apartment in Helsinki when he was told that his deposit had been blocked. The bank suspected that he was under international sanctions and would not let the transaction go through until he proved he was who he said he was.

"It just felt weird," Makaroff said.

When he moved into a new apartment, the same thing happened. And then again when he tried to make a small payment via his cellphone. His irritation grew each time he had to provide extra information about his identity, he said.

A little research revealed the problem: Makaroff's name is similar to that of Andrei Makarov, a 68-year-old Russian parliament member under EU sanctions.

There are other Sergej Kozlovs too. A third Kozlov, this one a chef from Vilnius, the Lithuanian capital, had to prove he was not the Kozlov who is under sanctions to receive his salary after weeks of delays. Just last month, he wanted to make a payment and was told that his account had been frozen.

"The whole experience of having to prove that you are yourself has been unpleasant," he said.

It is difficult to say how many people in the European Union have become embroiled in such confusion. Many European countries, like Finland and Lithuania, have sizable communities of Russians or citizens descended from Russians. Some of the names of those under sanctions are relatively common. And the war in Ukraine has created lots of possibilities for mishaps.

That doesn't help with the frustration of those caught in the middle.

The teacher Kozlov has had to provide extra ID documents to send and receive money, and to have packages delivered to him. He is of mixed heritage: His father is Russian and his mother is Lithuanian. But he was born in Kaunas and only has Lithuanian citizenship. He said that his Russian name had never been an issue before.

The chef Kozlov, whose Russian father was stationed in Lithuania as a member of the Soviet army, also said that he "never had any serious problems" before Moscow invaded Ukraine.

"I have Lithuanian citizenship; I was born here," he said.

Makaroff is even further removed. His great-grandparents moved from Russia to Finland to start a new life, and his Russian grandfather did not even teach his native language to Makaroff's father.

"Of course, I know that I have a Russian name," Makaroff said. "But I am not Russian, I am Finnish. I went to the Finnish army and lived here my whole life."

On the day Russia invaded Ukraine last year, Makaroff went to a studio to record an anti-war song. His mother has helped to organize demonstrations in support of Ukraine that have drawn thousands of participants. He does not speak any Russian.

Dealing with cases of mistaken identity when it comes to sanctions is not straightforward.

In the United States, there is a government hotline to help those affected.

But no such support exists in the European Union, and the European Commission, the bloc's executive arm, has said that the job of implementing the sanctions is up to the authorities of its 27 member countries.

That leaves the Kozlovs and Makaroffs of the world at a loss about what to do.

"Maybe I should go to the police or somewhere else to get help," said Kozlov, the teacher. "Because I might have to live with it for the rest of my life."

The banks tend to be apologetic but essentially say their hands are tied. Swedbank, which blocked the transfers to Kozlov the chef, said only that it was complying with international sanctions. Luminor, the bank of Kozlov the teacher, did not reply to a request for comment.

In Makaroff's case, a bank employee even suggested he consider changing his name.

"That was the moment when I was a little hurt," Makaroff said. "I was like: 'What? My name has nothing to do with me being Russian or supporting Russia.' "

Caption: Sergej Kozlov, a language teacher in Lithuania, shares the name of the head of the so-called Luhansk People's Republic.

Lithuanian chef Sergej Kozlov has the same problematic name. Andrej Vasilenko/The New York Times photos

Capital Gazette Communications

文件 CPGN000020230421ej4l00009


Latvian media: Collective defence, presidential election
1274 字
2023 年 4 月 28 日 16:07 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2023 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

The role of Sweden and Finland in Nato's collective defence, court cases against several Russian-speaking Latvian journalists and expectations from the forthcoming presidential election were among the main topics discussed by Latvian media on 11-17 April.

Sweden preparing for escalation

In an interview with the Sargs website, the commander of the Swedish Ground Forces, Maj-Gen Karl Engelbrektson, said Sweden was ready to meet all requirements and would participate in joint defence planning as soon as it became a full member of Nato. He said Sweden took the Russian threat very seriously and the build-up of Gotland's defence capabilities had been significantly accelerated following Russian propaganda narratives about a Baltic conquest from this island. The commander acknowledged that the war in Ukraine had led to a reassessment of previous knowledge of large-scale military operations and Russian military tactics. Sweden is preparing for any kind of escalation and the military leadership wants society to be prepared for a possible war and to be able to show its resilience, according to Gen Engelbrektson. (Sargs, in Latvian, 11 Apr 23)

Interview with Finnish commander

The online portal Puaro carried an interview with the commander of the Finnish Ground Forces, Maj-Gen Jukka Jokinen, who confirmed Finland's readiness to contribute to Nato's collective defence as well as to share its experience in building successful and effective defence systems in other countries. The Finnish army has learnt several lessons from the war in Ukraine, including the fact that the importance of artillery and man in war is not lost and that good communication, liaison and very capable leadership are particularly important, Puaro cited Jokinen as saying. The commander also stressed the need to focus on the new domains of cyber-environment and space, which Finland is already doing. (Puaro, in Latvian, 10 Apr 23)

Justification of war crimes

The online portal Pietiek.com carried an article by pro-Russian activist Vladimir Linderman. He called for a debate among lawyers on the merits of applying the Criminal Code article "Justification of genocide, crimes against humanity, crimes against peace and war crimes". The broad application of this article in Latvia effectively excludes any intellectual discussion of the causes of the Russia-Ukraine war and plans for a peace settlement, he argued. Any publicly expressed opinion that differs from the government's position is treated as a justification of the "crime against peace", Linderman said. Noting that the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court applies only to individuals and not to states, the activist called for all criminal proceedings related to the Russia-Ukraine war to be terminated under the supposedly controversial article - or at least suspended until a verdict from an authoritative international judicial body. (Pietiek.com, in Latvian, 11 Apr 23)

Open letter by content makers for Russian media

The online portal Pietiek.com published an open letter by journalists Vladimir Dorofeyev, Ludmila Pribylskaya and Andrei Yakovlev. They are among the 16 Russian-speaking Latvian journalists accused of violating EU sanctions. Starting on 11 April, several courts in Riga have been hearing cases against these journalists for breaching EU sanctions by producing content for Russian state propaganda channels. The journalists said they considered this a politically motivated process that violated the basic principles of freedom of expression. "If Russia were to sanction a BBC manager, would it be legal to prosecute journalists who in good faith write texts for the British media corporation, rent space for a correspondents' desk or provide transport services for film crews, for 'passing the buck' to a BBC manager who has been sanctioned by Russia?" Pietiek.com quoted the journalists as asking. (Pietiek.com, in Latvian, 10 Apr 23)

Effect of sanctions

In an analysis piece for the leading news portal Delfi, headlined "Why sanctions do not work", former MP Alexei Grigoryev discussed the effect of Western sanctions on Russia. He highlighted the self-serving policies of India and China towards Russia and focused on the role of "third countries" which supposedly buy and sell goods, but "in reality work for Russia". Grigoryev detailed Armenia's alleged role in helping Russia to circumvent economic sanctions and concluded that countries like Armenia should be offered incentives for joining sanctions: market opening, investment, financial and other assistance. (Delfi, in Latvian, 13 Apr 23)

LNG terminal prospects

The centrist daily Diena highlighted an appeal by the Skulte LNG Terminal developers to the government not to abandon the idea of building this terminal in Latvia. If Latvia does not define its energy policy and continues to depend on its neighbours' favours for natural gas supplies, the country's economic gap with Lithuania and Estonia will deepen, while the population will face exorbitant heating and electricity bills, the newspaper quoted them as saying. According to them, the Latvian government is not looking for ways to support the creation of an LNG ecosystem in the national interest. (Diena, in Latvian, 11 Apr 23)

Diena also published an editorial criticising the authorities for what it described as uncertainty and lack of rational thinking on the issue of building an LNG terminal in Latvia. The Skulte LNG project, the best of several options evaluated, was even granted the status of an object of national interest last year to speed up the implementation process, but now the government is focusing on the joint use of the Estonian Paldiski LNG terminal, Diena noted. It expressed doubt that the Estonians would be ready to subordinate their needs to those of Latvia at some point. (Diena, in Latvian, 13 Apr 23)

Presidential race

Businessman and politician Uldis Pilens has become the first person to announce plans to run in the presidential election in May, the centrist newspaper Neatkariga reported. Twitter users in Latvia expected this announcement and tend to believe that regardless of whether Pilens is elected or not, incumbent Egils Levits will not have a second term in office, the newspaper said. (Neatkariga, in Latvian, 11 Apr 23)

Provisionally, Uldis Pilens could count on 50 votes in parliament, while 51 votes from MPs are needed to elect a president, the Delfi portal said. Speaking on a Delfi TV programme, some members of the coalition noted that reliance on votes from the opposition during the forthcoming presidential election would be a serious warning signal and a national security issue. (Delfi, in Latvian, 11 Apr 23)

Latvia's geopolitical direction is unlikely to change if Egils Levits is not re-elected president, columnist Bens Latkovskis of Neatkariga said. According to him, support for Levits in parliament will mostly come from the lawmakers' dislike of Pilens, who was seen as a politcal threat to Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins and the stability of his government, the columnist said. Therefore, support for Levits effectively means support for Karins, he concluded. (Neatkariga, in Latvian, 13 Apr 23)

New political party

The ideology and members of the party Together for Latvia, founded by the mayor of Rezekne, raises some questions, the conservative daily Latvijas Avize said. One of them is whether this party will be a pro-Kremlin political force. The daily quoted one of its leaders, former MP Andrejs Klementjevs, as saying that the new party would not be as radical as the Russian Union of Latvia or For Stability. It will not question Latvia's membership in the EU and Nato, he said. However, earlier statements by party leader Aleksandrs Bartasevics gave a different impression, as earlier this year he said that Latvia should be a neutral country, Latvijas Avize noted. (Latvijas Avize, in Latvian, 11 Apr 23)

Source: BBC Monitoring 18 Apr 23

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020230428ej4s002jp


REFINERY NEWS ROUNDUP: Focus on renewables in Europe
Elza Turner
8986 字
2023 年 5 月 23 日
Platts Commodity News
PLATT
英文
Copyright 2023. Platts. All Rights Reserved.
(Platts)--23May2023/701 am EST/1101 GMT

Finland's Neste has dropped plans to fit carbon capture equipment to its hydrogen production unit at Porvoo in favor of boosting its electrolytic ambitions at the site, the company told S&P Global Commodity Insights.

Under its SHARC project, supported last year by Eur88 million from the EU Innovation Fund, the company is looking at a hybrid blue and green hydrogen solution at its Porvoo refinery near Helsinki. Now Neste "has decided to focus on its green hydrogen project [at Porvoo] ... and discontinue its plans on carbon capture and storage," a spokesperson said in an email. This was because of the "remarkable increase in the production capacity" for green hydrogen at the site announced on May 3. SHARC originally included a 50-MW electrolyzer producing 8,000 mt/year of renewable hydrogen, plus a CCS plant capturing 300,000-400,000 mt/year of CO2 from the refinery's existing steam methane reforming unit.

On May 3, however, Neste said it would now develop a 120-MW electrolyzer plant, producing green hydrogen from 2026. "The electricity planned to be sourced [for the electrolyzer] will be renewable and it is targeted to meet the criteria for RFNBO [renewable fuels of non-biological origin] eligibility as stated in the EU Delegated Act proposals," the spokesperson said.

The Port of Rotterdam Authority is developing a site suitable for the construction of a green hydrogen plant with up to 1 GW electrolyzer capacity, it said. The project is linked to the tender for the 2-GW IJmuiden Ver Beta offshore wind farm later this year with Dutch authorities calling for bids to integrate wind into the energy system. Both the wind farm and hydrogen plant should be operational by 2028, it said. The electrolyzer producing 60,000 kg/day of renewable hydrogen will be built on the Tweede Maasvlakte with electricity coming from its HKN offshore wind farm starting this summer.

The Port Authority's ambition is to have 2.2 GW of electrolysis capacity by 2030 with existing plans amounting to around 1.35 GW, it said.

The Netherlands plans a Eur300 million ($330 million) tender for hydrogen imports under the H2Global scheme, a spokesperson for the energy ministry told S&P Global Commodity Insights. The aim would be to open the tender at the end of this or the beginning of next year, pending parliamentary and state aid approval by the European Commission, the spokesperson said. Work on the design of the tender with decisions on hydrogen carrier, derivatives, volumes, import regions and pre-qualification criteria still need to be made, they said.

Vopak has opened 16 new tankers at its Vlaardingen terminal in Rotterdam to store sustainable feedstocks for fuel production in forecast of rising demand in Europe, the Dutch company said May 10. The tanks, with a combined capacity of 64,000 cu m, are designed to store waste-based feedstocks for producing biodiesel and sustainable aviation fuel. Shell, which is building a new biorefinery in Rotterdam, has signed a long-term commercial agreement to store feedstocks at Vopak's Vlaardingen terminal.

The 82,000 mt/year biorefinery, one of the largest in Europe, will produce SAF and renewable diesel from waste materials such as used cooking oil, waste animal fat, and other residual products.

TotalEnergies is to build a 25 MW, 75 MWh (three-hour duration) battery storage asset at its Antwerp refinery in Belgium, the French company said May 15. The installation, to comprise 40 containers of lithium-ion batteries supplied by TotalEnergies' subsidiary Saft, is set to enter operation by the end of 2024. "After commissioning four battery parks in France offering total energy storage capacity of 130 MWh, this project will be the Company's largest battery installation in Europe," TotalEnergies said. The Antwerp battery would benefit from the refinery site's spare land and grid connection.

Finland's Neste will double capacity at its Singapore biofuels refinery to 2.6 million mt/year by end-2023, of which up to 1 million mt/year is sustainable aviation fuel, the company said at the opening of the expanded facility May 17. This followed the completion of the $1.74 billion Singapore refinery expansion project in mid-April, which includes an "enhanced" raw material pre-treatment capacity onsite to process "more challenging" waste and residue raw materials, Neste said in a statement. Feedstock such as used cooking oil are used to produce renewable diesel at Neste's refinery in Singapore, its website said.

Neste had also agreed to acquire a stake in Changi Airport Fuel Hydrant Installation Company -- the fuel storage and infrastructure join venture in Singapore's international airport -- so that it can offer blended SAF directly to airlines at Singapore's Changi Airport. The deal is subject to the fulfilment of customary closing conditions.

Hungarian oil and gas company MOL announced on LinkedIn May 10 that it has started commercial testing of SAF in cooperation with Budapest airport, Wizz Air, and Airport Fuel Services Ltd. In a statement May 10, Wizz Air announced that three flights had taken off from Budapest airport using a 37% blend of SAF produced by Finnish refiner Neste and supplied by MOL.

Multinational chemical company INEOS has developed an ultra-thin, rigid polyethylene film made of 50% recycled plastic for use in Europe's recyclable flexible packaging market, according to a May 2 company statement, a market where weak demand for recycled polyethylene persists. The material, developed in collaboration with engineers Hosakawa Alpine, compounds recycled plastic waste and new, highly engineered, resins to create a plastic film which "will be used to manufacture recyclable single polymer flexible packaging products that replace difficult-to-recycle multimaterial packaging products".

UPGRADES

Refinery      Total capacity Country     Owner             Upgrade          Completion
Gdansk        210,000        Poland      Lotos             Convent/Hydrogen 2025
Plock         326,000        Poland      PKN Orlen         Conventional     2022
Trzebinia     7,400          Poland      PKN Orlen         Hydrogen         2021
Jedlicze      25,000         Poland      PKN Orlen         Biofuel          NA
Litvinov      108,000        Czech       Unipetrol         Conventional     2022
Petromidia    114,000        Romania     Rompetrol         Conventional     2022
Burgas        190,000        Bulgaria    Lukoil            Conventional     NA
Izmir         220,000        Turkey      Tupras            Bigofuel         2026
Kirikkale     108,000        Turkey      Tupras            Conventional     NA
Star          212,000        Turkey      Socar             Conventional     NA
Orlen Lietuva 204,000        Lithuania   PKN Orlen         Conventional     2024
Pancevo       98,000         Serbia      NIS               Conventional     2024
Rijeka        90,000         Croatia     INA               Conventional     2023
Sisak         44,000         Croatia     INA               Bioethanol       NA
Brod          108,000        Bosnia      Optima            Conventional     2020
Donges        219,000        France      TotalEnergies     Conventional     2023
Grandpuits    101,000        France      TotalEnergies     Renewables       2024
Antwerp       150,000        Belgium     TotalEnergies     Biofuel          NA
              Huelva         220,000     Spain             Cepsa            Conventional/Biofuel NA
San Roque     245,000        Spain       Cepsa             Biofuel          NA
Cartagena     220,000        Spain       Repsol            Biofuel          2023
Bilbao        220,000        Spain       Repsol            Hydrogen         2024
Tarragona     186,000        Spain       Repsol            Renewables       2025
Sines         220,000        Portugal    Galp              Conventional     NA
Sines         220,000        Portugal    Galp              Renewables       NA
Haifa         197,000        Israel      Bazan Group       Expansion        NA
Corinth       180,000        Greece      Motor Oil         Conventional     2022
Petrobrazi    90,000         Romania     Joint             Conventional     2023
Petromidia    100,000        Romania     Rompetrol         Conventional     2023
Petrotel      48,000         Romania     Lukoil            Hydrogen         NA
Fawley        270,000        UK          ExxonMobil        Convent/Hydrogen NA
Humber        221,000        UK          Phillips66        Renewables       2021
Grangemouth   150,000        UK          Petroineos        Renewables       2030
Stanlow       205,500        UK          Essar Oil         Renweables       2023
Venice        400,000        Italy       Eni               Upgrade          NA
Sarroch       300,000        Italy       Saras             Hydrogen         NA
Milazzo       200,000        Italy       Joint             Conventional     2022
Schwedt       230,000        Germany     Joint             Conventional     NA
Miro          310,000        Germany     Joint             Hydrogen         2021
Heide         90,000         Germany     Klesch            Hydrogen         2025
Lingen        96,000         Germany     BP                Hydrogen/SAF     2024
Rhineland     327,000        Germany     Shell             Hydrogen         2021
Bayernoil     206,000        Germany     Joint             Biofuel          NA
Schwechat     192,000        Austria     OMV               Biofuel          2023
Cressier      68,000         Switzerland Varo              Solar            NA
Brofjorden    220,000        Sweden      Preem             Renewables       NA
Porvoo        260,000        Finland     Neste             Renewables       2023
Fredericia    70,000         Denmark     Postlane Partners Hydrogen         2025
Rotterdam     88,000         Netherlands Gunvor            Biofuel          NA
Pernis        404,000        Netherlands Shell             Biofuel          NA
LAUNCHES

Porto Romano 150,000 Albania Joint  launch 2025
Nazli                28,000  Turkey Ersan  launch NA
Aliaga               NA      Turkey Steas  launch NA
CONVENTIONAL UPGRADES

EXISTING ENTRIES

** Greece's Motor Oil Hellas said in April 2023 that an investment in a new propylene splitter unit is "about to begin". The unit will have 100,000 mt annual capacity and is expected to be completed by 2026. It will use the existing infrastructure of the FCC unit which will switch part of the gasoline production into propylene.

** Croatia's Rijeka refinery completed planned activities during a shutdown and was starting up, it said in early May 2023. The refinery halted operations for five months between November 2022 and April 2023 while it continues with its upgrade project. During the shutdown, works will be carried out on "connecting existing units with new systems", the company said. It also clarified that "several suspensions" of operations are planned for the duration of the upgrade project, in which it is investing more than HRK4 billion ($524 million), as "the refinery cannot operate continuously while work is being carried out" on the existing and new units. The upgrade involves construction of a new residue complex, which includes a delayed coker. Works on the new residue complex started in 2020. Commissioning of the new complex is planned for 2024.

** UK-based Petrofac has secured a new EPC contract for the modernization and expansion of Orlen Lietuva's refinery in Lithuania, it said in April 2023.

"Petrofac's scope of work encompasses the design, procurement, construction, and commissioning of new facilities, as ORLEN Lietuva invests to expand the existing refinery complex," it said, adding that it has previously secured an EPC for the addition of a new residue hydrocracking unit at the refinery.

In October 2021, Petrofac was awarded another EPC contract to build a bottom of the barrel unit at the Mazeikiai refinery in Lithuania, due to be completed by the end of 2024. The construction started in August 2022. The new EPC includes the installation of a new amine regeneration unit and stabilization tower, interconnecting pipework and tie-ins to the existing refinery units, Petrofac said.

** Slovakia's Slovnaft has awarded an engineering, procurement services and construction management (EPSCM) contract for an off-gas upgrade at its Bratislava steam cracker to McDermott. The project will upgrade the existing steam cracker unit by adding a low-pressure recovery unit, increasing ethylene production capacity utilizing the off-gas from the existing production, McDermott said in a statement. Following the expansion, the capacity of the PP3 unit will increase by 33,000 mt/year to 300,000 mt/year. Construction was expected to start in the summer of 2023 and be completed in October 2024.

** Romania's Rompetrol said the cogeneration plant at the Petromidia refinery has reached "over 80%" general progress, including "around 95% progress on the engineering side, more than 96% on the procurement side and the actual construction is approaching 72%." The Kazakh-Romanian Energy Investment Fund (KREIF) "has made considerable progress in commissioning the cogeneration plant," the company said in March 2023. The project, which started in May 2021, will ensure the refinery's energy needs "exclusively from the cogeneration plant," it said. The new facility will generate approximately 80 MW of electricity. The KREIF is owned by KMG International, a subsidiary of Kazakhstan's state-owned KazMunaiGaz, and the Romanian state.

** Poland's PKN said its 2022 investments included the construction of a visbreaking unit at Plock. The visbreaking unit refinery will have a capacity to produce 200,000 mt/year of diesel. Ongoing modernization of the hydrocracking and diesel hydrodesulfurization units at Plock will also increase the refinery's diesel production capacity.

PKN Orlen has bought a license and base design from US engineering company KBR for a potential bottom-of-the-barrel project. If PKN takes a final investment decision, it will construct a production complex using solvent de-asphalting and fluid catalytic cracking technologies.

Separately, PKN Orlen has signed a contract with Linde to build a new oxygen and nitrogen production unit at its Plock refinery. The unit will produce 38,500 cu m/hour of oxygen and 75,000 cu m/hour of nitrogen, supplying gas feedstock for the new Olefin III complex and other installations at Plock. The project is due to be completed by the start of 2025.

** Poland's PKN Orlen said it would invest around Zloty 2 billion ($460 million) to build a hydrocracking unit with a capacity of 400,000 mt/year and an oil products loading terminal in Gdansk. PKN said both investments are scheduled to be commissioned by mid-2025. The hydrocracking base oils project will help the company diversify into second- and third-generation base oils.

** The expansion of Orlen Unipetrol's steam cracker at Litvinov is still ongoing, the company said Dec. 2022. The company said in October 2021 it was contracting Technip Energies to build a new steam cracker furnace to be commissioned in 2022. The construction of an 11th furnace is set to boost production capacity to 585,000 mt/year of ethylene from 545,000 mt/year. The company plans to increase total petrochemical production capacity to 1.4 million mt/year by 2030 from 900,000 mt/year.

PKN Orlen has completed the Czech Koruna 9.6 billion ($410 million) polyethylene 3 unit investment at Litvinov. The refinery's owner, Unipetrol, a 100%-owned PKN subsidiary, has taken charge of the black polyethylene unit, the second part of the investment. The first part, the natural polyethylene unit, was completed in April 2020. The polyethylene 3 unit, which can produce 270,000 mt/year of high density polyethylene, will replace production of one of the two existing production units with a capacity of 120,000 mt/year. Litvinov's polyethylene capacity will increase from 320,000 mt/year to 470,000 mt/year. PKN Orlen was launching construction of a unit at Litvinov to produce up to 26,000 mt/year of dicyclopentadiene, or DCPC, used in the automotive, construction and electronic industries. Separately, McDermott International has been awarded a contract for engineering, procurement and construction management services for an upgrade of the hydrocracker at the Litvinov refinery.

** France's Donges refinery is building a new hydrodesulfurization unit due to start up in the fourth quarter of 2023.

** OMV Petrom will build a new unit for aromatics products at its Petrobrazi refinery. The company said it will invest approximately EUR130 million ($142 million) on the new unit whose processing capacity will be around 1,500 mt/day of reformed gasoline. The existing aromatics unit, which started production in 1961, will be replaced over 2023-2025, and the new unit will be put in operation in 2026. OMV also said it has "successfully completed the transportation of four coke drums." The new drums will replace the current ones, which have been in use since 1989, and will be operational in 2023. The company is also considering other significant investments at Petrobrazi, "both in the technological efficiency of the refinery as well as in the production of second-generation biofuels," the company said.

** Repsol will build a new plant at Tarragona to produce 27,000 mt/year of cross-linkable polyethylene (XLPE) from mid-2024. It will also invest Eur18 million in an upgrade of its polyols unit, due to conclude in Q4 2023.

** Bosnia's Brod refinery has started construction of a bitumen unit. The refinery, which has been offline since 2019 for an upgrade, had been expected to restart once it was connected to a gas pipeline, allowing it to switch to gas-fired power operations. The line was connected in December 2021, but the plant remains offline. The owner has not given a reason why. A solar power facility at the plant has also been built to help power operations.

** Azerbaijan's state oil company Socar is looking to expand the capacity of its 212,000 b/d Star refinery in Turkey. Socar said it could expand Star's capacity to 13 million mt/year (261,000 b/d) by means of "flexibilities" in the refinery's design.

** Turkish construction group Tekfen Insaat said that together with partner HMB Hallesche Mitteldeutsche Bau it has signed an EPC contract with Turkey's main refiner Tupras to construct a new sulfur recovery unit at the Kirikkale refinery. Tupras' upgrade plans for its four refineries include new sulfur units at its three main refineries, Izmit, Izmir and Kirikkale. Tupras is also carrying out a revamp of the FCC unit at Izmit, which will include the installation of flue gas treatment and energy back recovery systems.

** Portugal's Galp will build a desulfurization unit with a processing capacity of 20,000 b/d at the Sines refinery. The project will allow the company to widen its crude slate.

** Greece's Hellenic Petroleum said in 2021 that Eur35 million had been approved for a capacity increase at the polypropylene production unit at Thessaloniki to 300,000 mt/year, with the implementation targeted within 2-1/2 years.

** Serbia's Pancevo refinery expects to complete its FCC project in 2023. The refinery also plans to build a unit to produce the octane enhancement chemical ETBE by 2024.

** Bulgaria's Burgas refinery has awarded a contract to US Lummus Technology for a 280,000 mt/year polypropylene plant. The deal includes a technology license as well as basic design engineering, training and services, and catalyst supply.

** ExxonMobil said it has "made a final investment decision to expand" the Fawley refinery in the UK to increase production of ultra low sulfur diesel by 45%, or 38,000 b/d. The more than $1 billion investment includes a hydrotreater to remove sulfur from diesel, supported by a hydrogen plant.

** Israel's Haifa District Court has rejected an appeal by Haifa municipality along with six other neighboring communities and environmental groups against the proposed expansion of the Bazan refinery

BIOFUEL, HYDROGEN UPGRADES

NEW AND REVISED ENTRIES

** Operator Petronor said May 6 that owner Repsol and Saudi Aramco have taken a final investment decision to construct a synthetic biofuel plant at Bilbao that will be completed in 2025. The project was previously targeted for 2024.

The companies will invest Eur103 million between them to produce the fuel, which can be used in any combustion engine for road, air and sea vehicles.

The plant will be the first at industrial scale to use CO2 and green hydrogen as feedstock to output 2,100 mt/year of fuel, equal to 18,000 barrels. The project includes a 10 MW electrolyzer, which will have Enagas and Ente Vasco de Energia as partners. Bilbao has been approved as a recipient of EU funding for a planned 100 MW of hydrogen electrolyzer capacity. The refinery is due to conclude the first phase in 2023 with 2.5 MW before scaling it up to 100 MW by 2025.

** Greece's Helleniq Energy said in May 2023 that the pilot investment in "green" hydrogen at the Elefsis refinery "edges closer to the final investment decision," while projects for the production of biofuels, such as HVO and SAF at its refineries, are "in the implementation phase."

** OMV Petrom said May 2023 that it has signed a financing contract through the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience for the production of green hydrogen at the Petrobrazi refinery in Romania. The project involves putting into operation a capacity of 20 MW for production of hydrogen by water electrolysis, which will be powered by renewable energy. It is estimated to produce over 2,600 mt/yr. The final investment decision is due to be made in 2024 with completion expected for 2025.

** Germany's Schwedt refinery will halt fossil fuel processing and be transformed into a "hydrogen hub" producing synthetic and bio fuels and other products by 2045, the refinery's management said at a press conference, according to local media reports. The refinery, which can currently produce around 11 million mt/year of oil products, would be able to make about 1 million mt/year of synthetic aviation fuels, 1 million mt/year of methanol and high-value chemical products, and 1 million mt/year of biodiesel, ethanol and biomethane, according to the reports. In order to produce synthetic hydrocarbons, the refinery will need 800,000 mt/year of green hydrogen from 2045. By 2027 it is expected to have electrolyzer capacity of 400 MW which would be able to produce 30,000 mt/year of hydrogen, with production reaching 160,000 mt/year in 2030 and increasing further to 240,000 mt/year, renewable energy services provider Enertrag, which is working on the feasibility study for the plant's transformation together with the refinery's management, said in a statement May 9.

EXISTING ENTRIES

** Repsol said it was retrofitting the hydro units in all five Spanish refineries it operates to increase its use of bio feedstock as the business was starting to give positive impetus to its refining margins. Mild hydrocracker units at A Coruna, Bilbao and Puertollano as well as hydrocrackers at Cartagena and Tarragona will all be modified with no real capex impact, CEO Josu Jon Imaz said.

Separately, Repsol would take a final investment decision in H2 2023 on 350 MW of hydrogen electrolyzer capacity spread across Cartagena, Tarragona and Bilbao, all of which are entering their engineering phase.

** The European Commission has approved a Eur158 million Polish green hydrogen support package for Poland's Gdansk refinery under state aid rules, it said in April 2023. PKN Orlen via its LOTOS Green H2 subsidiary plans a 100 MW electrolyzer to produce renewable hydrogen used in refinery processes as well as a 50 MW solar power plant and 20 MWh battery storage, it said. The electrolyzer is expected to start operating in 2027 and gradually increase production to 13,600 mt/year.

** Finnish refiner Neste said it has decided to "proceed to the basic engineering phase" of a 120 MW electrolyzer project at its Porvoo refinery aimed to produce green hydrogen. If an investment decision is made in 2024, production could start in 2026.

The green hydrogen would be used primarily in Porvoo to replace hydrogen produced from fossil fuel and will support the company's goal "to transform the Porvoo refinery to the most sustainable refinery in Europe by 2030," it said.

Finland's Neste has successfully concluded its second series of "industrial-scale processing runs with liquefied waste plastic" at the Porvoo refinery after carrying out the first processing run in 2020. The current processing uses the existing refinery equipment but ultimately Neste aims to establish large-scale capacities to process 400,000 mt/yr of liquefied waste plastic. From 2030 it wants to process more than 1 million mt/yr of waste plastic.

The aim is part of Neste's strategic study to transform Porvoo into "a renewable and circular solutions site and possibly end crude oil refining by the mid-2030s," it also said.

The transformation of the Porvoo refinery would start with coprocessing of renewable and circular feedstock and could continue with the retrofit of existing units at a later stage.

Neste is also developing a lignocellulosics project which aims to convert "forestry-based waste and residue raw materials into advanced biofuels" at Porvoo.

** Finland's Neste said in its Q1 2023 financial report that the Rotterdam expansion project is "proceeding well". Its joint venture with Marathon Petroleum for renewable diesel production at Martinez, California, started up its first phase in February. "Together, the growth projects are targeting to increase our total nameplate capacity of renewable products to 5.5 million tons by the end of 2023," Neste said. Neste reiterated that by increasing the SAF capabilities in Singapore and Rotterdam it is "targeting the optionality" to produce up to 1.5 million mt/year of SAF in 2024, which will reach 2.2 million mt/year by the end of 2026 when its nameplate capacity in renewable products is expected to increase to 6.8 million mt/year.

** BP plans to invest up to Eur2 billion in a green hydrogen plant at Spanish Castellon to replace the existing fossil-based hydrogen plant, it said in February 2023. Under the project, BP said it plans a phased development of up to 2 GW of electrolysis capacity by 2030. The project will also see Castellon's production of biofuels triple to 650,000 mt/year by 2030 with the green hydrogen used as a feedstock in biofuel production, specifically of SAF. The first phase of the project will see the installation of an electrolysis plant with at least 200 MW capacity operational by 2027, with production of up to 31,200 mt/year of green hydrogen. In a second phase, to be completed in 2030, the electrolysis plant would be expanded to reach a capacity of up to 2 GW. BP has created a joint venture with Iberdrola covering Spain, Portugal and the UK to produce green ammonia and methanol as well as 600,000 mt/year of hydrogen. The refinery also has a target to triple sustainable jet fuel output to 15,000 b/d as part of its overall decarbonization program.

** Cepsa said March 8 it will build a new unit to produce second generation biofuel at the Huelva refinery with an investment of Eur1 billion ($1.1 billion). The plant will produce renewable diesel and sustainable aviation fuel. The biofuels will be produced from organic waste, including used cooking oil and agricultural residues.

The plant will contribute to Cepsa's strategy to reach 2.5 million mt/year of biofuel production by 2030, making it a leader in the Iberian peninsula. The total will include 800,000 mt/year of SAF.

The refinery is also planning to start up 400 MW of hydrogen production capacity by 2026, having signed agreements in January and February 2023 with local partners.

Cepsa has already signed an agreement with the Port of Rotterdam to create the first green hydrogen corridor between southern and northern Europe, allowing the export of green ammonia and methanol.

** Poland's PKN said its 2022 investments included the construction of a hydrotreated vegetable oils installation at Plock. PKN Orlen had approved a Zloty 600 million investment to build a HVO unit to produce biofuels at its Plock refinery. The unit will process used rapeseed oil to produce an additive to diesel or aviation fuel. The annual production of the unit will be 300,000 mt of biodiesel or aviation biofuel. The start of production is scheduled for mid-2024.

** Poland's PKN said its 2022 investments included the construction of a bioethanol unit at the company's small Polish biofuels plant, Orlen Poludnie. PKN Orlen is also constructing a hydrogen plant at its Poludnie biorefinery in Trzebinia. Annual production will be 16 million cu m, and three-quarters of that will be used to produce glycol. The remainder will be used to produce 45 kg/h of fuel-grade hydrogen for use in transport.

** PKN Orlen said its subsidiary Orlen Poludnie has signed an agreement to build a "complex of units for production of II generation bioethanol" at its biofuel refinery in Jedlicze, southern Poland. The B2G complex will include a main unit for bioethanol production and will have the capacity to produce 25,000 mt/year of bioethanol from biomass. In the next stage, a biogas plant will be built. The biomass will be mainly cereals straw sourced from Polish farmers. The bioethanol complex will also include a biomass-fired combined heat and power plant, which will generate heat for bioethanol production. The Jedlicze refinery is a small former petroleum refinery, which together with the Trzebinia refinery, was incorporated into Orlen Poludnie, the company's biofuels subsidiary.

** Gunvor Group said that as part of its Rotterdam refinery starting a "journey to a sustainable future" it has been renamed from Gunvor Petroleum Rotterdam to Gunvor Energy Rotterdam, "a name that is more inclusive of the increasing number of energy transition projects that are underway." The new programs underway at the site include "plastics recycling and a proposed green hydrogen import terminal", it said adding that more projects are being planned. Gunvor had already closed the two crude processing units at the refinery, one in 2019 and the other in 2020, saying that it was developing new processes around hydrogen and co-processing of vegetable oil.

In Oct. 2021, Gunvor said it had agreed to partner with petrochemical group Dow to purify pyrolysis oil feedstocks derived from plastic waste, using an existing unit at its refinery site in Rotterdam. The venture will purify pyrolysis oil feedstock derived from plastic waste that are of sufficient quality to produce new polymers. Under the deal, Gunvor will supply cracker-ready feedstock to Dow in Europe, which will be used to produce circular plastics for customers.

** Phillips 66 is looking at carbon capture and storage as well as electrolytic green hydrogen production to decarbonize operations at its Humber refinery in the UK, Commercial Manager for Emerging Energy Mike Wailes said Feb. 2023. The initial focus is on post-combustion capture from the refining process, including from the crude topping unit, fluid catalytic cracker and hydro-desulfurization unit, with further more expensive options coming from refueling to use hydrogen, he said.

Phillips 66 is developing a 100-MW electrolyzer to be powered by offshore wind which can be scalable to 300 MW.

The Humber refinery completed its first delivery of SAF under a supply agreement with British Airways in early 2022.

Phillips 66 has said previously its UK refinery was moving to produce 5,000 b/d renewable diesel by 2024 after expanding capacity to 3,000 b/d from 1,000 b/d. Humber produced 1,000 b/d of renewable diesel in 2020, after starting production in 2019.

** Portugal's Galp said it expects to sanction key projects in 2023, including 270,000 mt/year production of HVO capacity for producing advanced biodiesel and SAF, with a final investment decision expected in the year. In terms of green hydrogen, it also expects to take FID on a 100 MW Sines hydrogen production plant during 2023, targeting an eventual roll out of up to 700 MW to the end of the decade. The 100-MW Sines electrolyzer project will target to replace existing conventional hydrogen production. Previously, Galp said that the Sines industrial site around the refinery will undergo a gradual transformation into a green energy hub.

** Spain's Repsol is to build a new 25,000 mt/year production line for recycled polyethylene at its Puertollano site. The new line, which will produce high- and low-density polyethylene (HDPE and LDPE) with a recycled plastic content of 10%-80%, was expected to come into operation by the end of 2024. Current capacity for the plastics production at the site is 16,000 mt/year. Puertollano is also due to start a first polyurethane foam recovery plant this year at Puertollano while it also has plans to build a new unit to produce 15,000 mt/year of ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) to come online in 2024 with an investment of Eur105 million.

** Renewable hydrogen company Everfuel has signed an agreement in Jan. 2023 to supply oxygen to an undisclosed company from its HySynergy electrolyzer in Fredericia, Denmark, enabling a higher utilization of the plant. The conditional agreement will improve the overall utilization and efficiency of the second phase of the electrolyzer, providing a long-term revenue stream, Everfuel said. HySynergy 2.0 will extend the existing 20 MW electrolyzer with 300 MW of additional capacity by 2025. It will be developed with Crossbridge Energy Fredericia and will produce hydrogen to decarbonize industrial processes and transportation. The first 20-MW phase started hydrogen production in December, with first commercial deliveries due in 2023. The plant, adjacent to the Fredericia oil refinery, will supply renewable hydrogen to the facility and for local zero-emissions transport, Everfuel said. The plant will send 80% of the hydrogen produced to the refinery for use as a feedstock in the refining process. The remaining 20% will go to hydrogen mobility applications. Phase two is to be built in three 100-MW stages.

** Piling work for a new biofuel plant being built by Shell at the site of Europe's biggest refinery, Shell Energy and Chemicals Park Rotterdam (formerly Pernis), was due to be completed around summer 2023, with the new plant expected to start up in 2024 or 2025. Shell is building an 820,000 mt/year biofuel plant in Rotterdam to produce sustainable aviation fuel and renewable diesel from waste. The facility will not use virgin palm oil as a feedstock although it will process vegetable oils, such as rapeseed, to supplement the waste feedstocks "until even more sustainable advanced feedstocks are widely available," it said.

** Repsol along with Spanish companies Naturgy and Reganosa plan to construct a hydrogen electrolyzer at Meirama, close to the A Coruna plant, with the output used to feed the refinery. The first phase of the project will see 30 MW of installed capacity by 2025 at the site of a closed thermal power plant. A subsequent upgrade will take the project to 200 MW capacity, producing 30,000 mt of green hydrogen per year. A newly installed hydrotreatment unit at Spain's A Coruna that processes vegetable and cooking oils was expected to boost biofuel output by 5,500 mt/year in 2022, with the volume rising to 10,500 mt/year by 2024.

** Technip Energies has been awarded a contract by TotalEnergies for the production of sustainable aviation fuel at the Grandpuits refinery. The contract covers engineering, procurement and construction assistance for the conversion of Grandpuits "into a zero-crude platform oriented towards SAF," it said. Once in operation, the facility will have the capacity to produce 210,000 mt/year of SAF from sustainable feedstock such as used cooking oil and animal fat. Grandpuits, near Paris, stopped refining in Q1 2021 and will be converted to a zero-oil platform, starting in 2024.

Separately, Air Liquide is to invest over Eur130 million ($134 million) in a low-carbon hydrogen unit at the Grandpuits biorefinery. TotalEnergies has committed to buy the hydrogen under a long-term contract to produce sustainable aviation fuel. The new reforming unit, with capacity to produce over 20,000 mt/year of hydrogen, will partly recycle residual biogas from the Grandpuits biorefinery, in place of the natural gas it normally uses.

TotalEnergies also said that its zero-crude project at Grandpuits "is based on the development of several future-oriented activities" which include chemical recycling of plastic waste, production of biosourced and biodegradable bioplastics, production of biofuels for the aviation sector, construction of a solar farm and electricity storage by batteries. The new units will be starting up from 2022 and are expected to be operational by 2025.

** Turkey's Tupras said it had completed basic engineering studies to produce sustainable aviation fuel at its Izmir refinery using Honeywell's UOP ecofining technology. Tupras said it plans eventually to produce 400,000 mt/year of SAF, renewable diesel and other products at Izmir.

** Croatia's INA is studying various options for its Sisak refinery, including a biorefinery, biogas plant and production of pure hydrogen.

** Italy's Eni said it was "investigating the opportunity to build a new bio-refinery at Eni's industrial site in Livorno." It will be Eni's third biorefinery in Italy after converting its Gela and Venice refineries into biofuel plants. Eni said its feasibility study involves building "three new plants for the production of hydrogenated biofuel: a biogenic feedstock pre-treatment unit, a 500,000 mt/year Ecofining plant and a plant for the production of hydrogen from methane gas." The design of the three plants will be completed by 2023 and construction by 2025. Local officials welcomed the potential conversion of the Livorno refinery into a biorefinery as it would maintain "the current workforce and the entire production chain."

** Italy's Eni has started producing SAF at its Taranto refinery in southern Italy, as part of its commitment to decarbonize all its products and processes by 2050. Eni plans to increase its bio-refining capacity to 5 million-6 million mt/year by 2050. Eni targets its SAF capacity to reach at least 500,000 mt/year by 2030. Eni said its SAF production will continue to grow with the start-up of over 10,000 mt/year of SAF from its Livorno refinery using bio-components produced in Eni's existing Gela and Venice bio-refineries. In 2024, Eni plans to launch SAF production at the Gela bio-refinery, where a project is underway for a further 150,000 mt/year of SAF production from 100% renewable raw materials by 2025.

** Italy's Eni said that it will install a 20 MW electrolyzer at its Gela biorefinery and a 10 MW electrolyzer at its Taranto refinery. The electrolyzers will be part of a project to develop green hydrogen by Enel Green Power and Eni which will receive public funding approved by the European Commission.

** Ineos has awarded a design contract for a planned 190,000 mt/year low-carbon hydrogen production plant at its Grangemouth refining and petrochemical site in Scotland to engineering company Atkins. The plant is expected to be operational by 2030.

** Essar, the owner of the UK's Stanlow refinery, said it has received a hydrogen-powered furnace, which is the first in the UK. The furnace has been commissioned by Essar Oil UK "as it transitions to run its operations on hydrogen as part of HyNet, the UK's leading decarbonization cluster," it said. The furnace, which will run on 100% hydrogen fuel from 2026, "forms a central part of Essar's strategy at Stanlow to become the UK's first low-carbon refinery." The furnace will replace three gas-fired furnaces at the plant's crude distillation unit. Essar is also developing 300,000 cu m of biofuel storage capacity at the site, allowing customers to store, blend and distribute biofuels for the road, aviation and marine sectors. It will become the UK's largest biofuels storage facility when completed.

** OMV Petrom will start producing SAF at its Petrobrazi refinery, which will become the first refinery in Romania to produce the fuel. The refinery will produce SAF by coprocessing locally produced rapeseed oil. In the future, it aims to increase the production capacities and produce sustainable fuels based on various waste feedstocks, such as used cooking oil. "Our goal is that, in 2030, to have an annual combined production of SAF and HVO (hydrotreated vegetable oil) of about 450 thousand tons," Radu Caprau, member of the Executive Board responsible for Refining & Marketing said.

** Repsol and partners Enerkem and Agbar have presented a project to transform 400,000 mt/year of urban waste to 220,000 mt/year methanol at Tarragona, which should start up in 2025 with an investment of Eur250 million. Spain's Tarragona has started on a series of energy transition projects, including the manufacture of biofuel for aviation and an advanced biofuels plant, which is already under construction. The refinery plans to build a 100-MW hydrogen electrolyzer by 2025.

** Hungarian oil and gas group MOL will build a 10-MW electrolyzer for renewable hydrogen production at its Danube refinery in Szazhalombatta, Hungary. The electrolyzers from US company Plug Power will produce 1,600 mt/year of green hydrogen, with operations starting in 2023.

** OMV said that together with AEG Fuels it will supply SAF from its Schwechat refinery on-demand for the "general aviation segment" to be used as an alternative to conventional jet fuel at the Vienna International Airport. SAF is produced at Schwechat by co-processing Austrian used cooking oil and is supplied via a direct pipeline connection to Vienna's international airport. OMV had also supplied the first batch of SAF to Vienna International Airport for fueling Austrian Airlines aircraft. Schwechat has received the two main components for producing SAF -- the reactor and column. From mid-2023 up to 160,000 mt of liquid biomass will be converted into SAF using an innovative co-processing method, it said. "The new reactor will process substances including vegetable oil together with other feedstocks in a procedure known as co-processing. This innovative process involves refining the biogenic feedstock via a hydrogenation process using hydrogen," OMV said. In the future, the process can be used for processing other feedstock such as used cooking oil or advanced bio-fuels. OMV plans to increase its SAF sales to more than 700,000 mt/year by 2030. Separately, OMV will build the country's largest electrolysis plant at the Schwechat refinery through a joint investment with Kommunalkredit Austria AG. The plant is expected to start in H2 2023. The 10 MW polymer electrolyte membrane electrolysis will produce up to 1,500 mt/year of green hydrogen.

** Germany's Bayernoil is looking at producing SAF from sewage sludge. It could convert 100,000 mt of sewage sludge into SAF annually under Project Bayosine. The processing, which involves pyrolisis, can be done in a new unit at the Vohburg site of the plant.

** Sweden's Preem aims to expand the HVO capacity at its Gothenburg plant from 320,000 cu m/year to 1.3 million cu m/year in 2026. "This is planned to take place in a completely new facility designed to produce renewable vehicle fuels and aviation fuels with great flexibility," it said. In its Lysekil plant, production of HVO from the Synsat plant "was the highest to date," the company said. Preem is rebuilding the existing Synsat plant, so it can produce renewable raw materials and replace part of the fossil production. It is expected to reach renewable production capacity of 950,000 cu m/year by 2024.

** Finland's UPM expects its Leuna biorefinery in Germany to be operational by the end of 2023 and ramp up in 2024. Construction of the facility, which will produce a range of 100% wood-based biochemicals, started in 2020. Its total annual capacity will be 220,000 mt bio-monoethylene glycol and lignin-based renewable functional fillers. It will also produce monopropylene glycol and industrial sugars made from sustainably harvested beechwood sourced regionally in Germany.

** Greece's Motor Oil Hellas said its Corinth refinery by 2030 aims to enhance its pure hydrogen infrastructure through demonstration and scale-up of green hydrogen. In the long term, it aims to be a "large producer of clean hydrogen".

** France's TotalEnergies said it has "successfully started production" of SAF at its Gonfreville refinery in Normandy. The new site complements the biojet production capacities of the company's La Mede refinery and the Oudalle plant. All the biojet will be supplied to French airports and will be produced from waste and residue sourced from the circular economy. La Mede, in the south of France, and Oudalle, near Le Havre, began producing SAF in April 2021. La Mede stopped processing crude oil at the end of 2016 and was converted into a bio plant in 2019.

** Repsol's Cartagena has started construction of its planned second-generation biofuel plant at the nearby to the refinery Escombreras facility, which should result in the production of 250,000 mt/year of biodiesel from waste from mid-2023. The company will invest Eur200 million in the project that would output biodiesel, biojet, bionaphtha and biopropane, allowing an overall CO2 reduction of 900,000 mt/year. As part of its drive to decarbonize the refinery, Repsol also plans to build a 100 MW hydrogen electrolyzer at Cartagena, with a target date of 2025.

** Orsted and BP are to jointly develop a 50 MW renewable hydrogen project at BP's Lingen refinery in Germany. The project, expected to be operational in 2024, would comprise a 50 MW electrolyzer capable of generating 9,000 mt/year of hydrogen, 20% of the refinery's current fossil-based hydrogen consumption. The electrolyzer is expected to be powered by an Orsted North Sea offshore wind farm. The partners have a longer-term ambition to build more than 500 MW of renewable hydrogen capacity at Lingen, providing renewable hydrogen to meet all the refinery's hydrogen demand and provide feedstock for future synthetic fuel production.

** Italian energy company Eni and SEA, the operator of Milan's Malpensa and Linate airports, have signed an agreement to supply SAF for commercial flights, as a step towards accelerating the "ecological transition" of the two airports. Eni plans to develop Eni Biojet which will be made "exclusively" from used cooking oil or animal fats and can be "used in a blend with conventional jet fuel of up to 50%," Umberto Carrara, Director of Green/Traditional Refining and Market at Eni said. The company plans to produce around 200,000 mt/year by 2024 and double the production by 2030.

** BP has partnered with Dutch green hydrogen company HyCC to develop its 250-MW H2-Fifty electrolyzer project in Rotterdam. The companies will next select a technology partner for the previously announced renewable hydrogen project and begin environmental studies, with a final investment decision expected in 2023. The project is expected to come online in 2025. The renewable hydrogen produced at the facility will replace fossil-based feedstock at BP's Rotterdam refinery and other industries in the area. The plant will be situated in the Maasvlakte area of Rotterdam.

** Russia's Lukoil said in December 2021 that it has signed memorandum of intent with Rusatom Overseas, part of the Rosatom Group, to cooperate in the production and supply of green hydrogen for the company's Petrotel refinery in Ploesti, Romania.

** Varo Energy's Cressier refinery in Switzerland will use solar panel generated electricity by 19,000 photovoltaic panels for a "significant portion" of the electricity it consumes. Varo Energy Group and Groupe E will build the "most powerful ground-mounted solar facility in Switzerland" with an installed capacity of 7.7 MW. It will be built in the industrial zone east of the refinery. At full power the park will be able to supply more than 60% of the refinery's needs.

** ExxonMobil, Macquarie's Green Investment Group, and SGN are studying the potential for a low-carbon hydrogen hub centered around ExxonMobil's Fawley refinery on the UK's south coast. Initial hydrogen production could be around 4.3 TWh/year from 2030. Hydrogen demand in the Southampton industrial cluster around the refinery could reach 37 TWh by 2050.

** Italy's Saras is working on activating a green hydrogen plant for a total of 20 MW. Saras is building the green hydrogen plant with Italian utility Enel. The hydrogen produced would be used at the Sarroch refinery. It is currently provided by the IGCC complex and two reforming units on the industrial site.

** The Refhyne II consortium, developing a 100-MW electrolyzer to produce renewable hydrogen for Shell's Rheinland refinery in Germany at its Wesseling site, has received a Eur32.4 million grant from the EU. The project follows on from the 10-MW Refhyne I at the refinery, Europe's largest proton exchange membrane electrolyzer, which started operations in July 2021, producing up to 1,300 mt/year of renewable hydrogen. The five electrolyzer modules, with a total 10 MW of capacity, have been installed at the Wesseling site. The refinery comprises the Wesseling (south) and Godorf (north) sites. Shell plans to end crude processing at the Wesseling site in 2025. Delivery of the Refhyne II is expected for 2024. Separately, Shell is planning to produce sustainable and synthetic aviation fuel using renewable power and biogenic sources.

** Honeywell said that a trial to co-process biomass-based pyrolysis oil in the Lysekil FCC has been completed producing partially renewable transportation fuel. The refinery used Honeywell UOP's proprietary bioliquid feed system. Swedish refiner Preem announced carrying out the first tests at Lysekil to produce renewable gasoline from sawdust as it has started to process pyrolysis oil at the FCC. Separately, a study by Preem and state-owned utility Vattenfall has shown "very good conditions" for an electrolysis plant at the Lysekil refinery which will produce hydrogen for biofuels. Preem aims to ramp up biofuels production to approximately 5 million cu m/year by 2030, which "requires a large-scale supply of hydrogen, where the expansion of one or more electrolyzers can play an important role." In October 2020, Preem had started a conversion of Lysekil that will make it the biggest producer of renewable fuels in Scandinavia. The company had abandoned an upgrade of the conventional oil refinery.

** TotalEnergies has launched a research project with French waste and water utility Veolia to accelerate the development of advanced biofuels made from microalgae fed by CO2, the companies said. Under the agreement, the companies will set up a four-year research and testing project to grow microalgae at TotalEnergies La Mede biorefinery in southern France, with the long-term goal of producing biofuel. Separately, TotalEnergies will stop using palm oil at La Mede from 2023. The biorefinery has already significantly reduced the amount of palm oil it processes from 500,000 mt/year initially to 100,000 mt/year in 2021. Separately, TotalEnergies and utility Engie have signed a cooperation agreement to design, develop, build and operate France's largest renewable hydrogen production site near Total's La Mede biorefinery. Production could start in 2024. The Masshylia project at Martigues, west of Marseilles, will be powered by a 100-MW solar farm with a 40-MW electrolyzer set to produce 5 mt/day of green hydrogen to meet the needs of the biofuel production process at Total's nearby biorefinery.

** Germany's Heide refinery aims to scale its 30 MW electrolyzer project to 300 MW by end 2025. The 30 MW pilot project is part of the Westkueste 100 consortium with Orsted, while the 300 MW expansion project is part of the HyScale 100 project. A final investment decision of the 30 MW pilot is to be taken with a view to a 2023 start date. Output from the electrolyzers will replace conventional hydrogen generated on-site. Using hydrogen blended with CO2 to make methanol, the Klesch-owned refinery aims to be supplying 5% of the jet fuel used at the nearby Hamburg airport as SAF by 2024.

** In Q1 2021, Polish refiner Grupa Lotos, majority owned by PKN Orlen, launched its Pure H2 project, which includes the construction of a hydrogen purification unit and a system for supplying hydrogen to vehicles that haul compressed hydrogen at Gdansk. The project is scheduled to be completed in Q4 2023. Lotos plans to build a pilot 100 MW electrolysis installation and 20 MW power generation unit by 2025. The first stage of the investment will be a pilot project in 2020-25, including a 100 MW electrolysis installation, a 20 MW power generation unit, hydrogen storage and fuel cells. The company said its location in Gdansk on the Baltic Sea coastline was favorable for cooperation with planned offshore wind farms to produce renewable hydrogen. In the second stage between 2025-30, Lotos would look to expand the capacity of the electrolysis installation to 1 GW, and the associated gas-fired generation unit to 200 MW. Storage capacity would be increased to 2,500 mt of hydrogen. In a third stage to 2040, Lotos aimed to become the regional leader in the production and distribution of green hydrogen with plans to supply the gas to refineries and power generation plants, as well as injecting hydrogen into the gas grid. The electrolysis installation would be expanded to 4 GW with a 1 GW gas-fired generation unit, it said.

** TotalEnergies' Antwerp refinery is interested in adding co-processing biofuel units to the refinery. The company said it was considering adding units to its existing refinery. There is no timeline for deciding about the project. De Standard newspaper cited Jacques Beuckelaers, CEO of Total Antwerp, as saying the units would have capacity of 150,000 mt/year and would process cooking oil and animal fats.

** Germany's MiRo refinery in Karlsruhe is considering launching production of synthetic fuels, pending approval by the local government. The state of Baden-Wuerttemberg plans a large renewable fuels pilot project at the MiRo refinery.

LAUNCHES

EXISTING ENTRIES

** Turkey's Ersan Petrol is still hopeful of its plans for a 1.4 million mt/year refinery at Kahramanmaras in southeast Turkey will be able to go ahead despite repeated delays and a difficult investment climate. Project coordinator Cenk Pala said Ersan was in talks with prospective partners and sources of finance for the project and hopes to start work on the FEED study this year. The refinery is planned for a 300,000 sq m site in Kahramanmaras which holds a defunct mini refinery that will be dismantled. A pre-feasibility study by Axens has defined the configuration and capacity of the plant which will produce mainly Euro 5 diesel, Euro 5 gasoline, jet and bitumen.

** A new greenfield Porto Romano refinery in Albania will be predominantly oriented to export markets but will also be able to cover Albania's domestic demand, Helmut Mayrhofer, consultant at Larkalis said. Austria-based consultancy Larkalis is leading an international consortium working on the project which will involve building the refinery in the port town of Durres. The refinery has a two-year construction authorization and could be commissioned by end-2025, depending on international developments.

** Azeri state oil company Socar is considering developing a second refinery in Turkey, in addition to its existing 214,000 b/d Star refinery at Aliaga on Turkey's central Aegean coast.

-- Elza Turner, elza.turner@spglobal.com

-- Edited by Jonathan Fox, newsdesk@spglobal.com

Platts, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc.

文件 PLATT00020230523ej5n001p5


Insight EU Monitoring - Premium Digest
22788 字
2023 年 5 月 23 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2023. Comecon Media GmbH
A full-text overview of today's most important posts on our Insight EU portal

DAILY DIGEST

PREMIUM

www.ieu-monitoring.com[http://www.ieu-monitoring.com]

* Application of Directive 2006/123/EC for the exercise of aquaculture and fishing activities – EU Commission answer

* NATO Secretary General to participate in meeting of the EU Foreign Affairs Council

* Chemical weapons – Fifth Review Conference of the CWC

* NextGenerationEU: Ireland to submit request to modify recovery and resilience plan

* Ecodesign regulation: EU Council adopts position

* Insight EU Dossier Design in Government and Society – Issue 2 / 2023

* Insight EU Dossier Autonomous & Connected Mobilty – Issue 2 / 2023

* Insight EU Environment Monitoring 18 – 19 May 2023

* Insight EU Climate Monitoring 18 – 19 May 2023

* Insight EU Energy Monitoring 18 – 19 May 2023

* Insight EU Agenda: The Week Ahead 22 – 28 May 2023

* New rules for machinery: EU Council gives its final approval

* EU Council conclusions on addressing the humanitarian funding gap

* Eurojust: Main iSpoof website admin sentenced to 13 years

* U.S. White House Fact Sheet: The 2023 G7 Summit in Hiroshima, Japan

* Capital markets union: EU Council agrees its position on the instant payments proposal

* CSDP: EU strengthens its civilian missions to better respond to crises

* EU-Republic of Korea summit: EU Council President’s statement

* Iran: Five individuals and two entities targeted by EU’s eighth package of sanctions

* Foreign Affairs Council: EU HR Josep Borrell commenting on the main results

* Security sector: EU launches EUPM Moldova to fight hybrid threats

* EDPB’s binding dispute resolution: € 1.2bn fine for Meta IE following Irish inquiry

* EU Council confirms 6 to 9 June 2024 as dates for next EU Parliament elections

* Irish DPC announces conclusion of inquiry into Meta Ireland

Application of Directive 2006/123/EC for the exercise of aquaculture and fishing activities – EU Commission answer[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/application-of-directive-2006-123-ec-for-the-exercise-of-aquaculture-and-fishing-activities-eu-commission-answer/407743/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 23, 2023 02:15 am

Brussels, 22 May 2023

See question(s) : P-001150/2023[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/P-9-2023-001150_EN.html]

Answer given by Mr Breton on behalf of the European Commission

As recalled by the Honourable Members, the Commission stated in its reply to Written Question E-004388/2013 that the activity of aquaculture as such would not fall within the scope of Directive 2006/123/EC1 (‘the Services Directive’). However, the same reply also noted the need to take into consideration those activities ancillary to aquaculture, e.g. retailing or maintenance, to which the Services Directive may apply. Moreover, the Court of Justice of the European Union has recognised that certain rules governing the conditions of access to economic activities fall within the scope of the Services Directive, even when those activities are primarily related to goods.2

As regards the ex lege extensions operated by the Law of 30 December 2018 n. 1453 mentioned by the Honourable Members, it is important to recall that such measure is currently object of pending infringement proceedings.In the letter of formal notice sent on 3 December 2020,4 the Commission took the view that by maintaining indiscriminate and ex lege extensions of concessions related to State-owned coastal property, the Italian Republic had failed to fulfil its obligations under the Services Directive and the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU.5 In particular, the Commission observed that the Italian legislation merely replicated the provisions already considered to violate EU law in the Court judgment in joined cases C-458/14 and C-67/15.6

1 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32006L0123[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32006L0123]

2 Judgment of 30 January 2018, Joined cases C-360/15 and C-31/16 , College van Burgemeester en Wethouders van de gemeente Amersfoort v X BV and Visser Vastgoed Beleggingen BV v Raad van de gemeente Appingedam, EU:C:2018:44, paragraphs 84 to 97.

3 LEGGE 30 dicembre 2018, n. 145, Bilancio di previsione dello Stato per l’anno finanziario 2019 e bilancio pluriennale per il triennio 2019-2021 (18G00172) (GU Serie Generale n.302 del 31-12-2018 — Suppl. Ordinario n. 62), https://www.gazzettaufficiale.it/eli/id/2018/12/31/18G00172/sg[https://www.gazzettaufficiale.it/eli/id/2018/12/31/18G00172/sg]

4 Case INFR(2020)4118, https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/EN/INF_20_2142[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/EN/INF_20_2142]

5 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:12008E049[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:12008E049]

6 Judgment of 14 July 2016, Promoimpresa srl and Others v Consorzio dei comuni della Sponda Bresciana del Lago di Garda e del Lago di Idro and Others, EU:C:2016:558.

Source: Answer to a written question – Application of Directive 2006/123/EC to state-owned maritime concessions for the exercise of aquaculture and fishing activities – P-001150/2023(ASW)[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/P-9-2023-001150-ASW_EN.html]

© European Union, 2023 – EP[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/privacy-policy/en]

NATO Secretary General to participate in meeting of the EU Foreign Affairs Council[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/nato-secretary-general-to-participate-in-meeting-of-the-eu-foreign-affairs-council/407739/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 23, 2023 01:53 am

Brussels, 23 May 2023

On Tuesday, 23 May 2023, the NATO Secretary General, Mr. Jens Stoltenberg, will participate in the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union (EU), with Defence Ministers. The meeting will take place at the Europa building of the Council of the EU in Brussels.

Media advisory

±13:00 (CEST) Doorstep statement by the NATO Secretary General

Media coverage

* The doorstep statement will be streamed live on the NATO website[http://www.nato.int/].

* A transcript of the Secretary General’s remarks will be available on the NATO website[http://www.nato.int/].

* Photos and video will be available on the NATO website.

Contact the NATO Press Office.[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/198183.htm]

Source – NATO[https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/news_214737.htm]

Chemical weapons – Fifth Review Conference of the CWC[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/chemical-weapons-fifth-review-conference-of-the-cwc/407737/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 23, 2023 01:48 am

Paris, 22 May 2023

France deplores the fact that the Fifth Review Conference of the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) ended on May 19 without adopting a final document by consensus because of deliberate obstruction by Russia and Syria. Those nations prevented an agreement on a final document, rejecting the work carried out by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW).

France applauds the relentless efforts of OPCW Director-General Fernando Arias, the chairperson of the Working Group for the Preparation of the Fifth Review Conference, the Conference chair, and all the States parties that have worked to advance the fight against the re-emergence of chemical weapons. Those efforts will not be in vain, because the session that just ended in The Hague emphasized the nearly entire international community’s support for an absolute prohibition on the use of these inhumane weapons.

The Chemical Weapons Convention, whose signing 30 years ago we celebrated in Paris on January 13, is about to achieve one of its initial goals, with the total destruction a few months ago of the chemical weapons stockpiles that were declared when it entered in force. The adoption of a final document would have been an opportunity to highlight this major success for the organization while providing new directions, at a time when we are facing new challenges and threats, especially due to the re-emerging use of chemical weapons.

During the upcoming sessions of the Executive Council and the Conference of States Parties, we will continue to work with all the delegations to achieve tangible results, building on the accomplishments of the Review Conference and harnessing all the potential offered by the new Centre for Chemistry and Technology.

Source – French Government[https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/en/french-foreign-policy/security-disarmament-and-non-proliferation/news/2023/article/chemical-weapons-fifth-review-conference-of-the-chemical-weapons-convention-may?xtor=RSS-1]

NextGenerationEU: Ireland to submit request to modify recovery and resilience plan[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/nextgenerationeu-ireland-to-submit-request-to-modify-recovery-and-resilience-plan/407731/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 23, 2023 01:38 am

Brussels, 22 May 2023

Today, Ireland will submit a request to the Commission to modify its recovery and resilience plan.

Ireland’s proposed modification of the plan foresees targeted amendments to two measures. The first measure aims at encouraging private investment in energy efficiency through a guarantee scheme. Ireland has requested to postpone the completion date of two implementation milestones linked to this measure, due to unforeseen technical hurdles. The second measure aims at increasing the supply of social and affordable housing. Ireland has requested to postpone the completion date of three targets linked to this measure, due to delays in the construction process and other implementation issues.

Ireland’s request to modify its plan is based on the need to factor in objective circumstances which make particular milestones or targets no longer achievable within the original timeline.

Once Ireland has submitted its request, the Commission has up to two months to assess whether the modified plan still fulfils the assessment criteria in the RRF Regulation. If the Commission’s assessment is positive, it will make a proposal for an amended Council Implementing Decision to reflect the changes to the Irish plan. Member States will then have up to four weeks to endorse the Commission’s assessment.

More information on the Irish recovery and resilience plan can be found here[https://commission.europa.eu/business-economy-euro/economic-recovery/recovery-and-resilience-facility/irelands-recovery-and-resilience-plan_en]. More information on the process concerning the revision of recovery and resilience plans can be found in this Q&A[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_23_2489].

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_23_2864]

Ecodesign regulation: EU Council adopts position[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ecodesign-regulation-eu-council-adopts-position/407706/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 23, 2023 01:09 am

Brussels, 22 May 2023

The Council has adopted its position (‘general approach’) on the proposed regulation establishing a framework for setting ecodesign requirements for sustainable products. The new regulation will replace the existing 2009 directive and enlarge the scope to set environmental sustainability requirements for almost all kind of goods placed on the EU market. It establishes a Digital Product Passport and sets out rules regarding transparency about and prohibition of the destruction of unsold consumer goods.

The Council position improves the framework for the Commission empowerment on the setting of ecodesign requirements and reinforces the ambition of this regulation through a direct ban on the destruction of unsold textiles (with an exemption for micro and small enterprises and a transition period for medium sized companies). It excludes motor vehicles from the scope of the directive and gives companies a minimum time to adapt to new requirements coming from the Commission.

If we want really sustainable European products on the market, we need to address the issue from the starting point: their design. The Ecodesign regulation will make sure that products sold in the EU market are fit and ready for the green transition.

Ebba Busch, Swedish Minister for Energy, Business and Industry and Deputy Prime Minister

Eco-requirements and digital passport

The ecodesign regulation will be applicable to almost all categories of products. It establishes a harmonised framework for setting requirements for specific product groups to make them both energy- and resource-efficient (as was the case in the existing 2009 directive) but more durable, reliable, reusable, upgradable, reparable, recyclable and easier to maintain. The Commission can propose new requirements through delegated acts when new kinds of products or technologies require it.

The regulation also aims to facilitate the movement of such products in the Single Market. A new “Digital Product Passport” will provide information about products’ environmental sustainability. It will help consumers and businesses make informed choices when purchasing products and help public authorities to better perform checks and controls. The proposal also establishes provisions on transparency and prevention of destruction of unsold consumer products and green public procurement.

The Council’s position

The Council position clarifies how member state experts, but also other stakeholders such as industry, should be involved when the future ecodesign requirements are developed. It also clarifies the criteria and aspects that should be considered before ecodesign requirements are developed.

The general approach introduces a direct-ban on the destruction of textiles, footwear and apparel, with a 4-year exemption for medium-sized companies, and a general exemption for small and micro companies. The ban tries to reduce the environmental impact of clothes or accessories that are produced but never used, particularly since the rapid growth of online sales. This amounts to a loss of valuable economic resources as goods are produced, transported, and afterwards destroyed without ever being used for their intended purpose.

The Council position excludes motor vehicles from the groups of goods covered by this directive, since specific laws address the environmental impact of automobiles.

Finally, the general approach of the Council provides a minimum transition period of 18 months after the entry into force of the delegated act setting out ecodesign requirements before it starts applying, thus giving economic operators time to adapt to the new requirements. Member states are also given 2 years to adapt and adopt the necessary national measures, including those relating to market surveillance and fines.

Background

The current Ecodesign Directive 2009/125/EC has established energy efficiency requirements covering 31 product groups. According to the Commission’s calculations, this saved EUR 120 billion in energy expenditure and led to a 10% lower annual energy consumption by the products under its scope. The new proposal builds on the existing Ecodesign Directive, but extends it to cover most categories of products (only exempting food, feed, medicine and veterinary products and motor vehicles) and will also include requirements such as product durability, reusability, upgradability, and reparability; presence of substances that inhibit circularity; energy and resource efficiency; recycled content, remanufacturing, and recycling; carbon and environmental footprints and information requirements, including a Digital Product Passport.

Next steps

The general approach agreed today formalises the Council’s negotiating position. It provides the Council presidency with a mandate for negotiations with the European Parliament, which will start as soon as the Parliament adopts its position.

* Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for setting ecodesign requirements for sustainable products and repealing Directive 2009/125/EC – General approach[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-9014-2023-INIT/en/pdf]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/compet/2023/05/22-23/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/05/22/ecodesign-regulation-council-adopts-position/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Ecodesign+regulation%3a+Council+adopts+position]

Insight EU Dossier Design in Government and Society – Issue 2 / 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-dossier-design-in-government-and-society-issue-2-2023/407653/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 23, 2023 12:31 am

DESIGN COUNCIL

* Milan Design Week meets Design for Planet

* Celebrating World Design Day

* Five ways to design a circular community

* Ways of designing: A reflection on strategic and systemic design

* Raising the bar, one hemline at a time: How Mary Quant shaped the sixties

* The Anti Greenwash Charter

* The Rewilding Training

VIRTUAL WORLDS

* EU Commission: Call for evidence on virtual worlds and metaverses

DESIGN OF DEMOCRACIES

* Youth Democracy Award 2023 (Germany) – fundsforNGOs

* U.S. State Department: Outcomes of the Summit for Democracy

* Toward a Discouraging Convergence? Liberal Constitutionalism in the Age of Permanent Emergency

PUBLIC SECTOR

* Global Trends in Government Innovation 2023 – Observatory of Public Sector Innovation

* Mapping the global behavioural insights community – Observatory of Public Sector Innovation

ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE

* EU Commission proposes new economic governance rules fit for the future

* EU Commission Q&A on the new economic governance proposal

START-UPS

* The Startupbootcamp Accelerator Program 2023: Scale fast & Grow Sustainably – EU-Startups

* EU AI Act: How AI regulation could affect your startup – EU-Startups

* 10 Slovakian startups to keep an eye on in 2023 and beyond – EU-Startups

* Speech By Commissioner Elisa Ferreira at the “Start-up Village Forum”

* Address by Mr Janusz Wojciechowski at the 2023 edition of the European Startup Village Forum

ACCESSIBILITY DESIGN

* Accessibility: designing an inclusive and barrier-free user experience – Defra digital, data and technology

RESEARCH DESIGN

* What I’ve learned about panel management in a growing research team – Defra digital, data and technology

* Why AI is our top emerging technology – Defra digital, data and technology

BIODESIGN

* The women saving the planet through bio-design

INNOVATION ECO-SYSTEMS

* La Commission lance des appels à propositions de 122 millions d’euros pour combler les lacunes en matière d’innovation dans l’UE et renforcer les écosystèmes d’innovation

* The EU Commission appoints a new President of the Board of the European Innovation Council

* The EU’s global approach to research and innovation – EP Research Service

* Connecting regional innovation valleys by climate-neutral industries

* Commission launches call for 100 Regional Innovation Valleys to bolster local and regional innovation

* Commissioner Gabriel visits Silicon Valley for European Innovation Days

* Bundestag: “Innovationsclub” mit baltischen Staaten

* Innovationsindikator 2023: Deutschland auf Rang 10 von 35 Volkswirtschaften – zu wenig Innovationsdynamik spürbar – BDI und Roland Berger

* Zukunftsforum 2023 – Fraunhofer IAO Veranstaltungen

* Reallabore – die Innovationsmethode der Zukunft – Fraunhofer IAO

* uih! Innovationslabor in Heilbronn macht Zukunft des Handels erlebbar – Fraunhofer IAO

MILITARY INNOVATION

* The NATO Review: Back to the future: innovating in times of uncertainty and disruption

DESIGN THINKING

* Design Thinking Market 2023 Growth, Trend, Share, and Forecast till 2030 – Digital Journal

* McKinsey & Company: What is design thinking?

* Design Thinking Toolkit – Latest lessons published by Atomic Spin

* Design Thinking Toolkit, Lesson 31 – Forced Connections – Atomic Spin

* Design Thinking Toolkit, Lesson 30 – Design Studio – Atomic Spin

* Design Thinking Toolkit, Lesson 29 – SCAMPER – Atomic Spin

* Design Thinking Toolkit, Lesson 28 – The Powers of 10 – Atomic Spin

* Design Thinking Toolkit, Activity 27 – The Pre-Project Survey – Atomic Spin

* Design Thinking Toolkit, Activity 26 – Worst Possible Idea – Atomic Spin

* Design Thinking Toolkit, Activity 25 – Empathy Map – Atomic Spin

COOPERATION DESIGN

* Empathy in design: The secret ingredient for finding human connection – Bizcommunity.com

* Using physical prompts in remote research – “..STBY…”

* Using Videoboards as an all-in-one analysis tool – ..STBY…

* Guiding social and sustainable business decisions – ..STBY…

E-GOVERNANCE

* The 9th e-Governance Conference will host digital leaders and experts from 70 countries – e-Governance Academy

SERVICE DESIGN

* Freiburg: Neuer Ämterzuschnitt – Bauen und Wohnen aus einer Hand

GERMANY

* Aufbau des Dateninstituts kann beginnen – Haushaltsmittel für das Dateninstitut freigegeben

* Hintergrund der Bundesregierung zum Dateninstitut

* Rede von Bundeskanzler Olaf Scholz zur Verleihung der German Startup Awards am

* BMBF: Ihr Date mit der Zukunft | 30.04.2023

* BDI: Zeitenwende auch bei der regionalen Transformation notwendig

* BDI: Zwangslizenzen gefährden Innovation und Wettbewerb

* Bitkom: Startups: Durchbruch für attraktivere Mitarbeiterbeteiligung

FINLAND

* Latest headlines be Forum Virium Helsinki

* Talking robot delivers tools to worksites – could be used for lunch deliveries as well

* Deep dive into European circular economy ecosystem – webinar 26th May

* Six cities lead the way in increasing drone usage responsibly

* New company emerged from a hackathon

* Advancing cross-border travel between Helsinki and Tallinn by learning from IoT-NGIN’s smart city living lab

* An alternative food system requires long-term cooperation and a regional network of operators

* Three solutions supporting knowledge management to be tested with tourism companies

* Digital Twins Hackathon boosts growth companies’ activities

* Future of emergency medical services in Helsinki – a drone could save your life

* Electric truck factory inspired by Forum Virium Helsinki and Stara’s innovation project

* Lifesaving drones are coming to Helsinki! AiRMOUR Roadshow events 4 and 6 April

* Open call: Technologies to promote digital equality

DENMARK

* New European Bauhaus: How do we Design the Irresistible Circular Society? – DDC Danish Design Center

* “Young People are at the Frontlines of Change – it’s Time the Older Generations Listened up” – DDC Danish Design Center

* Leadership: What Does Top Management do in a Self-Leading Organization – DDC Danish Design Center

CHINA

* EUCCC: Report Launch – China’s Innovation Ecosystem: The Localisation Dilemma

UK

* Making ethics part of the way we design products and services – Home Office Digital, Data and Technology

* Human connection: humanists at work in the community – Humanists UK

* Independent report: UK Research, development and innovation (RDI) organisational landscape: an independent review

SCOTLAND

* Scotland’s First Minister: Equality, opportunity, community: New leadership – A fresh start

USA

* EDA Webinars This Week: Tech Hub Phase 1 NOFO

# COMPANIES

WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM

* Towards actionable governance on trustworthy AI

GOFORE

* Modernisation of digital services is the lifeblood of companies

* The knowledge-based management of the future is based on phenomena ⁠–⁠ changes in the energy sector lead the way

* Neurodiversity and recruitment: Creating inclusive practices at Gofore

FUTURICE

* How equipped is your organization to be co-adaptive?

* How a combination of digital and data can be harnessed to create future sustainable business models

* Pattern library playbook: Get set up for success

* Futurice Quantum Computing Workshops

* The open road to excellent UX

DSCOUT

* Audition Research Participants First with Screener Surveys

* These FAQs from Product Managers May Surprise You

* How to Lay the Foundation for a Dynamic UX Team

* 4 Major Questions on the Minds of UX Industry Leaders

* To Prevent Harm, Look To Ethical Design Tools

* When Does Statistical Significance Apply to Your Research?

* The Future of Research and Insights Is Fully Integrated

* Issues with Data Gaps? Wrangle ‘Em Together with Triangulation

* How to Include Engineers in Your Day-to-Day Research Activities

* Trouble with Stakeholder Buy-In? Include Them More in the Process

GLOBAL HEADLINES

* A Guided Tour of Indra’s Net with Yingzhao Liu – Buddhistdoor Global

* Top 10 Online courses from IIM Kozhikode to take your career to new heights – Times of India

* VTU launches a range of new initiatives to help improve quality of teaching-learning process – The Hindu

* New Active Design guidance published – Sport England

* An Academic Study on the Museum Experience – We Heart

* IIT Guwahati organises Research & Industry Conclave – EastMojo

* Regenerative design is “making habitats better” says Sebastian Cox – Dezeen

* Why Intergenerational Thinking Is Essential to Heal the Planet – Resilience

* Living Life By Design Begins With Perspective – Forbes

* ChatGPT, Design Thinking, and CCreative Human-AI Collaboration – Medium

* How Generative AI Changes Creativity – HBR.org

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF.

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.11.6 noptimize

/noptimizehttps://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Dossier-Design-in-Government-and-Society---2-2023-PDF-p557537198[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Dossier-Design-in-Government-and-Society---2-2023-PDF-p557537198] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Dossier-Design-in-Government-and-Society---2-2023-PDF-p557537198[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Dossier-Design-in-Government-and-Society---2-2023-PDF-p557537198] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.11.6

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Sign up for our free Insight EU Monitoring Digest Basic and weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

* Buy and download specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

Insight EU Dossier Autonomous & Connected Mobilty – Issue 2 / 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-dossier-autonomous-connected-mobilty-issue-2-2023/407652/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 23, 2023 12:17 am

ISSUE 2/2023

# FOCUS: ROAD SAFETY

* EU Commission proposes updated requirements for driving licences and better cross-border enforcement of road traffic rules

* EU Commission Q&A on proposals for driving licences and cross-border enforcement of traffic offences

* Press conference by Commissioner Adina Vălean on the Road Safety package

# FOCUS: TRAFFIC & VEHICLE DATA

* 400 mobility data-sharing ecosystems identified in Europe

* Antitrust: EU Commission prolongs Motor Vehicle Block Exemption Regulation and updates the Supplementary Guidelines

* Data collection and sharing relating to short-term accommodation rental services [EU Legislation in Progress]

# EU PARLIAMENT

* Urban mobility should embrace green and digital solutions, say MEPs

* Briefing – Revision of Directive 2009/21/EC on flag State requirements and Directive 2009/18/EC on accident investigations – EP Think Tank

* EP REPORT on the new EU urban mobility framework

* New Product Liability Directive [EU Legislation in Progress] – EP Research Service

# EU MEMBER STATES

– GERMANY

* BMWK: Transformation der Automobilindustrie antreiben: Auftaktveranstaltung für Netzwerke, Hubs und Cluster

* Mobilität: Hochleistungsrechner steuern Autos der Zukunft – Karlsruher Institut für Technologie

# EU FUNDING & FINANCE

* Germany: InvestEU – EIB provides €40 million for Wingcopter to scale up electric delivery drones and logistics services

# RESEARCH & THINK TANKS

– KIT

* Automatisiertes Fahren in Kolonne: Schub für Flexibilisierung des Busverkehrs – Karlsruher Institut für Technologie

– FLORENCE SCHOOL OF REGULATION

* Digital Mobility: Call for proposals for a book chapter – Florence School of Regulation

# STAKEHOLDERS

– EURELECTRIC

* Powering the era of e-mobility with smart charging

* EVision 2023 – the six essentials for e-mobility

– CAD

* 5G-IANA #1st Open Call for SMEs in the automotive vertical sector – Connected Automated Driving

* The CCAM Work Programme 2023 is now open for project submissions! – Connected Automated Driving

* 4th Call for proposals under the Digital Europe Programme now published – Connected Automated Driving

* #EUCAD2023 – The Present and Future of Connected and Automated Mobility (CCAM) Technology Deployment in Europe Connected Automated Driving

* White paper: Intelligent & Connected Vehicles Roadmaps: A Worldwide Perspective – Connected Automated Driving

* Kick off the European Year of Skills – Connected Automated Driving

– 5GAA

* Predictive Edge Analytics and Network Slicing Enabling Mobility-as-a-Servicein Global MEC Scenarios

* Cross-Working Group Work Items: Automated Valet Parking Technology Assessment and Use Case Implementation Description

* 5GAA Applauds FCC Action to Permit Initial C-V2X Deployments

* Accelerating 5G Adoption for Connected and Autonomous Mobility Services

– ACEA

* Smarter regulation for a globally competitive European auto industry

– MOBILEYE

* Autonomous Vehicle Questions Get the Answers They Deserve

– MCKINSEY & COMPANY

* McKinsey & Company: Full speed ahead – the automotive sector’s resilience imperative

* McKinsey & Company: The future of the car

* Europe’s Gen Z and the future of mobility – McKinsey & Company

– FRAUNHOFER

* Kreislaufgerechter Open-Source-Baukasten für E-Fahrzeuge – Fraunhofer

– BITKOM

* Co-Creation für eine digitale Verkehrs-infrastruktur

# OTHER COUNTRIES

– USA

* U.S. Fact Sheet: Biden-⁠Harris Administration Announces New Private and Public Sector Investments for Affordable Electric Vehicles

* U.S. NIST: Registration is Open for the Standards and Performance Metrics for On-Road Automated Vehicles Workshop (September 2023)

* RACER’s Off-Road Autonomous Vehicles Teams Navigate Third Test – Autonomy improves even as speeds increase

# COMPANIES

– APPLE

* Former Apple Employee Charged With Theft Of Trade Secrets – U.S. Department of Justice

– TESLA

* Tesla Vehicle Production & Deliveries and Date for Financial Results & Webcast for First Quarter 2023

– ZOOX

* Robotxi safety—before, during, and after a crash

– BMW

* BMW is Skeptical About Level 3 Autonomous Driving

* BMW Reveals SAE Level 2+ automated driving with HERE HD Live Map

– VOLKSWAGEN

* Structural and personnel realignment at CARIAD

* Shell and Volkswagen push ahead the expansion of charging infrastructure: Opening of the first innovative Flexpole charging station

* Volkswagen Group brings products to market faster in China – development time reduced by around 30 percent

– VOLVO CARS

* The fully electric Volvo EX30 small SUV takes city safety to a new level

# GLOBAL HEADLINES

* We need to rethink mobility to make our transport systems safe, healthy and sustainable – World Economic Forum

* UK to roll out first driverless bus service – INQUIRER.

* Qualcomm to buy Israeli chip maker Autotalks to build autonomous caes – Malaysia Sun

* Innovations in autonomous driving: Navigating legal and ethical implications – CBT News

* China’s Ride-Hailing Orders Soar 48% in April as Cities Warn of Market Saturation – Yicai Global

* GM robotaxis heading to two more Texas cities, claiming space in Tesla’s backyard – Autoblog by Insider

* Self-driving rideshares are coming to Houston this summer – Chron

* Self Driving Cars – What is an Autonomous Vehicle & How Do They Work – CarsGuide

* Automakers are starting to admit that drivers hate touchscreens – Hacker News

* How far have we come with Autonomous Driving in 2023 part1(Computer Vision)

* How far have we come with Autonomous Driving in 2023 part2(Computer Vision)

* How far have we come with Autonomous Driving in 2023 part3(Computer Vision)

* How far have we come with Autonomous Driving in 2023 part4(Computer Vision)

* How far have we come with Autonomous Driving in 2023 part5(Computer Vision)

* Latest headlines by Auto Connected Car News

* Small Cars Don’t Protect Rear-Seat Passengers Well

* Android Auto to Be Update with Teams, Webex & Zoom-Android Automotive Adds YouTube, Game Snacks & Waze

* Volvo Teases Electric EX30 SUV & Ups the Power on the C40 & X40 Recharge

* Qualcomm QCOM Buys Autotalks Chipmaker for V2X

* Autonomous & Self-Driving Vehicle News: Aurora, Recogni, Hesai, Labs New indie Semi, AEye, ANELO & Autev

* EV Battery & Charging News: Fisker, WattEV, Coulomb, Microvast, InTest Corp, BorgWarner & FEV

* Kia Software Defined Vehicle EV9 SUV with Digital Features

* Privacy4Cars Tells Consumers What Personal Information Automakers Collect

* Bert Boekmann, Galpin Motors Leader & Innovator Dies @92

* Mullen One and Mullen Three Comercial Trucks Priced of Sell

* Lion Electric Intros Lion5 Electric Class 5 Truck

* Ford Cuts Mustang Mach-e Prices-Ups Range & Opens Up Orders

* Swap Meet with Fisker & Ample for Module Battery Swapping in 2024

* Elon Musk Settles Defamation Case by Outspoken Critic Randeep Hothi

* Connected Car News: Bosch, Parasoft, onsemi, ZEEKR, Ansys, TSMC, GM, onsemi, Infinenon & Antolin

* CarMD Releases Vehicle Health Index Check Engine Lights Most For Catalytic Convertor, Oxygen Sensor & Ignition Coils

* Autonomous & Self-Driving Vehicle News:Continental, Aurora, Arbe Robotics & RoboSense

* Shelby American to Offer Shelby Mustang Mach-E GT Retro in Europe

* EV Battery & Charging News: Polaris,GM, Samsung SDI, Hyundai, SK, PowerFlex, Blink, Zeeba FMC, Ford Pro, Nikola & UL Solutions

* ACT Expo Round-up: Keynotes, DTNA, Dana Inc., Accelera, Sea Electric, Sibros, Navistar & Phoenix

* More Drivers Shop for New Insurance Due to Rate Hikes and Are Unhappy

* Public Supports Vehicle Tech that Prevents Operation by Impaired Driver

* Lucid SUV Gravity—Defies Gravity in Testing?

* Mullen Automotive Sub Mullen Advanced Energy Operation Begins $680K Contract for EMMs

* Hyundai Mobis Demo Car Crab-Walks in Tight Parking & More at 180°

* Connected Car News: Peachtree Corners, Spoke, Keysight, JLR, Elektrobit, JL Audio, Samsung, Avanci, Waze, Volvo, SiTime & Ansys.

* Autonomous & Self-Driving Vehicle News: Beep, Baidu, BYD, Luminar & Hesai

* Congress Mandates NHTSA to Require Alcohol Detection In New–IIHS Urges NHTSA to Act

* GMC Hummer SuperTruck Hummer EV Pickup Ranges Range from 329-355 Miles

* Mullen Automotive Element Material Tech EMM Improves Range & Increases Efficiency 60%

* Mullen Buys into Lawrence Hardge’s EVT to Improve Energy Management & Range

* Polestar 4 SUV coupé Celebrates Comfort without Rear Windows or Rearview Mirror with V2G & V2L

* Faraday FF91 Futurist 1st Vehicle Produced at Factory in Hanover CA

* Watch Out for Work Zone Safety Awareness Week April 17-21

* Connected Car News: NI, Marelli, Continental & Abalta

* Autonomous & Self-Driving Vehicle News: Cruise, Kneron, Haomo, Waymo, May Mobility, Moovit, Aurora, Luminar & Hesai

* EV, Battery & Charging News: ABB-E, ElectraMeccanica, Volcon, Canoo, GM, EnergyX, InductEV Group14 Tech & StoreDot

* MINI Digital Bulldog Spike to Spike Intelligent Personal Assistant

* Senators Request Privacy Information About Tesla Taking Videos

* SUVs Hurt Bicyclists More Because Where They Hit on Bodies

* Meals on Wheels San Francisco Will Electrify 2/3 of Fleet

* LUCID (LCID) Dream Tour Kicks off in Palm Beach, Miami, Tampa, Atlanta & Washington D.C.

* EPA’s New Emissions Standards—Expect EVs to be 67% of New Cars by 2032

* Toyota NA Research & Development in Michigan to Be 100% Renewable Energy

* Ford Transforms Oakville Assembly to Big EV Hub with C$1.8 Billion

* Meta VR Quest with BMW Sensor Data Passenger Experiences Stabilized

* Mullen Schedules Vehicle Production with Robotics to Start in July

* Mullen (MULN) Delivered Class 3 Demo Van to Randy Marion automotive

* Wienermobile Franks for the Memories–Now Frankmobile from Oscar Meyer

* Volvo Intros AR Electric Truck Safety App for First Responders

* Fisker Ocean Deliveries Expected in US & Europe in June

* Autonomous & Self-Driving Vehicle News: Torc Robotics, Applied Institution, NI, Porsche Partners, Mobileye, Perrone, Ouster, Motional, Faction, onsemi, Cepton, NVIDIA & Nuro

* Sierra Club Research Shows Greenwashing of EVs at Dealerships

* Latest headlines by ADAS & Autonomous Vehicle

* FEATURE: Industry outlook – five key challenges for the ADAS and autonomous vehicle sector

* Volvo introduces latest ADAS and safety features for EX30 SUV

* Volkswagen’s CFO reveals the OEM’s plans to claim a larger share of the Chinese EV market

* Aurrigo International made £5.3m in revenue in 2022

* ADAS sensor testing at Digitrans’ Outdoor Rain Plant begins

* Ouster and May Mobility expand supply agreements to accelerate international AV deployments

* AB Dynamics delivers driverless test solution to enhance efficiency and safety

* Applied Intuition and NI join forces to speed up validation testing of autonomous technologies

* FEATURE: Powering autonomy with log data – best practices for log management

* The key to lidar safety

* General Motors appoints Mike Abbott as executive vice president of software to drive end-to-end software organization

* Porsche to integrate Mobileye’s SuperVision technology into its next-generation vehicle to enable hands-off driving

* CAVForth autonomous bus service to begin public operations in Scotland, supported by Fusion Processing’s automated drive system

* VicOne and TomTom to deliver multi-layered cybersecurity for connected vehicles through smart cockpit software

* Waymo One autonomous ride-hailing service expands

* FEATURE: Oxbotica’s guide to the safe commercial deployment of automated vehicles

* Qualcomm set to acquire Autotalks to advance vehicle-to-everything solutions

* dSPACE tools receive ISO 26262 certification from TÜV Süd

* Innoviz on track to deliver lidar technology for CARIAD in the next few years

* LEVC launches Space Oriented Architecture modular EV platform with autonomous capabilities

* Faraday Future reveals Generative AI Product Stack

* SwRI tests automated vehicles in virtual off-road environments

* Toyota and Nvidia invest in Foretellix

* Europe’s leading ADAS and autonomous vehicle technology show opens next month

* Bosch and Plus to deliver assisted driving solutions for commercial vehicles

* NIO and NXP partner for 4D imaging radar deployment

* Foretellix outlines the details of its latest Foretify LogIQ platform

* Wayve appoints director of automotive partnerships

* FEATURE: Plus provides exclusive insight into its self-driving truck deployment strategy

* Continental and Aurora partner to produce commercially scalable autonomous trucking systems

* San José city council moves forward with airport transit system

* VIDEO: Zoox details robotaxi crash testing

* Korea Transportation Safety Authority, Dürr and dSpace develop new method for testing advanced driver assistance systems

* Waabi launches Million Mile Driver Advisory Board

* Exclusive ODD workshop at ADAS & Autonomous Vehicle Technology Expo Europe 2023

* Autonomous vehicles must “learn the language of cyclists” to increase road safety, research suggests

* Wayve appoints new vice president of software

* Einride launches electric trucks in the UK, with plans to introduce autonomous technologies

* IPG Automotive unveils CarMaker 12.0 and VIRTO app suite

* In this Issue – April 2023

* Baidu Apollo releases major product updates to help OEMs build smarter next-gen vehicles

* Autonomous Maserati MC20 Cielo to race in 1000 Miglia

* ViGEM launches test bench logger for validation of ADAS, OTA and AD functions

* FEATURE: Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles’ approach to ODD definition

* Waabi launches Million Mile Driver Advisory Board

* Asda to use Wayve self-driving vehicles for grocery deliveries

* Neusoft Reach’s Ambarella-based front ADAS goes into mass production in mainstream passenger vehicles

* Woven by Toyota to accelerate Toyota’s vision for future mobility

* Ford introduces BlueCruise automated driving system on UK motorways

* VicOne awarded ASPICE CL2 certificate for outstanding automotive embedded software development

* Xylon launches L5-ready data logger and HIL system

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF.

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.11.6 noptimize/noptimizehttps://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Dossier-Autonomous-and-Connected-Driving---2-2023-p557467721[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Dossier-Autonomous-and-Connected-Driving---2-2023-p557467721] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Dossier-Autonomous-and-Connected-Driving---2-2023-p557467721[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Dossier-Autonomous-and-Connected-Driving---2-2023-p557467721] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.11.6

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Sign up for our free Insight EU Monitoring Digest Basic and weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

* Buy and download specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

Insight EU Environment Monitoring 18 – 19 May 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-18-19-may-2023/407651/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 11:57 pm

DISASTER RISKS

* United Nations: First Person: Rising from disaster

* EU reaffirms support at Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction midterm review

* EU Statement by Commissioner Lenarčič at the UN General Assembly on the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction

CRITICAL RAW MATERIALS

* Critical raw materials act [EU Legislation in Progress] – EP Research Service

FORESTRY

* Romanian MEP, After The European Parliament’s Inspection Of The Forests Of Romania: “Wood Theft Is Significant In Romania!” – Romania Journal

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* CM 2990 2023 INIT Working Party on Agricultural Products

* CM 3000 2023 INIT Informal videoconference of the members of the Working Party on International Food and Agricultural Questions (FAO)

* CM 2989 2023 INIT Working Party on Animals and Veterinary Questions (Potsdam Group)

* CM 2988 2023 INIT Working Party on International Environment Issues (Climate change) (Attachés)

* CM 2986 2023 INIT Working Party on International Environment Issues (Climate change) (am only)

* CM 2938 2023 INIT Working Party on Fisheries Policy

* CM 2861 2023 INIT Working Party on the Environment

* ST 9535 2023 INIT Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL amending Council Directives 2001/110/EC relating to honey, 2001/112/EC relating to fruit juices and certain similar products intended for human consumption, 2001/113/EC relating to fruit jams, jellies and marmalades and sweetened chestnut purée intended for human consumption, and 2001/114/EC relating to certain partly or wholly dehydrated preserved milk for human consumption – Optional consultation of the Committee of the

* ST 9532 2023 ADD 1 ANNEXES to the Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion, on behalf of the Union, of the Protocol on the implementation of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community on the one hand, and the Republic of Kiribati, on the other (2023-2028)

* ST 9531 2023 INIT Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION on the allocation of fishing opportunities under the Protocol on the implementation of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community on the one hand, and the Republic of Kiribati, on the other (2023-2028)

* ST 9529 2023 INIT Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the signing, on behalf of the Union, and provisional application of the Protocol on the implementation of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community on the one hand, and the Republic of Kiribati, on the other (2023-2028)

* ST 9529 2023 ADD 1 ANNEX to the Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the signing, on behalf of the Union, and provisional application of the Protocol on the implementation of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community on the one hand, and the Republic of Kiribati, on the other (2023-2028

* ST 9063 2023 EXT 1 Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the sustainable use of plant protection products and amending Regulation (EU) 2021/2115 – Request for contributions on Articles 20-28, Annex III and related paragraphs in Article 3

* PE 20 2023 INIT REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on specific rules relating to medicinal products for human use intended to be placed on the market in Northern Ireland and amending Directive 2001/83/EC

EU PARLIAMENT REGISTER

* Answer to a written question – Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development discussion on the Commission proposal for a regulation on the sustainable use of pesticides – P-001104/2023(ASW)

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF.

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.11.6 noptimize/noptimizehttps://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Monitoring-18---19-May-2023-PDF-p557467720[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Monitoring-18---19-May-2023-PDF-p557467720] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Monitoring-18---19-May-2023-PDF-p557467720[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Monitoring-18---19-May-2023-PDF-p557467720] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.11.6

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Sign up for our free Insight EU Monitoring Digest Basic and weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

* Buy and download specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

Insight EU Climate Monitoring 18 – 19 May 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-18-19-may-2023/407650/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 11:44 pm

GREEN DEAL

* President von der Leyen at G7 Session I: Towards an International Community characterised by Cooperation, not Division and Confrontation, Global Economy, Digital, and Trade

CLIMATE RISKS

* EU Commissioner Elisa Ferreira’s keynote speech at the 8th International Wildland Fire Conference

NET-ZERO INDUSTRIES

* E.DSO-Europacable-T&D Europe Amendments to Net Zero Industrial Act (NZIA)

CARBON MECHANISM

* Das Zusammenspiel öffentlicher und privater Klimafinanzierung – Wuppertal Institut

G7

* President von der Leyen on our policies towards China at Session III of the G7, Foreign and Security Policy

THE WORLD BANK

* Cities Key to Solving Climate Crisis – The World Bank

GERMANY

* CO2-Ausstoß nach Abschaltung der Atomkraftwerke – AfD-Anfrage im Bundestag

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF.

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.11.6 noptimize/noptimizehttps://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-18---19-May-2023-PDF-p557547277[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-18---19-May-2023-PDF-p557547277] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-18---19-May-2023-PDF-p557547277[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-18---19-May-2023-PDF-p557547277] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.11.6

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Sign up for our free Insight EU Monitoring Digest Basic and weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

* Buy and download specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]Insight EU Energy Monitoring 18 – 19 May 2023

Insight EU Energy Monitoring 18 – 19 May 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-18-19-may-2023/407649/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 11:40 pm

REPOWER EU

* Quarterly reports confirm stabilising gas and electricity markets at end of 2022

* Celebrating a year of REPowerEU achievements

IEA

* World Energy Investments 2023

* The State of Clean Technology Manufacturing – An Energy Technology Perspectives Special Briefing

* Manufacturing plans for key clean energy technologies are expanding rapidly as investment momentum builds

IAEA

* Update 158 – IAEA Director General Statement on Situation in Ukraine

* Decommissioning Conference Ends with Focus on New Tech, Circular Economy, Youth

* Nuclear Explained – Nuclear Techniques for Better Nutrition

ENERGY REGULATION

* ENTSO-E and ENTSOG public webinar on electricity and gas adequacy in summer 2023

* Eurelectric: Is EU regulation supporting the cyber revolution for the energy sector?

* Casares’ report on the electricity market reform: the good, the bad, and the ugly

ENERGY SECURITY

* EU energy (in)security: lessons learned – Eurelectric

HYDROGEN

* Latest reports on hydrogen industries

* Hydrogen’s Scalability Essential to Meet Energy Demand

* Samsung C&T enters IGE green hydrogen project in Australia

* Yamaha, Honda, Kawasaki and Suzuki partner on hydrogen engines for small mobility; HySE

* Guidance: UK Low Carbon Hydrogen Standard: emissions reporting and sustainability criteria

* International Partnership Announced for Holyhead Hydrogen Hub

* Honda plans fuel-cell semi, ponders hydrogen for small mobility

* AlphaStruxure partners with Maryland county on first East Coast bus depot to produce green hydrogen

* Honda hydrogen plans, Utah fast-charging, Taycan route planning: Today’s Car News

* Hydrogen buses start running across Liverpool region

* Syntex to develop hydrogen facility in Arkansas

* ABS Explores near-shore green hydrogen production in Korea

* Saudi Aramco says it is not putting on hold its blue hydrogen plans

* RWE and Westfalen Group ink deal for future supply of green hydrogen for vehicles

* Hydrogen’s Nagging Question: Where’s the Demand?

* Maryland County Plans Largest Green Hydrogen Powered Bus Depot

* Why Airbus and others are betting on hydrogen-powered planes

* Egypt approves draft law to promote green hydrogen initiatives

* How A Cactus Inspired Scientists To Make Cheaper Hydrogen

* Ministers warned against hydrogen levy ‘trap’

* Nel Hydrogen to develop $400M hydrogen electrolyser manufacturing plant in Michigan

* Target True Zero: Delivering the Infrastructure for Battery and Hydrogen-Powered Flight

* Chevron, Exxon seek state backing for Australia carbon capture, hydrogen projects

* Take a look at North America’s first hydrogen-powered train, which emits only water and will start service this summer

* EU to hold its first green hydrogen subsidy auction in December

* Notice: Net Zero Hydrogen Fund strands 1 and 2: Round 2 open to applications

* NextEra CEO: Strengthening Hydrogen Sector Requires Partnerships

* ACWA Power signs green hydrogen pact, wind financing in Uzbekistan

KAZAKHSTAN

* EU-Kazakhstan strategic partnership becomes operational

GERMANY

* BDI: Veröffentlichung eines Positionspapiers zur aktuellen Energiepolitik

* Potenziale der Agri-Photovoltaik im Land weiter ausbauen – Baden-Württemberg

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* ST 8470 2023 INIT Draft submission by Member States and the Commission to the International Maritime Organization’s Intersessional Working Group on Reduction of GHG Emissions from Ships on the application of the Lifecycle assessment guidelines Presidency compromise

EU PARLIAMENT REGISTER

* Answer to a written question – Electric car infrastructure – a lack of realism amid the enthusiasm for legislation – E-000537/2023(ASW)

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF.

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.11.6 noptimize/noptimizehttps://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Monitoring-18---19-May-2023-p557467719[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Monitoring-18---19-May-2023-p557467719] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Monitoring-18---19-May-2023-p557467719[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Monitoring-18---19-May-2023-p557467719] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.11.6

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Sign up for our free Insight EU Monitoring Digest Basic and weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

* Buy and download specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

Insight EU Agenda: The Week Ahead 22 – 28 May 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-agenda-the-week-ahead-22-28-may-2023/407648/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 11:34 pm

22 MAY 2023

* Meetings of EU Commission Members on 22 May 2023

* EU Parliament Agenda on 22 May 2023

* Agenda of the EU-Republic of Korea Summit, 22 May 2023

* Agenda of the Foreign Affairs Council, 22 May 2023

* Agenda of the EU Competitiveness Council, 22-23 May 2023

* Meetings of EU Council preparatory bodies on 22 May 2023

* ECB schedule of public activities on 22 May 2023

* EU Court of Justice: Judicial calendar on 22 May 2023

* EU and UK Financial Services Regulation Post-Brexit – EESC Partnership event

* Meeting of EU chief plant health officers

* EU Comitology meetings on 22 May 2023

23 MAY 2023

* Meetings of EU Commission Members on 23 May 2023

* EU Parliament Agenda on 23 May 2023

* Agenda of the EU Competitiveness Council, 22-23 May 2023

* Agenda of the Foreign Affairs Council (Defence), 23 May 2023

* Meetings of EU Council preparatory bodies on 23 May 2023

* ECB schedule of public activities on 23 May 2023

* EU Court of Justice: Judicial calendar on 23 May 2023

* Mündliche Verhandlung vor dem EU-Gerichtshof (Große Kammer) in der Rechtsmittelsache C-465/20 P Kommission / Irland u.a.

* Meeting of EU chief plant health officers

* Conference on successful environmental practice within the framework of the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy (CAP)

* Bank crisis management and deposit insurance scheme – a step towards the completion of the Banking Union

* EU Comitology meetings on 23 May 2023

* Meetings of EU Commission Expert Groups on 23 May 2023

24 MAY 2023

* Meetings of EU Commission Members on 24 May 2023

* EU Parliament Agenda on 24 May 2023

* European Economic Area Council, 24 May 2023

* Meetings of EU Council preparatory bodies on 24 May 2023

* ECB schedule of public activities on 24 May 2023

* EU Court of Justice: Judicial calendar on 24 May 2023

* EU Judgment in Cases T-451/20 and T-452/20: Meta Platforms Ireland v Commission

* EU Judgment in Case T-268/21 Ryanair v Commission

* EU Judgment in Case T-2/21 Emmentaler Switzerland v EUIPO

* Meeting of EU chief plant health officers

* Conference on successful environmental practice within the framework of the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy (CAP)

* EU Comitology meetings on 24 May 2023

* Meetings of EU Commission Expert Groups on 24 May 2023

25 MAY 2023

* Meetings of EU Commission Members on 25 May 2023

* EU Parliament Agenda on 25 May 2023

* Agenda of the Foreign Affairs Council (Trade), 25 May 2023

* Meetings of EU Council preparatory bodies on 25 May 2023

* ECB schedule of public activities on 25 May 2023

* EU Court of Justice: Judicial calendar on 25 May 2023

* EU Judgment in Case C-575/21 WertInvest Hotelbetrieb

* EU Judgment in Case C-290/21 AKM on the provision of satellite packages in Austria

* Opinion in EU Court Cases C-750/21 P and Case C-256/22 P Pilatus Bank v ECB

* Urteil des EU-Gerichtshofs in der Rechtssache C-364/22 Deutschland zur freiwilligen Rückkehr in das Heimatland zwischen zwei Asylanträgen

* Schlussanträge des Generalanwalts am EU-Gerichtshof in der Rechtssache C-249/22 GIS – Mehrwertsteuer bei der Rundfunkgebühr

* Schlussanträge des Generalanwalts am Gerichtshof in der Rechtsmittelsache C-831/21 P Fachverband Spielhallen und LM / Kommission

* Health, Care and Prosperity after COVID-19: Swedish and European perspectives

* EU Comitology meetings on 25 May 2023

* Meetings of EU Commission Expert Groups on 25 May 2023

26 MAY 2023

* Meetings of EU Commission Members on 26 May 2023

* EU Parliament Agenda on 26 May 2023

* Meetings of EU Council preparatory bodies on 26 May 2023

* ECB schedule of public activities on 26 May 2023

* EU Comitology meetings on 26 May 2023

* Meetings of EU Commission Expert Groups on 26 May 2023

27 MAY 2023

* No public EU events scheduled for 27 May 2023.

28 MAY 2023

* No public EU events scheduled for 28 May 2023.

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF.

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.11.6 noptimize/noptimizehttps://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Agenda-22---28-May-2023-PDF-p557514081[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Agenda-22---28-May-2023-PDF-p557514081] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Agenda-22---28-May-2023-PDF-p557514081[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Agenda-22---28-May-2023-PDF-p557514081] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.11.6

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Sign up for our free Insight EU Monitoring Digest Basic and weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

* Buy and download specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

New rules for machinery: EU Council gives its final approval[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/new-rules-for-machinery-eu-council-gives-its-final-approval/407703/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 11:21 pm

Brussels, 22 May 2023

The Council has today adopted the new regulation on machinery. The proposed legislation updates the 2006 machinery directive and transforms it into a regulation. The new text harmonises the essential health and safety requirements for machinery in the EU, promotes the free movement of machinery and ensures a high level of safety for workers and citizens.

The updated rules will allow European industry to operate under a new and improved legal framework. They will ensure a high level of protection for our workers and our citizens, while increasing the competitiveness and reputation of machinery made in the EU.

Paulina Brandberg, Minister for Gender Equality and Working Life

Conformity and documentation requirements

The regulation adopted today makes mandatory a third-party conformity assessment for six categories of ‘high risk’ machinery.

Safety information will have to be provided with every product, but in line with the digital transition, the regulation establishes that digital instructions will be the default option. Paper instructions will remain an option for customers who request them.

Background

The 2006 machinery directive was one of the main pieces of legislation governing the harmonisation of essential health and safety requirements for machinery at EU level. The new regulation adopted today will establish a legal framework for the placing on the Union market of safe machinery, and cover new risks linked to emerging technologies. The regulation also guarantees legal certainty by clarifying the regulation’s scope. For instance, it includes small vehicles used for personal transport and light electric vehicles such as scooters or bikes, since these are widely used and could potentially be dangerous to their users.

Next steps

Following the Council’s approval today of the European Parliament’s position, this legislative act has now been adopted. After being signed by the President of the European Parliament and the President of the Council, the regulation will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and will enter into force on the twentieth day following its publication. Member states and economic operators will have 42 months before the rules of the new regulation are applied.

* Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council on machinery[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/PE-6-2023-INIT/en/pdf]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/compet/2023/05/22-23/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/05/22/new-rules-for-machinery-council-gives-its-final-approval/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=New+rules+for+machinery%3a+Council+gives+its+final+approval]

EU Council conclusions on addressing the humanitarian funding gap[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-council-conclusions-on-addressing-the-humanitarian-funding-gap/407699/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 11:09 pm

Brussels, 22 May 2023

The Council approved conclusions underlining the urgent need to address the increasing gap between humanitarian needs and resources.

The Council reiterates the essential role of the EU and its Member States in supporting humanitarian action worldwide and suggests addressing the gap through increased and broader resource base for humanitarian action, enhanced effectiveness and efficiency of the humanitarian system, and reducing humanitarian needs.

Furthermore, the Council encourages the Member States to continue their efforts in this regard by contributing at a level commensurate with their financial means, and ensuring that an appropriate share of their Official development assistance (ODA) is devoted to humanitarian action, on the basis of existing humanitarian needs.

* Council conclusions on addressing the humanitarian funding gap[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-9598-2023-INIT/en/pdf]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/fac/2023/05/22/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/05/22/council-conclusions-on-addressing-the-humanitarian-funding-gap/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Council+conclusions+on+addressing+the+humanitarian+funding+gap]

Eurojust: Main iSpoof website admin sentenced to 13 years[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eurojust-main-ispoof-website-admin-sentenced-to-13-years/407697/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 10:16 pm

22 May 2023

iSpoof, a website that allowed criminals to impersonate trusted corporations, was taken down in November 2022 in an international joint action that led to 142 arrests. The main administrator of the website has now been sentenced to 13 years and 4 months of imprisonment by Southwark Crown Court in the United Kingdom. Eurojust supported the investigation and played a key role in facilitating judicial cross-border cooperation between all parties involved.

The website allowed those who sign up and pay for its services to anonymously make spoofed telephone calls, send recorded messages and intercept one-time passwords. Users could impersonate an infinite number of entities (such as banks, retail companies and government institutions) for financial gain, leading to substantial losses for victims of scams.

The investigation showed that iSpoof earned over EUR 3.7 million in 16 months. According to UK authorities, losses to victims currently stand at GBP 43 million (EUR 49 million) in the UK alone, with estimated worldwide losses of over GBP 100 million (EUR 115 million).

From August 2021 to August 2022, around 10 million fraudulent calls were made globally via iSpoof. At the point of closure, the website had 59,000 registered users.

In an international coordinated action led by the UK and supported by Eurojust and Europol, 142 users and administrators were arrested across the world. The website was taken offline and servers were seized by US and Ukrainian authorities on 8 November 2022.

The main administrator of the website was arrested two days before, on 6 November. He is believed to have received between GBP 1.7 million and GBP 1.9 million (over EUR 2 million) in profits from running iSpoof. On 18 May 2023, he was sentenced to 13 years and 4 months of imprisonment at Southwark Crown Court in London.

The case was opened at Eurojust in October 2021 at the request of UK authorities. National authorities from 10 countries, including European Union Member States and third countries, supported the investigation. The Agency played a key role in facilitating judicial cross-border cooperation between all parties involved. Two coordination meetings were hosted by Eurojust to coordinate the national investigations and prepare for the action.

Europol’s European Cybercrime Centre (EC3) provided continuous intelligence development to national investigators through the Joint Cybercrime Action Taskforce (J-CAT). In the framework of its analytical work, Europol was able to identify additional users of the iSpoof service, a number of whom were already known for their involvement in other high-profile cybercrime investigations at the European level.

Source – Eurojust[https://www.eurojust.europa.eu/news/main-administrator-ispoof-website-sentenced-13-years]

U.S. White House Fact Sheet: The 2023 G7 Summit in Hiroshima, Japan[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/u-s-white-house-fact-sheet-the-2023-g7-summit-in-hiroshima-japan/407695/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 09:19 pm

May 21, 2023

Since President Biden took office, revitalizing our alliances and partnerships and reestablishing America’s leadership around the world has been one of his top priorities. The G7 Summit in Hiroshima showed that the G7 are more united than ever: united on Ukraine, united on China, united on economic security, united on building the clean energy economies of the future, united on nuclear disarmament, and united on fighting poverty and responding to global challenges like the climate crisis around the world.

United on Ukraine

G7 Leaders set forth a powerful statement of unity strength and commitment in our response to Russia’s war of aggression. Leaders announced a set of concrete actions to intensify the G7’s diplomatic, financial, humanitarian and security support for Ukraine, to increase the costs to Russia and those supporting its war efforts, and to continue to counter the negative impacts of Russia’s war on the rest of the world, particularly on the most vulnerable people.

* New sanctions and export controls. G7 Leaders announced new steps to economically isolate Russia and weaken its ability to wage its war. They announced new efforts to further disrupt Russia’s ability to source inputs for its war; close evasion loopholes; further reduce reliance on Russian energy and limit its future extractive capacity; and squeeze Russia’s access to the international financial system. G7 leaders also reaffirmed their commitment to keep Russia’s sovereign assets immobilized until Russia pays for the damage it has caused. To implement these commitments, the Departments of Treasury, State, and Commerce rolled out new sanctions packages including by expanding our broad restrictions, cutting off over 70 companies from Russia and other countries from receiving U.S. exports, and sanctioning upwards of 300 individuals, entities, vessels, and aircraft, including actors across the globe.

* Discussing peace with a broad range of partners. The G7 leaders met with the leaders of Ukraine, Australia, Brazil, the Cook Islands, Comoros, India, Indonesia, Republic of Korea, and Vietnam to discuss international peace and security. The leaders issued an Action Plan on Food Security that notes, “Especially in light of its impact on food security and the humanitarian situation around the world, we support a just and durable peace based on respect for international law, principles of the UN charter and territorial integrity and sovereignty.”

United on China

G7 Leaders affirmed that G7 countries are not decoupling from China or turning inwards. At the same time, G7 Leaders recognized the need to respond to concerns and to stand up for our core values.

* Economic security issues. The G7 will push for a level playing field for their workers and companies and seek to address the challenges posed by China’s non-market policies and practices and foster resilience to economic coercion. They recognized the necessity of protecting certain advanced technologies that could be used to threaten our national security.

* Indo-pacific. Leaders reaffirmed the importance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait and called for a peaceful resolution of cross-Strait issues. They highlighted that there is no change in the basic positions of the G7 members on Taiwan. They registered their serious concerned about the situation in the East and South China Seas and reaffirmed their strong opposition to any unilateral attempts to change the status quo by force or coercion.

* Core values. G7 Leaders voiced concerns about the human rights situation in China, and called on China not to conduct interference activities or undermine the integrity of our democratic institutions.

United on Economic Resilience and Economic Security

G7 Leaders took steps to enhance strategic coordination on economic resilience and economic security by strengthening supply chains, reducing vulnerabilities and countering malign practices that exploit and reinforce them.

* Protecting critical and emerging technologies. President Biden has taken action in the United States to protect certain dual use technologies from falling into the hands of strategic rivals. In Hiroshima, G7 Leaders affirmed that this is a common interest across G7 countries. To this end, the Leaders further recognized that addressing risks from outbound investment could be important to complement existing tools of targeted controls on exports and inbound investments.

* Launching the G7 Coordination Platform on Economic Coercion. G7 Leaders launched the Coordination Platform on Economic Coercion to increase collective assessment, preparedness, deterrence and response to economic coercion.

United on Building the Clean Energy Economies of the Future

At home, President Biden has delivered on an ambitious clean energy agenda that is centered around bold public investment and working with partners to build secure and resilient supply chains. In Hiroshima, G7 Leaders outlined the way that G7 partners are working to meet the moment in achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement, to build secure and resilient supply chains, and to ensure strong industrial bases across G7 countries.

* Maximizing the impact of incentives. Thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act, this was the first G7 Summit where the President of the United States could unambiguously say that the United States is on a path to meet our Paris Climate commitments. G7 Leaders recognized that achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement urgently requires significant new incentives, industrial policies, and public as well as private investments. Leaders committed to work together to ensure regulations and investments will make clean energy technologies more affordable for all nations and help drive a global, just energy transition for workers and communities that will leave no one behind.

United on an Affirmative and Ambitious Development Agenda

President Biden has championed an affirmative and ambitious agenda to support developing countries, including through reaffirming our support for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and working to create fiscal space for increased domestic investments in key development priorities. In Hiroshima, G7 Leaders emphasized the need to unlock investments and policy reforms to accelerate progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), including by investing in more resilient food and health systems, and by addressing the effects of climate change.

* Tackling rising levels of debt. G7 Leaders highlighted their concern that serious challenges to debt sustainability are undermining the progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals. They reiterated the urgency of addressing debt vulnerabilities in low- and middle-income countries and their full support of the G20’s effort to improve the implementation of the Common Framework for Debt Treatments beyond the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) in a predictable, timely, orderly and coordinated manner, providing clarity to participants.

* Promoting the evolution of the multilateral development banks (MDBs). G7 Leaders noted their strong support for the efforts underway by multilateral development banks to review and transform their business models to better address global challenges such as climate change, pandemics, fragility and conflict, which are integral to achieving poverty reduction and shared prosperity. They encouraged MDBs to expedite this ongoing work. They looked to further progress on the World Bank’s evolution agenda toward the 2023 WBG and IMF Annual Meetings and beyond.

* Reversing the first global decline in life expectancy in nearly a century. G7 leaders committed to work with global partners to restore access to essential health services to better than pre-pandemic levels by the end of 2025, and to strengthen primary health care delivery, including by investing in health workers, in order to accelerate progress toward universal health coverage. The United States is providing approximately $10 billion in global health program funding with Fiscal Year (FY) 2022 funds, much of which supports essential health services, including addressing HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria, expanding access to water and sanitation, and supporting maternal and child health. One year ago, the President also launched the Global Health Worker Initiative, which aims to address the global shortage of health workers.

* Investing in health security with U.S. contribution of $250 Million to the Pandemic Fund. The President announced that the United States plans to provide a $250 million contribution in Fiscal Year 2023 appropriations, subject to Congressional notification, to the Pandemic Fund to demonstrate the United States’ ongoing commitment to strengthening global health security around the world. This planned investment in the Pandemic Fund will continue to serve as a catalyst for additional contributions from other donors. The United States is committed to providing greater investments in health security to help break the cycle of panic and neglect in the wake of health emergencies.

* Launching the Hiroshima Action Statement for Resilient Global Food Security with partner countries to address needs today and into the future. G7 Leaders reaffirmed their continued commitment to address global food insecurity and the need to build more resilient, sustainable, and inclusive food systems. G7 leaders have exceeded the $14 billion commitment announced at the 2022 G7 Elmau Summit, mobilizing $14.9 billion for food security. The United States remains the global leader on food security. Since the beginning of 2022, the United States has provided over $13.5 billion in acute and medium to long term assistance for food security.

Showing Tangible Progress at the PGII One-Year Mark

One year after G7 Leaders announced PGII as the G7’s collective infrastructure initiative, G7 Leaders demonstrated that PGII is making concrete progress.

* Collaborating with partners. During the Summit, G7 Leaders were joined by leaders of [Australia, Brazil, Comoros, Cook Islands, India, Indonesia, Vietnam, the Republic of Korea, and the World Bank]. They were also joined by private sector executives of Citi, Global Infrastructure Partners, Japan Foreign Trade Council, and Nokia to reaffirm their commitment to opening a serious, sustainable channel for unlocking public and private capital for these projects in the developing world.

* Launching new projects. To date, the United States has mobilized $30 billion through grants, federal financing, and leveraging private sector investments towards PGII. President Biden announced new projects and highlighted the impact of several projects announced since PGII’s launch at the 2022 G7 Summit.

* Announcing a PGII Investor Forum. The President announced that the United States will seek to launch an annual Investor Forum to enable the United States Government to more comprehensively de-risk capital, play a matchmaking role between investors and opportunities that advance PGII, and hear feedback on how it can continue to refine the PGII model to maximize its effectiveness.

Source – The White House[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/21/fact-sheet-the-2023-g7-summit-in-hiroshima-japan/]

Capital markets union: EU Council agrees its position on the instant payments proposal[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/capital-markets-union-eu-council-agrees-its-position-on-the-instant-payments-proposal/407693/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 09:13 pm

Brussels, 22 may 2023

The Council agreed its position on the instant payments proposal which aims to improve the availability of instant payment options in euro to everyone who owns a bank account in the EU and in EEA countries.

Instant payments allow people to transfer money within ten seconds, also outside business hours, not only within the same country but also to another EU member state. Under the proposed rules, payment service providers such as banks which provide standard credit transfers in euro will be required to also offer the service of sending and receiving instant payments in euro. The charges they apply (if any) must not be higher than the charges they apply for standard credit transfers.

Today we agreed our position on revised rules which will boost the speed of money transfers in Europe. This will increase the choice of payment options for consumers in Europe.

Elisabeth Svantesson, Minister for Finance of Sweden

In addition, the new rules will improve the strategic autonomy of the European economic and financial sector as they will help to reduce any excessive reliance on third-country financial institutions and infrastructures.

In its position, the Council specifies that the implementation of the new rules will happen faster in member states which are within the euro area. For payment service providers located in member states outside the euro area, there will be a phased implementation time. In the first phase, they will be obliged to carry out instant payments only during business hours. In a second step the same rules as for euro area payment service providers will apply. This is to address concerns that payment service providers outside the euro area could face challenges in access to euro liquidity outside regular business hours. The sending of instant payments in euro from non-euro accounts will be only mandatory during business hours for those payment service providers who also provide standard transfers in euro.

Member states want to keep an eye on the evolution of charges for national and cross-border credit transfers and instant credit transfers in national currencies of member states and in euro. Therefore, the Council includes a review clause with a requirement for the Commission to present a report which shall contain an evaluation of the development of these charges over time.

Now that the Council has set its position on the proposal, it is ready to start negotiations with the European Parliament in order to agree on a final version of the text.

Background

This initiative comes in the context of the completion of the Capital Markets Union. In March 2021 and April 2022 the Council adopted conclusions in which it highlighted the widespread use of instant payments and recalled the objective of developing competitive EU-wide market-based payment solutions.

On 26 October 2022 the Commission put forward a proposal for a regulation on instant credit transfers in euro. It amends and modernises the single euro payments area (SEPA) regulation of 2012 on standard credit transfers in euro by adding to it specific provisions for instant credit transfers in euro.

The aim of the draft regulation is to increase the uptake of euro instant credit transfers and to facilitate the access to such services for consumers and businesses in the Union. There will be the following requirements regarding euro instant payments:

* making instant euro payments universally available, with an obligation on EU payment service providers that already offer credit transfers in euro to offer also their instant version

* making instant euro payments affordable, with an obligation on payment service providers to ensure that the price charged for instant payments in euro does not exceed the price charged for traditional, non-instant credit transfers in euro

* increasing trust in instant payments, with an obligation on providers to verify the match between the bank account number (IBAN) and the name of the beneficiary provided by the payer in order to alert the payer of a possible mistake or fraud before the payment is made

* removing friction in the processing of instant euro payments while preserving the effectiveness of screening of persons that are subject to EU sanctions, through a procedure whereby payment service providers will verify at least daily their clients against EU sanctions lists, instead of screening all transactions one by one

* Position of the Council ahead of negotiations with the Parliament[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-9291-2023-INIT/en/pdf]

* Commission proposal[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/documents-publications/public-register/public-register-search/results/?WordsInSubject=&WordsInText=&DocumentNumber=14125%2F22&InterinstitutionalFiles=&DocumentDateFrom=&DocumentDateTo=&MeetingDateFrom=&MeetingDateTo=&DocumentLanguage=EN&OrderBy=DOCUMENT_DATE+DESC&ctl00%24ctl00%24cpMain%24cpMain%24btnSubmit=]

* Council adopts conclusions on strategic autonomy of the European economic and financial sector (press release, 5 April 2022)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/04/05/council-adopts-conclusions-on-strategic-autonomy-of-the-european-economic-and-financial-sector/]

* Retail payments: Council supports action to promote instant payments and EU-wide payment solutions (press release, 22 March 2021)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2021/03/22/retail-payments-council-supports-action-to-promote-instant-payments-and-eu-wide-payment-solutions/]

* Digital finance (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/digital-finance/]

* Capital Markets Union (background information)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/policies/capital-markets-union/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/05/22/capital-markets-union-council-agrees-its-position-on-the-instant-payments-proposal/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Capital+markets+union%3a+Council+agrees+its+position+on+the+instant+payments+proposal]

CSDP: EU strengthens its civilian missions to better respond to crises[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/csdp-eu-strengthens-its-civilian-missions-to-better-respond-to-crises/407691/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 09:07 pm

Brussels, 22 May 2023

Today the Council and its member states have agreed on a new Civilian CSDP Compact, a key deliverable from the Strategic Compass approved in March 2022.

More than 2 200 women and men work in 13 civilian missions across three continents. They react to a variety of situations from monitoring crises, strengthening partner countries’ capacities, to supporting the work of the police or the judiciary. Their role is crucial. With the new Compact, we will make our missions more effective by acting faster, securing against new and emerging threats, investing in more and better civilian capabilities, and cooperating more with our partners.

Josep Borrell, High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy

The Compact aims to strengthen the civilian side of the Common Security and Defence Policy and enhance the civilian missions’ effectiveness, impact, flexibility, and robustness. This will enable them to tackle more efficiently current, emerging, and future security challenges. The Compact will also allow the EU to face more effectively the current geopolitical environment marked by the return of war to Europe with Russia’s unprovoked and unjustified war of aggression against Ukraine.

The EU is committed to raising the political visibility of civilian CSDP, including through annual discussions at ministerial level, as well as the understanding of its contribution to the security of European citizens, local communities, and EU’s partners.

The EU also plans to be ready to deploy 200 civilian experts within 30 days, when needed, including in complex environments.

The new Compact includes concrete commitments to have strengthened headquarters for civilian missions, strengthen the resilience of host states and related missions, enhance synergies with other EU instruments under the Integrated Approach to Conflicts and Crises and promote coordination and cooperation with justice and home affairs (JHA) and other relevant EU actors and partners. It also aims at investing further in the necessary capabilities aiming to increase the number of seconded experts across all missions and all levels aiming to reach at least 40% women’s participation and 100% seconded staff in operational positions.

A civilian capability development process will be set-up to assess the capability needs, develop requirements, conduct a gap analysis and review periodically the progress made in line with the new Civilian CSDP Compact.

Background

The new Civilian CSDP Compact builds on the first Compact adopted in November 2018. Through the first Compact the EU has strengthened its capacity to deploy and sustain civilian crisis management missions. These missions aim to reinforce the police, rule of law and civil administration in fragile and conflict settings.

The EU currently runs 13 civilian missions on 3 continents:

* the European Union Advisory Mission in Iraq (EUAM Iraq)

* the European Union Integrated Border Management Assistance Mission in Libya (EUBAM Libya)

* the European Union Border Assistance Mission for the Rafah crossing point (EUBAM Rafah)

* the European Union Police and Rule of Law Mission for the Occupied Palestinian Territory (EUPOL COPPS)

* the European Union Advisory Mission in Central African Republic (EUAM RCA)

* the European Union Capacity Building Mission in Mali (EUCAP Sahel Mali)

* the European Union Capacity Building Mission in Niger (EUCAP Sahel Niger)

* the European Union Capacity Building Mission in Somalia (EUCAP Sahel Somalia)

* the European Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo (EULEX)

* the EU Monitoring Mission in Georgia (EUMM Georgia)

* the European Union Advisory Mission Ukraine (EUAM Ukraine),

* the EU Mission in Armenia (EUM Armenia),

* and the recently established EU Partnership Mission in the Republic of Moldova (EUPM Moldova)

* Conclusions on the establishment of a Civilian CSDP Compact[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/64515/st09588-en23.pdf]

* Civilian CSDP Compact factsheet (EEAS website)[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/civilian-csdp-compact-0_en]

* Civilian Compact Report (EEAS website)[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/civilian-csdp-compact-towards-more-effective-civilian-missions_en]

* A Strategic Compass for a stronger EU security and defence in the next decade (press release, 21 March 2022)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/03/21/a-strategic-compass-for-a-stronger-eu-security-and-defence-in-the-next-decade/]

* Civilian CSDP Compact: Council conclusions commend progress (press release, 13 December 2021)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2021/12/13/civilian-csdp-compact-council-conclusions-commend-progress/]

* EU missions and operations (EEAS website)[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/missions-and-operations_en]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/fac/2023/05/22/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/05/22/common-security-and-defence-policy-csdp-eu-strengthens-its-civilian-missions-to-better-respond-to-crises-around-the-world/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Common+Security+and+Defence+Policy+(CSDP)%3a+EU+strengthens+its+civilian+missions+to+better+respond+to+crises+around+the+world]

EU-Republic of Korea summit: EU Council President’s statement[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-republic-of-korea-summit-eu-council-presidents-statement/407687/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 08:59 pm

Brussels, 22 May 2023

Dear President, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,

During the Korean war, many European countries sent their soldiers to fight alongside South-Korean soldiers, including my own country. As a Belgian and European, I am strongly attached to the cause. Henri Moreau de Melen even resigned as Belgian minister of defence to come and fight in Korea. A total of 3,000 Belgian soldiers served during the Korean war and they played a role at the battle of Imjin river, which I crossed this morning on my way to the demilitarized zone.

Mr President, it was a pleasure to meet you for our 10th EU-Republic of Korea Summit. This year is the sixtieth anniversary of the bilateral relationships between the Republic of Korea and the EU. Korea is one of the EU’s most valued partners in the region. We share common interests and common goals. We are united by the values of democracy, human rights, rule of law, and international law. And today we took another step to strengthen our strategic partnership, by focusing on important regional and global challenges and on our bilateral relations.

Today we face threats to our global and regional security and rising global competition. This summit takes place as Russia continues its large-scale attacks on the people of Ukraine. These threats — and this war — show that deeper cooperation between the EU and the Republic of Korea is not a luxury, it is a vital necessity. I would like to thank you, dear President, and Korea, for condemning this illegal war against Ukraine, and for your support for the people of Ukraine as they bravely defend their homeland.

Oceans may divide us, but European and Indo-Pacific security are closely connected. So we must stand united and firm, to protect the UN Charter and the international rules-based order. In this region, the DPRK’s nuclear program and reckless missile tests are a serious threat to international and regional security. The EU does not and will never accept nuclear armament by the back door. In the EU, we will continue to support your efforts to build peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula.

These challenges also highlight the importance of strong alliances to face today’s new challenges. Boosting cooperation with your closest neighbours reinforces stability in the region and helps to achieve our shared goals. We also stressed the importance of preserving stability and the status quo in the Taiwan Strait. We are working together to build a dynamic and rules-based Indo-Pacific region, to make progress in areas like climate, health, security and defence. And we are working together to build new security partnerships: just one example would be the Korean navy participating in the EU’s Operation Atalanta, the EU’s counter-piracy military operation off the Horn of Africa and in the Western Indian Ocean.

We are also forging closer ties in our bilateral relationship, underpinned by robust agreements, like our Free Trade Agreement. Today we have concrete deliverables, in green, health and digital topics.

We are joining forces to modernise our economies by making them greener. This is good for our planet and good for our societies. Our new Green Partnership will boost cooperation in areas like renewables and green technology. Importantly, through this partnership, we will strengthen our cooperation on the safe operation of nuclear power, among other issues. We are also teaming up to improve global health — this includes making sure the world is ready for possible future health crises, notably through a new WHO Pandemic Agreement.

Digital is and will be more and more the lifeblood of our future societies. That’s why we launched our Digital Partnership last year, to cooperate more in critical technologies, like semiconductors, quantum computing, and Artificial Intelligence, and to foster greater cooperation between trusted and technologically advanced partners. Korea is a global leader in semiconductor production and now we are committed to deepening our cooperation on digital trade rules.

The EU and your country have a powerful trade relationship: the EU is the first investor in Korea and the third trading partner for Korea. It is proof that our Free Trade Agreement is a success story, for both our citizens and our businesses. Trade in goods has grown by 70% since 2011. And we want to maximise its untapped potential.

Finally, a word on economic security. We have just returned from the G7 meeting in Hiroshima, where we discussed the interdependency of global supply chains. With President Yoon, we also focused on strengthening the resilience of our supply chains, especially in strategic industries, and for critical technology and raw materials.

Dear President, thank you again for your warm welcome. You can count on the EU to promote peace and security and to protect our shared values and the international law. I look forward to seeing you in Europe soon.

Thank you.

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/international-summit/2023/05/22/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/05/22/press-statement-by-president-charles-michel-following-the-eu-republic-of-korea-summit/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Press+statement+by+President+Charles+Michel+following+the+EU-Republic+of+Korea+summit]

Joint statement European Union – Republic of Korea summit 2023

Brussels, 22 May 2023

President of the European Council Charles Michel, President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen and President of the Republic of Korea Yoon Suk Yeol, met in Seoul on 22 May for the 10th Summit between the European Union and the Republic of Korea and issued the following statement:

1. We, the Leaders of the European Union (EU) and the Republic of Korea (ROK) in the year marking 60 years of our diplomatic relations, welcome the progress made to advance our strategic partnership, based upon the EU-ROK Framework Agreement, Free Trade Agreement, and Framework Participation Agreement in EU crisis management operations.

We reaffirm that our partnership is grounded in common interests and the shared values of democracy, human rights, the rule of law, effective multilateralism, open, free and fair trade, and the rules-based international order.

2. As the world faces threats to global peace and security, notably Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s (DPRK) nuclear and missile programmes, as well as multi-dimensional challenges, such as the uneven pandemic recovery, climate change, food and energy security and others, we resolve to continue and expand cooperation in a future-oriented and mutually beneficial way, including in the framework of our respective Indo-Pacific strategies and the EU’s Global Gateway.

3. We agree that new partnerships launched between the EU and the ROK will strengthen the bilateral Framework Agreement signed in 2010. We agree to develop a security partnership and establish a Strategic Dialogue at Foreign Ministerial level to enhance our cooperation on global peace and security. In addition, we launch an EU-ROK Green Partnership, commence formal negotiations for the ROK to associate with the Horizon Europe research and innovation programme, and will work towards the launch of negotiations on binding commitments on digital trade as we expand cooperation under the EU-ROK Digital Partnership and welcome the launch of an Administrative Arrangement on Health Emergency Preparedness and Response.

Strengthening cooperation for Peace and Stability

4. We reiterate our resolute condemnation of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, which constitutes a grave violation of international law.

We reaffirm our strong commitment to the UN Charter and recall our unwavering support for Ukraine’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognized borders and its inherent right of self-defense against the Russian aggression in accordance with the UN Charter. Russia must stop its aggression and immediately, completely and unconditionally withdraw all of its military forces from the entire territory of Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders.

International humanitarian law, including on the treatment of prisoners of war, and international human rights law must be upheld.

5. We express support to ensure accountability for war crimes and other violations of international law committed in Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine and reiterate our support for the work of the International Criminal Court. We agree to maintain and increase the collective pressure on Russia, particularly through effective implementation of the respective restrictive measures. We are committed to support Ukraine’s recovery and reconstruction and remain resolved to support Ukraine for as long as it takes. We discussed ways of increasing our support for Ukraine to meet financial, material, security and humanitarian needs.

6. We strongly condemn the DPRK’s repeated illegal ballistic missile launches as well as its ongoing nuclear development and references to the possible use of nuclear weapons. The DPRK’s reckless actions pose a serious threat to international and regional peace and security. The DPRK must immediately comply with its obligations under UN Security Council resolutions by abandoning all its nuclear weapons, any other weapons of mass destruction, ballistic missile programmes and existing nuclear programmes, in a complete, verifiable and irreversible manner and cease all related activities.

7. We reaffirm our commitment to the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. We call on all UN Members, especially Members of the UN Security Council, to respond in a united and firm manner to the DPRK’s illegal weapons programmes by fully implementing all relevant UN Security Council resolutions and urging the DPRK to resume meaningful dialogue. Emphasizing that the path to dialogue remains open, we call on the DPRK to immediately cease all actions that raise military tensions and return to denuclearization talks. To this end, President Michel and President von der Leyen expressed support for the objectives of the RoK’s Audacious Initiative for a denuclearized, peaceful and prosperous Korean Peninsula. The EU supports the peaceful reunification of the Korean Peninsula that is free and at peace.

8. We express grave concern over violations and abuses of human rights in the DPRK. The DPRK’s use of resources to support its illegal weapons programmes exacerbates the humanitarian situation of its population. We reaffirm that human rights are an essential element in building sustainable peace and security on the Korean Peninsula. We agree to strengthen bilateral policy consultations as well as cooperation in UN human rights bodies aimed at raising awareness of the situation and convincing the DPRK to respect and fulfil human rights.

9. We reaffirm our willingness to provide humanitarian assistance to vulnerable communities in line with international humanitarian law, and in accordance with humanitarian principles.

10. We recognize the importance of cooperation between the ROK and Japan in promoting our shared objectives and welcome the respective government’s efforts to improve bilateral relations.

11. We reaffirm our support for freedom of overflight and of navigation, including in the South China Sea, in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). We stress the importance of preserving peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait and oppose unilateral attempts to change the status quo in the Indo-Pacific.

12. We reaffirm the importance of a free, open and rules-based Indo-Pacific, which is inclusive and based on the rule of law and fundamental freedoms.

13. Recognizing the synergy between our respective Indo-Pacific strategies, we will cooperate in pursuing our common objectives in the region, including in the areas of security as well as addressing health, climate, environment and sustainable finance related issues in the region. We welcome the outcomes of the second EU Indo-Pacific Ministerial Forum, held in Stockholm on 13 May.

14. We, as strategic partners of ASEAN, recognize our shared objective to enhance cooperation with ASEAN as an important stakeholder in the Indo-Pacific. We fully support ASEAN’s unity and centrality, in line with the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP), we will seek to work closely with ASEAN Member States in promoting sustainable economic and social development in the region, including in the areas of marine environment, renewable energy, climate change, health, digital and cyber security.

15. We will work together to strengthen partnerships with the Pacific Island countries. Welcoming the launch of the 2023 Korea-Pacific Islands Summit, and reaffirming our endorsement of the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent, we will engage in joint efforts to mitigate the effects of climate crisis and marine environment degradation in the region. We will actively support SIDS-related processes in addressing climate challenges, within relevant multilateral bodies and through our partnerships.

16. We reaffirm our strong support for multilateralism, as well as our shared values in freedom, the rule of law, open societies, democracy, human rights and good governance. We agree to continue our close cooperation in international organizations and multilateral fora including the UN and G20 to find solutions to global challenges including climate change, global health crises, and challenges to human rights and democracy.

17. Commemorating the 75th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we reaffirm our strong commitment to human rights and fundamental freedoms. We express our commitment to strengthening multilateralism and the rules-based international order. We acknowledge that the EU and the ROK are playing an active role in the Human Rights Council. We agree to strengthen cooperation on human rights, both within relevant United Nations human rights bodies as well as through the EU-ROK human rights consultations.

18. We will promote the effective implementation and universalization of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and Arms Trade Treaty (ATT); the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC); the Biological Weapons Convention (BWC); the entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test Ban Treaty (CTBT). We look forward to working constructively on nuclear safety, security and safeguards issues in the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).

19. We value the close collaboration in the field of maritime security, including the ROK’s participation in the EUNAVFOR Operation Atalanta. We will expand joint endeavors to protect sea lanes, counter piracy, and secure safety of navigation. Sharing the views that the ROK’s interaction with the EU’s Coordinated Maritime Presences (CMP) will contribute to the peace and stability of the maritime environment in the region, we agree to explore and pursue diverse opportunities of cooperation.

20. We agree to promote concerted efforts in countering terrorism, by exchanging information and expertise in preventing violent extremism, including combatting the dissemination of terrorist content online, including inter alia through the Christchurch Call, addressing misuse of new and emerging technologies and countering terrorist financing.

21. We will enhance cooperation in responding to cyber threats including cybercrime and ransomware, and cyberattacks from state actors and non-state actors. We intend to resume our EU-ROK Cyber Policy Consultation soon. We will cooperate to establish the UN Programme of Action to advance responsible state behavior, as a permanent, inclusive, action-oriented mechanism to facilitate cooperation and confidence-building in cyberspace and to closely coordinate efforts in multilateral fora including the UN, ASEAN Regional Forum (ARF), and Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).

22. We recognize that foreign information manipulation and interference, including the deliberate spread of false or misleading information, constitutes a grave threat to democratic systems and values, including freedom of expression and free media. We will work bilaterally and with like-minded partners to promote the effective prevention, detection, deterrence and response to foreign information manipulation and interference, in collaboration with public and private sectors including researchers, civil society organizations, academia, media and private industry.

23. We reaffirm our commitment to work together in tackling new challenges, including those posed by the misuse of emerging and disruptive technologies (EDT), climate change and pandemics. We will cooperate in establishing relevant international rules on the use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in the military domain and welcome the launch of the Responsible AI in the Military Domain Summit (REAIM), including the ROK’s decision to host the 2nd Summit.

Partnership for the Greater Prosperity

24. We note with satisfaction the robust and thriving economic relationship between the EU and the ROK, based on the EU-ROK Free Trade Agreement. We recognize the importance of the full implementation of the FTA to ensure balanced benefits to both sides. To this end, we agree to encourage our FTA committees and working groups to strengthen the implementation of the FTA.

In this respect, we welcome the September 2022 Agreement on the recognition of EU regionalisation. We will work to fully and effectively implement it and to effectively improve market access for agri-food products to each other’s markets, such as fruits and meat products, including the export of EU beef to Korea and of Korean poultry products (fresh, heat-treated and composite) to the EU.

We agreed on the importance of maintaining momentum on responsible business conduct and labour issues, including through continued and sustained efforts towards ratifying the fundamental International Labour Organization Conventions.

25. Recalling the positive outcomes of the Twelfth World Trade Organization (WTO) Ministerial conference (MC12), we support strengthening and reforming the World Trade Organization as a central pillar of the global economic system. We will work together alongside partners, including developing countries, to ensure a successful 13th WTO Ministerial Conference in Abu Dhabi by achieving concrete outcomes. This includes working towards necessary reform of all three functions of the WTO, including having a fully and well-functioning dispute settlement system accessible to all Members by 2024 and by reinforcing deliberations to respond to global trade policy challenges, including on key level-playing field issues affecting global trade. We will also work together to ensure the prompt entry into force of the Agreement on Fisheries Subsidies and the conclusion of negotiation on comprehensive disciplines on fisheries subsidies, advancement of plurilateral initiatives including the joint statement initiatives, especially on Investment Facilitation for Development and E-commerce, progress on agricultural reform, and making permanent the Moratorium on Customs Duties on Electronic Transmission.

26. Reaffirming our shared interests as trading partners and given the mutual interdependency in global supply chains, we agree to strengthen our dialogue on economic security, including supply chain resilience and exchange views on export controls and economic coercion.

27. We commit to continue close consultation on recent legislations covering access to supply of critical raw materials and the development of batteries, as well as to intensify our coordination on carbon border measures.

28. Furthermore, we agree to strengthen cooperation on early warning systems to detect and address potential supply chain disruptions in key industries and items through strengthening bilateral and multilateral cooperation. To this end, we agree to explore mutually beneficial cooperation through appropriate fora.

29. Faced with the increased volatility of the global energy market, aggravated by Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, we recognize the need to accelerate the efforts to advance the energy transition as the way to achieving climate goals and ensuring energy security. We agree to strengthen collaborative efforts on safe and sustainable low-carbon technologies. Moreover, we seek to further cooperate to achieve decarbonization and agree to strengthen collaborative efforts in the realm of responsible use of civil nuclear energy with those EU Member States having chosen to use nuclear energy in accordance with the highest standards of nuclear non-proliferation including the IAEA Additional Protocol.

30. We welcome the launch of the EU-ROK Digital Partnership on 28 November 2022. The Partnership will allow us to foster collaboration on semi-conductors, next generation mobile networks, quantum and High Performance Computing (HPC), Artificial Intelligence (AI), and online and digital platforms regulations. The next annual Ministerial-level Digital Partnership Council will be a useful framework for monitoring progress in the concerted efforts and exploring ways to further deepen the collaboration, including in the framework of relevant international organizations.

31. We welcome the signing of the EU-ROK Digital Trade Principles on 30 November 2022, which reflect a common understanding on key issues relevant to digital trade and a joint commitment to fostering an open digital economy and removing and preventing the emergence of unjustified barriers to digital trade. On this basis, we agree to work towards the launch of negotiations on binding commitments on digital trade, taking into account inter-alia exceptions for legitimate public policy objectives, based on appropriate mandates.

32. We agree on the importance of continued cooperation on personal data protection, building on the high degree of convergence between our respective data protection regimes, as recognized by the EU’s adequacy decision for the ROK, and the joint declaration on privacy and the protection of data signed at the first EU Indo-Pacific Ministerial Forum held in Paris in 2022. This includes exploring the development of a comprehensive area of cross-border data flows with trust through enhancing security and privacy between our economies, relying on a high level of data protection and working with international partners to shape global privacy standards.

33. We agree to strengthen cooperation in the field of supply chain and industrial policies to support industrial competitiveness and technology, entrepreneurship, and activities of small and medium enterprises (SME). To this end, we look forward to the further development of mutual dialogue and cooperation through existing channels. We agree to expand the existing IPD (Industrial Policy Dialogue) to SCIPD (Supply Chain and Industrial Policy Dialogue) with a view to discussing relevant issues in a concrete and comprehensive manner and intend to hold the 1st SCIPD within 2023.

We share the objective to strengthen the global competitiveness of semiconductor industries in the EU and Korea. To this end, we will explore developing a common mechanism for the security and resilience of semiconductor’s supply chain and we commit to conducting collaborative research and development in the field of leading-edge semiconductors including power semiconductors, automotive semiconductors, and advanced devices. In addition, we continue close consultations on our respective industry policies including the enactment and implementation of the European Chips Act, and explore ways to collaborate on potential disruptions to semiconductor supply chains.

34. We welcome the opening of negotiations on the ROK’s association to Horizon Europe, and commit to build stronger interaction in science and innovation, by boosting collaboration and investment in research and development, as well as mobility of researchers in efforts to address global challenges.

35. Affirming the importance of space for mutual prosperity and security, we agree to promote close communication between the relevant institutions and bodies. We will participate in global efforts to set international norms regulating space behaviors, and define principles for safe, secure and sustainable use and exploration of space.

36. We share the objective to accelerate progress towards achieving Sustainable Development Goals, and recognize the need to generate more resources to tackle global challenges including the pandemic, climate change, Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine and the food and energy crisis. We express satisfaction with our advanced cooperation as reflected in the outcomes of the 8th Policy Dialogue on Development on 27 February 2023. In the context of our respective initiatives, such as the EU and the Republic of Korea’s Indo-Pacific strategies and the EU’s Global Gateway, we will work together and with partner countries to implement coherent and complementary projects in the green, renewable energy, digital and transport sectors, notably in Southeast Asia, the Pacific, Central Asia and other regions of strategic interest, and foster the participation of the private sector, including SMEs.

37. We will also seek to accelerate the reform of Multilateral Development Banks (MDBs) and the implementation of the recommendation of the G20 Independent Review of MDBs’ Capital Adequacy Frameworks to enhance their capacity to finance development as well as the provision of global public goods, and support more effective implementation of the G20 Common Framework for Debt Treatment. We welcome the convening of the Summit for a New Global Financing Pact in Paris in June to give an impulse to these and other innovative financing tools.

Working Together for sustainable development

38. Recognizing the existential threat posed by the triple planetary crisis of climate change, biodiversity loss and pollution, and the urgent need to accelerate the transition to a net zero, nature-positive, circular and resource efficient economy, we note the need for the international community to act in an ambitious and concerted manner. We agree to reinforce collaborative actions in tackling the challenges related to the green transition by launching the EU-ROK Green Partnership.

39. We reaffirm our commitments to our Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC), including the 2030 greenhouse gas reduction targets and 2050 net zero emissions goal. We will join forces in strengthening the implementation of the Paris Agreement and keeping the 1.5 C temperature limit within reach by strengthening actions in mitigation and implementation in this critical decade, including the phase down of unabated coal power plants in line with our respective targets and international commitments. We will continue to provide targeted support to the most vulnerable in line with national circumstances and recognizing the need for support towards a just transition.

40. We will work together to implement the Kunming-Montreal Global Biodiversity Framework with effective monitoring and review mechanisms, as well as ambitious resource mobilisation, targets, and access and benefit sharing. Moreover, we agree to continue joint efforts to promote ambitious actions across the different negotiating tracks with the view to achieve substantial outcomes at the UNFCCC COP28 in Dubai, as well as to deliver an ambitious Global Agreement on Plastic Pollution following the mandate adopted at UNEA5.2. At the nexus between climate and biodiversity, we intend to cooperate to fight against deforestation and forest degradation via the promotion of sustainable forest management and sustainable agricultural supply chains. We further agree to closely cooperate in other relevant fora such as the G20, WTO, Global Alliance for Circular Economy and Resource Efficiency (GACERE), Global Green Growth Institute (GGGI) and Partnering for Green Growth and the Global Goals 2030 (P4G).

41. We welcome the launch of the EU-ROK Administrative Arrangement on Health Emergency Preparedness and Response in the Area of Medical Countermeasures and look forward to advanced cooperation for the effective management of cross-border health problems. Within the framework of this arrangement, we agree to assist each other in the identification of health threats, collaborate on research, innovation, manufacturing and production of medical countermeasures, as well as jointly assist other countries, with building up their capacity to prevent, detect, and respond to public health threats. For better protection of public health, we will strengthen regulatory cooperation through the Working Arrangement for the exchange of non-public information on medical products.

42. Reaffirming commitments made under the Global Health Security Agenda, including the New Seoul Declaration, we will work together to enhance global coordination against future health crises, strengthen pandemic prevention, preparedness and response and to reform the health-related governance, notably by means of a new WHO pandemic agreement and revision of the International Health Regulations. We reaffirm our commitment to adopt the pandemic agreement at the World Health Assembly in 2024. We welcome the establishment of the Pandemic Fund and the launch of its first call for proposals. We call for the enhancement of support to ensure the Fund’s continued operational success, underlining the importance of the expansion of its donor base.

43. Welcoming the launch of the EU-ROK Transport Dialogue in September 2022, we will enhance bilateral cooperation across all modes of transport and in the relevant international fora to achieve sustainable, efficient, competitive, safe and secure transport systems and enable greater business cooperation, trade, tourism, and people-to-people exchange. In particular, we will facilitate closer cooperation in the aviation sector, to boost its recovery from the COVID19 and enhance connectivity between the two regions, including by exploring the potential benefits of negotiating an EU-ROK comprehensive Air Transport Agreement.

44. Recognizing the importance of people-to-people exchanges in deepening mutual understanding and bonds of friendship, we will closely collaborate in the fields of education and culture. We agree to support links and joint initiatives between universities and research institutions through participation, inter alia, in the Erasmus+ programme.

45. Furthermore, we welcome the vibrant cultural events celebrating the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the EU and the ROK. These echo the close cultural ties between the EU and its Member States and the ROK.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_23_2863]

Press statement by President von der Leyen at the joint press conference with President Michel and President Yoon following the EU-Republic of Korea Summit

Brussels, 22 May 2023

Dear President Yoon,

Thank you for hosting us here in Korea today. The Republic of Korea is most definitely one of our oldest and closest partners, one we trust and we count on. This year marks, indeed, an important milestone for us – the 60th anniversary of our bilateral relations. It is quite amazing to think back to 1963. The predecessor of the European Union, the so-called European Economic Community, had just been established barely six years earlier. Korea had emerged barely ten years earlier from war. Nevertheless, the partnership has developed and blossomed to become one of the deepest and richest we have, elevated to the rank of Strategic Partnership in 2010. And it is completed with one of the most significant Free Trade Agreements ever signed by the European Union only one year later. One that has delivered fantastically for both sides.

I mention this because the investment we have both made in this relationship has never been more important and valuable than today, in a world profoundly shaken by Russia’s war of aggression in Ukraine, Russia’s blatant violation of the UN Charter and the international law. You condemned this war of aggression from the start. You are coordinating tough sanctions against the Russian economy of war with us and other international partners. And you are channelling much-needed financial and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine and its people. It is all to your credit. And it shows, once again, the strength of our bond. Two democracies sharing the same values and a friendship that defies the geographic distance. This is best shown by our people who have a long-standing and rich tradition of exchanges, especially through business, education and culture. Trade figures testify to the dense nature of our relations with an increase by more than 110% thanks to our Free Trade Agreement. A real success that we continue to develop.

Today, we came together to reflect on the future of our partnership. How to capitalise even more on that special bond we share? Part of the answer lies in the discussions we have had at the G7 Summit. Democracies like ours must get better at navigating geopolitical and economic shocks, together. We need to ensure our economic security while remaining open and promoting a healthy competition among ourselves. So today, we launched a number of joint initiatives to do just that.

First, we launched our Green Partnership. We will work on the convergence of our regulations on carbon pricing, on deforestation, on plastic products, and explore joint projects in the fields of renewables, energy efficiency and the hydrogen economy. Second, we are launching negotiations for Korea’s accession to Horizon Europe, the EU’s research programme – and the largest in the world. We will get our brilliant minds to work together on the technologies of tomorrow. Third, we are signing an arrangement on health emergency preparedness and response. This is also about sharing crucial information about the situation of supply chains. And fourth, we are pushing ahead with the Digital Partnership we agreed last autumn, by getting our teams to work on AI, for example, High Performance Computing and, in particular, semiconductors. I want to highlight here that the EU Chips Act can be a major boon for Korean investments in semiconductor manufacturing. And finally, we should be able to start negotiations on a digital trade rules agreement still this year. So, that is for our partnership in strategic economic sectors. We have also agreed to step up our cooperation on security and defence. We will launch a Strategic Dialogue extending to crisis management, maritime security, cybersecurity or counterterrorism, to name a few.

And finally, I want to talk about the broader Indo-Pacific region. I want to reiterate in particular the EU’s full solidarity with you in the face of the constant nuclear threat from the DPRK. The European Union will never accept the DPRK’s possession of nuclear weapons as a normal state of affairs. And, just like we do not accept Russia’s military aggression against Ukraine, we condemn the DPRK’s constant nuclear sabre-rattling. We stand firmly by the Republic of Korea. Finally, we share much aligned visions for the future of this region overall. So we want to work with the Republic of Korea on a positive agenda for the Indo-Pacific. We propose to do this under our Global Gateway investment strategy. Global Gateway is already at work in the region, with an investment package for ASEAN countries.

But we can do more. There are a number of projects with great potential for the region. We discussed transport corridors in Central Asia, digitalisation in Vietnam, forestry in Mongolia – there are many opportunities for cooperation. I hope that we can get them off the ground as soon as possible and show to our people that democracies can deliver – and they deliver best. And indeed, one only has to look at the phenomenal success of the Republic of Korea to prove this point. And this despite living under the constant shadow of conflict, on a Peninsula that suffers from division into North and South. As a German citizen, I know what it means to live in a country long divided between East and West. I want to say to you: You will prevail. The future will ultimately bring a peaceful unification. Because the longing for freedom is ultimately always stronger than the power of any dictator.

So thank you again for your very warm welcome. I look forward to seeing you at the G20 Summit in New Delhi in September, and at our Summit in Brussels next year.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/STATEMENT_23_2862]

Iran: Five individuals and two entities targeted by EU’s eighth package of sanctions [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/iran-five-individuals-and-two-entities-targeted-by-eus-eighth-package-of-sanctions/407664/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 08:45 pm

Brussels, 22 May 2023

The Council decided today to impose restrictive measures on an additional 5 individuals and two entities responsible for serious human rights violations in Iran.

The new listings include the current commander of the Tehran Police Relief Unit of Iran’s Law Enforcement Forces (LEF), and an individual linked to the “Maryam Arvin case” – a lawyer who was brutally arrested, gravely mistreated, and subsequently died for her activities in defence of protesters. Today’s sanctions also target the spokesman of the Iranian Police, and the secretary of the Supreme Council of Cyberspace of Iran (SCC), the authority responsible for repression in the cyberspace.

Furthermore, the Council is listing the IRGC Cooperative Foundation, which is the body responsible for managing the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ investments and funnelling money into the regime’s brutal repression and the Student Basij Organization (SBO). The latter acts as the IRGC’s violent enforcers on university campuses where students staged protests in the fall of 2022, and were subsequently the victims of repression and serious human rights violations such as abduction and torture.

Restrictive measures now apply to a total of 216 individuals and 37 entities. They consist of an asset freeze, a travel ban to the EU and a prohibition to make funds or economic resources available to those listed. A ban on exports to Iran of equipment which might be used for internal repression and of equipment for monitoring telecommunications is also in place.

The European Union expresses its support for the fundamental aspiration of the people of Iran for a future where their universal human rights and fundamental freedoms are respected, protected and fulfilled.

The EU calls on Iran to end the practice of imposing and carrying out death sentences against protesters, reverse the death penalty sentences pronounced, as well as provide due process to all detainees. The EU also calls upon Iran to end the distressing practice of detaining foreign civilians with a view to making political gains.

Today’s package of listings follows the previous seven adopted by the Council on 17 October, 14 November, and 12 December 2022, 23 January, 20 February, 20 March and 24 April 2023.

The relevant legal acts have been published in the Official Journal of the EU.

* Council implementing regulation and implementing decision concerning restrictive measures directed against certain persons, entities and bodies in view of the situation in Iran (including the list of sanctioned individuals and entities)[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=OJ:L:2023:134I:TOC]

* Iran: Council sanctions eight additional individuals and one entity over human rights violations (press release, 24 April 2023)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/04/24/iran-council-sanctions-eight-additional-individuals-and-one-entity-over-human-rights-violations/]

* Iran: Council approves conclusions, 12 December 2022[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/12/12/iran-council-approves-conclusions/]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/fac/2023/05/22/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/05/22/iran-five-individuals-and-two-entities-targeted-by-eu-s-eighth-package-of-sanctions-for-human-rights-violations/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Iran%3a+five+individuals+and+two+entities+targeted+by+EU%u2019s+eighth+package+of+sanctions+for+human+rights+violations]

Foreign Affairs Council: EU HR Josep Borrell commenting on the main results[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/foreign-affairs-council-eu-hr-josep-borrell-commenting-on-the-main-results/407679/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 08:27 pm

Brussels, 22.05.2023

Check against delivery!

Thank you to all of you for attending this press conference. I will try to summarise what has been, as always, a long day. The Council has focused, as always, on the Ukrainian issue and how to support Ukraine. We had an interesting lunch with the six Western Balkan Foreign Ministers, and we received a report on the situation in the Horn of Africa.

But let me start by pointing to a concrete decision: the adoption of the 8th package of sanctions against Iran[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/05/22/iran-five-individuals-and-two-entities-targeted-by-eu-s-eighth-package-of-sanctions-for-human-rights-violations/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Iran%3a+five+individuals+and+two+entities+targeted+by+EU%u2019s+eighth+package+of+sanctions+for+human+rights+violations] for human rights violations, including the latest executions of three protesters that we have condemned strongly. We condemn also the recent execution of a Swedish dual citizen. And on the other hand, the good news is the release of two detained European Union citizens on 12 May.

We also mentioned – I did it during our meeting this morning – yesterday’s International Day of Solidarity with the Political Prisoners in Belarus.[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/belarus-statement-high-representative-josep-borrell-international-day-solidarity-political_en?channel=eeas_press_alerts&date=2023-05-21&newsid=0&langid=en&source=mail] There are more than 1,500 people detained in appalling conditions. We do not forget them. We have been discussing the situation in Belarus, and we will also come to the final stage on the work on sanctions over interference in Moldova[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/04/28/republic-of-moldova-eu-adopts-framework-for-targeted-sanctions-to-counter-actions-destabilising-the-country/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Republic+of+Moldova%3a+EU+adopts+a+new+sanctions+framework+to+target+actions+aimed+at+destabilising+the+country]. I hope that it will be finalised in the coming days.

On Ukraine, the success and extent of Ukraine’s defence depends not only on the bravery of their soldiers and their people, but also on the pace of ammunition and weapons. On the pace of [our] deliveries. That is why, our military support has to continue, has to increase, has to be extended [with] more air defence systems. This will make a real difference in the battlefield.

This is crucial. I explained to the Foreign Affairs Ministers how the work of our people at the [European] External Action Service (EEAS), with the European Defence Agency (EDA) and the [European] Commission on supplying weapons, ammunition and missiles, is crucial for Ukrainians to be able to defend their territory and their sovereignty.

I stressed that every day of delay in our deliveries has to be measured in human lives. It is not a matter of money. It is a matter of people being killed, of soldiers being killed or wounded. I urge all the Ministers to speed up the delivery and to participate in the joint procurement of ammunition for Ukraine and to finalise the work for the next tranche of the European Peace Facility (EPF).

[The] good news [is that] the European Training Mission (EUMAM Ukraine[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eumam-ukraine_en?s=410260]) has completed its initial goal of training 15,000 Ukrainian soldiers, and we will train another 15,000 by the end of this year.

We discussed about the 11th package of sanctions [against Russia]. The focus is on the circumvention of the sanctions that is taking place. We have to cut the circuits of circumventing sanctions because otherwise the sanctions are being weakened.

We heard explanations from [EU Sanctions Envoy] David O’Sullivan, who is engaged in addressing circumvention with partners around the world.

We discussed the situation on the battlefield, but also how to end this war. Everybody wants the war to finish. The only one that looks willing to continue the war is Putin. No one wishes peace more than Ukraine, and that is why we support the Ukrainians’ initiative, President [Volodymyr] Zelenskyy’s initiative, for a just peace.

No one who is really interested in peace can put the victim and the aggressor at the same level. I have to address this message to all leaders around the world who, yes, they are very interested in peace, but they continue to put the victim and the aggressor at the same level. And this brings a peace which is not a fair and just peace that could ensure the rights of the Ukrainian people.

We had a lunch with the [EU] Foreign Affairs Ministers and the Western Balkans Ministers [for Foreign Affairs]. We do that regularly, maybe we should do that more often.

We discussed about Russia’s influence [in the region] which is trying to derail the European path of the Western Balkans candidates. We welcomed the strategic and courageous choices of some of them, who aligned fully with our foreign policy and sanctions.

And we also indicated to those who have not fully aligned yet, or not aligned at all – and I want to mention notably Serbia – that maintaining close ties with Russia is not compatible with its European Union accession process. It is also damaging to its own national interests, but certainly it is not compatible with the accession process towards the European Union.

We want to advance on enlargement, and we sent a strong message that they need to seize the momentum in the enlargement process created by the swift progress of Ukraine. Ukraine is progressing, they [also] have to follow this path at the same pace. Now is the time for them to speed up reforms, to align with the European Union’s standards and to prepare their societies for accession. There is an opportunity, a unique opportunity. They have to use it.

We mentioned specifically the Belgrade-Pristina Dialogue. And once again, I had to explain that being [a] member of the European Union is an exercise of cooperation. It is an exercise of States that were fighting in the past to become not only neighbours, [but also] friends, partners. This is an exercise of living together. For that, the full and swift implementation of the Agreement[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/belgrade-pristina-dialogue-eu-proposal-agreement-path-normalisation-between-kosovo-and-serbia_en] is the only way to the normalisation of relations between Belgrade and Pristina.

Tensions and mutual provocations have to reach an end. The negative atmosphere and lack of constructiveness also have to be reversed. Being member of the European Union means being able to cooperate and to act as good neighbours, overcoming all the difficulties of the past.

We discussed a lot the situation in the Horn of Africa, where there is also a very worrisome situation in Sudan.

In Sudan, the ceasefire is the first priority. There are some agreements that should enter into force tonight, but as always implementation is the key. The agreements are good if they are implemented. Otherwise, they are useless.

We will continue our support for a robust African-led framework, and we engage with partners to identify mediators, recognising the pivotal role that Djibouti has been doing during the evacuation of our citizens out of Sudan.

Reconfirming that Kenya is our strong ally in the region, continues to be a pillar of stability and playing an important role for the stabilisation of the whole region.

In Ethiopia, after two years of a devastating conflict, there is progressive normalisation of our relations. The signing of the cessation of hostilities agreement represents an important step towards peace and reconciliation in Ethiopia. Here also the word “reconciliation” after an awful war with countless atrocities – it is the key word, and we will support this reconciliation process. This process requires a strong leadership and a sustainable monitoring mechanism to ensure that the cessation of hostilities is respected by all sides, paving the way for recovery, reconstruction, and reconciliation – the three Rs. They need recovery – economic recovery – they need reconstruction, they need reconciliation.

Our Ambassador in Addis Abeba sent me the other day pictures of his visits to the region of Tigray. It is a good sign of the gradually normalising our relations with Ethiopia based on the progress made on these three requests. I want to repeat them: cessation of hostilities, including the withdrawal of Eritrean troops, unimpeded humanitarian access everywhere, to all parts of the country – particularly Tigray, but everywhere – and accountability for international humanitarian law and human rights violations and abuses.

We have suspended our budget support to the Ethiopian government, but we have never stopped our support to the Ethiopian population. And we have prepared two packages of special measures worth €180 million to finance programmes in the areas of health and education with a special focus in the areas affected by the conflict. This package has been adopted and the [European] Commission services will implement it.

Finally, I am glad to announce that I have launched a new Strategic Communications Taskforce, specifically for Africa, to step up our strategic communications in and with Africa and address the problems of Foreign Information Manipulation and Interference [in Africa].

Also, in Somalia, where we were able to launch the Joint Operational Roadmap[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/launch-somalia-%E2%80%93-eu-joint-operational-roadmap-renewed-focused-engagement_en?s=153] between the European Union and the Federal Government of Somalia which is going to be a long-standing partner. This Joint Operational Roadmap was launched earlier this month.

I think that is all.

Q&A

Q. High Representative, it is a question on sanctions circumvention. You said that Indian refiners selling Russian oil into Europe, undermines the effectiveness of EU sanctions even if no rules are being broken. Can you layout what you think the problem is? What action do you hope Member States will take?

I have been analysing cases in which, yes, we cut exports to Russia, but we increased a lot the exports to the neighbours of Russia. Before talking about this specific case, let me say that, for example, we have decreased our exports of cars to Russia by almost 80% [this means] 80% less. But at the same time, we have increased the export of cars to some of the Central Asian countries by almost 300%. It is a little bit strange, this appetite for European cars, suddenly by some neighbours of Russia. It is not a stupid idea to imagine that these cars are being imported and, afterwards, re-exported. In this case, it would be a [case of] circumvention.

On the case of India, I said clearly – and I want to repeat – that if India buys Russian oil, it is legal, it is normal. I have not blamed the Indian government, at all. Do not look for trouble. I have not blamed [the Indian government] because it is perfectly legal: our sanctions are not extra-territorial. Our firms are being bound by our decisions, but I cannot impose our will to the Indian government or the Indian companies. So, my rational: it’s normal, if thanks to our limitation on the price of oil, India can but this oil [for] cheaper, Russia gets less money. So, the less the better. But, at the same time, one has to look at that and see that India is importing a lot of Russian oil, almost 36% of the export of Russian oil goes to India, and then the exports of refined products to Europe have been multiplied almost by seven.

Once again, I am not blaming the Indian exports; they do what they want to do. They are free, I cannot impose European rules. Maybe you can consider that a refined product is a different product from oil, but the fact is that we do not import Russian oil, but we import distilled products coming from Russian oil.

The result from the point of view of circumvention, one can imagine that it is something clear, but these are the things that we have to study and see what we can do. But I insist: I never blamed the Indian government nor the Indian refiners. I cannot prevent them from doing that. If they have a good price because we imposed a cap on Russian oil, it is good for them and it is good for us because Russia gets less money for the oil they are selling.

Q. High Representative, I understand that Hungary is blocking the agreement on the next tranche of the European Peace Facility (EPF) to Ukraine, and they are saying that they want Ukraine to withdraw one Hungarian company OTP Bank from so-called ‘war sponsor list’. Do you think it is a justified demand? Is it really up to the European Union to deal with the Ukrainian government to release different companies from this list, or it should be more of a bilateral issue for Hungary and Ukraine? Also, I would like to ask if you got any feedback from Ukraine on what the solution could be on this matter.

Bilateral [issue or] multilateral [issue]. We have to do everything we can in order to make the next package of military support to Ukraine being approved. If one Member State has a difficulty, let us discuss about it – that is what we are going to do. And my role is to talk with everybody in order to try to look for solutions. Until now, we have been able to find solutions for everyone, for every tranche of military support, and I am sure we will be able to continue doing the same thing. This will require conversations among us.

Link to the video: https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/en/video/I-241466[https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/en/video/I-241466]

Source – EEAS [https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/foreign-affairs-council-press-remarks-high-representative-josep-borrell-after-meeting-5_en?channel=eeas_press_alerts&date=2023-05-22&newsid=0&langid=en&source=mail]

Security sector: EU launches EUPM Moldova to fight hybrid threats[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/security-sector-eu-launches-eupm-moldova-to-fight-hybrid-threats/407655/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 07:07 pm

Brussels, 22 May 2023

The Council is launching today the EU Partnership Mission in the Republic of Moldova (EUPM Moldova) under the Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP) to enhance the resilience of the security sector in the country.

The aim of the mission, formally established on 24 April 2023 at the request of Moldova’s authorities, is to contribute to the strengthening of Moldova’s crisis management structures and to enhance its resilience to hybrid threats, including cybersecurity, and countering foreign information manipulation and interference (FIMI).

To this end, the mission will provide advice at strategic level and identify the needs for capacity building.

The Head of Mission will be Cosmin Dinescu. The Civilian Operation Commander will be Stefano Tomat, EEAS Managing Director of the Civilian Planning and Conduct Capability (CPCC).

The efforts to destabilise the Republic of Moldova have noticeably increased since the beginning of the Russian war of aggression against Ukraine, and represent a direct threat to the stability and security of the external borders of the EU.

Background

In its conclusions of 24 June 2022, the European Council recognised the European perspective of the Republic of Moldova, and decided to grant it, along with Ukraine, the status of candidate country.

In its conclusions of 15 December 2022, the European Council affirmed that the EU would continue to provide all relevant support to the Republic of Moldova as it deals with the multifaceted impact of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine.

In a letter to the High Representative dated 28 January 2023, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Moldova invited the EU to deploy a civilian mission in the country under the CSDP, which was established by the Council on 24 April.

* Moldova: EU sets up a civilian mission to strengthen the resilience of the security sector (press release, 24 April 2023)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/04/24/moldova-eu-sets-up-a-civilian-mission-to-strengthen-the-resilience-of-the-security-sector/]

* Republic of Moldova: EU adopts a new sanctions framework to target actions aimed at destabilising the country (press release, 28 April 2023)[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/04/28/republic-of-moldova-eu-adopts-framework-for-targeted-sanctions-to-counter-actions-destabilising-the-country/]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/fac/2023/05/22/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/05/22/moldova-eu-launches-civilian-mission-to-strengthen-the-resilience-of-the-security-sector-in-the-areas-of-crisis-management-and-countering-hybrid-threats/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Moldova%3a+EU+launches+civilian+mission+to+strengthen+the+resilience+of+the+security+sector+in+the+areas+of+crisis+management+and+countering+hybrid+threats]

EDPB’s binding dispute resolution: € 1.2bn fine for Meta IE following Irish inquiry[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/edpbs-binding-dispute-resolution-e-1-2bn-fine-for-meta-ie-following-irish-inquiry/407657/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 06:51 pm

22 May 2023

Brussels, 22 May – Following the EDPB’s binding dispute resolution[https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/our-documents/binding-decision-board-art-65/binding-decision-12023-dispute-submitted_en] decision of 13 April 2023, Meta Platforms Ireland Limited (Meta IE) was issued a 1.2 billion euro fine following an inquiry into its Facebook service, by the Irish Data Protection Authority (IE DPA). This fine, which is the largest GDPR fine ever, was imposed for Meta’s transfers of personal data to the U.S. on the basis of standard contractual clauses (SCCs) since 16 July 2020. Furthermore, Meta has been ordered to bring its data transfers into compliance with the GDPR.

Andrea Jelinek, EDPB Chair, said: “The EDPB found that Meta IE’s infringement is very serious since it concerns transfers that are systematic, repetitive and continuous. Facebook has millions of users in Europe, so the volume of personal data transferred is massive. The unprecedented fine is a strong signal to organisations that serious infringements have far-reaching consequences.”

In its binding decision of 13 April 2023, the EDPB instructed the IE DPA to amend its draft decision and to impose a fine on Meta IE. Given the seriousness of the infringement, the EDPB found that the starting point for calculation of the fine should be between 20% and 100% of the applicable legal maximum. The EDPB also instructed the IE DPA to order Meta IE to bring processing operations into compliance with Chapter V GDPR, by ceasing the unlawful processing, including storage, in the U.S. of personal data of European users transferred in violation of the GDPR, within 6 months after notification of the IE SA’s final decision.

The IE DPA’s final decision incorporates the legal assessment expressed by the EDPB in its binding decision, adopted on the basis of Art. 65(1)(a) GDPR after the IE DPA, as lead supervisory authority (LSA), had triggered a dispute resolution procedure concerning the objections raised by several concerned supervisory authorities (CSAs). Among others, CSAs issued objections aiming to include an administrative fine and/or an additional order to bring processing into compliance*.

The final decision taken by the IE DPA is available in the Register for Decisions taken by supervisory authorities and courts on issues handled in the consistency mechanism[https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/consistency-findings/register-for-decisions_en].

Editor’s note:

*EDPB Binding decisions only address disagreements on a draft decision, which are set out by CSAs in relevant and reasoned objections. The EDPB’s binding decision does not mention a suspension order, because there were no objections on this aspect of the IE DPA’s draft decision; all CSAs had already agreed on the imposition of a suspension order.

See: DPC announces conclusion of inquiry into Meta Ireland[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/dpc-announces-conclusion-of-inquiry-into-meta-ireland/407642/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Source – EDPB: 1.2 billion euro fine for Facebook as a result of EDPB binding decision[https://edpb.europa.eu/news/news/2023/12-billion-euro-fine-facebook-result-edpb-binding-decision_en]

EU Council confirms 6 to 9 June 2024 as dates for next EU Parliament elections[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-council-confirms-6-to-9-june-2024-as-dates-for-next-eu-parliament-elections/407646/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 06:45 pm

Brussels, 22 May 2023

The Council today confirmed that the next elections to the European Parliament will take place from 6 to 9 June 2024.

These are the dates applicable under the EU Electoral Act, which determines that the European parliamentary elections take place every five years, from Thursday to Sunday, normally in the first full week of June. The dates were confirmed after exchanges within the Council preparatory bodies.

Next steps

Member states will now determine, according to their respective legal and constitutional frameworks, the date or dates in the period from 6 to 9 June 2024 when they will be holding the vote in their country.

* Council statement on the date of elections to the European Parliament in 2024[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/media/64327/338_23_statement_en.pdf]

* 1976 Electoral Act[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:01976X1008(01)-20020923]

Visit the meeting page[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/compet/2023/05/22-23/]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/05/22/council-confirms-6-to-9-june-2024-as-dates-for-next-european-parliament-elections/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Council+confirms+6+to+9+June+2024+as+dates+for+next+European+Parliament+elections]

Irish DPC announces conclusion of inquiry into Meta Ireland[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/dpc-announces-conclusion-of-inquiry-into-meta-ireland/407642/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

May 22, 2023 06:06 pm

Brussels, 22 May 2023

The Data Protection Commission (“the DPC”) has today announced the conclusion of its inquiry into Meta Platforms Ireland Limited (“Meta Ireland”), examining the basis upon which Meta Ireland transfers personal data from the EU/EEA to the US in connection with the delivery of its Facebook service.

The DPC adopted its final decision in this inquiry on 12 May 2023. The decision records that Meta Ireland infringed Article 46(1) GDPR when it continued to transfer personal data from the EU/EEA to the USA following the delivery of the CJEU’s judgment in Data Protection Commissioner v Facebook Ireland Limited and Maximillian Schrems. While Meta Ireland effected those transfers on the basis of the updated Standard Contractual Clauses (“SCCs”) that were adopted by the European Commission in 2021 in conjunction with additional supplementary measures that were implemented by Meta Ireland, the DPC found that these arrangements did not address the risks to the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects that were identified by the CJEU in its judgment.

The inquiry was initially commenced in August 2020, and was subsequently stayed by Order of the High Court of Ireland, pending the resolution of a series of legal proceedings, until 20 May 2021. Following a comprehensive investigation, the DPC prepared a draft decision dated 6 July 2022. Notably, it found that:

1. the data transfers in question were being carried out in breach of Article 46(1) GDPR; and

2. in these circumstances, the data transfers should be suspended.

Under a cooperation procedure mandated by the GDPR (Article 60), the draft decision prepared by the DPC was submitted to its peer regulators in the EU/EEA, also known as Concerned Supervisory Authorities (“CSAs”). The nature of the processing under examination by the inquiry was such that all other EU/EEA Supervisory Authorities were engaged as CSAs for the purpose of the cooperation procedure.

On the question of Meta Ireland’s non-compliance with the GDPR, and the DPC’s proposal to make an order to suspend the data transfers, the CSAs agreed with the DPC’s decision.

A small number (4) of the 47 CSAs raised objections in relation to the corrective power that the DPC proposed to exercise by way of the draft decision. Within this subset of CSAs, all four CSAs took the view that Meta Ireland should be subject to an administrative fine for the infringement that was found to have occurred. Two of those CSAs also took the view that Meta Ireland should be ordered to take action to address the personal data that had already been unlawfully transferred to the US, i.e. the data transferred from July 2020 to the present.

The DPC disagreed, reflecting its view that the exercise of additional corrective powers, beyond the proposed suspension order, would exceed the extent of powers that could be described as being “appropriate, proportionate and necessary” to address the infringement of Article 46(1) GDPR.

Following an informal consultation process, it became clear that consensus could not be reached. Consistent with its obligations under the GDPR, the DPC referred the objections to the European Data Protection Board (“the EDPB”) for determination pursuant to the Article 65 dispute resolution mechanism.

The EDPB adopted its decision on 13 April 2023. Consistent with its obligations to adopt its final decision “on the basis of” the EDPB’s decision, the DPC’s decision of 12 May 2023 records the exercise of the following corrective powers by the DPC:

* an order, made pursuant to Article 58(2)(j) GDPR, requiring Meta Ireland to suspend any future transfer of personal data to the US within the period of five months from the date of notification of the DPC’s decision to Meta Ireland;

* an administrative fine in the amount of €1.2 billion (reflecting the EDPB’s determination that an administrative fine ought to be imposed, to sanction the infringement that was found to have occurred. The DPC determined the amount of the fine to be imposed by reference to the assessments and determinations that were included in the EDPB’s decision); and

* an order, made pursuant to Article 58(2)(d) GDPR, requiring Meta Ireland to bring its processing operations into compliance with Chapter V of the GDPR, by ceasing the unlawful processing, including storage, in the US of personal data of EU/EEA users transferred in violation of the GDPR, within 6 months following the date of notification of the DPC’s decision to Meta Ireland.

The EDPB has published the Article 65 decision and the final decision on its website[https://edpb.europa.eu/our-work-tools/consistency-findings/register-decisions/2023/decision-data-protection-commission_en].

Source – EDPB – Email

You are receiving this e-mail because you have signed up for the premium version of our Insight EU Monitoring Digest.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any problems in receiving or opening this mail, or if you are interested in other services we offer.

You find more information about us on our FAQ page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] and on our subscription page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]. Or simply contact our publisher[mailto:j.weidemann@ieu-monitoring.com?subject=Letter%20to%20the%20publisher].

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020230523ej5n00001


PM Sanna Marin: Europe needs to stop Russia from getting around the sanctions
312 字
2023 年 6 月 2 日
Nordic Daily
NORDAI
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Helsinki, Finland: Sanna Marin (SDP), the outgoing prime minister of Finland, expressed her confidence that the European Political Community (EPC) will cooperate to stop Russia from evading the sanctions put in place as a result of the country's ongoing conflict in Ukraine.

Ahead of the EPC Summit on Thursday, she made the remarks in Bulboaca, Moldova.

The EU's 11th sanctions package includes provisions to combat sanctions evasion, but Marin underlined that additional measures are required from nations outside the EU to stop sanction evasion.

"We cannot do it alone as members of the European Union; we need broader joint support," Marin said.

The EPC was established as a response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine last year.

Zelensky: Ukraine needs NATO and jets.

Addressing the summit on Thursday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky reiterated that Ukraine should become a member of NATO, urging members of the alliance to make a clear decision about whether to allow Ukraine to join, according to Reuters.

Zelensky also repeated requests for Western fighter jets for use in defending against Russia's attacks, the news service added.

According to the summit's website, the EPC "is a platform for political coordination among European countries across the continent. It aims to promote political dialogue and cooperation to address issues of common interest and to strengthen the security, stability, and prosperity of the European continent."

Forty-seven heads of state and government, as well as other European leaders, were invited to the one-day summit. The EPC's first meeting was held last year in Prague, Czechia.

According to the summit's organizers, leaders will examine three main topics this year.

The topics include joint efforts for peace and security; energy resilience and climate action; and interconnections in Europe for a better connected and more stable continent.

SIA Impact Media

文件 NORDAI0020230605ej620002q


Insight EU Monitoring - Premium Digest
9122 字
2023 年 6 月 3 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2023. Comecon Media GmbH
A full-text overview of today's most important posts on our Insight EU portal

DAILY DIGEST

PREMIUM

www.ieu-monitoring.com[http://www.ieu-monitoring.com]

* Insight EU Energy Monitoring 1 June 2023

* Insight EU Environment Monitoring 1 June 2023

* Insight EU Climate Monitoring 1 June 2023

* Global cyber leaders meet in Estonia

* Children’s rights: UN welcomes the progress made by France

* Senegal: Statement by French Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs

* Sweden: Focus on children at high-level meeting on Ukraine

* Advanced Wireless Comms: Finland and US sign Joint Statement on Cooperation

* Main results: Transport, Telecommunications and Energy Council (Telecommunications), 2 June 2023

* Cholpon-Ata: Joint press release by Asian leaders and the EU Council President

* Shangri-La Dialogue: EU HRVP Borrell travels to Singapore

* Mergers: EU Commission clears acquisition of joint control of Hyve by PEP and SCP

* EU Cohesion Policy: New report highlights that a cohesive development is crucial for the EU’s growth agenda

* 7th Brussels Conference on supporting the future of Syria and the region

Insight EU Energy Monitoring 1 June 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-1-june-2023/408557/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 03, 2023 01:49 am

IEA

* Renewable power on course to shatter more records as countries around the world speed up deployment

REPOWER EU

* NextGenerationEU: Denmark submits request to add a REPowerEU chapter to its recovery and resilience plan

ENERGY REGULATION

* ACER approves the amendments to the methodology for calculating scheduled exchanges resulting from single day-ahead coupling

* Energy Community Secretariat Commends Ukrainian Government’s steps to achieve cost-reflective electricity prices

* Energy Community Secretariat releases the annual report on the implementation of Regulation (EU)

UKRAINE

* Energy Community: International Ambassadors gather in Vienna to support the Ukraine Energy Support Fund

* Ukrainian Task Force completes the Tenth Ukrainian Energy Sector Damage Assessment Report

ENERGY TRANSITION

* Energy transition in the EU fisheries and aquaculture sector

HYDROGEN

* European Hydrogen Bank and H2Global join forces to boost global hydrogen ramp-up

* Latest reports on hydrogen industries

* Toshiba, Toray lead Japan foray into cheap ‘green’ hydrogen tech

* Mitsubishi Power to develop hydrogen-ready power plant for Sembcorp Industries

* Hyphen signs deal with Namibian government to develop green hydrogen project

* Aker Horizons awarded up to $12.1 million in financing for green hydrogen project in Norway

* Japanese consortium unveils fuel cell system based on green hydrogen, waste plastic

* NWTN and CMEC plan to co-develop 20MW green hydrogen plant in the UAE

* Tunisia could export over 5.5 million tons of green hydrogen to Europe by 2050

* Plug Power plans to develop three green hydrogen production plants in Finland

* First Mode orders more hydrogen fuel cell modules from Ballard Power Systems

* April Brings a Flurry of Hydrogen Projects That May Flower with CCS

* Anglian to begin hydrogen from waste production

* Nickel-zinc battery systems paired with hydrogen, EV charging

* Ebusco batteries to be used in Oechies hydrogen ship

* Ballard will supply First Mode with another 60 hydrogen fuel cell modules

* CGN and Quinto Energy eye ‘large-scale hydrogen production’ from 14GW of wind and solar in Brazil

* Bipartisan Southeastern Senators Push for Hydrogen Hub

* Toyota debuts hydrogen-fueled Corolla race car as auto racing begins shift away from gas guzzlers

* LINE Hydrogen Announces UK Listing

* EN.IT and Rio Grande do Sul govt sign green hydrogen MoU

* Nikola Builds Its Own Hydrogen Ecosystem

* Ballard & First Mode Sign Order for 60 Additional Hydrogen Fuel Cell Modules for Zero-Emission Mining Trucks

RADIATION

* Radiation protection: Commission calls on LITHUANIA and LUXEMBOURG to correctly transpose the Euratom Basic Safety Standards Directive

RENEWABLES

* Renewable energy: Commission urges LITHUANIA to fully transpose the Renewable Energy Directive

GERMANY

* Vergünstigter Industriestrom als Chance für den Standort – IW

* Großes Potenzial: Mit Großwärmepumpen grüne Wärmequellen für Gebäude und Industrie nutzbar machen – Agora Energiewende

EU PARLIAMENT REGISTER

* DRAFT OPINION on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulations (EU) 2019/943 and (EU) 2019/942 as well as Directives (EU) 2018/2001 and (EU) 2019/944 to improve the Union’s electricity market design – PE749.215v01-00

* DRAFT OPINION on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulations (EU) No 1227/2011 and (EU) 2019/942 to improve the Union’s protection against market manipulation in the wholesale energy market – PE749.178v01-00

* AMENDMENTS 97 – 297 – Draft report Amending Regulations (EU) No 1227/2011 and (EU) 2019/942 to improve the Union’s protection against market manipulation in the wholesale energy market – PE749.145v01-00

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF.

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.12 noptimize

/noptimizehttps://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Monitoring-1-June-2023-p560930274[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Monitoring-1-June-2023-p560930274] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Monitoring-1-June-2023-p560930274[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Monitoring-1-June-2023-p560930274] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.12

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing the headlines of our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Sign up for our free Insight EU Monitoring Digest Basic and weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

* Buy and download specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

Insight EU Environment Monitoring 1 June 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-1-june-2023/408556/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 03, 2023 01:42 am

MARITIME SAFETY

* Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the European Maritime Safety Agency and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Revision of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 establishing a European Maritime Safety Agency Accompanying the document PROPOSAL FOR A REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the European Maritime Safety Agency and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT Accompanying the document Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2009/18/EC establishing the fundamental principles governing the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector

* COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE AND THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS Maritime safety: at the heart of clean and modern shipping

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE IMPACT ASSESSMENT Accompanying the document Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2009/18/EC establishing the fundamental principles governing the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector

* Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL amending Directive 2009/18/EC establishing the fundamental principles governing the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector

* EU Commission Q&A on Maritime safety and clean and modern shipping

* Maritime transport: EU Commission calls on BULGARIA to comply with EU rules on marine equipment

SUSTAINABILITY DUE DILIGENCE

* MEPs push companies to mitigate their negative social and environmental impact

* S&Ds: After winning today’s crucial vote on responsible business conduct, our job now is to deliver

* Europa-SPD: Konservative votieren mit Nationalisten gegen unternehmerische Verantwortung – EU-Parlament stimmt dennoch für neues Lieferkettengesetz

* Greens/EFA on CSDDD: Word-leading binding rules take shape

* Grüne/EFA: Hintergrund zur Verschärfung des EU-Lieferkettengesetzes

* The Left: Holding business to account: A win for people and planet

* Due diligence: Eurocommerce highlights need for further improvements during trilogues

* VCI: Das europäische Lieferkettengesetz braucht praxistaugliche Lösungen für Unternehmen.

* EU-Parlament macht wichtigen Schritt zu einem wirksamen Lieferkettengesetz – Germanwatch

ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE

* Prudent use of antibiotics and more research needed to fight antimicrobial resistance

* S&Ds urge swift and comprehensive measures to combat antimicrobial resistance

* Renew Europe urges EU-wide action to stop antimicrobial resistance

SUSTAINABLE TEXTILES

* Parliament wants to make EU textiles and clothing industry greener

* EPP Group: Shrink your wardrobe! Make clothes more durable

PLASTICS

* United Nations: ‘Toxic tidal wave’ of plastic pollution putting human rights at risk

PACKAGING

* European Bioeconomy Alliance calls for stronger support of the biobased sectors in the new rules on packaging and packaging waste

BELGIUM

* Environmental impact assessment: EU Commission calls on BELGIUM to fully transpose EU law

ROMANIA

* Air quality: EU Commission calls on ROMANIA to establish a functional air quality monitoring network

BULGARIA

* Air quality: EU Commission calls on BULGARIA to remove barriers to access to justice in relation to air quality plans

ITALY

* Urban wastewater: EU Commission refers ITALY back to the Court of Justice for failing to properly treat urban waste water

AUSTRIA

* Environmental noise: EU Commission calls on AUSTRIA to fully transpose EU rules on environmental noise

GREEN MARKETPLACE

* Swedish EU Presidency: Towards a green transatlantic marketplace

GERMANY

* EU-Nitratrichtlinie: Vertragsverletzungsverfahren eingestellt – hohe Strafzahlungen abgewendet

SCHEER & SCCS BRIEFS

* SCHEER – Minutes of the Working Group Meeting on Electromagnetic fields (EMF) II of 26 May 2023

* SCCS – Minutes of the Working Group meeting on Nanomaterials in Cosmetic Products of 12 May 2023

* SCCS – Draft Agenda of the 5th plenary meeting, Helsinki, 6-7 June 2023

* SCCS – Minutes of the Working Group meeting on Cosmetic Ingredients of 15-16 May 2023

EFSA BRIEFS

* Safety of UV‐treated powder of whole yellow mealworm (Tenebrio molitor larva) as a novel food pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2015/2283

EU COMMISSION REGISTER

* COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) /… granting a Union authorisation for the single biocidal product ‘Spray On wipes’ in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council

* COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING DECISION on the unresolved objections regarding the conditions for granting an authorisation for the biocidal product A-Quasan in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council

* COMMISSION REGULATION (EU) / amending Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1925/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards nicotinamide riboside chloride added to foods

* Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL amending Directive 2005/35/EC on ship-source pollution and on the introduction of penalties, including criminal penalties, for pollution offences

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT Accompanying the document PROPOSAL FOR A DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL amending Directive 2005/35/EC on ship-source pollution and on the introduction of penalties, including criminal penalties, for pollution offences

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE IMPACT ASSESSMENT Accompanying the document PROPOSAL FOR A DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL amending Directive 2005/35/EC on ship-source pollution and on the introduction of penalties, including criminal penalties, for pollution offences

* COMMISSION REGULATION (EU) / amending Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 396/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards maximum residue levels for bixafen, cyprodinil, fenhexamid, fenpicoxamid, fenpyroximate, flutianil, isoxaflutole, mandipropamid, methoxyfenozide, and spinetoram in or on certain products

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* ST 9581 2023 INIT Council Recommendation on stepping up EU actions to combat antimicrobial resistance in a One Health approach (legal basis proposed by the Commission: Article 168(6)TFEU) – Adoption

* CM 3149 2023 INIT Working Party on Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters (COPEN – Environmental Crime and General Matters)

* ST 9379 2023 ADD 1 Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on shipments of waste and amending Regulations (EU) No 1257/2013 and (EU) No 2020/1056 – Mandate for negotiations with the European Parliament

* CM 3145 2023 INIT Working Party on International Food and Agricultural Questions (FAO)

* CM 3108 2023 INIT Informal videoconference of the members of the Working Party on Animals and Veterinary Questions (Animal Health)

* ST 13808 2018 REV 1 Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the position to be taken on behalf of the European Union in the International Civil Aviation Organization, in respect of the First Edition of the International Standards and Recommended Practices on Environmental Protection – Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation

* ST 13808 2018 ADD 1 REV 1 ANNEX to the Proposal for a Council Decision on the position to be taken on behalf of the European Union in the International Civil Aviation Organization, in respect of the First Edition of the International Standards and Recommended Practices on Environmental Protection – Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation

* CM 3181 2023 INIT Working Party on International Food and Agricultural Questions (Codex – CCMAS)

* CM 3177 2023 INIT

* Working Party on International Food and Agricultural Questions (Codex – CCPR)

* CM 3166 2023 INIT Working Party on Plants and Plant Health Questions (Chief Plant Health Officers)

* CM 3109 2023 INIT Working Party on Financial Agricultural Questions (AGRIFIN)

* ST 9978 2023 INIT SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE

EU PARLIAMENT REGISTER

* Answer to a written question – Environmental impact of Romania being outside the Schengen area – E-000953/2023(ASW)

* OPINION on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the sustainable use of plant protection products and amending Regulation (EU) 2021/2115 – PE745.174v03-00

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF.

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.12 noptimize/noptimizehttps://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Monitoring-1-June-2023-PDF-41-pages-p560863700[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Monitoring-1-June-2023-PDF-41-pages-p560863700] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Monitoring-1-June-2023-PDF-41-pages-p560863700[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Monitoring-1-June-2023-PDF-41-pages-p560863700] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.12

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing the headlines of our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Sign up for our free Insight EU Monitoring Digest Basic and weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

* Buy and download specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

Insight EU Climate Monitoring 1 June 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-1-june-2023/408558/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 03, 2023 01:32 am

COP28

* Bonn Climate Change Conference to Set Stage for Course Correction at COP28

SUSTAINABLE FINANCE

* ESAs present common understanding of greenwashing and warn on related risks

EFRAG BRIEFS

* EFRAG seeks Financial Reporting Assistant Technical Managers

CBAM

* DIW: Europäischer CO2-Grenzausgleich: Erfolg steht und fällt mit internationaler Zusammenarbeit

BULGARIA

* Air quality: Commission calls on BULGARIA to remove barriers to access to justice in relation to air quality plans

ROMANIA

* Air quality: Commission calls on ROMANIA to establish a functional air quality monitoring network

GERMANY

* EnBW tritt Klimabündnis Baden-Württemberg bei – Baden-Württemberg

EU PARLIAMENT REGISTER

* Answer to a written question – Low emission zones in urban areas – E-000911/2023(ASW)

* Video of a plenary debate – Social and economic costs of climate change in light of the floods in Emilia Romagna, Marche and Toscana and the urgent need for European solidarity (debate) – Wednesday, 31 May 2023 – 19:48 – Brussels

You can buy and download this issue as a PDF.

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.12 noptimize/noptimizehttps://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-1-June-2023-PDF-p560908574[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-1-June-2023-PDF-p560908574] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-1-June-2023-PDF-p560908574[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-1-June-2023-PDF-p560908574] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.12

Important note

On this platform, we are publishing the headlines of our Insight EU Monitoring editions with a delay of several hours. If you want to get our monitoring e-mails in real-time you can subscribe to our full-text services on our Insight EU Store[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/] page.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to Insight EU if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues.

* See our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

* Subscribe to our Insight EU Premium offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Sign up for our free Insight EU Monitoring Digest Basic and weekly Insight EU Agenda: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

* Buy and download specialized Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Ask our team for a tailored and targeted offer: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

Global cyber leaders meet in Estonia[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/global-cyber-leaders-meet-in-estonia/408536/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 02, 2023 05:45 pm

London, 2 June 2023

Events in Tallinn looked at how the cyber and electromagnetic domain plays a vital role in peacetime and crisis, including its impact on the war in Ukraine.

Cyber and electromagnetic domain experts and leaders came together in Tallinn at the Cyber Commanders’ Forum and CyCon 2023.

Collaboration with our allies and partners from across the world is vital – cyberspace has no borders – and the events provided the valuable opportunity for partners to tackle shared challenges.

General Jim Hockenhull, Commander of Strategic Command, attended on behalf of UK Defence and to represent the thousands of personnel whose diligent efforts help ensure the safety and security of the UK.

With over 30 nations represented, the Cyber Commanders’ Forum (CCF), hosted by the Estonian Defence Forces Cyber Command, covered topics including cyber education, training, and emerging and disruptive technologies such as artificial intelligence.

Cyber Conference (CyCon) 2023 saw over 600 cyber experts from nearly 50 countries come together to address current cyber security challenges through presentations, focus sessions, and breakout groups.

This year’s CyCon had a theme of Meeting Reality which included discussions on new technologies, both the benefits and opportunities they provide also the new threats they pose.

Speaking about the events, General Jim said:

Strategic Command leads cyber for UK Defence. It is a vital domain where global events are shaped – including the conflict resulting from Russia’s illegal invasion of Ukraine.

There could be no more appropriate hosts for this year’s Cyber Commanders’ Forum and Cyber Conference than Estonia and Poland. UK Defence is proud of our close relationships with these vital allies, forged through our deployed contribution to NATO’s enhanced forward presence both here in Estonia and in Poland under Operation CABRIT.

It is essential that Allies, our partners in industry, and academia make a collective effort to operate together effectively in this domain to protect our nations, defeat and deter our adversaries. These events play a significant role in this integration and I am delighted to represent UK Defence at both.

Source – UK Government[https://www.gov.uk/government/news/global-cyber-leaders-meet-in-estonia]

Children’s rights: UN welcomes the progress made by France[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/childrens-rights-un-welcomes-the-progress-made-by-france-and-its-active-efforts-for-children/408534/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 02, 2023 05:40 pm

Paris, 2 June 2023

The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child published its final observations on the protection of children’s rights in France on 1 June 2023. It welcomes the progress made by France and the public authorities’ active efforts for children; it also calls for further advances to be made for children.

In its final observations, published today following the report submitted by France and the subsequent hearing on 9 and 10 May 2023, the Committee welcomed the quality of the discussions held in Geneva with the high-level interministerial delegation led by Mme Charlotte Caubel, Minister of State for Children, attached to the Prime Minister.

Drawing on its observations from 2016, the Committee was able to appreciate the many advances made when it comes to children’s rights. The Committee paid special tribute to the national strategy on prevention and the protection of children, the first 1,000 days policy, and the plans to tackle violence against children and child prostitution. The Committee also gave a very favourable response to the creation of a ministry of State for children, and of a parliamentary delegation on children’s rights at the National Assembly. The Committee appreciated the progress on developing bodies for children’s participation in political decision-making processes. Finally, the Committee emphasized the importance of resources dedicated to public policies in favour of children.

The Committee urged us to continue the initiatives begun, for example by creating a delegation for children’s rights at the Senate, renewing the various plans which have expired and opening even more places where child victims’ testimonies can be heard.

France takes note of the points of concern brought to its attention by the Committee and notes that they are broadly in line with its priorities. Indeed, the Committee emphasized its concern about violence against children, especially sexual violence, which remains at too high a level in our country and must be better known and dealt with. It also pressed the case for improving the child protection policy, in particular by stepping up prevention, promoting de-institutionalization and reducing the time taken to execute measures. It would also like to see solutions developed to support disabled children and a road map established for children’s mental health. Finally, the Committee called for greater attention to be given to poor, migrant and overseas children.

The next meeting of the Interministerial Committee for Children, on 15 June, will provide an opportunity, with all the ministers concerned, to take stock of these observations and actions to address them. The initiatives under way, for example the national disability conference or the paediatrics and child health conference, all aim to address these major concerns. The imminent presentation of the major objectives of a new plan to tackle violence against children, and the future communication campaign on sexual violence, will also address the Committee’s observations.

Source – French Government[https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/en/french-foreign-policy/united-nations/news-and-events/news/news-2023/article/united-nations-the-un-committee-on-the-rights-of-the-child-welcomes-the?xtor=RSS-1]

Senegal: Statement by French Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/france-senegal-statement-by-the-ministry-for-europe-and-foreign-affairs-spokesperson/408532/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 02, 2023 05:35 pm

Paris, 2 June 2023

France is extremely concerned about the violence which broke out in Senegal yesterday, killing nine people. It extends its condolences to the bereaved.

France calls for restraint, an end to the violence and a resolution of the crisis, with due regard for Senegal’s long democratic tradition.

Source – French Government[https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/en/country-files/senegal/news/article/senegal-statement-by-the-ministry-for-europe-and-foreign-affairs-spokesperson-2?xtor=RSS-1]

Sweden: Focus on children at high-level meeting on Ukraine[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sweden-focus-on-children-at-high-level-meeting-on-ukraine/408527/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 02, 2023 05:25 pm

Stockholm, 2 June 2023

Support to Ukraine is the most important priority during the Swedish Presidency of the Council of the EU. On 1–2 June, the Swedish Presidency held a high-level meeting on protecting children to highlight how Ukrainian children have been affected by Russia’s aggression, and to discuss what EU Member States can do to respond to their needs. A very large number of Member States signed a declaration at the meeting.

Over seven million people from Ukraine have been forced to leave their homes and seek temporary protection from Russia’s aggression, both within Ukraine and in other European countries. The overwhelming majority are women and children.

“Thousands of Ukrainian children have been taken by Russia, without consent. According to the Commission of Inquiry on Ukraine, these actions are war crimes. Don’t underestimate the bad long-term consequences of these brutal family separations. Generations from now will grieve, remember, and condemn. On a Swedish initiative, individuals involved in these illegal transfers were listed under EU sanctions – and we will continue our efforts. The next step will be to extend the listings as we prepare the next sanctions package – making sure no one goes unpunished, says Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson.

The meeting focused on how the EU can support Ukraine in the area of social policy, and exchanging lessons learned formed an important part of this. Moderator and Ombudsman for Children in Sweden Elisabeth Dahlén led panel discussions, and speakers included Her Majesty Queen Silvia, Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson, Minister for Social Services Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, Ukraine’s Minister of Social Policy Oksana Zholnovych,Dubravka Šuica, Vice-President and European Commissioner for Democracy and Demography, and UNICEF’s Executive Director Catherine Russell.

In addition, President Zelenskyy’s wife, Olena Zelenska, took part digitally. A key aspect of the meeting was child participation – both through video greetings by children in Ukraine, and Ukrainian children living in Sweden who took part in the meeting and asked the panellists questions.

Declaration of continued engagement

The Swedish Presidency has initiated a declaration to support the protection of Ukrainian children. The declaration will mobilise support among EU Member States for continued engagement in protecting the children who have been affected by Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine. The declaration also urges the European Commission to continue prioritising the reconstruction and reform of Ukraine’s child protection system. At the meeting, a large number of Member States signed the declaration.

“I am proud and pleased that so many Member States signed the declaration. The situation of children and violations of their rights should be acknowledged in both humanitarian efforts and in long-term support to the reconstruction of Ukraine. The declaration emphasises the importance of Member States exchanging knowledge and experiences in this area. I look forward to continuing to work together, says the Minister for Social Services Ms Waltersson Grönvall.

Source – Swedish Government[https://www.government.se/press-releases/2023/06/focus-on-children-at-high-level-meeting-on-protecting-and-supporting-children-in-ukraine/]

Swedish PM’s speech at the Swedish Presidency’s high-level meeting on child protection

Stockholm, 2 June 2023

Your Majesty,

Ladies and Gentlemen,

First, to state the obvious: in the long run, very few things matter more than those we will discuss here today. Every child is every parent’s greatest responsibility in life. But at the same time, all children are ultimately our common responsibility.

I am honoured to be one of the hosts of this conference. And it’s particularly important that we are joined by key stakeholders: children and young people taking part in our meeting – present here in Stockholm, and from Ukraine.

This Swedish EU Presidency is taking place at a time when war is raging in Europe, again. For more than a year, the people of Ukraine have suffered from Russia’s full-scale invasion and cruel atrocities.

We have long known that in war, children are those who suffer first and most. And this is true also in Ukraine. From the bloody attacks at the train station in Kramatorsk last year, to recent missile attacks in Dnipro and Uman, many children have been among the victims.

Other kids have been wounded, uprooted from their homes and separated from their families.

The Swedish Presidency is working tirelessly on several initiatives to ensure accountability for the crimes committed by Russia. Our transatlantic efforts will continue, but they have already yielded results.

I am pleased that we will soon launch the International Centre for the Crime of Aggression in the Hague. Those responsible will be brought to justice.

Allow me to explicitly point to accountability for Russia’s forced transfers and deportations of children from Ukraine. Thousands of Ukrainian children have been taken by Russia, without consent.

According to the Commission of Inquiry on Ukraine, these actions are war crimes. The decision by the International Criminal Court, to issue arrest warrants against Putin and his Commissioner for Children’s Rights, is a good beginning.

We strongly support the Court and its investigations. Don’t underestimate the bad long-term consequences from these brutal family separations. Future generations years from now will grieve, remember, and condemn.

On a Swedish initiative, individuals involved in these illegal transfers were listed under EU sanctions – and we will continue our efforts. The next step will be to extend the listings as we prepare the next sanctions package – making sure no one goes unpunished.

The war has also exposed Ukrainian children – and girls in particular – to risks of trafficking and sexual exploitation. This, too, has to be stopped.

Ukrainian friends: it remains our common resolve to stand with you. We admire your determination and strength, fighting back and struggling to secure your freedom.

Supporting Ukraine is the number one priority for the Swedish EU Presidency. We’re working hard in Brussels to uphold the pressure on Russia. Unity has allowed us to put in place ten sanction packages, and right now we are working on the eleventh.

Looking to the future, Ukraine’s reconstruction has already started. I’m encouraged by the participation of so many young Ukrainians here today. And I am proud of our good cooperation on the crucial topics we will discuss at the conference.

I want to direct my final words to Ukraine’s Minister of Social Policy and the entire Ukrainian delegation:

You are fighting for the right to decide your own future. You are courageously defending your democracy and your freedom. But also defending our European values of liberty. You can count on our support and solidarity for as long as it takes.

Ukraine’s future is in Europe. Slava Ukraini!

Source – Swedish Government[https://www.government.se/speeches/2023/06/the-prime-ministers-speech-at-the-swedish-presidencys-high-level-meeting-on-child-protection/]

Advanced Wireless Comms: Finland and US sign Joint Statement on Cooperation[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/advanced-wireless-communications-finland-signs-with-the-us-a-joint-statement-on-cooperation/408525/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 02, 2023 05:18 pm

Helsinki, 2 June 2023

Finland’s Minister for Foreign Affairs Pekka Haavisto and United States Secretary of State Antony Blinken signed a Joint Statement on Cooperation in Advanced Wireless Communications between Finland and the United States in Helsinki on 2 June. In the Joint Statement, Finland and the United States confirm their common ambition to cooperate in key areas of 6G research and development and to increase interaction between Finnish and US actors.

6G will represent a major transformation from the preceding generations of wireless communication technologies. Characteristic for this sector is the close interaction between scientific research, standardisation and commercialisation.

“Having a common set of values and achieving sustainable development goals in both bilateral and multilateral forums are important elements of 6G development. It is excellent that Finland and the United States can promote these important goals together as partners,” says Foreign Minister Haavisto.

Finland is a pioneer of 6G development. In 2018, Finland was the first country to launch an extensive 6G research programme. Finnish expertise in 6G will create new opportunities both commercially and politically. Close international cooperation is needed to make the most of it.

“6G is at the heart of Finland’s future success, and by working together with the United States we can strengthen our technological advantage. I am excited about the great opportunities we can create for research, development and commercialisation through our cooperation. As western democracies, we must show our unity in the international forums that decide on standards and frequencies,” says Finland’s Minister of Transport and Communications Timo Harakka.

The Joint Statement between Finland and the United States was signed during Secretary of State Blinken’s visit to Finland. Finland and the United States have increased their technological cooperation in recent years. The Agreement Relating to Scientific and Technological Cooperation between Finland and the United States provides a good framework for furthering cooperation. Finland also stresses the importance of continuing discussions on technology cooperation between the EU and the United States in forums such as the EU-US Trade and Technology Council (TTC). The Joint Statement was prepared in close cooperation between Finland’s Ministry of Transport and Communications, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment, Ministry of Education and Culture and Ministry for Foreign Affairs

Source – Finnish Government[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/foreign-minister-haavisto-and-secretary-of-state-blinken-signed-a-joint-statement-on-cooperation-in-advanced-wireless-communications]

Main results: Transport, Telecommunications and Energy Council (Telecommunications), 2 June 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/main-results-transport-telecommunications-and-energy-council-telecommunications-2-june-2023/408523/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 02, 2023 05:06 pm

Brussels, 2 June 2023

Gigabit Infrastructure Act

The Council took note of a progress report on the proposal for a regulation on measures to reduce the cost of deploying gigabit electronic communications networks (gigabit infrastructure act).

This regulation aims to replace the broadband cost reduction directive (BCRD) adopted in 2014. The proposal is based on the experience drawn from the application of the BCRD and its main objective is to improve the conditions for the deployment of very high capacity networks in Europe. The proposal also aims to lower the costs of the deployment of electronic communication networks, shorten the time needed to obtain the necessary licences from member states’ authorities and reach a minimum harmonisation concerning the permit granting procedures across the Union. Finally, the proposal addresses the access to, and deployment of, the in-building infrastructure and aims to facilitate cross-border applications.

Detailed examination of the proposal at the Council’s Working Party on telecommunications and information society identified some areas requiring particular attention before reaching an agreement within the Council, such as the system of ‘tacit’ approval of permits, disclosure of works on critical infrastructure, the legal form of the proposal, guidances and implementing powers, single information points (SIPs) and technological neutrality. The Swedish presidency will ensure a smooth handover to the incoming Spanish presidency.

* Gigabit Infrastructure Act, Commission proposal, 23 February 2023[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-6845-2023-INIT/en/pdf]

Interoperable Europe Act

The Council took note of a progress report on the proposal for a regulation laying down measures for a high level of public sector interoperability across the Union (interoperable Europe act).

The proposal aims to set up a new framework to enable public administrations across the EU to cooperate more effectively and ensure the seamless delivery of public services across borders, thus saving time and costs for citizens and businesses.

The Council’s Working Party on telecommunications and information society has examined this proposal. Based on member states’ comments, the Swedish presidency has drafted two compromise texts with some changes to the Commission’s proposal linked to:

– the scope and proportionality of the regulation

– the interoperability assessment, and

– the alignment with the artificial intelligence act (AIA) and the general data protection regulation (GDPR)

Given that further discussion and analysis are needed on this file, the presidency intends to continue work on the proposal during its term in preparation of a smooth handover to the incoming Spanish presidency.

* Interoperable Europe Act, Commission proposal, 18 November 2022[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-14973-2022-INIT/en/pdf]

Cyber Resilience Act

The Council took note of a progress report on the proposal for a regulation on horizontal cybersecurity requirements for products with digital elements (cyber resilience act).

The proposal aims to fill the gaps in the existing cybersecurity legislation by ensuring that

products with digital elements, such as Internet of Things (IoT) products, including connected home cameras, refrigerators, TVs, toys and non-embedded software become secure throughout the whole supply chain and throughout their whole lifecycle.

Detailed examination of this proposal at the Council’s Horizontal Working Party on Cyber Issues (HWPCI) has enabled significant progress in the recent months, but has also showed that further discussion is needed on certain points, such as the classification of products with digital elements with regard to their sensitivity and reporting obligations for manufacturers.

The Swedish presidency plans to continue the work in the coming weeks with a view to achieving further progress on this important file.

* Cyber Resilience Act, Commission proposal, 15 September 2022[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-12429-2022-INIT/en/pdf]

The future of the connectivity sector

The Council held an exchange of views on the future of the connectivity sector.

A sustainable and well-functioning connectivity infrastructure is essential in order to strengthen the EU’s long-term competitiveness and the Commission has recently conducted an exploratory consultation on the future of the connectivity sector. In light of significant technical and market developments, the questions of further roll-out of connectivity infrastructure have sparked a debate on the need for investments and the current regulatory conditions for the electronic communications sector.

Against this background, ministers reflected on this important topic and signalled the need for a thorough analysis and impact assessment. Ministers also shared their thoughts on other challenges and developments the electronic communications sector is facing that would require attention in the path to Europe’s digital transformation to 2030 and beyond.

* The future of the electronic communication sector and its infrastructure, EU Commission, consultation, 23 February 2023[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/consultations/future-electronic-communications-sector-and-its-infrastructure]

Any other business

The presidency reported on the state of play of current legislative proposals, namely:

* the eID regulation

* the data act

* the ePrivacy regulation

* eID regulation, Council’s general approach, 6 December 2022[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/tte/2023/06/02/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Transport%2c+Telecommunications+and+Energy+Council+(Telecommunications)]

* Data Act, Council’s mandate for negotiations with the European Parliament, 22 March 2023[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-7413-2023-INIT/en/pdf]

* ePrivacy regulation, Council’s mandate for negotiations with the European Parliament, 10 February 2021[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-6087-2021-INIT/en/pdf]

The Commission informed ministers on the state of play of international initiatives in the digital field with a focus on trade and technology councils and digital partnerships, as well as on security of 5G and other connectivity infrastructures.

With regard to artificial intelligence (AI), the presidency informed the Council on the conference on ‘Sustainable AI and AI for sustainability’ held in Gothenburg on 2-3 May 2023 and, at the initiative of the Danish delegation, ministers exchanges views on practices and initiatives addressing the use of AI, outside the legislative process in the EU.

The Lithuanian, Polish and Portuguese delegations informed the Council about setting a coordination mechanism within the EU and strengthening the relations between the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) and the EU.

The Polish delegation informed the Council about improving the digital economy and society index (DESI).

Finally, the Spanish presidency presented its priorities and work programme for the second half of 2023.

Informal lunch

Over an informal lunch, ministers held a comprehensive exchange views on the topic of a competitive and digital Europe beyond 2030. Ministers reflected on possible ways to ensure an innovation-friendly approach to regulation in the digital field and explored possible measures to ensure a growth-enhancing regulatory framework for the EU’s digital transformation without leading to additional administrative burden for businesses in Europe.

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/meetings/tte/2023/06/02/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Transport%2c+Telecommunications+and+Energy+Council+(Telecommunications)]

Cholpon-Ata: Joint press release by Asian leaders and the EU Council President [https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/cholpon-ata-joint-press-release-by-asian-leaders-and-the-eu-council-president/408519/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 02, 2023 01:34 pm

Brussels, 2 June 2023

On 2 June 2023, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, President of the Kyrgyz Republic Sadyr Zhaparov, President of the Republic of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon, President of the Republic of Uzbekistan Shavkat Mirziyoyev, President of Turkmenistan Serdar Berdimuhamedov (represented by Turkmenistan’s Deputy Chair of the Cabinet of Ministers Nurmuhammet Amannepesov) and President of the European Council Charles Michel welcomed the second regional high-level meeting in Cholpon-Ata.

During an open and constructive meeting, the participants reviewed the multilateral and mutually beneficial cooperation between the EU and Central Asian states since last year’s inaugural meeting in Astana, and discussed the EU – Central Asia relations in the context of international developments. They reaffirmed their commitment to continue the high-level dialogue at the level of the Heads of State and the EU and to the development of the EU- Central Asia partnership in line with the priority areas identified between the Parties with the shared goal of a prosperous and secure Central Asia.

The Leaders welcomed the contribution of the existing and new high-level platforms in support of further institutionalisation of the relationship between the Central Asian countries and the EU. The participants expressed their satisfaction with the positive outcomes of the latest EU – Central Asia dialogues and platforms, in particular the 2nd EU – Central Asia Economic Forum held in Almaty on 18-19 May 2023, the Civil Society Forum in Tashkent on 10 March 2023, the EU-Central Asia High-Level Conference on Environment and Water Resources in Rome on 23-24 February 2023, the EU – Central Asia Connectivity Conference and the EU- Central Asia Ministerial Meeting held in Samarkand on 18-19 November 2022. The participants expressed their intention to adopt the EU – Central Asia Roadmap at the next Ministerial Meeting. They confirmed their readiness to continue the ambitious engagement in a way of mutual respect and mutual support.

The Leaders expressed continued commitment to uphold the UN Charter, particularly the principles of respect for the independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity of all countries, non-use of force or threat of its use and peaceful settlement of international disputes.

The Participants articulated common concern over the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan and re-affirmed their commitment to see Afghanistan develop into a secure, peaceful, stable, prosperous country. In this regard, they recognised the efforts of the international community to assist the people of Afghanistan in a principled manner and in accordance with international law and universally recognized norms and principles, despite difficult circumstances. Participants called on the international community to step up humanitarian assistance to the people of Afghanistan and noted the key role of the UN in providing humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan in a principled manner. They underlined the importance of the establishment of an inclusive and representative government and the importance of promotion of and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms of all Afghans citizens, in particular women, girls and ethnic groups. In this respect, they noted the importance of the EU – Central Asia dialogue on Afghanistan, including the outcomes of the fourth meeting of the EU and Central Asia Special Representatives and Special Envoys for Afghanistan held on 25-26 May in Ashgabat.

They emphasized the inadmissibility of public appeals and incitement to terrorism and extremism and advocated the intensification of efforts to combat the spread of terrorism ideology and propaganda through the Internet. In this regard, the Leaders called for consistent implementation of relevant UN Security Council resolutions on countering the spread of terrorist, separatist and extremist ideologies, including on the Internet.

The Leaders noted the need to strengthen cooperation between Central Asia and the EU on the old, new and emerging challenges as outlined in the EU Strategy on Central Asia and in accordance with universal principles.

The Leaders tasked their Foreign Ministers and EU’s HRVP Borrell to formalise and advance the implementation of the Joint Road Map for Deepening Ties between the EU and Central Asia.

They re-iterated the joint commitment to work towards achieving Sustainable Development Goals, and in this respect, stressed the importance of further cooperation to strengthen the rule of law, democracy, good governance, gender equality and universal human rights and fundamental freedoms, as outlined in the framework of the EU Strategy on Central Asia of 2019.

The Leaders agreed that diversification efforts and closer sustainable connectivity goals in line with the Global Gateway strategy remain to be of an utmost importance. In this context, the Participants welcomed the positive outcomes of the EU-Central Asia Connectivity Conference held in Samarkand which expressed Central Asia’s and the EU’s interest and readiness to intensify cooperation both within the Central Asian region and between Europe and Central Asia in strengthening energy security and developing alternative energy supply routes, enhancing sustainable and secure digitalisation and digital sovereignty, improving transport connections, and transitioning to a green, sustainable, climate- and ecologically- friendly economy and e-commerce. In this respect, they welcomed the new Team Europe Initiatives on water, energy and climate change and on digital connectivity with the participation of the private sector and European Financial Institutions and looked forward to their swift implementation. The Leaders welcomed the EU study on sustainable connectivity in Central Asia and looked forward to the publication of the final report. The President of the European Council also commended the considerations on the green transition, environmental protection and climate change in Central Asia as discussed at the last Consultative Meeting of Central Asian Heads of State in Cholpon-Ata.

The Leaders stressed the importance of further expansion of mutual trade and investment mechanisms to advance socio-economic development of all parties. They also stressed the importance of close dialogue in the context of the EU’s sanctions regimes.

The Participants re-iterated their interest in strengthening joint actions to fully and effectively implement the Paris commitments of the parties. They welcomed the outcomes of the UN 2023 Water Conference in New York, co-chaired by Tajikistan and the Netherlands and reconfirmed their will to work together on the Water Action Agenda. Noting that water is one of the most important assets for the peace and well-being of the peoples of Central Asia, they recognised that the interests of the countries and peoples of the region need to be taken into account to find a common solution to its sustainable use.

The Leaders confirmed the need to continue high-level dialogue and interregional cooperation between the EU and Central Asian countries for the implementation of an innovative, mutually beneficial and open water-energy cooperation in Central Asia in the areas of rational use and protection of water resources, adaptation to climate change, as well as conservation of the environment and biodiversity in Central Asia, and called for reinforcing and to strengthen practical measures for regional cooperation. In this context, the President of the European Council confirmed the EU’s readiness to share its positive experience in these areas.

The Participants noted the negative impact of the Aral Sea disaster on regional security and advocated the need to intensify joint efforts to find the most acceptable solutions to overcome the problem.

They re-iterated the importance to work together to expand connections between people, especially youth, in Europe and Central Asia, including through higher education, culture, and tourism. The Leaders encouraged the Foreign Ministers to further develop these initiatives in the Road Map for Deepening Ties between the EU and Central Asia. They noted the importance of strengthening the interaction between think tanks and civil society, and discussed opportunities for a joint training for Central Asian diplomats, including in the European Union.

The President of the European Council supported the efforts of the Central Asia countries aimed at ensuring prosperity, peace, sustainable development, good-neighbourliness, trust and friendship in the region, welcomed the strengthened regional cooperation through the Consultative Meetings of the Heads of State of Central Asia and looked forward to the results of the upcoming Fifth Consultative Meeting of the Heads of State of Central Asia which will take place in the Republic of Tajikistan.

The President of the European Council welcomed the on-going efforts for socio-economic and democratic reforms in the region as well as the positive outcomes of regional cooperation as important building blocks for the EU – Central Asia cooperation. On the occasion of the 30 year anniversary of the International Fund for Saving the Aral Sea (IFAS), he congratulated the IFAS for the important work done to improve ecological situation in the areas affected by the Aral Sea catastrophe and address the socioeconomic issues in the region.

The Participants expressed their deep gratitude to Kyrgyzstan for hosting the second meeting of the Heads of State of Central Asia and the EU.

The Leaders agreed to meet on a regular basis, aiming to hold their next meeting as a first Summit next year. The Uzbek side has proposed to host the meeting in Uzbekistan.

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/06/02/press-communique-by-heads-of-state-of-central-asia-and-the-president-of-the-european-council/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=Joint+press+communiqu%u00e9+by+Heads+of+State+of+Central+Asia+and+the+President+of+the+European+Council]

Shangri-La Dialogue: EU HRVP Borrell travels to Singapore[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/shangri-la-dialogue-eu-hrvp-borrell-travels-to-singapore/408517/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 02, 2023 01:18 pm

Brussels, 2 June 2023

From 3 to 5 June, High Representative/Vice President Josep Borrell will travel to Singapore where he will participate in the IISS Shangri-La Dialogue[https://www.iiss.org/events/shangri-la-dialogue/shangri-la-dialogue-2023/].

He will join defence ministers, military leaders and senior officials, business leaders and security experts from all over the world to discuss common security challenges. On 3 June, he will deliver a speech during the third plenary session ‘Resolving Regional Tensions’.

During his visit, the High Representative will meet Acting Prime Minister of Singapore Lawrence Wong, Minister of Defence Dr Ng Eng Hen and Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr Vivian Balakrishnan. On the agenda will be the further strengthening of the EU-Singapore partnership, EU-ASEAN relations as well as a range of regional and international security issues, both in Europe and in Asia.

In the margins of the Dialogue, High Representative Borrell will also have bilateral meetings with his Asian counterparts, to discuss regional and bilateral issues.

Audiovisual footage of the visit will be provided by Europe by Satellite[https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/]. Follow @EU_in_Singapore[https://twitter.com/EUinSingapore], @JosepBorrellF[https://twitter.com/JosepBorrellF] and @eu_eeas[https://twitter.com/eu_eeas] for live updates throughout the visit.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_23_3047]

Mergers: EU Commission clears acquisition of joint control of Hyve by PEP and SCP[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/mergers-eu-commission-clears-acquisition-of-joint-control-of-hyve-by-pep-and-scp/408515/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 02, 2023 01:10 pm

Brussels, 2 June 2023

The European Commission has approved, under the EU Merger Regulation, the acquisition of joint control of Hyve Group PLC (‘Hyve’) of the UK by Providence Equity Partners LLC (‘PEP’) of the US and Searchlight Capital Partners LP (‘SCP’) of the UK.

Hyve organises exhibitions and conferences. PEP is a global asset manager. SCP is a private equity investment firm.

The Commission concluded that the proposed acquisition would raise no competition concerns, because of its limited impact on the market. The transaction was examined under the simplified merger review procedure.

More information is available on the Commission’s competition[http://ec.europa.eu/competition/index_en.html] website, in the public case register[http://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/index.cfm] under the case number M.11124[http://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/case_details.cfm?proc_code=2_M_11124].

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_23_3047]

EU Cohesion Policy: New report highlights that a cohesive development is crucial for the EU’s growth agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-cohesion-policy-new-report-highlights-that-a-cohesive-development-is-crucial-for-the-eus-growth-agenda/408512/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 02, 2023 01:01 pm

Brussels, 2 June 2023

The Commission has adopted a report[https://ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/information-sources/publications/reports/2023/regional-trends-for-growth-and-convergence-in-the-european-union_en] on regional trends for growth and convergence in the EU showing that Europe has experienced a significant dynamic of upward convergence over the last 20 years. For instance, in terms of GDP per capita, by 2021 less developed regions experienced an increase from 51% to 62% compared to the EU average. The report complements the analysis of the Member states’ economies of the Country Reports[https://economy-finance.ec.europa.eu/publications/2023-european-semester-country-reports_en] published by the Commission on 24 May. It also highlights several regional asymmetries and how to best address them. Some Member States show regional disparities in access to basic public services such as education or public transportation especially in rural areas. Moreover, disparities in labour market outcomes (i.e., employment and unemployment rates), competitiveness, research and innovation, digital and energy efficiency are also still present in some regions.

Commissioner for Cohesion and Reforms, Elisa Ferreira said:

“The analysis published today highlights that a cohesive and sustainable development of EU regions is key for economic prosperity, social welfare, and the competitiveness of the whole EU. Tackling disparities through place-sensitive policies builds resilience and inclusive growth and strengthens the EU’s single market. Cohesion Policy funds are of paramount importance in this endeavour and a major player in the economic governance of the EU budget.”

To address the regional imbalances while fostering the unfulfilled potential of less competitive regions and sub-regional territories, together with instruments such as the Recovery and Resilience Facility[https://commission.europa.eu/business-economy-euro/economic-recovery/recovery-and-resilience-facility_en], today’s analysis highlights the importance of the targeted action under EU Cohesion policy in the years ahead. Cohesion Policy is key for supporting reforms and growth-enhancing investments in people and businesses. The combination of the peaking implementation of the 2014-2020 Cohesion Policy programmes (EUR 405 billion) in parallel to the launch of the 2021-2027 programmes (EUR 378 billion) provides a continuous stream of investment in people and businesses. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, Cohesion Policy programmes have disbursed more than EUR 186 billion to increase resilience and boost social and regional convergence.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_23_3047]

7th Brussels Conference on supporting the future of Syria and the region[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/7th-brussels-conference-on-supporting-the-future-of-syria-and-the-region/408510/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jun 02, 2023 12:51 pm

Brussels, 2 June 2023

The VII. Brussels Conference “Supporting the future of Syria and the region” will take place on Thursday 15 June, in Brussels. The Ministerial segment of the annual international event organised by the EU will be preceded by the Day of Dialogue, which will take place on Wednesday 14 June in the European Parliament.

The Conference aims to reiterate EU’s commitment and support for the Syrian people and mobilise humanitarian and financial support to address the growing needs of the affected Syrian population – living in Syria and in neighbouring countries. It also aims to rally the international community’s political and financial support to host communities in the wider region, that have shown solidarity towards displaced people and refugees, such as Lebanon, Jordan, Türkiye, Egypt, and Iraq.

The Conference will also offer a platform to renew international engagement for a political solution to the conflict, in line with UN Security Council Resolution 2254.

The Day of Dialogue will offer a unique platform for civil society from inside Syria, the region, and the diaspora to discuss, through several panels, some of the key challenges faced by the Syrian people. The Dialogue aims at reconfirming and enhancing the political support of the international community for these crucial actors.

The Ministerial will bring together State actors, notably EU Member States, Syria’s neighbouring States, and third countries, as well as representatives from the United Nations and other international organisations. The High Representative Josep Borrell will co-chair the conference on behalf of the European Union, together with Olivér Várhelyi, Commissioner for Neighbourhood and Enlargement, and Janez Lenarčič, Commissioner for Crisis Management.

The European Union and its Member States are the largest donors in support of the Syrian people, with over EUR 30 billion mobilised since 2011. Last year the European Union and its Member States contribute to 75% of the Conference pledges. Brussels VII conference will be the main pledging event for Syria and the region in 2023.

For more information on the conference please consult the Brussels VII. Conference website[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/supporting-future-syria-and-region_en], available in English and Arabic.

Press engagements, videos, and photos of the Conference will be published and broadcasted on Council live [https://video.consilium.europa.eu/home/en] and EbS[https://audiovisual.ec.europa.eu/en/ebs/both/20220316].

Registration for accreditations

Media representatives wishing to cover the Ministerial meeting in person are required to register in advance, following this link[https://eva-jour.consilium.europa.eu/].

The deadline to register is Friday 9 June 2023 at 14 CET.

For more information, please also consult the Media accreditation page.[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/accreditation/]

Media representatives are strongly advised to apply as soon as possible to allow for sufficient time to process the requests.

Media representatives in possession of the European Council annual badge will also be able to access this event’s media opportunities. No additional registration is required.

Media representatives wishing to cover the Day of Dialogue in person are required to register via the online registration platform[https://ep-events.secure.europarl.europa.eu/events/Syria2023/e/ce/g/86520/]. Due to restricted space availability, applicants will receive a confirmation of their physical participation via e-mail.

The Deadline to register is 8 June 2023 at 12:00 CET

Information regarding badge collection, media facilities available and their opening hours will be communicated via email in due course to accredited journalists.

Press conferences

The press conference will be in hybrid format, with the possibility of physical participation in the room as well as to join virtually. Practical and connection details on the press conferences and possible national briefings will be shared at a later stage.

Source – EEAS[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/media-advisory-seventh-brussels-conference-supporting-future-syria-and-region-14-15-june_en?channel=eeas_press_alerts&date=2023-06-02&newsid=0&langid=en&source=mail]

You are receiving this e-mail because you have signed up for the premium version of our Insight EU Monitoring Digest.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any problems in receiving or opening this mail, or if you are interested in other services we offer.

You find more information about us on our FAQ page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] and on our subscription page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]. Or simply contact our publisher[mailto:j.weidemann@ieu-monitoring.com?subject=Letter%20to%20the%20publisher].

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020230603ej6300001


Domestic
CORRECTION: Marabou's chocolate remains on the shelves of S Group and Kesko despite the boycotts*** TRANSLATED ***
Hanna Iittala
678 字
2023 年 7 月 4 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2023. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
Correction, Mondelez International has not paid Russia billions, but millions.

Several companies have joined the boycott against the confectionery chain.

The Finnish S-group and Kesko continue to sell Marabou chocolate in their retail stores despite boycotts by others. Both companies justify their decision to STT with the fact that Marabou's products are not manufactured in Russia. Marabou manufactures the products in Sweden.

Marabout has been boycotted all over the Nordic countries because Mondelez International, which owns the brand, continues to operate in Russia despite the war in Ukraine. In addition to Marabou, Mondelez's brands include Oreo, Digestive and Toblerone.

The S group does not sell products made in Russia, but they have been removed from the S group's stores as early as spring winter 2022. The Marabou products sold at the S group's locations are made in Sweden, Germany and Belgium.

- The Mondelez products we sell are not manufactured in Russia. We have had a discussion on the subject with Mondelez's Finnish country organization and have brought forward our views on the critical approach to business in Russia, says Sampo Päällysaho, director of grocery trade, SOK Marketkaupa's chain management.

The company also takes a stand on the activities of suppliers in Russia.

- We encourage such a critical approach to all our suppliers who have or have had business in Russia. Some of the suppliers have already decided, after the start of the Russian war of aggression in Ukraine, to end business in Russia, to end investments in Russia, or to reduce production, Päällysaho says.

The S group consists of regional cooperatives and the SOK group.

Kesko also says that it does not sell products made in Russia or products made from Russian raw materials. Marking Mondelez products in stores has been discussed at Kesko, but this has not been done so far.

- We have reviewed the situation and feedback from Finnish consumers with both Mondelez Finland and European management. At the same time, we have ensured that the Mondelez products sold in K-food stores are manufactured elsewhere than in Russia. The company is not subject to national or international sanction decisions, says Harri Hovi, Kesko's grocery business manager.

For example, Tallink and VR boycotted

At least VR, Tallink Silja, Viking Line and Ikea have announced Marabou boycotts in Finland. According to Aftonbladet, the airlines SAS and Norwegian as well as the Swedish state railway company SJ have started a boycott in Sweden. The Swedish Football Association also evaluates its cooperation with Mondelez.

The Finnish Ice Hockey Federation, on the other hand, continues to cooperate with Mondelez citing the fact that Mondelez Finland has no connections to Russia, the federation's sales and marketing director Lassi Rönkkönen tells STT.

In addition, stores in Sweden, such as ICA, have attached signs to their shelves, which, for example, inform that Mondelez, which owns Marabou, is on Ukraine's blacklist.

Parent company: Independent of Russian business

The US-based Mondelez plans to separate its operations in Russia from the rest of its business before the end of the year, the company says on its website. However, it does not mean the termination or sale of the business, but that the business in Russia will become independent.

Mondelez justifies the continuation of business in Russia, among other things, by the fact that it is responsible for supplying everyday food to ordinary people. The company also feels responsible for its employees and suppliers. According to the press release published on June 22, the Mondelez Foundation will donate a humanitarian aid package of 15 million dollars to Ukraine.

According to the calculations of NACP, the national anti-corruption authority of Ukraine, Mondelez International would have paid more than 61 million dollars in taxes to Russia.

Many companies have stopped or reduced their business operations in Russia since Russia launched a large-scale attack on Ukraine in February last year.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020230704ej7400439


Oligarch Rotenberg was permitted to withdraw funds by a Finnish bank just before sanctions took effect
352 字
2023 年 7 月 5 日
Nordic Daily
NORDAI
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Helsinki, Finland: According to the tabloid Ilta-Sanomat on Wednesday, a regional cooperative bank in Southwest Finland permitted Russian-Finnish oligarch Boris Rotenberg to withdraw funds from his company in cash last year, shortly before EU sanctions went into force. Since 2002, Rotenberg has been a citizen of Finland. He is a member of the Rotenberg family of Russian oligarchs and has been associated with President Vladimir Putin since the 1960s.

The bank's compliance officer, who is mandated to oversee the legality of the bank's operations, had recommended that the money not be handed over. However, Rotenberg was allowed to withdraw his funds on April 4, 2022, after signing a declaration that he would not transfer them to Russia or Belarus.

The bank, Suupohjan Osuuspankki, part of the POP group, has since merged with the Lieto and Piikkiö cooperative banks. Since the beginning of June last year, the new bank has been known as Suomen Osuuspankki.

Having Rotenberg as a client had already caused problems for the bank for years, as he had been on the US sanctions list since 2014, when Russia seized the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine.

Ilta-Sanomat published documents from the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority showing that the bank reached the decision after much deliberation, overriding at the last minute a recommendation by its compliance officer saying that the customer's funds should not be handed over for the time being due to cash export sanctions imposed by the EU.

Sanctions imposed by the US do not have a direct legal effect in Finland, but having business or customer relations with a close friend of the Russian president could expose a bank itself to the risk of being sanctioned.

Earlier this year, Yle's MOT investigative journalism team reported that Rotenberg had violated EU sanction rules by not declaring assets in Finland. Last autumn, Finnish authorities seized two villas owned by Rotenberg as part of more than 80 million euros worth of assets owned by Russians subject to EU sanctions.

SIA Impact Media

文件 NORDAI0020230717ej750001c


World news
Ukraine-Russia war: US 'to provide cluster munitions to Ukraine'
By Maighna Nanu, Foreign Reporter
2650 字
2023 年 7 月 6 日 14:05 GMT
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
英文
The Telegraph Online © 2023. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
The United States will provide cluster munitions to Ukraine[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2023/07/07/ukraine-russia-war-latest-news-zelensky-counteroffensive/], the New York Times has reported.

The US military believes the controversial weapons, which release multiple, smaller bombs, would be useful for Ukraine in pushing back against Russian forces, a senior Pentagon official said in June but they had not been approved for Kyiv yet because of congressional restrictions and concerns among allies.

The decision was expected to be announced on Thursday, an NPR reporter said

Ukraine has been pushing Washington since last year to provide the munitions to help counter Russia’s superiority in long-range weapons, but the US has been hesitant to provide them because of the potential risk to civilians and an international treaty banning the use of cluster munitions.

The US has large stockpiles of cluster munitions that it developed during the Cold War but has been phasing them out since 2016.

06 Jul 2023-03:04PM BST

Today's liveblog is now closed

Thanks for following today’s liveblog.

We will be back tomorrow with all the latest updates from Ukraine.

06 Jul 2023-03:03PM BST

Cluster bombs: How they work and the damage they cause

The United States will provide cluster munitions to Ukraine, the New York Times has reported.

The US military believes the controversial weapons, which release multiple, smaller bombs, would help Ukraine fight back against Russia, according to a senior Pentagon official.

Here is a closer look at how cluster bombs work.

06 Jul 2023-02:50PM BST

Pictured: Ukrainian soldier fires D-30 cannon towards Russian positions near Bakhmut

06 Jul 2023-02:39PM BST

Ukraine and Bulgaria agree to further cooperation on defence

President Volodymyr Zelensky said that Ukraine and Bulgaria had agreed on more active cooperation in the defence sector, following a meeting with the country’s prime minister.

In a joint press conference with Nikolai Denkov in Sofia, Mr Zelensky said: “We discussed the military aid which Bulgaria gives to our country. We count on the continuation of the cooperation which has already saved many lives.”

He said that he had invited Bulgaria to participate in the reconstruction effort in Ukraine, particularly in the education sector. Mr Zelensky said that Sofia was also ready to help in the ecology and digitalisation sectors.

Bulgaria is a member of NATO and the EU, two Western bodies that Ukraine wants to join.

06 Jul 2023-02:11PM BST

The many faces of Prigozhin revealed as Russia looks to humiliate Wagner boss

Russian security services have leaked images of Wagner chief Yevgeny Prigozhin wearing wigs, fake beards and foreign military uniforms amid an apparent campaign to publicly discredit the mutinous mercenary.

It came as Russian state television aired footage of a police raid of his St Petersburg home that purportedly discovered large quantities of cash, gold and weapons, as well as wigs and fake documents.

The photographs, apparently taken from Prigozhin’s personal photo albums, appear to have been taken during trips to various African and Middle Eastern countries where Wagner has fought over the past eight years.

from Roland Oliphant

here [https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2023/07/06/many-faces-prigozhin-revealed-russia-humilates-wagner-boss/]

06 Jul 2023-02:07PM BST

Prigozhin is in Russia, says Belarus president

Yevgeny Prigozhin is no longer in Belarus, Alexander Lukashenko has confirmed, despite a deal with the Kremlin for the Wagner chief to move there following his failed insurrection last month.

The Belarusian president said: “As far as Prigozhin is concerned, he is in Saint Petersburg... He is not in Belarus.”

He said that fighters from Prigozhin’s mercenary group have also not moved to Belarus yet, despite an offer from the Kremlin for those who took part in the failed mutiny to do so.

“At the moment the question of their transfer and set-up has not been decided,” Lukashenko said.

“I am absolutely not worried or concerned that we will host a certain number of these fighters here,” he added.

06 Jul 2023-01:13PM BST

Pictured: Ukrainian servicemen near Bakhmut

06 Jul 2023-01:00PM BST

New British Ambassador to Ukraine appointed

@MartinHarrisOBE[https://twitter.com/MartinHarrisOBE?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] will take over as a new British Ambassador to Ukraine starting September 2023.

After four years in , current Ambassador @MelSimmonsFCDO[https://twitter.com/MelSimmonsFCDO?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] will take another Diplomatic Service appointment.

 https://t.co/G1xSDxzWe5[https://t.co/G1xSDxzWe5] pic.twitter.com/oLYPa6GRxN[https://t.co/oLYPa6GRxN]

06 Jul 2023-12:51PM BST

Moscow says closing Finnish consulate

Russia announced that it was shuttering Finland’s consulate in Saint Petersburg and expelling nine of its diplomats, calling the move a response to a “confrontational anti-Russian policy” being pursued by Helsinki.

Nato’s newest member Finland, which shares a long border with Russia, earlier this month expelled nine diplomats working at the Russian embassy in Helsinki for acting in an “intelligence capacity”.

“Nine employees of the Finnish Embassy in the Russian Federation and the Finnish Consulate General in Saint Petersburg were declared persona non grata,” the foreign ministry said in a statement, saying the move was a tit-for-tat response.

“As part of the response to the confrontational actions of the Finnish authorities, the Russian side decided to withdraw from October 1 its consent to the activities of the Consulate General of Finland in Saint Petersburg,” the statement added.

Finnish Prime Minister Petteri Orpo told reporters in Helsinki Thursday that his country was “obliged to start preparing for similar measures.”

“We must respond to this, that is quite clear,” he said.

06 Jul 2023-12:18PM BST

Pictured: Zelensky meets Bulgarian Prime Minister

06 Jul 2023-11:34AM BST

Ukraine: 'Tension' around Zaporizhzhia plant 'decreasing'

“Tension” around the Moscow-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant was “decreasing,” Ukraine has said, after Kyiv and Moscow accused each other this week of plotting provocations at the atomic facility.

“Tension is gradually decreasing,” Nataliya Gumenyuk, an army spokesman said, adding that this was thanks to the “powerful work” of Kyiv’s military and diplomatic efforts “with our foreign partners, who put pressure” on Russia.

06 Jul 2023-11:30AM BST

Kremlin 'not following' Prigozhin's movements

The Kremlin said it was “not following” Yevgeny Prigozhin’s movements, nearly two weeks after the Wagner chief launched a mutiny and sent armed fighters on a march toward Moscow.

“We are not following his movements,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said, after Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko that Prigozhin was in Russia.

06 Jul 2023-10:46AM BST

Are human lives not taken into account in these calculations, asks Zelensky aide

Afterword to today's Lviv tragedy... Every missile that hits an apartment building inevitably raises two simple questions... First: isn’t the timely delivery of the right amount of shells/tanks/long-range missiles and, of course, attack and fighter aircraft worth the lives of… pic.twitter.com/M6EhNKTUbx[https://t.co/M6EhNKTUbx]

06 Jul 2023-10:16AM BST

Russian missile destroys Lviv apartment building in 'direct hit'

At least four people have died after a Russian missile destroyed an apartment building in the western city of Lviv.

A child was among the 32 people who were also wounded, in what Maksym Kozytskyi, a local Ukrainian official, described as a “direct hit on a residential building”.

Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian President, posted a video online showing buildings with parts of the roof and upper floors destroyed, windows smashed and rescuers searching through the debris for survivors. He said there would be a response.

“Unfortunately, there are wounded and dead. My condolences to the families,” President Zelensky said. “There definitely will be a response to the enemy. It will be a noticeable one.”

Rescuers were continuing to work at the scene.

06 Jul 2023-09:21AM BST

Nato summit will 'offer Ukraine a lot,' says Lithuania

The president of Lithuania, which will host next week’s Nato summit, said he expected the talks to satisfy Ukraine as it seeks a clear invitation to join the defence alliance.

“I have a sense that we will find formulations which will not disappoint Ukrainians and will convey more than we are used to saying,” Gitanas Nauseda said.

Volodymyr Zelensky, whose country is battling Russian forces, “might not receive everything he expects in his most ambitious plans, but he will certainly receive a lot,” Mr Nauseda added.

President Zelensky said last week he wanted “a very clear and understandable signal” at the summit that Ukraine could become a Nato member after the war.

His administration also hinted that the Ukrainian head of state would drop his plans to visit Vilnius if the expectations were not met.

06 Jul 2023-09:19AM BST

Lukashenko: Wagner fighters 'still welcome in Belarus'

Alexander Lukashenko has said his offer for Wagner fighters to be stationed in Belarus still stands, after he confirmed that Yevgeny Prigozhin was no longer in the country.

The Belarusian President also said he expected Ukrainian forces to try to do something serious on the front line before a Nato summit in Lithuania next week.

Mr Lukashenko said such a move would see Ukraine destroy its best reserves and bury its own military capability.

06 Jul 2023-08:56AM BST

Breaking: Prigozhin 'back in Russia', says Lukashenko

Alexander Lukashenko, the Belarusian president, has confirmed that Yevgeny Prigozhin is back in Russia.

President Lukashenko said that the Wagner chief was in St Petersburg.

“As for Prigozhin, he’s in St Petersburg. He is not on the territory of Belarus.”

06 Jul 2023-08:53AM BST

Threat of terrorist attack at Zaporizhzhia plant is decreasing, says Budanov

#Budanov[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Budanov?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] said that the threat of a terrorist attack at the #Zaporizhzhia[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Zaporizhzhia?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] NPP is decreasing:

"We take certain actions in this sphere-both public and non-public, and I think that now the danger of an artificial man-made disaster is gradually decreasing," said the head of the… pic.twitter.com/EfKfWrkeD7[https://t.co/EfKfWrkeD7]

06 Jul 2023-08:27AM BST

Xi Jinping warned Putin not to use nuclear weapons in Ukraine

Xi Jinping personally warned Vladimir Putin against using nuclear weapons in Ukraine, it has emerged.

China’s president delivered the blunt message face-to-face to the Russian president during his state visit to Moscow in March, the Financial Times reported on Wednesday, citing multiple Western and Chinese officials.

It indicates underlying Chinese misgivings about Russia’s invasion of its neighbour despite Beijing’s outward show of tacit support for Moscow on the global stage.

from Nicola Smith

here [https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2023/07/05/xi-jinping-warns-putin-nuclear-weapons-china-russia-ukraine/]

06 Jul 2023-08:22AM BST

Inside Prigozhin's estate...

In a programme called “60 Minutes” broadcast on Wednesday evening on the state Rossiya-1 TV channel, what was billed as exclusive footage shot during law enforcement raids of Prigozhin’s office in St Petersburg and one of his estates there was shown.

The footage showed boxes full of high-denomination roubles in his office and bundles of dollars in his luxurious residence along with what was called his personal helicopter, an arms cache, a collection of wigs, a fully equipped medical treatment room, and a collection of souvenir sledge hammers, the tool Wagner allegedly used to bludgeon traitors to death in videos that surfaced online.

06 Jul 2023-08:09AM BST

'Another devastating night'

#Lviv[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Lviv?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]. Another devastating night.missile hit a residential building,killing 4 innocent people&injuring 32.Attack on the Western part ofis evidence that we protect whole of Europe.More air defence systems,F-16s&strengthening sanction policy are vital components to stopterror pic.twitter.com/JkZR7wYQx2[https://t.co/JkZR7wYQx2]

06 Jul 2023-08:03AM BST

Biden turned to Von der Leyen for top Nato role after F-16 row

Joe Biden made Ursula von der Leyen his pick for Nato secretary general after Britain announced plans to train Ukrainian pilots on F-16s without his approval.

Ben Wallace, the Defence Secretary, had been a front-runner to succeed Jens Stoltenberg, the transatlantic alliance’s current chief.

But Mr Wallace failed to secure the backing of the White House amid tensions over Britain’s ambitious military support for Ukraine, The Telegraph understands.

here [https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2023/07/05/ben-wallace-nato-chief-joe-biden-ukraine-f16/]

06 Jul 2023-07:59AM BST

Zelensky: There will be a 'strong response' to Lviv attack

Lviv. Consequences of the night attack by Russian terrorists. Unfortunately, there are wounded and dead. My condolences to the relatives!

There will definitely be a response to the enemy. A strong one. pic.twitter.com/9yl1MT6Eu4[https://t.co/9yl1MT6Eu4]

06 Jul 2023-07:58AM BST

Zelensky wanted Ukraine's counteroffensive to 'happen much earlier'

Slow weapons deliveries to Ukraine delayed Kyiv’s planned counteroffensive, allowing Russia to bolster its defences in occupied areas including with mines, Volodymyr Zelensky has said.

Speaking to CNN, President Zelensky revealed that he had sought to begin the counteroffensive against Russia “much earlier” than its actual start early June.

“Our slowed-down counteroffensive is happening due to certain difficulties in the battlefield. Everything is heavily mined there,” he said. “I wanted our counteroffensive happening much earlier, because everyone understood that if the counteroffensive will be unfolding later, then much bigger part of our territory will be mined.”

He said he had told US and European leaders ahead of the counteroffensive that a lack of supplies would result in more casualties.

“I’m grateful to the US as the leaders of our support, but I told them as well as European leaders that we would like to start our counteroffensive earlier, and we will need all the weapons and material for that.”

“Why? Simply because if we start later, it will go slower, and we will have losses of lives, because everything is heavily mined-we will have to go through it all.”

06 Jul 2023-07:55AM BST

Lviv attack in pictures:

These are the latest pictures of the missile strike on an apartment building in Lviv.

Mayor Andriy Sadovyi said around 60 apartments and 50 cars in the area of strike were damaged.

06 Jul 2023-07:49AM BST

Latest MoD update: Military formations across Russia 'bearing brunt of counteroffensive'

Latest Defence Intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine-06 July 2023.

Find out more about Defence Intelligence's use of language: https://t.co/Njwue3Yt57[https://t.co/Njwue3Yt57]

 #StandWithUkraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/StandWithUkraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]  pic.twitter.com/omJxOMWLmb[https://t.co/omJxOMWLmb]

06 Jul 2023-07:47AM BST

Georgian ambassador says he will leave Ukraine under president's order

Georgia’s ambassador to Ukraine, ordered home by President Volodymyr Zelensky in a disagreement over Georgia’s jailed former leader, told media he would comply with the order, though he described Kyiv’s stand as “misguided”.

“Forty-eight hours runs out tomorrow at 12 noon. I will try my very best to leave Ukraine by 12,” Ambassador Giorgi Zakarashvili told Georgia’s Rustavi-2 television in reports published in Ukrainian and Russian media.

Mr Zakarashvili was summoned to Ukraine’s foreign ministry in connection with Kyiv’s complaint that Georgian former President Mikheil Saakashvili was being refused permission to leave the country for medical treatment.

The diplomat told Rustavi-2 that the request for him to leave for 48 hours of consultations would hurt relations and was “misguided” as Georgia supported Ukraine in its conflict with Russia.

06 Jul 2023-07:41AM BST

Prigozhin flies to Russia to collect weapons seized after mutiny

Yevgeny Prigozhin, the mercenary who led a march on Moscow last month, returned to Russia to collect an arsenal of weapons including a personalised handgun.

Mr Prigozhin was expected to leave for Belarus under the deal to end the mutiny brokered by Alexander Lukashenko, the president of Belarus. Instead, the Wagner boss and his private jet have been spotted travelling back and forth between Belarus and Russia’s two biggest cities.

Russian authorities launched a criminal investigation into the Wagner private military group, which Mr Prigozhin founded, after it seized a major Russian city and advanced towards the capital before the rebellion ended suddenly in a deal with the Kremlin.

from Nataliya Vasilyeva

here [https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2023/07/05/yevgeny-prigozhin-wagner-returns-russia-weapons-belarus/]

06 Jul 2023-07:38AM BST

Good Morning

Good morning and welcome to today’s Ukraine liveblog.

We will be guiding you through all the latest updates on Ukraine.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

文件 TELUK00020230706ej76002xo


Insight EU Monitoring - Premium Digest
17633 字
2023 年 7 月 7 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2023. Comecon Media GmbH
A full-text overview of today's most important posts on our Insight EU portal

DAILY DIGEST

PREMIUM

www.ieu-monitoring.com[http://www.ieu-monitoring.com]

* Insight EU Environment Monitoring 5 July 2023

* Insight EU Climate Monitoring 5 July 2023

* Insight EU Energy Monitoring 5 July 2023

* EU sanctions: New law to crack down on violations

* Briefing on the Strasbourg plenary session 10-13 July 2023

* EU Commission report: How to tackle persisting labour and skills shortages?

* EU ammunition and missile production: EU Council and Parliament strike a deal

* France/Ukraine: Fight against impunity – Joint press release issued by French foreign and interior ministries

* Sweden: Government tasks Swedish Migration Agency with setting up return centres

* Finland continues to impose travel restrictions on Russian citizens

* Amazon: EU Commission opens investigation into proposed acquisition of iRobot

* Colonial collections to be returned to Indonesia and Sri Lanka

* Norway will develop the world’s most sustainable mineral industry

* 2023 Strategic Foresight Report: Focus on sustainability and wellbeing

* ESDE report 2023: EU Commission looks at possible ways to tackle labour and skills shortages

* Hong Kong: EEAS Spokesperson on the changes to the District Council electoral system

* EU innovation performance continues to improve at the national and regional level

* EU Cohesion Policy: The largest bridge over the Danube opens for circulation

* EU Cohesion Policy: Croatia received €1bn in recovery support following the devastating earthquakes

Insight EU Environment Monitoring 5 July 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-5-july-2023/411461/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 07, 2023 03:15 am

PESTICIDES

* Farm to Fork strategy: EU Commission’s reply to the Council on pesticides shows the urgent need to continue reducing pesticides in the EU

* Farm to Fork targets – Progress

REACH

* Smaller European businesses need more support to transition to 2050– Five ways the REACH revision can help

NATURAL RESOURCES

* European Green Deal: More sustainable use of plant and soil natural resources

* Press remarks by Executive Vice-President Timmermans and EU Commissioner Sinkevičius on proposals for more sustainable use of plant and soil natural resources

PLANTS & FORESTS

* Frequently Asked Questions: New rules for improved plant and forest reproductive material

GENTECH

* EU Commission FAQ on the Proposal on New Genomic Techniques

SOIL PROTECTION

* EU Commission FAQ on a Directive on Soil Monitoring and Resilience

FOOD WASTE

* EU Commission FAQ: Reducing Food Waste in the EU

CIRCULAR ECONOMY

* Circular economy for textiles: taking responsibility to reduce, reuse and recycle textile waste and boosting markets for used textiles

ECODESIGN

* EU Parliament: Ecodesign rules to ensure sustainable products on EU market

COVID-19 MONITORING

* Global regulators confirm good safety profile of COVID-19 vaccines – EMA

SDGS

* UN launches campaign, calling for renewed global ambition and action for the Sustainable Development Goals

* Developing countries face $4 trillion investment gap in SDGs

BFR BRIEFS

* Foods and food supplements containing soy: health aspects

EFSA BRIEFS

* preDQ – a software tool for peptide binding prediction to HLA‐DQ2 and HLA‐DQ8

* Assessment on the efficacy of methods 2 to 5 and method 7 set out in Commission Regulation (EU) No 142/2011 to inactivate relevant pathogens when producing processed animal protein of porcine origin intended to feed poultry and aquaculture animals

* Final report on the update and maintenance of OpenFoodTox: EFSA’s Chemical Hazards Database

* 3rd meeting of the One Health subgroup of the Scientific Network for Risk Assessment in Animal Health and Welfare

* Call for data for the Scientific Opinion on the evaluation of the safety in use of plant preparations containing hydroxycitric acid

* Call for data for the Scientific Opinion on the evaluation of the safety in use of plant preparations containing berberine

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* CM 3502 2023 INIT Meeting of the Working Party on Dual Use Goods – Agenda

* ST 11383 2023 ADD 6 ANNEX 6 to the COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/… supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing the technical screening criteria for determining the conditions under which an economic activity qualifies as contributing substantially to the sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources

* ST 11383 2023 ADD 7 ANNEX 7 to the COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) …/… supplementing Regulation (EU) 2020/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council by establishing the technical screening criteria for determining the conditions under which an economic activity qualifies as contributing substantially to the sustainable use and protection of water and marine resources

* ST 11415 2023 INIT List of Working Papers (WKs) distributed in the Working Party on the Environment (WPE) and in the Working Party on International Environment Issues (WPIEI) in the period of January – June 2023

EU COMMISSION REGISTER

* Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL amending Directive 2008/98/EC on waste

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT Accompanying the document Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2008/98/EC on waste

* Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on Soil Monitoring and Resilience (Soil Monitoring Law)

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT Accompanying the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Soil Monitoring and Resilience (Soil Monitoring Law)

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Guidance on EU funding opportunities for healthy soils Accompanying the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Soil Monitoring and Resilience (Soil Monitoring Law)

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Subsidiarity grid Accompanying the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Soil Monitoring and Resilience (Soil Monitoring Law)

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT Accompanying the document Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on Soil Monitoring and Resilience (Soil Monitoring Law)

* COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE AND THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS Ensuring resilient and sustainable use of EU’s natural resources

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT Accompanying the documents Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the production and marketing of plant reproductive material in the Union, amending Regulations (EU) 2016/2031, 2017/625 and 2018/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Council Directives 66/401/EEC, 66/402/EEC, 68/193/EEC, 2002/53/EC, 2002/54/EC, 2002/55/EC, 2002/56/EC, 2002/57/EC, 2008/72/EC and 2008/90 (Regulation on plant reproductive material) and Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the production and marketing of forest reproductive material in the Union, amending Regulations (EU) 2016/2031 and 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Council Directive 1999/105/EC (Regulation on forest reproductive material)

* Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the production and marketing of forest reproductive material, amending Regulations (EU) 2016/2031 and 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directive 1999/105/EC (Regulation on forest reproductive material)

* COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) /… concerning the renewal of the authorisation of a preparation of Lactiplantibacillus plantarum DSM 8862 and DSM 8866 as a feed additive for all animal species and repealing Implementing Regulation (EU) No 93/2012

* Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the production and marketing of plant reproductive material in the Union, amending Regulations (EU) 2016/2031, 2017/625 and 2018/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Council Directives 66/401/EEC, 66/402/EEC, 68/193/EEC, 2002/53/EC, 2002/54/EC, 2002/55/EC, 2002/56/EC, 2002/57/EC, 2008/72/EC and 2008/90/EC (Regulation on plant reproductive material)

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF THE IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT Executive Summary of the impact assessment report Accompanying the document Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMNET AND OF THE COUNCIL on plants obtained by certain new genomic techniques and their food and feed, and amending Regulation (EU) 2017/625

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT Accompanying the documents Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the production and marketing of plant reproductive material in the Union, amending Regulations (EU) 2016/2031, 2017/625 and 2018/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Council Directives 66/401/EEC, 66/402/EEC, 68/193/EEC, 2002/53/EC, 2002/54/EC, 2002/55/EC, 2002/56/EC, 2002/57/EC, 2008/72/EC and 2008/90 (Regulation on plant reproductive material) and Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the production and marketing of forest reproductive material in the Union, amending Regulations (EU) 2016/2031 and 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Council Directive 1999/105/EC (Regulation on forest reproductive material)

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Subsidiarity Grid Accompanying the documents Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the production and marketing of plant reproductive material in the Union, amending Regulations (EU) 2016/2031, 2017/625 and 2018/848 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Council Directives 66/401/EEC, 66/402/EEC, 68/193/EEC, 2002/53/EC, 2002/54/EC, 2002/55/EC, 2002/56/EC, 2002/57/EC, 2008/72/EC and 2008/90 (Regulation on plant reproductive material) and Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the production and marketing of forest reproductive material in the Union, amending Regulations (EU) 2016/2031 and 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Council Directive 1999/105/EC (Regulation on forest reproductive material)

* COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING REGULATION (EU) /… concerning the authorisation of butyric acid, ethyl butyrate, ethyl isobutyrate, ethyl isovalerate, methyl isovalerate, 2-methyl-2-pentenoic acid, 6-methylhept-5-en-2-one, undecan-2-one, octan-2-one, nonan-2-one, octan-3-one, tridecan-2-one, 5-methylhept-2-en-4-one, dodecano-1,5-lactone, tetradecano-1,5-lactone, 5-methylfurfural, 4-phenylbut-3-en-2-one, p-anisyl alcohol, 4-methoxybenzaldehyde, piperonal, vanillin, p-anisyl acetate, benzyl benzoate, isobutyl salicylate, isopentyl salicylate, benzyl salicylate and diphenyl ether as feed additives for all animal species

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT IMPACT ASSESSMENT REPORT Accompanying the document Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on plants obtained by certain new genomic techniques and their food and feed, and amending Regulation (EU) 2017/625

* COMMISSION STAFF WORKING DOCUMENT Subsidiarity Grid Accompanying the document Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on plants obtained by certain new genomic techniques and their food and feed, and amending Regulation (EU) 2017/625

* Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on plants obtained by certain new genomic techniques and their food and feed, and amending Regulation (EU) 2017/625

* COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING DECISION (EU) / repealing Implementing Decision (EU) 2022/1486 postponing the expiry date of the approval of acrolein for use in biocidal products of product-type 12

* COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING DECISION (EU) / not renewing the approval of acrolein for use in biocidal products of product-type 12 in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 528/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council

A PDF and DOC version of the complete Insight EU Monitoring edition can be purchased and downloaded below as soon as the product link becomes available:

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.12.2 noptimize

/noptimizehttps://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Monitoring-5-July-2023---42-pages-PDF-DOC-p569248487[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Monitoring-5-July-2023---42-pages-PDF-DOC-p569248487] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Monitoring-5-July-2023---42-pages-PDF-DOC-p569248487[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Monitoring-5-July-2023---42-pages-PDF-DOC-p569248487] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.12.2

Please note that there may be a delay of several hours in the availability of single monitoring downloads. To receive real-time monitoring emails, subscribe to our full-text services on the Insight EU Store page.

If you need tailored regulatory monitoring services that focus on specific policy areas, institutions, or topics, please contact Insight EU without hesitation at sales@ieu-monitoring.com[mailto:sales@ieu-monitoring.com] or follow one of the links below:

* Insight EU Premium (complete daily portal posts – except Insight EU Monitoring mails):

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Specialized Insight EU Monitoring mails – subscriptions or single editions::

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Tailored and targeted Insight EU Monitoring offers: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

* FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information

* Free basic Insight EU Monitoring Digest and weekly Insight EU Agenda:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-5-july-2023/411461/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Climate Monitoring 5 July 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-5-july-2023/411460/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 07, 2023 03:08 am

WMO

* Climate change vicious cycle spirals in Latin America and Caribbean – World Meteorological Organization

CBAM

* Secretariat to track CBAM readiness of the Energy Community

NET-ZERO

* Lighting Europe’s journey to net zero with realistic 2040 targets – Eurelectric

EFRAG BRIEFS

* EFRAG extends the consultation period of its draft comment letters on ISSB SASB methodology and ISSB RFI Agenda consultation with one week

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* CM 3742 2023 INIT IMO / ISWG-GHG 15 – MEPC 80 – EU coordination meeting

* CM 3739 2023 INIT WORKING PARTY ON TECHNICAL HARMONISATION (Motor Vehicles)

* ST 10457 2023 INIT Impact of the European Union carbon market on different EU policies – Information from Poland

A PDF and DOC version of the complete Insight EU Monitoring edition can be purchased and downloaded below as soon as the product link becomes available:

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.12.2 noptimize/noptimizehttps://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-5-July-2023-PDF-DOC-p569248486[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-5-July-2023-PDF-DOC-p569248486] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-5-July-2023-PDF-DOC-p569248486[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Monitoring-5-July-2023-PDF-DOC-p569248486] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.12.2

Please note that there may be a delay of several hours in the availability of single monitoring downloads. To receive real-time monitoring emails, subscribe to our full-text services on the Insight EU Store page.

If you need tailored regulatory monitoring services that focus on specific policy areas, institutions, or topics, please contact Insight EU without hesitation at sales@ieu-monitoring.com[mailto:sales@ieu-monitoring.com] or follow one of the links below:

* Insight EU Premium (complete daily portal posts – except Insight EU Monitoring mails):

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Specialized Insight EU Monitoring mails – subscriptions or single editions::

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Tailored and targeted Insight EU Monitoring offers: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

* FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information

* Free basic Insight EU Monitoring Digest and weekly Insight EU Agenda:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-5-july-2023/411460/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Energy Monitoring 5 July 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-5-july-2023/411459/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 07, 2023 02:54 am

WIND ENERGY

* New permitting rules & tools available for Governments to speed up renewables expansion

* Cement co-processing: a sustainable solution for end-of-life composite materials

ENERGY REGULATION

* Secretariat to track energy transition readiness of the Energy Community

NUCLEAR ENERGY

* Update 171 – IAEA Director General Statement on Situation in Ukraine

* IAEA Conducts Follow-Up Mission to Assess Canada’s Nuclear Emergency Preparedness and Response Framework

HYDROGEN

* Latest hydrogen industries’ headlines

* Nikola Snags $42 Million From California To Build Hydrogen Truck Stations

* Nikola to build 6 hydrogen refueling stations in Southern California

* Singapore’s Spectronik eyes hydrogen vans for commercial fleets

* DOE advances $1 billion of $7 billion clean hydrogen strategy

* India in talks to supply green hydrogen to EU, Singapore

* India to raise trade and technology barriers on green hydrogen

* Green Hydrogen Helping to Power Wales’ Net Zero Journey

* Businesses Join Forces to Help Accelerate the Roll Out of Green Hydrogen

* Study identifies ‘great potential’ for importing hydrogen from Tasmania to Rotterdam

* Opel receives order for 16 Vivaro-e Hydrogen

* Trelleborg Launches H2Pro Range of Advanced Hydrogen Sealing Materials

* How Hydrogen recombination works part3(Cosmology)

* Wind, hydrogen and solar fused in Portugal’s punchy new energy transition plan

* Industrial sites back hydrogen conversion

* Green hydrogen to be India’s future fuel, says union minister RK Singh

* India’s first Green Hydrogen fuelling station to start within 3 months

* Metal-Organic Frameworks for Safe Hydrogen Tanks (ft. Machine Learning)

* Open consultation: Price-based competitive allocation for low carbon hydrogen: call for evidence

* Research: Future of hydrogen in industry: initial industrial site surveys

* American Airlines Cargo has hydrogen hopes

* World’s first hydrogen-electric MEWP is both Speedy and Nifty

* Biden’s Green Hydrogen Plan Hits Obstacle: Water

GERMANY

* Der Spitzenausgleich für energieintensive Unternehmen soll wegfallen – eine Verzehnfachung des Steuersatzes auf Strom.

A PDF and DOC version of the complete Insight EU Monitoring edition can be purchased and downloaded below as soon as the product link becomes available:

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.12.2 noptimize/noptimizehttps://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Monitoring-5-July-2023-PDF-DOC-p569371056[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Monitoring-5-July-2023-PDF-DOC-p569371056] https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Monitoring-5-July-2023-PDF-DOC-p569371056[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Monitoring-5-July-2023-PDF-DOC-p569371056] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.12.2

Please note that there may be a delay of several hours in the availability of single monitoring downloads. To receive real-time monitoring emails, subscribe to our full-text services on the Insight EU Store page.

If you need tailored regulatory monitoring services that focus on specific policy areas, institutions, or topics, please contact Insight EU without hesitation at sales@ieu-monitoring.com[mailto:sales@ieu-monitoring.com] or follow one of the links below:

* Insight EU Premium (complete daily portal posts – except Insight EU Monitoring mails):

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Specialized Insight EU Monitoring mails – subscriptions or single editions::

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Tailored and targeted Insight EU Monitoring offers: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

* FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information

* Free basic Insight EU Monitoring Digest and weekly Insight EU Agenda:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-5-july-2023/411459/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU sanctions: New law to crack down on violations[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-sanctions-new-law-to-crack-down-on-violations/411488/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 07, 2023 02:03 am

Brussels, 6 July 2023

* Violating EU sanctions, including those against Russia, should be punished

* Circumventing and violating sanctions will include failure to freeze funds or enforce travel bans

* MEPs want dissuasive fines for companies that do business in violation of sanctions

The law would ensure that EU sanctions are enforced uniformly across member states, with common definitions and dissuasive penalties.

On Thursday, MEPs in the Civil Liberties Committee adopted a draft negotiating mandate on violating and circumventing EU sanctions by 36 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions. It would introduce a common definition of violations and minimum penalties to ensure that they are punished as criminal offences everywhere in the EU.

EU sanctions can consist of freezing funds and assets, travel bans, arms embargoes and restrictions on business sectors, among other things. According to the proposed law, violations would include not freezing funds or not respecting travel bans as required by sanctions, or doing business with state-owned entities of countries subject to sanctions.

Circumventing sanctions would also be punishable and would include practises such as concealing or transferring funds that should be frozen, hiding the true ownership of property, and not reporting sufficient information. MEPs voted to flesh out the list of activities that count as circumvention.

Dissuasive punishments for violations

According to the proposal, violating and circumventing the sanctions should be punishable criminal offences carrying prison sentences of a maximum of five years and fines of up to ten million euro. When companies violate or circumvent sanctions, they should be excluded from public tenders. In the adopted text, MEPs set the maximum fine that companies would pay to 15% of overall annual turnover and added new aggravating circumstances, for example war crimes and obstructing investigations, that lead to higher penalties. They also seek to ensure that the law would not apply to humanitarian aid and support.

Quote

After the vote, rapporteur Sophie In ’t Veld[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/28266/SOPHIA_IN+%27T+VELD/home] (Renew, the Netherlands) said:

“Sanctions only have an impact when they are enforced strictly and evenly across the entire European Union. So many rich Russians are able to continue living their luxury lifestyle and companies are making enormous profits, by violating and circumventing the sanctions. This impunity has to stop now. During the negotiations, Parliament will aim to harmonise rules as much as possible, to prevent forum shopping by sanction offenders. We are counting on Council to have the same level of ambition.”

Next steps

MEPs also authorised the opening of inter-institutional negotiations with EU governments with 36 votes in favour, 2 against and 2 abstentions. Once approved by the whole Parliament, it will become the MEPs’ position for the talks on the final shape of the legislation.

Background

The EU has adopted more than 40 sanctions regimes against third parties as part of its Common Foreign and Security Policy, most recently against Russia[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/infographics/eu-sanctions-against-russia-over-ukraine/] following its invasion of Ukraine. However, the Commission estimates[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52021DC0032&from=EN] that inconsistent enforcement of EU sanctions has undermined their efficacy.

To lay the groundwork for criminalising EU sanctions violations in a uniform way, the Parliament agreed[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/TA-9-2022-0295_EN.html] in July 2022 to add sanctions violations to a list of “particularly serious crimes with a cross-border dimension”[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A12008E083], for which the EU can adopt minimum rules. The Council adopted[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/11/28/sanctions-council-adds-the-violation-of-restrictive-measures-to-the-list-of-eu-crimes/] this decision in November 2022, and the Commission put forward the proposal[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_7371] for harmonisation in December 2022.

Further information

* Draft report before amendments [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meetdocs/2014_2019/plmrep/COMMITTEES/LIBE/PR/2023/07-06/1277982EN.pdf]

* Procedure file [https://oeil.secure.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.do?reference=2022/0398(COD)&l=en]

* EP Think Tank: Overview of recent EU sanctions on Russia [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document/EPRS_BRI(2023)739366]

* Infographic – The EU sanctions process explained [https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/infographics/the-eu-sanctions-process-explained/]

* Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/committees/en/libe/home.html]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-sanctions-new-law-to-crack-down-on-violations/411488/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Briefing on the Strasbourg plenary session 10-13 July 2023[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/briefing-on-the-strasbourg-plenary-session-10-13-july-2023/411485/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 07, 2023 01:48 am

Download briefing in PDF format[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/pdfs/news/expert/2023/7/briefing/20230621BRI99910/20230621BRI99910_en.pdf]

EU nature restoration law: MEPs to vote on Parliament’s position [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/0/eu-nature-restoration-law-meps-to-vote-on-parliament-s-position]

MEPs will debate the EU nature restoration law on Tuesday and vote on it on Wednesday.

Semiconductors: Parliament set to approve plans to boost EU chips industry [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/1/semiconductors-parliament-set-to-approve-plans-to-boost-eu-chips-industry]

The Chips Act, which would secure the EU’s supply of chips by boosting production and create emergency measures against shortages, will be debated and put to a vote on Tuesday.

MEPs set to greenlight new rules to boost energy savings [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/2/meps-set-to-greenlight-new-rules-to-boost-energy-savings]

Following a debate on Monday, Parliament will hold its final vote on new energy saving targets for the EU on Tuesday.

Protecting journalists and activists against abusive lawsuits [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/3/protecting-journalists-and-activists-against-abusive-lawsuits]

MEPs will debate and vote on their position on rules to protect journalists, activists, academics, artists and researchers against legal actions aimed at silencing them.

Fit for 55: more charging stations and greener maritime fuel [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/4/fit-for-55-more-charging-stations-and-greener-maritime-fuel]

MEPs are set to approve new EU rules to deploy charging stations for cars at least every 60 km and for cleaner maritime fuel.

Paving the way for Parliament’s internal reforms to strengthen transparency [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/5/paving-the-way-for-parliament-s-internal-reforms-to-strengthen-transparency]

MEPs will discuss proposals to improve Parliament’s transparency, integrity and accountability rules on Wednesday and will vote on them on Thursday.

MEPs to adopt recommendations following the COVID-19 crisis [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/6/meps-to-adopt-recommendations-following-the-covid-19-crisis]

Parliament will debate on Tuesday and vote on Wednesday on its final recommendations to improve EU crisis management and preparedness for future health emergencies.

MEPs to review the June EU summit [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/7/meps-to-review-the-june-eu-summit]

On Wednesday morning, MEPs will assess the outcome of the 29-30 June European Council, in particular the recent developments in Ukraine and Russia.

The need for EU action on search and rescue missions in the Mediterranean [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/8/the-need-for-eu-action-on-search-and-rescue-missions-in-the-mediterranean]

On Wednesday morning, MEPs will discuss the EU’s capabilities for search and rescue operations of migrants at sea.

Violence against women: MEPs want more stringent rules, support for victims [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/9/violence-against-women-meps-want-more-stringent-rules-support-for-victims]

The mandate for negotiations with the Council is set to include a consent-based definition of rape, tougher rules on cyber violence, and better support for victims.

Industrial emissions rules: Parliament to adopt its position [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/10/industrial-emissions-rules-parliament-to-adopt-its-position]

MEPs will debate on Monday and vote on Tuesday on new rules to better prevent and control pollution from large agro-industrial installations.

Ecodesign: more environmentally-friendly and energy-efficient products [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/11/ecodesign-more-environmentally-friendly-and-energy-efficient-products]

On Wednesday, MEPs will vote on new ecodesign draft rules to make sustainable products the norm in the EU, ahead of negotiations with EU governments.

MEPs to condemn latest backsliding on European values in Poland [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/12/meps-to-condemn-latest-backsliding-on-european-values-in-poland]

Following a debate in the last plenary, Parliament is set to adopt a resolution criticising developments like the revision of the electoral law and the “Lex Tusk”.

European Green Deal: MEPs to take stock of progress [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/13/european-green-deal-meps-to-take-stock-of-progress]

On Wednesday, MEPs will debate the EU’s international commitments and the risks of compromising the EU’s green transition.

Parliament to debate citizens’ initiative to end animal testing in cosmetics [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/14/parliament-to-debate-citizens-initiative-to-end-animal-testing-in-cosmetics]

On Monday, Parliament will debate the European Citizens’ Initiative “Save Cruelty Free Cosmetics” to stop all testing on animals.

EU Ethics Body: Parliament set to call for more ambition [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/15/eu-ethics-body-parliament-set-to-call-for-more-ambition]

MEPs are expected to express their concern about the effectiveness of the prospective ethics body and push for more transparent EU institutions.

EU enlargement: MEPs to assess progress by Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/16/eu-enlargement-meps-to-assess-progress-by-albania-and-bosnia-and-herzegovina]

MEPs are expected to welcome accession negotiations with Albania and warn Bosnia and Herzegovina not to waste the momentum gained by becoming a candidate country.

EU job seeker’s aid worth €2.2 million for 603 dismissed workers in Belgium [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/17/eu-job-seeker-s-aid-worth-EU2-2-million-for-603-dismissed-workers-in-belgium]

MEPs will vote on €2.2 million in EU aid for 603 former employees of “Logistics Nivelles SA” in the region of Wallonia in Belgium after the site shut down.

Schengen: MEPs push for Bulgaria and Romania’s inclusion by the end of 2023 [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/18/schengen-meps-push-for-bulgaria-and-romania-s-inclusion-by-the-end-of-2023]

MEPs are set to reiterate their support for Bulgaria and Romania’s accession to the Schengen free-movement area, arguing that they fulfil the necessary conditions.

Resolutions on human rights and democracy [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/19/resolutions-on-human-rights-and-democracy]

Parliament will hold urgent debates on the following human rights, democracy and rule of law topics on Wednesday afternoon, followed by votes on Thursday.

* Other topics on the agenda [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/agenda/briefing/2023-07-10/20/other-topics-on-the-agenda]

* Draft agenda [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/plenary/en/agendas.html]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/briefing-on-the-strasbourg-plenary-session-10-13-july-2023/411485/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commission report: How to tackle persisting labour and skills shortages?[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-report-how-to-tackle-persisting-labour-and-skills-shortages/411482/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 07, 2023 01:08 am

Brussels, 6 July 2023

The Commission’s Employment and Social Developments in Europe (ESDE) report 2023[https://ec.europa.eu/social/BlobServlet?docId=26989&langId=en] reveals that despite the impact of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine resulting in an economic slowdown in the second half of 2022, EU labour markets have demonstrated remarkable resilience in 2022. The EU economy grew by 3.5% in real terms in 2022. Employment rates were at a record high at 74.6% with 213.7 million people employed in 2022, and unemployment rates at a historic low at 6.2%.

However, the report also finds that challenges remain with a low labour market representation of certain groups, such as women or persons with a disability. Youth unemployment fell from 16.7% in 2021 to 14.5% in 2022, but remains a major challenge. In addition, companies face labour shortages and there is the need for both employers and workers to adapt to evolving skill needs, in the context of the green and digital transitions.

Key findings on skills and labour shortages

As part of the European Year of Skills[https://year-of-skills.europa.eu/], the ESDE report puts a special focus on the analysis of labour shortages and skills gaps and lays out policies to address them. The report’s key findings for 2022 include the following:

* Labour shortages exist in various sectors and occupations across all skills levels and are set to increase. They are expected to persist in both high skills and low skills occupations, driven by the creation of new jobs and the need to replace workers who retire. Sectors such as construction, healthcare, and STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics), particularly ICT (Information and Communications Technology), were among the most affected in 2022. These shortages will likely increase with the projected decline in the working age population from 265 million in 2022 to 258 million by 2030.

* At the same time, structural drivers contributing to persistent labour shortages vary by occupation and sector. For some professions like doctors, nurses, carers, and drivers, challenging working conditions or difficulties in human resource management contribute to the difficulties of employers to retain and attract workers. For other occupations, e.g. in STEM, a lack of available highly specialised skills is a contributing factor.

* Labour shortages in some occupations might also be exacerbated by evolving skills and employment needs due to the necessary green transition. Employment growth is expected in some sectors/occupations that are already experiencing labour shortages (e.g., transportation and storage, building, electrical and electronic trades), or are likely to do so in the future (e.g., net-zero technologies, water supply, waste management and certain science and engineering professions).

* In the context of the green transition, the investment needs for retraining, reskilling and upskilling in manufacturing of strategic net-zero technologies are estimated between €1.7 billion and €4.1 billion up to 2030.

* As regards the digital transition, the report finds it contributes to persistent labour shortages among ICT professionals but does not seem to be a key driver of shortages in other occupations.

* The lower labour market participation of women, lower-educated people, people with a migrant background, as well as older and young people also contributes to labour shortages. Most shortage occupations are dominated either by men or by women – 86% of occupations with labour shortages are not gender-balanced. This also mirrors gender segregation in the respective field of studies leading up to a certain occupation, limiting the pool of people to fill vacancies.

Measures to address persistent shortages and skills gaps

The ESDE 2023 report also looks at possible policy measures to tackle labour shortages and bridge skills gaps. These include:

* Investing in adult learning and skills development and training programmes, as well as better job matching with people’s education, experience, and skills. To support Member States, the EU budget and NextGenerationEU provide €64.8 billion for skills measures, for instance through the Recovery and Resilience Facility[https://commission.europa.eu/business-economy-euro/economic-recovery/recovery-and-resilience-facility_en], and the European Social Fund Plus[https://ec.europa.eu/european-social-fund-plus/en]. The EU Pact for Skills[https://pact-for-skills.ec.europa.eu/index_en] brings together industry, social partners and training providers to tackle challenges in skills development. So far, 2 million people[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_3060] have benefited from the Pact’s up-and re-skilling activities; 18 skills partnerships were launched, including in key sectors for the green and digital transitions, such as electronics, renewable energy and energy-intensive industries.

* Addressing the gender employment gap and boosting labour market participation of young people, older people, people with a migrant background, and people with lower educational attainment to tackle labour shortages. This is key to meet the EU 2030 social targets[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3782] on training, employment and poverty reduction, which Member States achieve with their national contributions[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3782]. The Commission has also put forward a Youth Employment Support[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_20_1193] package and has committed to review the Quality Framework for Traineeships[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_71] to support young people entering the labour market.

* Removing barriers to entering the workforce, such as providing accessible, affordable, high-quality early childhood education and care. The Commission put forward the European Care Strategy[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5169] to support both carers and care receivers. Member States have adopted two Council Recommendations on long-term care[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5169] and early childhood education and care[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5169]. The Work-Life Balance Directive[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_4785] sets out minimum standards for paternity, parental and carers’ leave and establishes additional rights, such as the right to request flexible working arrangements.

* Improving working conditions and pay in certain jobs to attract and retain workers. Member States have adopted the EU Directive on adequate minimum wages[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3441], and are required to transpose it into national law.

* Improving the financial incentives for work, such as reviewing taxes and benefits systems targeting low-income earners, and promoting active inclusion to support the labour market participation of those who can work, for instance also through inclusive education and training and individualised support. This is also highlighted in the Council Recommendation on adequate minimum income ensuring active inclusion[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5706].

* Promoting targeted labour migration from non-EU countries to reduce labour shortages in specific skills groups. The Commission has launched an EU Talent Pool pilot[https://eures.ec.europa.eu/eu-talent-pool-pilot_en], helping to match people’s skills with job offers. Attracting people from outside the EU with the skills needed is also among the main objectives of the European Year of Skills[https://year-of-skills.europa.eu/], and the Commission will present an initiative to improve the recognition of qualifications of non-EU nationals and roll out talent partnerships[https://home-affairs.ec.europa.eu/policies/migration-and-asylum/legal-migration-and-integration/talent-partnerships_en] with selected non-EU partner countries.

* Enhancing social dialogue and involving social partners in training, improving working conditions, and facilitating adult learning opportunities. Member States have adopted a Council Recommendation on strengthening social dialogue[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_290] at national and EU level, as proposed by the Commission.

Background

The annual Employment and Social Developments in Europe (ESDE) review is the European Commission’s flagship analytical report on employment and social affairs. It provides up-to-date economic analysis as well as related policy proposals.

More information

* Employment and Social Developments in Europe 2023 (ESDE)[https://ec.europa.eu/social/BlobServlet?docId=26989&langId=en]

* Employment and Social Analysis[https://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?langId=en&catId=113]

* Previous ESDE reports[https://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?advSearchKey=esdereport&mode=advancedSubmit&catId=22&policyArea=0&policyAreaSub=0&country=0&year=0#navItem-1]

* European Year of Skills[https://year-of-skills.europa.eu/]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-report-how-to-tackle-persisting-labour-and-skills-shortages/411482/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU ammunition and missile production: EU Council and Parliament strike a deal[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-ammunition-and-missile-production-eu-council-and-parliament-strike-a-deal/411479/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 11:57 pm

Brussels, 7 July 2023

The Council presidency has today reached a provisional agreement with the European Parliament representatives on the Act in Support of Ammunition Production (ASAP).

The agreed regulation will urgently mobilise €500 million from the EU budget (in current prices) to support the ramp-up of the manufacturing capacities for the production of ground-to-ground and artillery ammunition as well as missiles.

In doing so, it will implement the third track of the plan agreed by the Council in March 2023 to secure the long-term increase in European ammunition production to the benefit of Ukraine and EU member states.

Thanks to today’s record time agreement on ASAP the EU will bolster and speed up Europe´s own production of ammunition and missiles. This is yet another proof of the EU’s unwavering commitment to supporting Ukraine, strengthening the EU’s defence technological and industrial base, and ultimately ensuring the long term security and defence of EU citizens.

Margarita Robles, Spanish Minister of Defence

The agreed rules introduce an ‘Instrument’ through which the EU will financially support the reinforcement of the EU industrial production capacities for ammunition and missiles throughout the supply and value chains. Such financial support will be provided in the form of grants to various types of actions contributing to the efforts of the European defence industry to increase their production capacities, and tackle identified bottlenecks.

Furthermore, the new rules will facilitate access to finance for EU companies in the ammunition and missile field, potentially through the so-called ‘Ramp-up Fund’. This fund is intended to make it easier for companies manufacturing ammunition and missiles across the value chain to access both public and private financing, to speed up investments needed to increase manufacturing capacities.

Next steps

The provisional agreement must now be endorsed by the Council and the Parliament. It will then be formally adopted by both institutions following legal-linguistic revision. Signature and entry into force is foreseen to take place before the end of July.

Background

The 2022 Joint Communication on Defence Investment Gaps highlighted that continued underinvestment in defence has resulted in both capability and industrial gaps in the EU.

The Russian war of aggression against Ukraine has exposed the European defence and equipment market to even bigger challenges, as the EU and its member states have stepped up their efforts to meet Ukraine’s pressing defence needs.

On 20 March 2023, the Council agreed on a three-track approach, aiming to provide one million rounds of artillery ammunition for Ukraine in a joint effort within the next twelve months. It agreed to urgently deliver ground-to-ground and artillery ammunition to Ukraine and, if requested, missiles from existing stocks or the reprioritisation of existing orders (track one). It further called on member states to jointly procure ammunition and, if requested, missiles from the European defence industry and Norway; this would happen in the context of an existing project coordinated by the European Defence Agency or through complementary member state-led acquisition projects, in order to refill their stocks while continuing to support Ukraine (track two).

The Council also invited the Commission to present concrete proposals to urgently support the ramp-up of manufacturing capacities of the European defence industry, secure supply chains, facilitate efficient procurement procedures, address shortfalls in production capacities and promote investments, including, where appropriate, mobilising the Union budget (track three).

* Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on establishing the Act in Support of Ammunition Production, 4 May 2023[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-8891-2023-INIT/en/pdf]

* Mandate for negotiations with the European Parliament, 23 June 2023[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-11011-2023-INIT/en/pdf]

* Delivery and joint procurement of ammunition for Ukraine, 20 March 2023[https://data.consilium.europa.eu/doc/document/ST-7632-2023-INIT/en/pdf]

Source – EU Council[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/07/07/asap-council-and-european-parliament-strike-a-deal-on-boosting-the-production-of-ammunition-and-missiles-in-the-eu/?utm_source=dsms-auto&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=ASAP%3a+Council+and+European+Parliament+strike+a+deal+on+boosting+the+production+of+ammunition+and+missiles+in+the+EU]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-ammunition-and-missile-production-eu-council-and-parliament-strike-a-deal/411479/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

France/Ukraine: Fight against impunity – Joint press release issued by French foreign and interior ministries[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/france-ukraine-fight-against-impunity-joint-press-release-issued-by-french-foreign-and-interior-ministry/411474/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 10:31 pm

Paris, 6 July 2023

True to its commitments, France stands steadfastly by Ukraine in the fight against impunity for the crimes perpetrated by Russia during its aggression in Ukraine. As announced on 12 June 2023, two new missions from the Ministry of the Interior and Overseas France, funded by the Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs’ Crisis and Support Centre, have been deployed in Ukraine to support Ukrainian investigators.

They were completed on 15 and 25 June 2023.

In response to a request for assistance made by Ukraine, a team made up of gendarmes from the Central Office for Combating Environmental and Public Health Offences (OCLAESP) and an expert from the Gendarmerie Forensic Institute (IRCGN) has been assisting the Ukrainian authorities in investigations into environmental crimes since the beginning of Russia’s aggression against Ukraine.

In particular, the experts were deployed to the site of the Kalynivka oil depot, which was struck by two Russian missiles on 24 March 2022, causing nearly 5,000 tonnes of oil to spill into the soil and groundwater.

A second team, made up of IRCGN experts on [3D] modelling, the digitization of crime scenes, drones and explosives, was deployed under the aegis of the Office of the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC). The French gendarmes provided training on managing and securing complex scenes, for Ukrainian units operating very close to the front line. They also visited the site of a hospital destroyed in the city of Dnipro on 26 May 2023, to back up the Ukrainian investigators in putting into practice the modelling techniques presented during the training.

In addition, an observation and digitization mission to a residential building destroyed on the night of 12 to 13 June 2023 was carried out in order to gather traces and evidence of the damage caused to civilian property. The evidence collected was handed over to the ICC and the Ukrainian courts to support their respective investigations.

Finally, equipment for documenting and securing a complex scene was handed over to the Ukrainian authorities. Five modelling kits, each comprising a computer for creating digital 3D models using aerial images, a 360° camera to create virtual scene visits and a tablet with laser modelling capabilities, were officially handed over to them on 22 June 2023.

France will continue to stand by the Ukrainian authorities and population to lend its support to the essential work of the Ukrainian and international courts in order to fight against impunity for the perpetrators of the crimes Russia has committed in Ukraine.

Source – French Government[https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/en/country-files/ukraine/news/article/ukraine-fight-against-impunity-joint-press-release-issued-by-the-ministry-for?xtor=RSS-1]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/france-ukraine-fight-against-impunity-joint-press-release-issued-by-french-foreign-and-interior-ministry/411474/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Sweden: Government tasks Swedish Migration Agency with setting up return centres[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sweden-government-tasks-swedish-migration-agency-with-setting-up-return-centres/411470/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 10:11 pm

Stockholm, 6 July 2023

The Government has tasked the Swedish Migration Agency with setting up return centres to house rejected asylum seekers. In these centres, the Migration Agency will actively work to motivate the people there to return voluntarily, and will provide advice, guidance and practical support.

“Increasing the number of returns is a very important priority for the Government. Setting up return centres is one of several measures to ensure that people who have been issued with a refusal-of-entry or expulsion order actually leave the country,” says Minister for Migration Maria Malmer Stenergard.

In June 2022, the Swedish Migration Agency was tasked with producing a report on how return centres could be established. The Swedish Migration Agency presented its report in January 2023 (Ju2022/02319) and the Government has now chosen to proceed with the proposal to set up return centres.

“There are many advantages associated with people issued with a refusal-of-entry or expulsion order staying in return centres. It makes it clear that the asylum process has come to an end and that return should be the main focus. It will also make the Agency’s work easier,” says Ms Malmer Stenergard.

The Swedish Migration Agency will begin work immediately. It is required to regularly report to the Government Offices on progress made and to submit a progress report by 1 December 2023.

Source – Swedish Government[https://www.government.se/press-releases/2023/07/government-tasks-swedish-migration-agency-with-setting-up-return-centres/]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sweden-government-tasks-swedish-migration-agency-with-setting-up-return-centres/411470/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Finland continues to impose travel restrictions on Russian citizens[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finland-continues-to-impose-travel-restrictions-on-russian-citizens/411457/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 08:35 pm

Helsinki, 6 July 2023

Finland will continue to impose restrictions on the travel by citizens of the Russian Federation on the basis of a government resolution issued on 6 July 2023. Non-essential travel by Russian citizens to Finland and through Finland to the rest of the Schengen area will continue to be restricted for the time being. At the same time, restrictions will be tightened for business travellers, property owners and students.

In future, business travellers will only be allowed to travel to Finland, i.e. transit to other countries will be prohibited. Business travellers must also have an essential reason to come to Finland in person. As regards property owners, they will also be required to provide grounds for their personal presence. In future, students will only be allowed to participate in programmes leading to a degree or studies completed as part of a degree (e.g. exchange studies). This will exclude participation in courses offered by folk high schools, for example.

The government resolution confirms the guidelines for assessing whether Russian citizens fulfil the entry conditions, for granting visas and for assessing the conditions for the validity of visas. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs will be responsible for implementing the restrictions on the issuing of visas and the Border Guard for issues relating entry to the country.

This resolution reforms the government resolution issued on 29 September 2022. The new restrictions will enter into force on 10 July 2023 at 00:00 and will remain in effect until further notice.

Source – Finnish Government[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/finland-continues-to-impose-travel-restrictions-on-russian-citizens]

Russia to expel nine persons working in Finland’s diplomatic missions to Russia and announced closure of Finland’s Consulate General in St Petersburg

Helsinki, 6 July 2023

On 6 July 2023, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation notified Ambassador of Finland Antti Helanterä of forthcoming expulsions. Russia also announced that it would cancel the authorisation of Finland’s Consulate General in St Petersburg as of 1 October.

Russia will expel a total of nine persons working at the Embassy of Finland in Moscow and the Consulate General in St Petersburg.

According to Russia, the announced expulsions are a countermeasure in response to Finland’s decision, made on Tuesday 6 June, to expel nine members of the personnel at the Embassy of Russia in Helsinki. These persons were engaged in intelligence gathering activities and expelled from Finland based on the fact that they acted in a manner contrary to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.

The expulsion decision made by Russia has no relation to the activities of the persons who have worked in Finland’s diplomatic missions in Russia.

The identity of the embassy staff to be expelled from Russia is not public information. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs will not provide further information about this matter.

Cancellation of the authorisation of Finland’s Consulate General in St Petersburg and difficulties in the diplomatic missions’ bank accounts

At the same time, Russia announced that it would withdraw its support for the activities of Finland’s Consulate General in St Petersburg as of 1 October 2023. Finland will prepare a measure that will be reciprocal in nature.

At the meeting with the Russian Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Helanterä called for a rapid solution to the ongoing banking problems faced by Finland’s diplomatic missions in Russia.

Source – Finnish Government[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/russia-to-expel-nine-persons-working-in-finland-s-diplomatic-missions-to-russia-and-announced-closure-of-finland-s-consulate-general-in-st-petersburg]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finland-continues-to-impose-travel-restrictions-on-russian-citizens/411457/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Amazon: EU Commission opens investigation into proposed acquisition of iRobot[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/mergers-eu-commission-opens-investigation-into-the-proposed-acquisition-of-irobot/411454/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 08:24 pm

Brussels, 6 July 2023

The European Commission has opened an in-depth investigation to assess, under the EU Merger Regulation, the proposed acquisition of iRobot by Amazon. The Commission is concerned that the transaction would allow Amazon to restrict competition in the market for robot vacuum cleaners (‘RVCs’) and to strengthen its position as online marketplace provider.

Amazon provides an online marketplace (the Amazon Stores), which allows retailers to advertise and sell products (including RVCs) to customers. Amazon is active as a retailer of various products (including RVCs) on its marketplace. Amazon also offers the Alexa voice assistant. iRobot manufactures RVCs and sells them also on Amazon’s online marketplace.

The Commission’s preliminary competition concerns

The Commission’s preliminary investigation indicates that the transaction may allow Amazon to: (i) restrict competition in the market for the manufacturing and supply of RVCs; and (ii) strengthen its position in the market for online marketplace services to third-party sellers (and related advertising services) and/or other data-related markets.

In particular, the Commission preliminarily found that:

* Amazon’s online marketplace is a particularly important channel to sell RVCs in several EU Member States.

* Amazon may have the ability and the incentive to foreclose iRobot’s rivals by preventing them from selling RVCs on Amazon’s online marketplace and/or by degrading their access to it through several strategies. This may include: (i) favouring iRobot’s RVCs in both non-paid (i.e., organic) and paid results (i.e., advertisements) displayed in Amazon’s marketplace; (ii) preventing iRobot’s rivals from sourcing certain advertising services; and/or (iii) raising the costs of iRobot’s rivals to advertise and sell their RVCs on Amazon’s marketplace. Such foreclosure strategies could restrict competition in the market for the manufacturing and supply of RVCs, leading to higher prices, lower quality, and less innovation for consumers.

* Amazon may have the ability and the incentive to foreclose iRobot’s rivals by preventing them from accessing the existing and/or future Application Programming Interfaces of Amazon’s Alexa software as well as the ‘Works with Alexa’ (‘WWA’) certification and/or by degrading such access. Interoperability with the Alexa software and access to the WWA certification appear to be important selling points for RVC manufacturers and suppliers to compete.

* Amazon would obtain access to iRobot’s users’ data, including: (i) information provided by iRobot’s RVCs users; (ii) information collected by iRobot’s RVCs; and (iii) information collected by iRobot from third parties. This data may provide Amazon with an important advantage in the market for online marketplace services to third-party sellers (and related advertising services) and/or other data-related markets. For example, iRobot’s data may allow Amazon to better rank organic results and advertisements on its own marketplace and/or to better personalize and target the advertisements, making it more difficult for rival marketplace providers to match Amazon’s online marketplace services. Thus, the transaction may raise barriers to entry and expansion for Amazon’s competitors to the detriment of consumers.

The Commission will now carry out an in-depth investigation into the effects of the proposed transaction to determine whether its initial competition concerns are confirmed.

The Commission closely cooperated with other competition authorities during the initial investigation and will continue such cooperation during the in-depth investigation.

The proposed transaction was notified to the Commission on 1 June 2023. The Commission now has 90 working days, until 15 November 2023, to take a decision. The opening of an in-depth inquiry does not prejudge the outcome of the investigation.

Companies and products

Amazon is a US-based multinational company. It provides an online marketplace, which allows retailers to advertise and sell products (including RVCs) to customers. Amazon is active as a retailer of various products (including RVCs) on its Amazon Stores. Amazon also offers the Alexa voice assistant.

iRobot is a US-based manufacturer of robot vacuum cleaners which iRobot sells also on Amazon’s online marketplace.

Merger control rules and procedures

The Commission has the duty to assess mergers and acquisitions involving companies with a turnover above certain thresholds (see Article 1 of the Merger Regulation[https://ec.europa.eu/competition/mergers/legislation/regulations.html]) and to prevent concentrations that would significantly impede effective competition in the European Economic Area or a substantial part of it.

The vast majority of notified mergers do not pose competition problems and are cleared after a routine review. From the moment a transaction is notified, the Commission generally has 25 working days to decide whether to grant approval (Phase I) or to start an in-depth investigation (Phase II).

In addition to this proposed transaction, there are currently four on-going Phase II merger investigations: (i) the proposed creation of a joint venture between Orange and MasMovil[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/ro/ip_23_2101]; (ii) the proposed acquisition of eTraveli by Booking[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_6883]; (iii) the proposed acquisition of Asiana by Korean Air[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_23_925]; and (iv) the proposed acquisition of VMware by Broadcom[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_7835].

More information will be available on the Commission’s competition[http://ec.europa.eu/competition/index_en.html] website, in the public case register[http://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/index.cfm] under the case number M.10920[https://competition-cases.ec.europa.eu/cases/M.10920].

Quotes

Amazon is both an online marketplace and a retailer. We are concerned that, by acquiring iRobot, Amazon may use such dual role to foreclose access by iRobot’s rivals to its marketplace. With our in-depth investigation, we will also investigate whether Amazon would use data collected by iRobot to strengthen its position as online marketplace provider. We want to ensure that the acquisition of iRobot by Amazon does not have a negative impact on businesses and consumers, by distorting competition on the relevant markets.

Margrethe Vestager, Executive Vice-President in charge of competition policy – 06/07/2023

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_23_3702]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/mergers-eu-commission-opens-investigation-into-the-proposed-acquisition-of-irobot/411454/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Colonial collections to be returned to Indonesia and Sri Lanka[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/colonial-collections-to-be-returned-to-indonesia-and-sri-lanka/411451/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 06:55 pm

Amsterdam, 6 July 2023

At the request of Indonesia and Sri Lanka , the Netherlands will be returning 478 objects of cultural significance to Indonesia and to Sri Lanka. The objects were wrongfully brought to the Netherlands during the colonial period, acquired under duress or by looting . The decision to return them was made by Secretary of State for Culture and Media Gunay Uslu, following the recommendations of the Advisory Committee on the Return of Cultural Objects from Colonial Context, chaired by Lilian Gonçalves-Ho Kang You. The works are currently in the collections of the National Museum of World Cultures and the Rijksmuseum.

The objects include the Lombok treasure (from Indonesia) and the Canon of Kandy (from Sri Lanka). The transfer of ownership to Indonesia will take place at the National Museum of Ethnology in Leiden on 10 July. The transfer of ownership to Sri Lanka will take place later this year. As these examples show, the process of returning objects is well under way. The Advisory Committee on the Return of Cultural Objects from Colonial Context is now considering further requests from Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Nigeria and will issue its recommendations on these requests later. Joint research with the countries of origin is a central part of the process.

‘This is a historic moment,’ said the state secretary. ‘It’s the first time we’re following recommendations of the Committee to give back objects that should never have been brought to the Netherlands. But more than anything, it’s a moment to look to the future. We’re not only returning objects; we’re also embarking on a period of closer cooperation with Indonesia and Sri Lanka in areas like collection research, presentation and exchanges between museums.’

Indonesia

Last summer Indonesia requested the return of a number of objects that are of great importance to the country. The history of the objects was studied in detail by the National Museum of World Cultures, in consultation with Indonesian experts. The process has been in good cooperation with the Indonesian repatriation committee, which is chaired by former ambassador of Indonesia to the Netherlands I Gusti Agung Wesaka Puja. On the basis of the research, the Committee recommended that the objects be returned. This result was achieved thanks to close cooperation between Indonesia and the Netherlands and the expert committees in both countries.

Sri Lanka

Sri Lanka asked the Netherlands to return six objects that were stolen from the country and are now in the custody of the Rijksmuseum. Researchers from both countries studied the provenance of these objects extensively. In this case, too, the return process forms the basis for further cooperation between the two countries and the cultural institutions concerned. The Netherlands and Sri Lanka will remain in dialogue in order to develop this cooperation further.

Objects

Indonesia

The ‘Lombok treasure’, consisting of 335 objects from Lombok

Four statues from Singasari

A keris from Klungkung

132 objects of modern art from Bali, known as the Pita Maha collection

Sri Lanka

Lewke’s canon

Gold kastane (ceremonial sword)

Singalese knive

Silver kastane

Two guns

Source – Dutch Government[https://www.government.nl/latest/news/2023/07/06/colonial-collections-to-be-returned-to-indonesia-and-sri-lanka]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/colonial-collections-to-be-returned-to-indonesia-and-sri-lanka/411451/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Norway will develop the world’s most sustainable mineral industry[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/norway-will-develop-the-worlds-most-sustainable-mineral-industry/411448/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 06:12 pm

Oslo, 6 July 2023

On June 21. 2023, the Minister of Trade and Industry, Jan Christian Vestre, presented the Norwegian Government’s mineral strategy. The strategy has five focus areas which aim to ensure that the Norwegian mining industry will become more circular, new mineral projects are implemented faster, there is a clearer emphasis on climate, affected communities and the environment, and international partnerships are strengthened.

“This is a big day for Norway as a mineral nation. Metals and minerals are crucial if we are to implement the green and digital transitions, and this strategy is a springboard for developing the world’s most sustainable mineral industry,” said Minister of Trade and Industry, Jan Christian Vestre.

“In addition to abundant natural resources, Norway has world-class skills and technology which give us a huge potential to extract, refine and recycle critical minerals. The Norwegian Government will work closely with the industry, parties in the labour market, environmental organisations and local communities to accelerate the pace of the mineral industry,” Vestre said.

Five focus areas

In the mineral strategy, the Government presents five focus area for a forward-looking mineral policy.

“Reuse and recycling must be the main rule. However, if we are to succeed with the green and digital transitions, we need to upscale our primary mineral extraction. When we develop new projects, we must ensure that they address environmental and social considerations. Norway must be best in class in terms of sustainability,” the Minister said.

In the strategy, the Norwegian Government emphasises that the Norwegian mineral industry must contribute to a more circular economy through increased resource utilisation and by reducing the need for disposal to a minimum. The Government will also consider instruments that help to give profitable projects access to private capital.

“We should utilise the full range of available business policy instruments. We will consider setting up a state-owned mineral company or fund in order to ensure the profitable and sustainable development of critical raw materials projects,” Vestre said.

The mineral strategy’s five focus areas

1. Norwegian mineral projects must be implemented faster

Among other things, the Government will:

* Complete the geophysical surveying of Norway and step up the mapping of critical raw materials.

Maps of magnetic and other geophysical properties play a key role in interpreting geology and identifying potential deposits. These maps are the starting point of most mineral projects.

* Introduce “fast-track” and “one-stop shop” schemes.

The aim of these measures is to reduce processing times and streamline permitting procedures for mineral projects. Designate the Directorate of Mining with the Commissioner of Mines at Svalbard (DMF) as the national competent authority responsible for facilitating and coordinating the processing of applications for critical and strategic metals and minerals projects.

* Establish a mineral compass.

This is a tool that will help to provide mineral projects with more knowledge and better guidance on how to implement mineral projects as socially, environmentally and financially sustainably as possible, thus helping to reduce conflicts of interest and improve the predictability of projects.

2. The Norwegian mineral industry must contribute to the circular economy

Among other things, the Government will:

* Minimise extractive waste and require projects to present a circular business plan assessing how the extractive waste can be reused. The aim of the measures is to reduce the amount of material that is disposed of, help to utilise resources better and reduce the impact on nature.

* Require projects to document the necessity of extracting primary resources before they are granted permits for new projects.

* Appoint an expert committee to propose potential new environmental requirements for waste disposal. The committee will assess the advantages and disadvantages of different types of extractive waste disposal in light of the development of new technologies, new methods and new international nature and environmental initiatives, and consider the future use of submarine tailings disposal.

3. The Norwegian mineral industry must become more sustainable

Among other things, the Government will:

* Adopt a zero vision for the use of chemicals that are not environmentally certified.

* Aim for all new machinery to be zero-emission by 2030.

* Establish better dialogue, early involvement and an indigenous compensation scheme extending beyond Finnmark.

4. Private capital is a prerequisite for profitable and sustainable mineral projects

Among other things, the Government will:

* Mobilise private capital and mitigate risks through the Green Industrial Initiative.

* Consider establishing a state-owned mineral company or fund.

* Consider possible economic and business policy measures to stimulate increased extraction, improve sustainability and value creation for local communities.

5. International partnerships. Norway will continue to be a stable supplier of raw materials for green value chains

Among other things, the Government will:

* Market Norway as a mineral nation.

* Strengthen cooperation with the EU and European countries on access to raw materials and robust value chains.

* Work to strengthen Nordic cooperation within the framework of common sustainable value chains.

Read the mineral strategy here[https://www.regjeringen.no/en/dokumenter/norges-mineralstrategi/id2986278/].

The Norwegian Government’s Roadmap for the Green Industrial Initiative sets the course for a green industry offensive. The goal is to create value and well-paid jobs all over the country, increase green investment, increase exports from the mainland and cut greenhouse gases on the journey towards a low-emission society.

In the Roadmap, access to critical metals and minerals is absolutely vital. The Government’s view is that the mineral industry can make significant contributions to the energy transition and help safeguard critical value chains.

Strategically and geopolitically important

Mineral extraction and the production of metals are not only important to the establishment of green Norwegian and European value chains, but also to Norway’s role as a strategic partner.

– The fact that major supply chains for critical raw materials are concentrated in individual countries such as China represents a challenge to allied security. It is therefore essential that we help to secure access to essential minerals and metals for ourselves, our allies and our partners. Norway is already an important supplier of many critical raw materials, and our ambition is to be a stable and long-term supplier of minerals for the green transition, the Minister said.

30 million for the mineral strategy

NOK 30 million has already been allocated to follow up the mineral strategy. The funding is intended to help further develop Norway’s potential and facilitate a more sustainable mineral industry through more mapping and research initiatives.

– We need our mineral resources to be more extensively mapped. Environmental and social sustainability, technology and the circular economy are areas for which knowledge and research are needed. So far, we have allocated an additional NOK 30 million to address these issues, Jan Christian Vestre said.

Source – Norwegian Government[https://www.regjeringen.no/en/aktuelt/-norway-will-develop-the-worlds-most-sustainable-mineral-industry/id2986277/]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/norway-will-develop-the-worlds-most-sustainable-mineral-industry/411448/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

2023 Strategic Foresight Report: Focus on sustainability and wellbeing[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/2023-strategic-foresight-report-focus-on-sustainability-and-wellbeing/411437/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 05:44 pm

Brussels, 6 July 2023

Today, the European Commission presented the 2023 Strategic Foresight Report, which analyses how to put ‘sustainability and people’s wellbeing at the heart of Europe’s Open Strategic Autonomy’ and suggests ten concrete actions to achieve this aim.

The EU is engaged in a profound and ambitious transition to achieve climate neutrality and sustainability in the next few decades. This sustainability transition will be key to strengthen the EU’s Open Strategic Autonomy, ensure its long-term competitiveness, uphold its social market economy model and consolidate its global leadership in the new net-zero economy. To succeed, the EU will need to address several challenges and make choices that will affect our societies and economies at an unprecedented pace and scale.

The 2023 report provides an overview of the challenges we face and proposes ten areas for action to achieve a successful transition. To equip policymakers with economic indicators which also consider wellbeing, it proposes to adjust Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to take account of different factors such as health and the environment.

This approach will bolster the EU’s Open Strategic Autonomy and global standing in its pursuit of a resilient net-zero economy.

Overcoming key social and economic challenges

As it goes through the sustainability transition – which encompasses both economic and social sustainability ­– the EU is facing several challenges. For example:

* Evolving geopolitical shifts are shaping public opinion and how governments across the globe act, challenging international cooperation on global issues, such as climate change or the energy transition.

* The need for a new economic model, focused on the wellbeing of people and nature, decoupling economic growth from resource use and shifting to more sustainable production and consumption. Up to 75% of Eurozone businesses are highly dependent on natural resources. Economic, social and environmental sustainability are inextricably linked.

* Growing demand for adequate skills for a sustainable future. The availability of workers equipped with appropriate technical and soft skills will be crucial for the EU’s competitiveness: 85% of EU firms today lack staff with the competences needed to navigate the green and digital transitions.

* The sustainability transition requires unprecedented investments. Achieving it will depend on securing sufficient funding both from the public and private sectors.

Ten areas for action

Today’s report identifies ten areas where our policy response is needed to ensure that the sustainability transition remains focused on the wellbeing of people and society:

* Ensure a new European social contract with renewed welfare policies and a focus on high-quality social services.

* Deepen the Single Market to champion a resilient net-zero economy, with a focus on Open Strategic Autonomy and economic security.

* Boost the EU’s offer on the global stage to strengthen cooperation with key partners.

* Support shifts in production and consumption towards sustainability, targeting regulation and fostering balanced lifestyles.

* Move towards a ‘Europe of investments’ through public action to catalyse financial flows for the transitions.

* Make public budgets fit for sustainability through an efficient tax framework and public spending.

* Further shift policy and economic indicators towards sustainable and inclusive wellbeing, including by adjusting GDP for different factors.

* Ensure that all Europeans can contribute to the transition by increasing labour market participation and focusing on future skills.

* Strengthen democracy with generational fairness at the heart of policymaking to reinforce the support for the transitions.

* Complement civil protection with ‘civil prevention’ by reinforcing the EU’s toolbox on preparedness and response.

Next steps

The Foresight Report 2023 will be presented to EU Member States at the General Affairs Council of 10 July. Together with work conducted on foresight by the Spanish Presidency of the Council of the EU, the Commission’s report is also expected to inform the discussion of Leaders at the informal European Council in Granada in October 2023.

In November 2023, the Commission will co-organise, together with the European Parliament, the annual European Strategy and Political Analysis System (ESPAS) conference. It will be an opportunity to test and discuss key findings of the 2024 report on interinstitutional global trends jointly prepared by EU institutions, and reflect on the way ahead.

Background

Strategic foresight supports the Commission on its forward-looking and ambitious path towards achieving President von der Leyen’s six headline ambitions. As of 2020, annual Strategic Foresight Reports are prepared to inform the Commission’s priorities, the Commission Work Programme and its multi-annual programming.

This year’s report builds on earlier editions, which focused on resilience as a new compass for EU policymaking (2020)[https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/strategic-planning/strategic-foresight/2020-strategic-foresight-report_en], on the EU’s Open Strategic Autonomy (2021)[https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/strategic-planning/strategic-foresight/2021-strategic-foresight-report_en] and on twinning between the green and digital transition (2022).[https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/strategic-planning/strategic-foresight/2022-strategic-foresight-report_en]

The analysis presented in the 2023 Strategic Foresight Report is based on the inclusive and participatory foresight exercise conducted by the Joint Research Centre, complemented by broad consultations with Member States, other EU institutions in the framework of the ESPAS and with citizens through a call for evidence published on Have Your Say[https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/better-regulation/have-your-say/initiatives/13711-2023-Strategic-Foresight-Report_en]. The results of the foresight exercise are presented in the Joint Research Centre’s Science for Policy report[https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/handle/JRC133716]: ‘Towards a fair and sustainable Europe 2050: social and economic choices in sustainability transitions.’

For more information

2023 Strategic Foresight Report[https://commission.europa.eu/document/f8f67d33-194c-4c89-a4a6-795980a1dabd_en]: Sustainability and people’s wellbeing at the heart of Europe’s Strategic Autonomy

2023 Strategic Foresight Report webpage[https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/strategic-planning/strategic-foresight/2023-strategic-foresight-report_en]

Questions and answers on the 2023 Strategic Foresight Report[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_23_3624]

Factsheet[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/fs_23_3681]

Website on strategic foresight[https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/strategic-planning/strategic-foresight_en#:~:text=Strategic%20Foresight%3A,%2C%20policy%2Dmaking%20and%20preparedness.]

JRC Science for Policy report: Towards a fair and sustainable Europe 2050: social and economic choices in sustainability transitions[https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/handle/JRC133716]

Quotes

The 2023 Strategic Foresight Report comes at a very timely moment. The Commission is putting forward an action-oriented analysis of the key challenges the EU will face as it goes through the sustainability transition. This analysis reflects our focus on the wellbeing of current and future generations, and the imperative need to protect our planet. We want to keep Europe at the forefront of the sustainability transition, leveraging our unique social market economy and global trade power. This will help strengthen Europe’s leadership in the world, and our ability to stand on our own while building strong partnerships with others: Europe’s open strategic autonomy.

Maroš Šefčovič, Vice-President for Interinstitutional Relations and Foresight – 06/07/2023

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_23_3623]

Q&A on the 2023 Strategic Foresight Report

Brussels, 6 July 2023

1. What is strategic foresight and how did it contribute to the Commission’s work during this mandate?

Strategic foresight consists of exploring the future to support EU policymaking. It is about using collective intelligence in a structured and systematic way to help better develop possible transition pathways, prepare the EU to withstand shocks and shape the future we want.

Throughout this Commission’s mandate, strategic foresight has helped to progress on President von der Leyen’s six headline ambitions. Annual Strategic Foresight Reports inform the Commission’s priorities, work programme and multiannual programming. In addition, other tools have been developed such as horizon scanning, and the use of foresight in Better Regulation was increased. This has helped to support the transition-led political agenda and make sure EU policies are fit for the future. It has inspired specific action, for example boosting resilience in the context of the European Semester and supporting initiatives such as the European Chips Act and the Critical Raw Materials Acts.

2. What process led to the 2023 Strategic Foresight Report? Did it include representatives outside the Commission?

The 2023 Strategic Foresight Report draws on a participative and inclusive foresight exercise conducted by the European Commission’s Joint Research Centre. It included the creation of foresight scenarios describing alternative versions of the EU’s sustainable future by 2050 as well as the use of ‘backcasting’ and other foresight methods. The foresight process also included consultations with experts and stakeholders, discussions with Commission services, agencies and joint undertakings, the publication of a call for evidence, and discussions with other European institutional partners (within the European Strategy and Policy Analysis System) as well as with Member States through the EU-wide Foresight Network.

3. How and why has this topic been chosen for the 2023 Strategic Foresight Report?

The four editions of the Strategic Foresight Report have followed a logical sequence. The first edition put forward resilience at the heart of policymaking (2020). The second focused on strengthening the EU’s Open Strategic Autonomy (2021). The 2022 report analysed the twinning of the green and digital transitions, stressing that inclusiveness and affordability will play a key role in achieving them, beyond and besides technological innovation. Among its areas for action, it outlined that the EU needed to reflect on new methods to measure progress, beyond GDP. This has been followed up on in this year’s report, notably with proposals towards adjusting GDP to take into account health, environment or social dimensions. This analysis will inform policies that contribute to achieving the EU’s objective of becoming the first climate-neutral continent by 2050. It will also help deliver on the EU’s ambition of building a fair and prosperous society where economic development is oriented towards greater sustainability, circularity and the protection of nature and people’s wellbeing.

4. What are the main findings of the 2023 Strategic Foresight Report?1

First, the 2023 Strategic Foresight Report identifies six key challenges that policymakers will face during the transition towards a sustainable Europe, encompassing social and economic aspects of sustainability. These are: the rise of geopolitics and reconfiguration of globalisation; the quest for a sustainable economy and wellbeing; increasing pressure to ensure sufficient funding; growing demand for skills and competencies for the sustainable future; increasing cracks in social cohesion; and threats to democracy and to the existing social contract.

Second, the report proposes ten areas for action that the EU will need to take, to reinforce a socially and economically sustainable Europe with a stronger role in the world in the coming decades. Those areas for action cover a broad range of policy areas, from designing a new social contract and leveraging the power of our Single Market to supporting changes in production and consumption for greater sustainability.. We also propose to strengthen the interlinkages between the EU’s internal and external policies to boost the EU’s offer and narrative on the global stage. We also aim at moving towards a ‘Europe of investments’, by attracting more private financing in support of strategic investments for the green and digital transitions. And, to better anticipate and therefore be better prepared for any future disaster or disruption, we recommend to complement civil protection with more ‘civil prevention’.

5. What are the main social and economic challenges in the transition towards a sustainable Europe?

The challenges identified in the report are the following:

* The rise of geopolitics and reconfiguration of globalisation: a new geopolitical landscape is challenging the foundations of multilateralism and the rules-based international order. This has consequences for Europe’s economic security and for global cooperation on transnational issues, such as climate change and the energy transition;

* The quest for a sustainable economy and wellbeing: the EU is at a key juncture which requires a joint push from policymakers and businesses to ensure a leading position in the global race to the net-zero industry;

* The increasing pressure to ensure sufficient private and public funding for sustainability: the green transition requires unprecedented investments. Overall, additional investments of about EUR 620 billion annually will be needed to meet the objectives of the Green Deal and of our REPowerEU plan, with an additional EUR 92 billion needed to address the objectives of the Net-Zero Industry Act over the 2023-2030 period;

* Growing demand for skills and competences for the sustainable future: growing skills disparities and a lack of adequate competencies could impede the green and digital transitions and the ability of citizens to take part in and contribute to these transitions;

* Increasing cracks in social cohesion: eroding social cohesion will threaten trust in governments and the viability of the sustainability transition; The lack of intergenerational solidarity on climate, economic, and societal issues may contribute to their political alienation and disillusionment with the capacity of the current political class and system to address generational challenges.

* Threats to democracy and the existing social contract. Inequalities are deeply linked with lower trust in national and EU institutions, as well as with liberal democracy at large. Failure to address the health of European democracies will challenge both the roll-out of sustainable policies and the sustainability transition itself.

6. How will achieving a sustainable transition affect the global role of the EU?

A successful and fair socio-economic transformation is not a given. Together with its twin, the digital transition, the green transition requires pivotal changes and trade-offs that will affect, among others, our economies and societies at an unmatched pace and scale. To succeed in this transformation, it is essential to recognise the links between the environmental, social, and economic dimensions of sustainability. This will enable Europe to pursue a forward-looking geopolitical strategy that successfully leverages its most valuable assets – namely, its unique social market economy and its position as the largest trading block in the world.

The EU should continue strengthening its coordinated framework to achieve Open Strategic Autonomy, including economic security. The EU also needs to ensure that its climate, environmental, and energy policies are designed and implemented in a consistent manner with the EU’s international ambitions and commitments. This entails taking into account the perspectives of its trading partners, as well as the impact of EU legislation on them. This could be achieved through increased dialogue, communication, diplomacy (green, digital, or cultural), and cooperation in their design and implementation.

7. Why is there a need to go ‘beyond GDP’ and present adjusted metrics for sustainability and wellbeing?

With recent developments such as climate change and the pandemic, it has become increasingly clear that GDP is incomplete as a measure of progress, as it does not fully reflect important environmental or social challenges. GDP as a measure of economic progress will remain important, but it needs to be complemented with indicators of sustainability and wellbeing. Having solid measures of wellbeing and environmental protection will be pivotal to measure progress towards sustainability.

The Commission has started internal work on methodologies for possible ways of complementing GDP, for instance by taking into account factors which are important for societal wellbeing such as health and the environment. The ongoing internal work is bringing together different strands of pre-existing work for the first time, with the aim of informing future EU policymaking. The report presents the first results from this pilot work towards an adjusted GDP. This medium-term project aims at the development of an adjusted GDP and its progressive embedding into policymaking.

8. What are the key recommendations stemming from the report?

The report highlights that, to meet the social and economic challenges for the sustainability transition, the EU needs to act across a wide range of policies and priorities.

The ten priority areas for action are:

(1) ensure a new European social contract with renewed welfare policies and a focus on high-quality social services;

(2) deepen the Single Market to champion a net-zero economy, with a focus on Open Strategic Autonomy and economic security;

(3) boost the EU‘s offer on the global stage to strengthen cooperation with key partners;

(4) support shifts in production and consumption patterns towards sustainability, targeting regulation and fostering balanced lifestyles;

(5) moving towards a ‘Europe of investments’ through public action to catalyse financial flows for the transactions;

(6) making public budgets fit for sustainability through and efficient tax framework and public spending;

(7) further shift policy and economic indicators towards sustainable and inclusive wellbeing, including adjusting GDP for different factors;

(8) ensure that all Europeans can contribute to the transition by increasing labour market participation and focusing on future skills;

(9) strengthen democracy with generational fairness at the heart of policymaking, to reinforce the support for the transition;

(10) complement civil protection with ‘civil prevention’ by reinforcing the EU’s toolbox on preparedness and response.

9. What are the next steps in the Commission’s strategic foresight agenda?

The Commission will continue mainstreaming strategic foresight into EU policymaking, to support its transition-led political agenda, while increasing its ability to cope with potential future crisis and challenges. We will also draw lessons learnt and reflect on future foresight priorities.

In addition, the work carried out by a foresight cluster of Member States led by Spain, together with the Commission’s 2023 Strategic Foresight Report, will inform the discussion of Leaders in an informal European Council in Granada in October 2023.

On 14 November 2023, the Commission will co-organise, with the European Parliament, the annual conference ESPAS (European Strategy and Analysis System) conference.

For more information

2023 Strategic Foresight Report[https://commission.europa.eu/document/f8f67d33-194c-4c89-a4a6-795980a1dabd_en]: Sustainability and people’s wellbeing at the heart of Europe’s Strategic Autonomy

Press release[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_3623]

Factsheet[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/fs_23_3681]

Website on strategic foresight[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/strategic-planning/strategic-foresight_en]

2023 Strategic Foresight Report webpage[https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/strategic-planning/strategic-foresight/2023-strategic-foresight-report_en]

JRC Science for Policy report: Towards a fair and sustainable Europe 2050: social and economic choices in sustainability transitions[https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/handle/JRC133716]

1 The translated versions of the 2023 Strategic Foresight Report will be available as of 30 July in all EU official languages.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/QANDA_23_3624]

Remarks by Vice-President Maroš Šefčovič on the 2023 Strategic Foresight Report

Brussels, 6 July 2023

“Check against delivery”

Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for coming.

I am pleased to present this year’s Strategic Foresight Report to you today.

The Commission is committed to making its policymaking more strategic by looking ahead. The annual foresight report does just that: it offers us the opportunity to weigh up our successes and plan for our next steps.

In times of rising insecurity and with open conflict on Europe’s border, strategic foresight enables us to better prepare for an uncertain future and anticipate developments which might impact on us. In short, it will help us make Europe more resilient.

This year’s report focuses on “sustainability and people’s wellbeing at the heart of Europe’s open strategic autonomy”.

It builds on the foundations of the first three reports, which focused on resilience [2020], open strategic autonomy [2021], and the “twinning” of the green and digital transitions [2022], respectively.

It evaluates key trends and future challenges affecting the EU’s policy actions across the social, economic and environmental dimensions of sustainability. And how these areas are linked to one another.

We are facing many challenges; such as: the rise of geopolitics, the need to ensure sustainability and the wellbeing of Europeans, securing sufficient funding for our ambitions, ensuring our workers are equipped with relevant skills for the future economy, the erosion of social cohesion; and threats to our democratic model.

Based on an analysis of the challenges we face, our 2023 Strategic Foresight report identifies 10 areas for action.

These will help us chart a path towards a sustainable transition that works for all.

I would like to briefly highlight some key findings in the report.

First, we face challenges in effective international cooperation. This is due to a “battle of narratives” which became a “battle of offers” and which is clearly now becoming a “battle of models”.

To put it in other words, we need to recognise that the time when liberal democracy was the model of obvious choice is over. Liberal democracies are increasingly being challenged by autocracies as the governance model best suited to deal with growing social-economic issues.

This translates into a quest for influence, including through support to third countries, be it for infrastructure, financing or on trade.

In this context, we need to promote sustainability in our diplomatic outreach and mutually beneficial relationships based on trust and facts.

One concrete idea is a future “green transatlantic marketplace” – a sort of free-trade area for net-zero technologies which can facilitate access to incentive schemes, prevent discrimination and thereby support green investments and sustainable production.

Second, we have found that sustainable and inclusive wellbeing needs to be front and centre in policymaking and economic indicators.

That means adjusting GDP, the standard way to track economic growth for nearly a century, to include aspects of wellbeing and sustainability.

As an example, we looked at what GDP might look like after taking into account life expectancy as a measure of health.

In this case, we could expect the EU’s adjusted GDP to increase by 15.5% by 2040, higher than that of countries such as the US, China or India.

We also call for a new European social contract that better prepares us for a sustainable future.

This would include further adapting our welfare policies and social protection to a rapidly changing world – for instance, to take into account new climate-related risks.

And we need to move towards a “Europe of investments”. We aim to increase private financial flows in support of strategic investments, allowing us to broaden the base for our green transition.

This can be achieved by using public funding as a catalyst for private investments, notably for riskier, breakthrough sustainability projects, including their scaling up.

This is why the European Investment Bank, the largest public bank in the world, should provide stronger support for strategic investments relevant for the green and digital transitions in key areas such as raw materials, green tech and biotechnology, especially for cutting-edge projects.

Lastly, we propose complementing civil protection for EU citizens with civil prevention. We plan to reinforce our disaster preparedness and response by implementing Early Warning Systems as a compass to guide Member States’ future investments and funding.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/SPEECH_23_3717]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/2023-strategic-foresight-report-focus-on-sustainability-and-wellbeing/411437/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

ESDE report 2023: EU Commission looks at possible ways to tackle labour and skills shortages[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/esde-report-2023-eu-commission-looks-at-possible-ways-to-tackle-labour-and-skills-shortages/411433/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 05:13 pm

Brussels, 6 July 2023

The Commission’s Employment and Social Developments in Europe (ESDE) report 2023[https://ec.europa.eu/social/BlobServlet?docId=26989&langId=en] reveals that despite the impact of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine resulting in an economic slowdown in the second half of 2022, EU labour markets have demonstrated remarkable resilience in 2022. The EU economy grew by 3.5% in real terms in 2022. Employment rates were at a record high at 74.6% with 213.7 million people employed in 2022, and unemployment rates at a historic low at 6.2%.

However, the report also finds that challenges remain with a low labour market representation of certain groups, such as women or persons with a disability. Youth unemployment fell from 16.7% in 2021 to 14.5% in 2022, but remains a major challenge. In addition, companies face labour shortages and there is the need for both employers and workers to adapt to evolving skill needs, in the context of the green and digital transitions.

Key findings on skills and labour shortages

As part of the European Year of Skills[https://year-of-skills.europa.eu], the ESDE report puts a special focus on the analysis of labour shortages and skills gaps and lays out policies to address them. The report’s key findings for 2022 include the following:

* Labour shortages exist in various sectors and occupations across all skills levels and are set to increase. They are expected to persist in both high skills and low skills occupations, driven by the creation of new jobs and the need to replace workers who retire. Sectors such as construction, healthcare, and STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics), particularly ICT (Information and Communications Technology), were among the most affected in 2022. These shortages will likely increase with the projected decline in the working age population from 265 million in 2022 to 258 million by 2030.

* At the same time, structural drivers contributing to persistent labour shortages vary by occupation and sector. For some professions like doctors, nurses, carers, and drivers, challenging working conditions or difficulties in human resource management contribute to the difficulties of employers to retain and attract workers. For other occupations, e.g. in STEM, a lack of available highly specialised skills is a contributing factor.

* Labour shortages in some occupations might also be exacerbated by evolving skills and employment needs due to the necessary green transition. Employment growth is expected in some sectors/occupations that are already experiencing labour shortages (e.g., transportation and storage, building, electrical and electronic trades), or are likely to do so in the future (e.g., net-zero technologies, water supply, waste management and certain science and engineering professions).

* In the context of the green transition, the investment needs for retraining, reskilling and upskilling in manufacturing of strategic net-zero technologies are estimated between €1.7 billion and €4.1 billion up to 2030.

* As regards the digital transition, the report finds it contributes to persistent labour shortages among ICT professionals but does not seem to be a key driver of shortages in other occupations.

* The lower labour market participation of women, lower-educated people, people with a migrant background, as well as older and young people also contributes to labour shortages. Most shortage occupations are dominated either by men or by women – 86% of occupations with labour shortages are not gender-balanced. This also mirrors gender segregation in the respective field of studies leading up to a certain occupation, limiting the pool of people to fill vacancies.

Measures to address persistent shortages and skills gaps

The ESDE 2023 report also looks at possible policy measures to tackle labour shortages and bridge skills gaps. These include:

* Investing in adult learning and skills development and training programmes, as well as better job matching with people’s education, experience, and skills. To support Member States, the EU budget and NextGenerationEU provide €64.8 billion for skills measures, for instance through the Recovery and Resilience Facility[https://commission.europa.eu/business-economy-euro/economic-recovery/recovery-and-resilience-facility_en], and the European Social Fund Plus[https://ec.europa.eu/european-social-fund-plus/en]. The EU Pact for Skills[https://pact-for-skills.ec.europa.eu/index_en] brings together industry, social partners and training providers to tackle challenges in skills development. So far, 2 million people[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_3060] have benefited from the Pact’s up-and re-skilling activities; 18 skills partnerships were launched, including in key sectors for the green and digital transitions, such as electronics, renewable energy and energy-intensive industries.

* Addressing the gender employment gap and boosting labour market participation of young people, older people, people with a migrant background, and people with lower educational attainment to tackle labour shortages. This is key to meet the EU 2030 social targets[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3782] on training, employment and poverty reduction, which Member States achieve with their national contributions[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3782]. The Commission has also put forward a Youth Employment Support[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_20_1193] package and has committed to review the Quality Framework for Traineeships[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_71] to support young people entering the labour market.

* Removing barriers to entering the workforce, such as providing accessible, affordable, high-quality early childhood education and care. The Commission put forward the European Care Strategy[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5169] to support both carers and care receivers. Member States have adopted two Council Recommendations on long-term care[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5169] and early childhood education and care[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5169]. The Work-Life Balance Directive[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_4785] sets out minimum standards for paternity, parental and carers’ leave and establishes additional rights, such as the right to request flexible working arrangements.

* Improving working conditions and pay in certain jobs to attract and retain workers. Member States have adopted the EU Directive on adequate minimum wages[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_3441], and are required to transpose it into national law.

* Improving the financial incentives for work, such as reviewing taxes and benefits systems targeting low-income earners, and promoting active inclusion to support the labour market participation of those who can work, for instance also through inclusive education and training and individualised support. This is also highlighted in the Council Recommendation on adequate minimum income ensuring active inclusion[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_5706].

* Promoting targeted labour migration from non-EU countries to reduce labour shortages in specific skills groups. The Commission has launched an EU Talent Pool pilot[https://eures.ec.europa.eu/eu-talent-pool-pilot_en], helping to match people’s skills with job offers. Attracting people from outside the EU with the skills needed is also among the main objectives of the European Year of Skills[https://year-of-skills.europa.eu/], and the Commission will present an initiative to improve the recognition of qualifications of non-EU nationals and roll out talent partnerships[https://home-affairs.ec.europa.eu/policies/migration-and-asylum/legal-migration-and-integration/talent-partnerships_en] with selected non-EU partner countries.

* Enhancing social dialogue and involving social partners in training, improving working conditions, and facilitating adult learning opportunities. Member States have adopted a Council Recommendation on strengthening social dialogue[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_290] at national and EU level, as proposed by the Commission.

Background

The annual Employment and Social Developments in Europe (ESDE) review is the European Commission’s flagship analytical report on employment and social affairs. It provides up-to-date economic analysis as well as related policy proposals.

More information

Employment and Social Developments in Europe 2023 (ESDE)[https://ec.europa.eu/social/BlobServlet?docId=26989&langId=en]

Employment and Social Analysis[https://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?langId=en&catId=113]

Previous ESDE reports[https://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?advSearchKey=esdereport&mode=advancedSubmit&catId=22&policyArea=0&policyAreaSub=0&country=0&year=0#navItem-1]

European Year of Skills[https://year-of-skills.europa.eu]

Quotes

In 2022, we witnessed record-breaking employment levels, with the highest number of people employed and the lowest unemployment rates ever recorded. This resilience serves as a testament to the strength of our labour markets and our social market economy. However, we must also acknowledge and address the enduring challenges. To alleviate labour shortages, it is essential to promote the labour market participation of underrepresented groups; to continue our skills revolution to get more workers to undertake training throughout their careers; and to improve working conditions in certain sectors.

Nicolas Schmit, Commissioner for Jobs and Social Rights – 06/07/2023

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_23_3704]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/esde-report-2023-eu-commission-looks-at-possible-ways-to-tackle-labour-and-skills-shortages/411433/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Hong Kong: EEAS Spokesperson on the changes to the District Council electoral system[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/hong-kong-eeas-spokesperson-on-the-changes-to-the-district-council-electoral-system/411431/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 05:03 pm

Brussels, 6 June 2023

Hong Kong’s Legislative Council adopted further changes to the electoral system of the District Councils on 6 July. The reform of the District Council elections goes against the commitment to democratic representation set out in the Hong Kong Basic Law, and further undermines the ‘one country, two systems’ principle.

The electoral overhaul of the District Council reduces drastically the number of directly elected members to less than one-fifth. This severely weakens the ability of the people of Hong Kong to choose representatives overlooking district affairs. This decision follows the imposition of the National Security Law in 2020 and the overhaul of the elections’ rules for the Chief Executive and the Legislative Council in 2021.

These developments raise serious questions about the state of fundamental freedoms, democracy and political pluralism in Hong Kong that were supposed to remain protected until at least 2047 under the Sino-British Joint Declaration of 1984 and China’s international commitments.

The EU calls on the Chinese and Hong Kong authorities to restore confidence in Hong Kong’s democratic processes, and to pursue the establishment of universal suffrage that is enshrined in the Basic Law. China should abide by its international commitments and its legal obligations and to preserve Hong Kong’s high degree of autonomy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.

Source – EEAS[https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/hong-kong-statement-spokesperson-changes-district-council-electoral-system_en?channel=eeas_press_alerts&date=2023-07-06&newsid=0&langid=en&source=mail]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/hong-kong-eeas-spokesperson-on-the-changes-to-the-district-council-electoral-system/411431/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU innovation performance continues to improve at the national and regional level[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-innovation-performance-continues-to-improve-at-the-national-and-regional-level/411420/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 02:09 pm

Brussels, 6 July 2023

The 2023 edition of the European Innovation Scoreboard and the bi-yearly edition of the Regional Innovation Scoreboard published today showcase that, despite the recent crises, EU Member States and their regions keep improving their innovation performance.

The European Innovation Scoreboard 2023 highlights a substantial improvement in the innovation performance of approximately 8.5% since 2016, confirming the EU’s commitment to fostering a culture of innovation. The innovation performance of 25 countries improved during this period, although at a slower pace in the more recent years, and that 20 Member States experienced a significant rise in their innovation capabilities over the past year, while only seven observed a decline. Nevertheless, countries with less strong innovation systems tend to improve less rapidly than the EU average.

The Regional Innovation Scoreboard also reports a rise in innovation performance for most of the regions in the EU since 2016. Even though innovative regions tend to be situated within the most innovative countries, some regional ‘pockets of excellence’ are found in countries with relatively lower innovation performance.

At the global level, the EU is still performing slightly better than China and is closing the performance gap with Australia, although the gap with Canada, the Republic of Korea, and the United States has expanded.

Key findings

Based on their scores, Members States fall into four performance groups: Innovation Leaders (performance is above 125% of the EU average), Strong innovators (between 100% and 125% of the EU average), Moderate innovators (between 70% and 100% of the EU average) and Emerging innovators (below 70% of the EU average). Denmark is the new top innovator, while Sweden, which had topped the board in the last few years, is coming second. Other Innovation Leaders are Finland, the Netherlands, and Belgium.

Figure 1: Performance of EU Member State’s innovation systems

In comparison to last year’s edition, the distribution of Member States across performance groups has stayed broadly stable. Hungary progressed to a higher performance group and became a Moderate innovator, while innovation performance has decreased in France, and Luxembourg since 2016.

In particular:

* Austria, Germany, Luxembourg, Ireland, Cyprus, and France are Strong innovators, performing above the EU average.

* Estonia, Slovenia, Czechia, Italy, Spain, Malta, Portugal, Lithuania, Greece and Hungary are Moderate innovators.

* Croatia, Slovakia, Poland, Latvia, Bulgaria and Romania are Emerging innovators.

At the regional level, innovation performance has increased for 211 regions out of the total of 239 regions over the period since 2016, as shown in the Regional Innovation Scoreboard 2023. The most innovative region in Europe is Hovedstaden in Denmark, followed by Helsinki-Uusimaa in Finland, and Oberbayern in Germany. Stockholm in Sweden is in fourth place, and Berlin in Germany is in fifth place.

Despite the progress in innovation, the EU’s innovation divide persists and is predominantly shaped by geographic concentrations. While Innovation Leaders and most Strong innovators are predominantly located in Northern and Western Europe, many of the Moderate and Emerging innovators are in Southern and Eastern Europe.

This divide emphasises the need for targeted efforts to bridge the innovation gap and foster equitable growth across the EU, which is one of the goals of the New European Innovation Agenda[https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/strategy/support-policy-making/shaping-eu-research-and-innovation-policy/new-european-innovation-agenda_en], adopted in July 2022. Through strategic initiatives like the Deep Tech Talent Initiative[https://www.eitdeeptechtalent.eu/], the Innovation Talent Platform[https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/euraxess/innovation-talent-platform], and the Regional Innovation Valleys, the EU aims to foster deep tech innovation and promote a start-up culture. By investing in deep tech talent, fostering innovation ecosystems, and leveraging regional strengths, countries or regions can drive technological advancement, and maintain a competitive edge in the global innovation landscape.

Background

Since 2001, the European Innovation Scoreboard has been the benchmark for analysing innovation performance across EU countries, European neighbours, and global competitors. The Regional Innovation Scoreboard provides a comparative assessment of the research and innovation performance across 239 regions in 22 EU Member States, Norway, Serbia, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Cyprus, Estonia, Latvia, Luxembourg, and Malta are included at the country level. Both scoreboards provide a comprehensive assessment of national and regional innovation strengths and weaknesses, empowering countries to identify areas for improvement. Accompanied by an interactive tool[https://ec.europa.eu/research-and-innovation/en/statistics/performance-indicators/european-innovation-scoreboard/eis], the Scoreboards offer customized comparisons, visualizing country profiles, showcasing relative strengths, weaknesses, and trends, and exploring correlations between indicators.

The European Innovation Scoreboard highlights the commitment of the EU and its Member States to fostering innovation rooted in excellence, competitiveness, openness, and talent. It serves as a guide for shaping policies that amplify innovation across Europe, while keeping pace with the rapidly evolving global landscape.

For More Information

European Innovation Scoreboard (EIS) 2023[https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/document/download/9ddcbd43-fdca-41f4-8a5d-d0e5633803f4_en]

European Innovation Scoreboard 2023 – Executive summary[https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/document/download/4427d614-6767-4dee-b56f-d73b2589d892_en]

Questions and Answers on the European Innovation Scoreboard (EIS) 2023[https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/system/files/2023-07/EIS%202023%20MEMO.pdf]

EIS 2023 – Annex B (performance per indicator)[https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/document/download/9ca79684-456e-4c18-86a5-343269b79f06_en]

EIS 2023 Methodology report[https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/document/download/e59de361-e73c-42cf-8869-213b9d240383_en]

EIS 2023 – EU countries and neighbouring countries database[https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/document/download/0aeec91b-86e3-4521-921c-82886dc7ff40_en]

EIS 2023 – EU and global competitors database[https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/document/download/f6902e8a-bd41-4aa7-badf-1e1819ce1280_en]

EIS 2023 Country Profiles[https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/statistics/performance-indicators/european-innovation-scoreboard_en#country-profiles-eu]

Technical note on the gender perspective in innovation[https://op.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/4ddaffbb-9e30-11ed-b508-01aa75ed71a1/language-en/format-PDF/source-287496929]

Feasibility study – European start-up scoreboard[https://op.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/70fe2318-fb72-11ed-a05c-01aa75ed71a1/language-en/format-PDF/source-286771119]

Regional Innovation Scoreboard (RIS) 2023[https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/statistics/performance-indicators/regional-innovation-scoreboard_en]

Quotes

The 2023 edition of the European Innovation Scoreboard shows a substantial improvement in innovation performance. It highlights the importance of a European Innovation Ecosystem, with Horizon Europe as a powerful enabler. Something that can help us champion excellence and provide support to leading researchers and innovators and promote a start-up culture. This will ultimately strengthen European competitiveness for us to keep pace in a global landscape.

Margrethe Vestager, Executive Vice-President for a Europe Fit for the Digital Age – 06/07/2023

To remain competitive and create quality jobs in a decarbonised EU economy, we must strengthen our domestic capacities. The EU should be a leader in the markets of the future, and this requires investments in cutting-edge innovative products and clean technologies. We should shelter Europe’s supplies by boosting the resilience of global value chains. Actions like the Green Deal Industrial Plan, the Chips Act and recent proposals for a Net-Zero Industry Act and a Critical Raw Materials Act aim to transform our industrial landscape and will create massive opportunities for growth and sustainable competitiveness.

Thierry Breton, Commissioner for Internal Market – 06/07/2023

Innovation is essential to foster development and convergence across European regions. Although significant progress in innovation performance has been achieved in many parts of Europe, we must acknowledge a persisting innovation divide, particularly for our less developed and peripheral regions. It is crucial to bridge this gap to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion in Europe. By harnessing the power of Cohesion Policy funds, we can fuel smart, place-based innovation strategies, to address the innovation divide and bring European regions closer together.

Elisa Ferreira, Commissioner for Cohesion and Reforms – 06/07/2023

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_23_3683]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-innovation-performance-continues-to-improve-at-the-national-and-regional-level/411420/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Cohesion Policy: The largest bridge over the Danube opens for circulation[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-cohesion-policy-the-largest-bridge-over-the-danube-opens-for-circulation/411419/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 01:57 pm

Brussels, 6 July 2023

One of the biggest Cohesion Policy-funded projects, the Brăila bridge in Romania, is inaugurated today. It will connect the Black Sea ports and the Danube Delta with the rest of the country and with the wider Trans-European Transport Network[https://transport.ec.europa.eu/transport-themes/infrastructure-and-investment/trans-european-transport-network-ten-t_en]. The EU’s contribution to this project amounts to €363 million from Cohesion Policy funds.

2 km long, 38 meters above the water and with four lanes, this suspended bridge is the largest in Romania and the largest over the Danube and, overall, the third largest suspension bridge in the EU.

Better mobility and economic development

The bridge will allow the free transit of vessels. It will replace a slow and unreliable ferry link, which is often interrupted during winter and bad weather conditions.

The bridge is expected to cut travel time by around 50 minutes and serve around 11,400 physical vehicles a day. This will greatly benefit labour mobility, tourism and trade, and reinforce the region’s links with the rest of the country. It will also enhance mobility and economic development by increasing travel speeds and safety, offering local communities easier access to healthcare, public and commercial services across the South-East region in Romania.

The project will also contribute to the building of 23.4 km of transport infrastructure such as roads, bridges, junctions, level crossings and overpasses to serve the needs of people in the Moldova and Dobrogea regions.

An impressive structure

The bridge is a technological marvel for its towers and anchoring system. The main cables make around 81,000 km – a length comparable to twice the circumference of the Earth – and have a guaranteed lifetime of 120 years. The anchor blocks with their 47 m in diameter are buried 31 m deep, figures that very few bridge structures in the world match.

The bridge and parts of the access roads are operational as of today, while the construction of the remaining access roads is expected to be finalised by the end of 2023.

Background

In 2019 the Commission approved the EU financing of the bridge in Romania following a feasibility study that analysed the possible alternatives to connect the two parts of the country ensuring a viable crossing of the Danube.

The preservation of Romania’s natural heritage was an essential criterion in all phases of the project’s preparation.

The bridge fits into the broader package of investments funded by Cohesion Policy in the Romanian transport network aiming to promote a multimodal transport system, close missing links, and improve safety and cross border connectivity.

During the 2014-2020 programming period, Romania received a total over €24 billion under EU Cohesion Policy, a substantial part of which (€5.6 billion) was dedicated to improving the network of infrastructures in transport and energy. In the current 2021-2027 period, Romania will receive €31 billion from Cohesion Policy funds, including €4.6 billion for road, rail and water transport infrastructure.

More information

EU investment in Romania[https://cohesiondata.ec.europa.eu/countries/RO/14-20]

Cohesion Open Data Platform[https://cohesiondata.ec.europa.eu/cohesion_overview/21-27]

Kohesio[https://kohesio.ec.europa.eu/]

Quotes

This bridge is a statement of how beneficial Cohesion Policy is for citizens on the ground. People no longer need to take the slow and occasional hazardous ferry trip over the Danube. They can now easily cross the largest river in Europe in minutes, which will have a substantial impact on the region’s economy and on the life of local people and beyond – including neighbouring Moldova and Ukraine.

Elisa Ferreira, Commissioner for Cohesion and Reforms – 06/07/2023

Brăila Bridge, one of Europe’s largest and technically most sophisticated bridges, is a successful project for Romania and the EU. This new transport connection will lead to the economic development of the neighbouring communities and will positively impact Dobrogea and Moldova regions. The bridge has special importance in the current geopolitical context. A larger infrastructure capacity in the Danubian area is vital for improving EU security and ensuring the transportation of goods transiting Romania from and to Ukraine and Moldova.

Adina Vălean, Commissioner for Transport – 06/07/2023

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_23_3669]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-cohesion-policy-the-largest-bridge-over-the-danube-opens-for-circulation/411419/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Cohesion Policy: Croatia received €1bn in recovery support following the devastating earthquakes[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-cohesion-policy-croatia-received-e1bn-in-recovery-support-following-the-devastating-earthquakes/411414/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jul 06, 2023 01:50 pm

Brussels, 6 July 2023

Today, Croatia takes stock of its reconstruction efforts to recover from the damages following the devastating earthquakes of March and December 2020 in Zagreb, Petrinja and the Sisak Moslavina county.

This recovery was supported by a total of €1 billion from the EU Solidarity Fund[https://ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/funding/solidarity-fund_en] (EUSF), which was granted in two tranches in 2020 and 2021.

The earthquakes caused damage to around 26,000 buildings. Thanks to the EU support, Croatia could invest in the rapid reconstruction of infrastructure and schools, universities, hospitals, and cultural heritage sites. For example, the EUSF funded the reconstruction of the Zagreb Cathedral, the Merkur Clinical and Sisters of Charity hospitals, several faculties at the University of Zagreb, the Dr Ivan Merz primary school in Zagreb and the container settlements that were set up in the Sisak Moslavina county to provide temporary housing.

The coordination of the reconstruction and recovery efforts after the earthquakes and the implementation of the funding were extremely challenging. 1,330 contracts were signed, involving 609 beneficiaries and 304 construction companies. A total of 10,500 construction workers were engaged in the reconstruction.

Background

The EUSF is the main EU instrument for post-disaster recovery and an expression of EU solidarity. It supports Member States and accession countries by offering a financial contribution after severe natural disasters and, since 2020, major health emergencies.

In the case of natural disasters, the funding can be used for essential emergency and recovery operations by public authorities, such as the repair of damaged infrastructure, protection for the population, securing preventive infrastructure and protection of cultural heritage, as well as clean-up operations.

Since April 2020, at the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the scope of the EUSF was extended to cover major public health emergencies.

In December 2020, the Commission granted €684 million of EUSF assistance to Croatia following the devastating earthquake that hit Zagreb and its surroundings in March 2020. A second series of earthquakes hit the cities of Petrinja, Karlovac and Sisak Moslavina as from the end of 2020. In December 2021, the Commission allocated to Croatia a further €319 million of EUSF assistance.

Between 2002 and the end of 2022, the EUSF mobilised over €8.2 billion for interventions in 127 disaster events (107 natural disasters and 20 health emergencies) in 24 Member States, the UK (then a Member State) and 3 accession countries (Albania, Montenegro, and Serbia).

The EUSF and the Emergency Aid Reserve help tackle major natural disasters or public health crises inside and outside the EU, respectively, as part of the Solidarity and Emergency Aid Reserve (SEAR). Taking into account the increasing needs and limited resources of the EUSF, the Commission proposed in June 2023, in the context of the MFF mid-term revision 2023, a €2.5 billion increase of SEAR to reinforce the Union’s capacity to address crises and emergency situations.

For More Information

European Union Solidarity Fund [https://ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/en/funding/solidarity-fund/]

EU Solidarity Fund: supporting disaster recovery 2002-2022 (data story)[https://cohesiondata.ec.europa.eu/stories/s/An-overview-of-the-EU-Solidarity-Fund-2002-2019/qpif-qzyn]

Quotes

Croatia has gone through two terrible earthquakes in 2020 and the EU came to the rescue with immediate and long-term support. The financial help from the EU Solidarity Fund to Croatia was essential for the reconstruction efforts and a tangible outcome of EU support and solidarity with Croatia and its citizens.

Elisa Ferreira, Commissioner for Cohesion and Reforms – 06/07/2023

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_23_3679]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-cohesion-policy-croatia-received-e1bn-in-recovery-support-following-the-devastating-earthquakes/411414/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

You are receiving this e-mail because you have signed up for the premium version of our Insight EU Monitoring Digest.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any problems in receiving or opening this mail, or if you are interested in other services we offer.

You find more information about us on our FAQ page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] and on our subscription page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]. Or simply contact our publisher[mailto:j.weidemann@ieu-monitoring.com?subject=Letter%20to%20the%20publisher].

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020230707ej7700002


Domestic
There is an uproar in Russia about the EU's new car alignment - Finland is investigating the effects on traffic on the eastern border*** TRANSLATED ***
Lassi Lapintie
479 字
2023 年 9 月 11 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2023. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
The new recommendation makes it clear that cars with Russian license plates could not be brought into the EU in the future, even for personal use. For now, Finland still follows the previous interpretation.

On Sunday, the Russian media began to stir about the European Commission's new guidelines, which entered into force on Friday, according to the wording of which cars registered in Russia cannot be brought into the EU territory, even for personal tourist use.

The Russian media uproar started with the news published by the news agency RBC on Sunday. According to the Reuters news agency, the policy has been criticized, among others, by the spokeswoman for the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Marija Zaharova, who says that the rule is racist towards Russians.

The Russian embassy in Helsinki has published a warning on its Telegram channel due to the incident.

- Considering the possible risks, we recommend that Russian citizens do not travel to Finland in cars with Russian license plates, the mission writes.

Effects on Finland unclear

It is not a matter of a new sanction, but of a new interpretation recommendation given to the member states, which applies to already decided sanctions. In Finland, Customs informs that it will clarify with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the implications of the recommendation for Finland. For now, Finland still follows the previous interpretation.

According to the new recommendation, in terms of sanctions, it does not matter whether the vehicle registered in Russia is for private or commercial use, but the import of all vehicles listed in the sanctions regulation would be completely prohibited.

Finland has restricted the travel of Russians with Schengen visas for non-essential purposes to Finland and the rest of the Schengen area. A Russian citizen may come to Finland, for example, if he is a family member of a foreigner or a Finnish citizen living permanently in Finland.

The commission's new recommendation was previously reported by Yle and Helsingin Sanomat.

Car sanctions leaked like a sieve

The car trade has been one of the areas where sanctions against Russia have leaked significantly, especially for cars exported to Russia. The value of the car trade passing through Armenia has multiplied since the beginning of the extensive war in Ukraine, when sanctions have been circumvented through it, the news agency AFP reported in August.

St. Petersburg-based car dealer Yaroslav Koltchenko told AFP in Armenia that used or damaged cars are bought in the United States and transported by sea to Georgia. There, the cars are restored and transported to Armenia for customs clearance. After this, the cars are transported by land again through Georgia to Russia.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020230911ej9b006k5


Domestic
There is an uproar in Russia about the EU's new car alignment - Finland is investigating the effects on traffic on the eastern border*** TRANSLATED ***
Lassi Lapintie, Pertti Mattila
420 字
2023 年 9 月 11 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2023. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
The new recommendation makes it clear that cars with Russian license plates could not be brought into the EU in the future, even for personal use.

On Sunday, the Russian media began to stir about the European Commission's new guidelines, which entered into force on Friday, according to the wording of which cars registered in Russia cannot be brought into the EU territory, even for personal tourist use.

According to the news agency Reuters, the line has been criticized by, among others, the spokeswoman of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Marija Zaharova. According to him, the rule is racist towards Russians.

The Russian embassy in Helsinki has published a warning on its Telegram channel due to the incident.

- Considering the possible risks, we recommend that Russian citizens do not travel to Finland in cars with Russian license plates, the mission writes.

Also applies to Belarus

It is not a matter of a new sanction, but of a new interpretation recommendation given to the member states, which applies to already decided sanctions. In Finland, Customs informs that it will clarify with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the implications of the recommendation for Finland. For now, Finland still follows the previous interpretation.

According to the new recommendation, in terms of sanctions, it does not matter whether the vehicle registered in Russia is for private or commercial use, but the import of all vehicles listed in the sanctions regulation would be completely prohibited.

The commission's new recommendation was previously reported by Yle and Helsingin Sanomat.

Information manager Ismo Ulvila from the European Commission's representative office in Finland commented on the new guidelines to STT on Monday via email.

- The EU member states must implement the sanctions(against Russia). Based on the instructions given on Friday, the member states must ensure that no valuable goods are imported from Russia into the EU territory, which can include, among others, cars, valuable watches, jewelry and gold.

According to Ulvila, the guidelines apply not only to Russia but also to Belarus.

- The ban does not apply to personal essential goods, nor to products bought by EU citizens from Russia for their personal use.

The car trade has been one of the areas where sanctions against Russia have leaked significantly, especially for cars exported to Russia.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020230911ej9b007k9


Politics
Yle: Finland plans to ban the entry of Russian passenger cars*** TRANSLATED ***
117 字
2023 年 9 月 15 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2023. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
According to Yle's information, Finland plans to ban the entry of Russian passenger cars. Foreign Minister Elina Valtonen(co-ordinator) is supposed to inform about the matter this afternoon.

Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania made a similar decision this week.

According to the guidelines of the European Commission that entered into force last Friday, cars registered in Russia cannot be brought into the EU territory, even for personal tourist use. It is not a matter of a new sanction, but of a new interpretation recommendation given to the member states, which applies to already decided sanctions.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020230915ej9f001xh


Politics
Yle: Finland plans to ban the entry of Russian passenger cars*** TRANSLATED ***
175 字
2023 年 9 月 15 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2023. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania made a similar decision this week.

According to Yle's information, Finland plans to ban the entry of Russian passenger cars. Foreign Minister Elina Valtonen(co-ordinator) is supposed to inform about the matter this afternoon.

Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania made a similar decision this week.

According to the guidelines of the European Commission, which came into effect last Friday, cars registered in Russia cannot be brought into the EU territory, even for personal tourist use. It is not a matter of a new sanction, but of a new interpretation recommendation given to the member states, which applies to already decided sanctions. Finland has so far followed the previous interpretation.

According to the new recommendation, in terms of sanctions, it does not matter whether the vehicle registered in Russia is for private or commercial use, but the import of all vehicles listed in the sanctions regulation would be completely prohibited.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020230915ej9f00209


Politics
Finland prohibits the entry of cars with Russian license plates*** TRANSLATED ***
Viivi Salminen
322 字
2023 年 9 月 15 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2023. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
Cars with Russian license plates must be taken out of Finland by March 16, 2024.

Foreign Minister Elina Valtonen(coordinating) says at a press conference that Finland will implement the import ban on cars with Russian license plates at midnight today.

The reason is the EU Commission's new interpretation recommendation on sanctions.

The implementation of the ban means that cars with Russian license plates will be banned from entering the country.

According to Valtonen, in the future only an EU citizen permanently residing in Russia or his family member, a diplomat or a person equivalent to a diplomat can bring a car registered in Russia to Finland. You can also bring a car for humanitarian reasons.

- The exceptions according to the national policy are more extensive than in the Commission's interpretation instructions. When interpreting the prohibition of the sanctions regulation in question, other regulations must also be taken into account, especially fundamental rights and international obligations binding on Finland, says Valtonen.

Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania made a similar decision earlier this week.

According to the guidelines of the EU Commission that entered into force last Friday, cars registered in Russia cannot be brought into the EU territory, even for personal tourist use. It is not a matter of a new sanction, but of a new interpretation recommendation given to the member states, which applies to already decided sanctions.

According to the new recommendation, in terms of sanctions, it does not matter whether the vehicle registered in Russia is for private or commercial use, but the import of all vehicles listed in the sanctions regulation would be completely prohibited.

The deadline for taking cars with Russian license plates out of Finland is six months. Cars with Russian license plates must be taken out of Finland by March 16, 2024.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020230915ej9f003ml


CE Noticias Financieras English
Finland joins Baltics and closes its borders to Russian cars
312 字
2023 年 9 月 15 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Helsinki, Sep 15 (EFE) - Finland will close its borders from midnight tonight to cars with Russian license plates, as the three Baltic republics - Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania - did last Wednesday, following the instructions issued by the European Commission (EC) last week.

According to the Finnish Foreign Ministry, the ban will come into force at 00.00 hours on Saturday and will affect all passenger cars, motorhomes and vehicles for the transport of up to ten persons that are registered in Russia.

Only European Union (EU) citizens with permanent residence in Russia and their family members, diplomats and those arriving for humanitarian reasons will be allowed to enter the Nordic country with Russian-registered cars.

Also, those with Russian-registered vehicles in Finland will have a maximum period of six months to remove them from the country, although Finnish authorities have not explained how they will sanction those who fail to do so.

"We will monitor the implementation of these measures and their effects in cooperation with border states and EU member countries, especially from the perspective of sanctions evasion," Finnish Foreign Minister Elina Valtonen told a press conference.

Finland is the EU member with the longest border with Russia (1,340 kilometers) and currently about 5,000 passenger cars cross the border crossings between the two countries every week, despite restrictions imposed by Helsinki on Russian tourism.

According to Valtonen, about 75% of these border crossings are made by dual citizens with residence permits or family ties.

Last September 8, the EC published new guidelines on the implementation of sanctions against Russia over the war in Ukraine, including a ban on the entry into the EU of Russian-registered cars and the import by Russian citizens of personal goods, such as computers or smartphones. EFE

jg/cph/psh

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230915ej9f00azz


Politics
Finland banned the entry of cars with Russian license plates*** TRANSLATED ***
Viivi Salminen, Lassi Lapintie
608 字
2023 年 9 月 15 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2023. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
Cars with Russian license plates must be taken out of Finland by March 16, 2024.

In Finland, a ban on the import of cars registered in Russia came into force at midnight, which prohibits the import of Russian cars to the country also for temporary tourist use by private individuals. Foreign Minister Elina Valtonen(coordinator) announced the ban, which came into effect at short notice, at a press conference on Friday.

The reason for the tightened import ban is the EU Commission's new interpretation recommendation on sanctions. Cars registered in Russia can no longer cross the Finnish border into EU territory, but Customs will turn them back. Russian cars already in the country must be taken out by March 16, 2024.

In the future, only an EU citizen permanently residing in Russia, a family member of such a citizen, a diplomat or a person who can be equated with a diplomat can bring a car with a Russian license plate to Finland. Exceptions can also be made for cars imported for humanitarian reasons.

- The exceptions according to the national policy are more extensive than in the Commission's interpretation instructions. When interpreting the ban in question in the sanctions decree, other regulations must also be taken into account, especially fundamental rights and international obligations binding on Finland, Foreign Minister Valtonen said on Friday.

Risk of sanctions evasion

Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania made a similar decision earlier this week.

- We have coordinated the matter with the partner countries, Valtonen says.

According to the guidelines of the EU Commission that came into effect last Friday, cars registered in Russia cannot be brought into the EU territory even for personal tourist use. It is not a matter of a new sanction, but of a new interpretation recommendation given to the member states, which applies to already decided sanctions.

According to the new recommendation, in terms of sanctions, it does not matter whether the vehicle registered in Russia is for private or commercial use, but the import of all vehicles listed in the sanctions regulation would be completely prohibited.

Finland's national implementation and its effects have been evaluated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Customs. The matter was discussed today in the EU Ministerial Committee.

The import ban significantly cuts border traffic between Finland and Russia. According to Valtonen, there are approximately 5,000 border crossings per week with vehicles. According to data from the Border Guard, 75 percent of border crossings take place with dual citizenship, a residence permit or family ties. The rest is done with a visa.

The Commission has emphasized that cars are at a significant risk of evading sanctions.

"Seizure not the primary goal"

At the press conference, the question was asked what happens in Finland to cars with Russian license plates after six months. Sami Rakshit, head of the customs control department, says that there will be more information on the matter later.

- But the starting point is that cars with Russian license plates must leave after the six-month transition period, Rakshit says.

An additional question was asked whether cars can be impounded. Rakshit said that only in criminal cases can seizure be done and even then it is more about claiming the vehicle in court to be forfeited to the state.

The issue has been discussed a lot in connection with sanctions. Rakshit reminds us that sanctions are not meant to transfer ownership to the state or anyone else.

- Confiscation is not the primary goal, he says.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020230915ej9f0076d


Finland seeks ways to oust Russian owners from Helsinki Arena
379 字
2023 年 10 月 4 日 10:54 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2023 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
HELSINKI (Reuters) - Finland is looking at ways to take control of Helsinki's biggest sports and events arena which has been shut since last year because of sanctions against its billionaire Russian owners.

Authorities in the capital city estimate that up to 400 million euros ($420 million) of income per year is being lost for hotels, restaurants and other businesses while the arena stands idle.

Billionaire Gennady Timchenko, who has interests in Russian energy companies, and Roman Rotenberg, scion of the powerful Rotenberg family, control the venue that was previously the prime stage for Finland's favourite sport ice hockey.

A spokesperson for Timchenko declined to comment, while Rotenberg did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Finland, which joined the NATO military alliance in April in response to neighbouring Russia's invasion of Ukraine, is a firm supporter of European Union sanctions but hopes an exception can be made to allow it to take control of the arena.

It is also considering options to expropriate the venue if the Russian tycoons refuse to sell their stakes voluntarily, Finland's foreign and justice ministries said.

All Timchenko's holdings in the EU have been frozen, while Roman Rotenberg is the target of U.S. sanctions issued against his father Boris and uncle Arkadiy and their families for their close ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Helsinki mayor Juhana Vartiainen said the city hoped the Russian owners would voluntarily sell out.

"We are aware that active negotiations to sell the hall are ongoing and we hope that the transaction would proceed as quickly as possible, in order to get the hall back to the use of Helsinkians," Vartiainen told Reuters by email.

Several bidders have expressed an interest in buying the arena, but under the current situation any sale price would be frozen by Finland's bailiff authority until the sanctions are one day lifted, Finland's foreign ministry said.

The EU's current sanction rules do not include expropriation of frozen assets, which could complicate that option, it added.

($1 = 0.9514 euros)

(Reporting by Anne Kauranen in Helsinki; Additional reporting by Gleb Stolyarov and Vladimir Soldatkin; Editing by Mark Potter)

Released: 2023-10-4T10:54:29.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020231004eja401gs1


Supreme Court of Finland Decision: Additional appeal - Annulment of sentence in a criminal case - Annulment of sentence to the detriment of the accused Fine - Fine order
2877 字
2023 年 10 月 23 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Helsinki: The Supreme Court of Finland has issued the following decision on (26 September 2023):

Additional appeal - Annulment of sentence in a criminal case - Annulment of sentence to the detriment of the accused

Fine - Fine order

Diary number: H2023/28

Date of administration: 26/09/2023

Volume: 1355

ECLI identifier: ECLI:FI:KKO:2023:65

The police had issued a legally binding fine to A for endangering traffic safety when he had driven his car into the sea. The prosecutor demanded the cancellation of the fine, considering that the new preliminary investigation had revealed that it was an attempted murder against the passengers of the car, and the matter should have been dealt with as a criminal case in court.

The Supreme Court considered that the issue was the same procedure on the basis of which the fine order had been issued. Investigating the new charge required the fine order to be lifted. However, based on the new facts and evidence presented in the demolition application, it is likely that substantially harsher punishment provisions should not have been applied to A's crime, and the application was rejected. (Voice.)

Earlier processing of the case

Additional appeal in the Supreme Court

Decision of the Supreme Court

Previous processing of the case

The fine order issued by a police officer of the Helsinki Police Department on October 6, 2021, which is the subject of the application, is described in the necessary parts in the decision of the Supreme Court.

Additional appeal in the Supreme Court

The prosecutors demand that the fine order be annulled based on Chapter 31, Section 9, Subsection 1, Section 2 of the Judicial Code. After the fine order was issued, facts and evidence had come to light that had not been previously known and based on which the crime should have been subject to substantially harsher punishment provisions. The matter should have been dealt with in court when the crime title and penalty changed to a criminal case.

A demanded in his answer that the application be rejected.

The prosecutors gave the requested statement based on A's answer, and A gave the requested statement based on the prosecutors' statement.

The decision of the Supreme Court

Reasoning

Background of the matter

1. On October 6, 2021, the Helsinki Police Department issued A with a fine of 536 euros for endangering traffic safety, which consists of a 16-day fine and a crime victim fee of 40 euros. According to the fine order, on August 19, 2021, A had driven a test drive car to the edge of the Vironalta in Helsinki. In addition to A, there were five people in the vehicle. A had stopped the car in such a way that the front of the vehicle was a few meters away from the edge of the pool. A had started to reverse with the vehicle, but the vehicle had had a forward gear instead of a reverse gear, and the car had gone forward and fallen into the sea. All occupants of the vehicle were able to exit and were rescued from the sea. No one was hurt. The fine order has become legally binding on November 5, 2021.

Additional appeal

2. In the application submitted to the Supreme Court on March 29, 2023, the prosecutors have demanded that the fine be annulled based on Chapter 31, Section 9, Subsection 1, Subsection 2 of the Judicial Code. In the ongoing preliminary investigation, essential facts and evidence had come to light that had not been previously known and had therefore not been presented. Additional clarification has been obtained in connection with the investigation of the suspected homicide committed by A on 16 December 2022, in light of which the previously used surveillance camera recordings of the vehicle driving into the sea must be viewed in a new light. Based on new facts and evidence, driving the car into the water had probably been a deliberate attempt to commit a murder or another serious crime against life or health.

3. The prosecutors have considered that the legal force of the fine order prevents them from investigating the new penalty claim presented against A, because the new criminal assessment concerned at least mainly the same act as the already convicted act.

4. A has considered that the prosecutors' application did not present such new facts or evidence, on the basis of which A would probably have been convicted of five attempted murders or some other serious crime. In addition, the evidence presented now could have been invoked earlier.

Examining prosecutors' motion to quash

5. On the basis of Chapter 31, Section 16 of the Civil Procedure Code, a police fine issued pursuant to the Act on Fines and Misdemeanor Fines is a legal decision comparable to a final judgment. The fine order that is the subject of the application is legally binding.

6. The fine was issued by the police. The prosecutors have not been involved in the fine order procedure that is the subject of the application. The right of a party other than a party to an additional appeal has been considered exceptional in jurisprudence and literature, and the scope of those entitled to an additional appeal has been expanded to include parties other than the parties to the case usually only when the application has been made in favor of the accused. For example, the district judge who decided the case has not been considered to be able to apply for annulment of the judgment to the detriment of the accused (KKO 2014:10).

7. On the other hand, the implementation of criminal responsibility in the manner required by the public interest belongs to the prosecutor in accordance with § 9 of the Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office, who, as a party to the case, has the right to resort to an additional appeal, if necessary, also to the detriment of the defendant (KKO 2014:10, section 11). The basis of the prosecutors' application is the new criminal suspicion related to the assessment of the act dealt with by the fine order concerning A and the related prosecution. The Supreme Court considers that a fine that is equivalent to a final sentence can be dissolved in the prosecution of a new criminal suspicion at the request of the competent prosecutor, even though the prosecutor has not been a party to the fine procedure. The prosecutors therefore have the right in this case to apply for the annulment of the police fine order to the detriment of the accused.

The applicable provision and the questions to be resolved in the Supreme Court

8. According to Chapter 31, Section 9, Subsection 1, Clause 2 of the Code of Judicial Procedure, a final judgment in a criminal case may be overturned to the detriment of the accused, if the question is a crime for which, according to the regular punishment scale, a harsher punishment than two years of imprisonment can result, a fact or evidence that did not exist before is invoked presented, and its presentation would probably have led to the conviction of the accused for the crime or to the fact that the crime would have been subject to substantially harsher punishment provisions.

9. Pursuant to subsection 2 of the same section, the judgment shall not be overturned for the reason mentioned in subsection 1, subsection 2, unless it becomes probable that the party involved could not rely on the fact or evidence in question in the court that issued the judgment, or by applying for an appeal against the judgment, or that he otherwise has a valid reason had not appealed to it.

10. The prosecutors' application concerns a crime that, according to the regular punishment scale, can result in a harsher punishment than two years in prison. Therefore, the Supreme Court has to decide first whether the legally binding fine order prevents the investigation of the charges related to the crimes mentioned in the application and whether the prosecutors thus have an interest in canceling the fine order. If the answer to this question is positive, it must be assessed whether the prosecutors have made it likely that the new facts and evidence could not have been invoked in the previous process or that there was a valid reason for not using them. After this, it is still necessary to assess whether the presentation of new facts and evidence would probably have led to the fact that the crime would have been subject to significantly harsher punishment provisions.

Ne bis in idem prohibition

11. According to paragraph 1 of Article 4 of the 7th Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights, no one may be re-investigated or punished in a trial by the jurisdiction of the same state for a crime for which he has already been finally acquitted or convicted in accordance with the laws and judicial procedure of that state (the so-called ne bis in idem prohibition ). A similar provision is in paragraph 7 of Article 14 of the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights.

12. The Supreme Court states that a fine imposed pursuant to the Act on the imposition of fines and misdemeanor fines is a criminal sanction that falls within the scope of the ne bis in idem prohibition. In Finland, the ne bis in idem prohibition has been consistently observed in criminal proceedings so that the same matter cannot lead to two criminal proceedings or punishment (HE 309/1993 vp p. 74). The ne bis in idem prohibition therefore does not only apply to punishing twice, but also to investigating a case that has been resolved once for a second time (KKO 2012:106, section 17). The ban applies regardless of whether the person concerned has been convicted or acquitted in a final judgment.

13. In accordance with the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights, the assessment of the sameness of the case (idem) should be based on an examination of the concrete facts of the act. The key factor in assessing the similarity of cases is whether the same or substantially the same facts are at issue (Zolotukhin v. Russia, Grand Chamber 10.2.2009, paragraph 82).

14. As can be seen from the decision of the Supreme Court KKO 2023:55 (paragraph 12 and the Referenced Decisions therein), the assessment of the similarity of the cases has been made in accordance with the practice of the Human Rights Court by comparing the facts described in the legally binding decision with the facts that are the basis of the indictment presented later. It has been considered decisive whether the descriptions of the acts presented in the indictments concern the same facts, while the way the act is classified under criminal law in the previous indictment or judgment has not been relevant in this context. The starting point has therefore been a comparison of the historical events included in the descriptions of the charges. It is a question of the "same act" if the charge has ultimately concerned one and the same real-life event or procedure as the final verdict that has already been given. Particular importance has been given to the sameness of the author, the time of the act and the place of the act. The object of the act and whether the activity was continuous or repeated are also given importance in the evaluation (KKO 2015:82, section 16 and the decision referred to therein).

Application of the ne bis in idem prohibition in this case

15. The basis for the fine issued to A on October 6, 2021 for endangering traffic safety has been driving a car into the sea in Helsinki on August 19, 2021. According to the prosecutors' application, the new facts and evidence show that A had driven the car into the sea on purpose and that it was an attempted murder against the passengers of the car or another serious crime against life and health.

16. The Supreme Court considers that the acts mentioned in the fine order and in the application refer to the same historical event. The fact that the act according to the application was allegedly planned in the days before the act is not decisive in this assessment. When the acts concern the same event temporally and locally, the fact that the previous endangerment of traffic safety has been apt to cause danger not only to the passengers of the car but also to others who moved around the scene of the crime is not essential.

17. The Supreme Court considers that the subject of the prosecutors' application is the same thing, as meant in the ne bis in idem prohibition, for which A has already been punished by a fine. Investigating a new indictment on the same matter then requires the cancellation of the fine order, and the prosecutors thus have an interest in applying for the cancellation of the fine order.

Preclusion

18. The annulment of the fine order requires that new facts or evidence could not be invoked in the earlier process, or that there was a valid reason for not using it.

19. The question is about a fine issued by the police, and the prosecutors have not been involved in that procedure at all. In these circumstances, it is not justified to evaluate the preclusion in terms of the awareness and actions of the prosecutors, but the evaluation must be made based on the preliminary investigation that led to the issuance of the fine and the actions of the police who conducted the investigation. The purpose of the preclusion provision is to direct the parties involved to careful processing, and the same aspects can be taken into account when evaluating the police's actions in this fine procedure.

20. In the application, the interrogation reports given by the two persons who were in the car driven by A have been invoked as a new explanation. In addition, new information about A's activities after the incident and a report on the control devices of the vehicle driven by A have been invoked. In the light of the statements of the persons who have now been questioned, the preliminary investigation has also drawn new conclusions about the surveillance camera recordings that were already used in the fine order procedure.

21. In the earlier preliminary investigation, A and his spouse, who has since passed away, had been heard. Another adult passenger in the car, who has now been interviewed, had stated at the time that he did not want to be heard in the preliminary investigation and had no demands. The spouse of A, who used the right to speak on behalf of one of the underage passengers heard, and the guardian of the other two underage passengers had not made any demands in the case.

22. The Supreme Court states that the police would have had the opportunity to hear all the people who were in the car in the earlier preliminary investigation. However, the Supreme Court considers that, based on the facts known at the time, the nature of the suspected traffic crime and the statements made by the parties heard in the case and their legal representatives, the police did not have a justified reason to question other passengers in the car in addition to A and his spouse in connection with the investigation into the fine . Thus, there has been a valid reason for not relying on the interviews of passengers who have since been interrogated in the fine procedure.

23. The other facts and evidence relied on in the case have gained significance supporting the charge only after the interrogation reports presented now. Therefore, the Supreme Court considers that there was a valid reason for not referring to the facts and evidence mentioned in the application, even in its entirety.

Application of significantly harsher penalty provisions

24. In the case, it still needs to be assessed whether presenting the statement referred to in the prosecutors' application would probably have led to the fact that substantially harsher punishment provisions would have had to be applied to A's crime.

25. According to the wording of Chapter 31, Section 9, Subsection 1, Subsection 2 of the Code of Judicial Procedure explained in Section 8 above, a final sentence can be annulled to the detriment of the accused, provided that the maximum penalty on the punishment scale and other conditions are met, first of all, if the charge has been dismissed in the judgment requested to be annulled. Secondly, the judgment can be annulled even when the defendant has been convicted in the judgment that is the subject of the annulment application, but the application invokes a harsher penalty provision, in which case a comparison is made between the penalty provision applied in the judgment requested to be annulled and the penalty provision invoked in the annulment application (KKO 2022:19, section 11).

Note: This is an automated translated version of the story which may have translation errors. Please always refer to the original story[https://finlex.fi/fi/oikeus/kko/kko/2023/20230065].

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020231023ejan0005n


European Court of Human Rights judgment: CASE OF MYSLIHAKA AND OTHERS v. ALBANIA
5930 字
2023 年 10 月 25 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Brussels: European Court of Human Rights has issued the following judgment on (24 October 2023):

THIRD SECTION

CASE OF MYSLIHAKA AND OTHERS v. ALBANIA

(Applications nos. 68958/17)

JUDGMENT STRASBOURG

24 October 2023

This judgment will become final in the circumstances set out in Article 44 § 2 of the Convention. It may be subject to editorial revision.

In the case of Myslihaka and Others v. Albania, The European Court of Human Rights (Third Section), sitting as a Chamber composed of:

Pere Pastor Vilanova, President, Jolien Schukking, Georgios A. Serghides, Darian Pavli, Peeter Roosma, Andreas Zünd, Oddný Mjöll Arnardóttir, judges, and Milan Blaško, Section Registrar, Having regard to:

the applications (nos. 68958/17, 68965/17, 68970/17, 68976/17, 68985/17 and 68993/17) against the Republic of Albania lodged with the Court under Article 34 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms ("the Convention") by six Albanian nationals, Mr Hyqmet Myslihaka, Mr Imer Ruko, Mr Mehmet Rrapaj, Mr Fatmir Bakalli, Mr Rigels Kushe and Mr Blendi Spaho ("the applicants"), on 14 September 2017;

the decision to give notice of the applications to the Albanian Government ("the Government");

the observations submitted by the Government and the observations in reply submitted by the applicants;

Having deliberated in private on 3 October 2023, Delivers the following judgment, which was adopted on that date:

INTRODUCTION

1. The case concerns the statutory ban on voting in parliamentary elections by persons who have been convicted of a serious criminal offence and who are serving a prison sentence at the time of those elections. The applicants were all serving prison sentences at the time of the 2017 parliamentary elections.

THE FACTS

2. The applicants, whose particulars are set out in the Appendix, were all serving a prison term when the applications were lodged. The applicants were all represented by Ms E. Skëndaj, a lawyer practising in Tirana.

3. The Government were initially represented by their former Agent, Ms B. Lilo, and subsequently by Mr O. Moçka, General State Advocate.

4. The facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.

5. The first applicant, Mr Myslihaka, was convicted of murder on 14 November 2002 and sentenced to sixteen years' imprisonment by a final decision of the Elbasan District Court. He was arrested on 3 August 2007 and has since served his prison sentence.

6. The second applicant, Mr Ruko, was convicted on 14 April 2014 of the manufacture and sale of narcotic drugs and was sentenced to seven years and six months' imprisonment by a final decision of the Gjirokastra District Court. He was arrested on 15 February 2014 and has served his prison sentence.

7. The third applicant, Mr Rrapaj, was convicted on 12 March 2014 of attempted drug trafficking and sentenced to five years and four months' imprisonment by a final decision of the Tirana Serious Crimes Court. He was arrested on 11 October 2013 and has served his prison sentence.

8. The fourth applicant, Mr Bakalli, was convicted on 3 December 2015 of participation in an organised criminal group and facilitation of illegal border crossing and sentenced to seven years and eight months' imprisonment by a final decision of the Tirana Serious Crimes Court. He was arrested on 17 May 2014 and has served his prison sentence.

9. The fifth applicant, Mr Kushe, was convicted on 27 July 2016 of attempted drug trafficking and sentenced to five years' imprisonment by a final decision of the Tirana Serious Crimes Court. He was arrested on 16 May 2015 and has served his prison sentence.

10. The sixth applicant, Mr Spaho, was convicted on 27 June 2016 of the manufacture and sale of narcotic drugs and sentenced to four years and eight months' imprisonment by a final decision of the Tirana Serious Crimes Court. He was arrested on 3 April 2015 and has served his prison sentence.

11. On 17 December 2015, after a consensus reached by the major political parties, the Albanian Parliament, by a three-fifths majority, passed the Decriminalisation Act (Law no. 138/2015), which was aimed at the exclusion of criminal offenders from public office. The Act also barred convicted individuals from voting if, on the date of the election, they were serving a prison sentence imposed by a final court decision for one of the criminal offences set out in that Act (see paragraphs 17-20 below). The restrictions did not apply to remand prisoners. The law provided that the convicted individuals should be informed about the restriction in the same judgment which found them guilty of one of the offences concerned and by which a prison term was imposed on them. Nevertheless, the restriction was valid even if it was not mentioned in the judgment by which they were convicted. The law also applied to prisoners who had already been convicted of one of the criminal offences listed in the law.

12. Before passing the law, the Albanian Parliament asked for the opinion of the Venice Commission. That opinion was given in October 2015 and mainly addressed the right of persons with criminal records to be elected or appointed to public office. It also reiterated that the restriction on the right to vote of convicted prisoners was in conformity with the Convention as long as it was compatible with the Constitution and clearly provided for by law, followed a legitimate aim and was proportionate (see paragraph 23 below).

13. When the parliamentary elections of 25 June 2017 took place in Albania, all the applicants were serving their prison sentences. The first four applicants had been sentenced before the law entered into force. The fifth and sixth applicants had been convicted after the law came into force but it is unclear whether the suspension of their voting rights was included in the judgments on their convictions. On 3 June 2017 the Peqin Prison confirmed that the first four applicants had not been included on the electoral roll for those elections and on 13 June 2017 the Vaqarr Prison confirmed the same for the last two applicants. According to information provided by the General Directorate of Prisons, the application of Law no. 138/2015 affected 923 prisoners during the 2017 parliamentary elections. According to official statistics the overall number of prisoners with the right to vote that year was 5,379.

14. The applicants did not attempt to bring any action in the domestic courts, arguing that none of the available remedies could be effective in their cases.

LEGAL FRAMEWORK AND PRACTICE DOMESTIC LAW AND PRACTICE

Constitution

15. Article 45 § 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Albania provides that Albanian citizens who have reached the age of eighteen have the right to vote.

16. Article 45 § 3 provides that voting rights may be restricted for Albanian citizens who have been convicted by a court of a criminal offence and are serving a sentence in a penal institution. It provides:

"3. Citizens sentenced to imprisonment by a final decision for committing a crime are excluded from the right to stand for election, under the rules set out in a law to be approved by three-fifths of all the members of Parliament. In exceptional and justified cases, the law may provide for restrictions on the voting rights of citizens who are serving a prison sentence, or on the rights of citizens to stand for election before a final verdict has been given or when they have been deported for a crime or for a very serious and grave breach of public order."

Law no. 138/2015 on ensuring the integrity of persons who are elected, appointed to or exercising public functions

17. The general purpose of the law is set out in section 1(1), which reads as follows:

"1. The aim of this Law is to ensure public confidence in the proper functioning of elected representatives, independent institutions and institutions of public administration established by law, by impeding the election or nomination or by removing from public office persons who have been convicted [with final effect], are subject to a security measure or have been convicted in a non-final decision for committing any of the crimes provided for by this Law."

18. The law imposes restrictions on the voting rights of persons who have been sentenced to a term of imprisonment, irrespective of its duration, for the commission of specified criminal offences. Section 2(1)(a) and (b) and (4) sets out the list of criminal offences of which conviction entails disenfranchisement, including some of the most severe offences such as: murder, the manufacture and sale of narcotic drugs, drug trafficking, participation in an organised criminal group, and, in general, offences which fall within the categories of: crimes against humanity; crimes against life or health; sexual crimes; crimes against a person's freedom and property; crimes against national sovereignty and constitutional order; terrorist acts; crimes against State authority and public order; crimes against justice; and electoral offences.

19. Under section 4(8), the legal restriction on the right to vote ends when the prison sentence has been served, including where the sentence has been reduced.

20. Section 12 regulates the procedure to be followed when a person is excluded from the electoral roll. Even though the exclusion should be mentioned in the judgment convicting the person concerned of one of the criminal offences listed in section 2 and sentencing him or her to a prison term, it is applicable even if it is not explicitly mentioned in such a judgment. Section 12(2) reads as follows:

"2. With the aim of notifying convicted individuals of the restriction on their voting rights, the decision on conviction should include the suspension [of voting rights] as part of its findings, as outlined in this section. The omission of this restriction from the judgment shall not render the suspension invalid. In any case, the civil registration service shall ensure that everyone is notified of the implementation and conclusion of the restriction."

Decision of the Constitutional Court

21. On 31 January 2017 the Albanian Helsinki Committee lodged a complaint against Law no. 138/2015 with the Constitutional Court, contending that it was in violation of the Constitution and Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention. It argued that the list of offences for which the restriction on the right to vote was imposed was arbitrary and that it violated the right to be treated equally with other convicted prisoners whose voting rights were not restricted. Furthermore, it argued that there was no clear definition of the public interest purportedly protected by the law.

22. On 5 June 2017 the Constitutional Court dismissed that complaint, finding that Law no. 138/2015 did not violate the Constitution or the Convention. The Constitutional Court held that the restrictions on the right to vote pursued a legitimate aim and were not disproportionate. The legitimate aim of the law was to ensure public confidence in the functioning of public institutions. In addition, the restriction aimed to protect the system of democratic values, reinforce crime prevention, increase civic responsibility and respect for the law, and protect public institutions from illegal influence.

RELEVANT INTERNATIONAL DOCUMENTS

23. The relevant parts of the Venice Commission's opinion no. 807/2015 (Report on exclusion of offenders from Parliament, adopted at its 104th Plenary Session on 23-24 October 2015) read as follows:

"16. At least the principles and values discussed in ECtHR case-law on the right to vote have to be observed. ...

23. The Code of Good Practice in Electoral Matters drafted by the Venice Commission provides for somewhat more detailed standards [CDL-AD (2002) 23, § l.1.1.d.v]:

'i. provision may be made for depriving individuals of their right to vote and to be elected, but only subject to the following cumulative conditions:

ii. it must be provided for by law;

iii. the proportionality principle must be observed; conditions for depriving individuals of the right to stand for election may be less strict than for disenfranchising them;

iv. the deprivation must be based on mental incapacity or a criminal conviction for a serious offence;

v. furthermore, the withdrawal of political rights or finding of mental incapacity may only be imposed by express decision of a court of law.'

139. Legality is the first principle of the Rule of Law and implies that the law must be followed, by individuals and by the authorities. The exercise of political power by people who seriously infringed the law puts at risk the implementation of this principle, which is on its turn a prerequisite for democracy, and may therefore endanger the democratic nature of the state: a person who is not eager to recognise the standards of conduct in democratic society, may be unwilling to obey the constitutional or international standards on democracy and the Rule of Law."

THE LAW JOINDER OF THE APPLICATIONS

24. Having regard to the similar subject matter of the applications, the Court finds it appropriate to examine them jointly in a single judgment pursuant to Rule 42 § 1 of the Rules of Court.

ALLEGED VIOLATION OF ARTICLE 3 OF PROTOCOL No. 1 TO THE CONVENTION

25. All the applicants complained that their disenfranchisement on the grounds that they were convicted prisoners violated their right to vote and, in particular, that they had been unable to vote in the Albanian parliamentary elections held on 25 June 2017. They relied on Article 3 of Protocol No. 1, which provides:

"The High Contracting Parties undertake to hold free elections at reasonable intervals by secret ballot, under conditions which will ensure the free expression of the opinion of the people in the choice of the legislature."

Admissibility

Victim status

26. The Government invited the Court to reject the applications on the grounds that the applicants could no longer claim to be victims of the alleged violation for the purposes of Article 34 of the Convention in relation to the facts of which they complained, since all of them had served their prison sentences and there was no longer any restriction on their right to vote.

27. The applicants contested the Government's argument, asserting that they had been excluded from voting in the 2017 parliamentary elections and that they continued to be victims since no remedies were available and no redress had been afforded to them.

28. In response to the Government's objections, the Court reiterates that in order to lodge an application under Article 34 of the Convention, an individual must be able to show that he or she was "directly affected" by the measure complained of (see İlhan v. Turkey [GC], no. 22277/93 § 52, ECHR 2000‑VII; Burden v. the United Kingdom [GC], no. 13378/05, § 33, ECHR 2008; and Centre for Legal Resources on behalf of Valentin Câmpeanu v. Romania [GC], no. 47848/08, § 96, ECHR 2014).

29. An applicant may lose his or her victim status if two conditions are met: first, the authorities should acknowledge the alleged violations either expressly or in substance and, second, they should afford redress (see Guisset v. France, no. 33933/96, § 66, ECHR 2000-IX).

30. Turning to the present case, the Court notes that there has been no "acknowledgment" of a violation of the applicants' rights by the Albanian courts or institutions with regard to their inability to vote in the 2017 parliamentary elections. The restoration of their voting rights applies to other elections that have taken place or might take place in the future.

31. The applicants therefore cannot be said to have lost their victim status within the meaning of Article 34 of the Convention. The Government's objection should accordingly be dismissed.

Exhaustion of domestic remedies

32. In addition, the Government invited the Court to reject the applications on the grounds that the applicants had not exhausted domestic remedies. In the Government's submission, the applicants had had several remedies at their disposal in respect of their complaints. Firstly, they could have lodged a claim with a civil court under the Electoral Code requesting their inclusion on the electoral roll. Secondly, they could have instituted proceedings in the administrative courts. Thirdly, they could have brought an action in the Administrative Court of Appeal against the regulations passed for the implementation of Law no. 138/2015. The Government added lastly that if none of these remedies had proved satisfactory to the applicants, they could have lodged a complaint with the Constitutional Court.

33. In the Government's view, the legal mechanisms listed above constituted effective remedies which allowed the revision of the electoral roll and could have ensured the inclusion of the applicants on that roll.

34. The applicants submitted that the remedies mentioned by the Government were not effective within the meaning of the Convention. More specifically, the right to lodge a constitutional appeal had been rendered ineffective by the reasoning followed by the Constitutional Court in the case brought by the Albanian Helsinki Committee. As to lodging a civil or administrative appeal, the applicants argued that the cases would not have had any prospect of success since the violation of their rights derived from the law and the courts could not give a decision in contradiction with the law.

35. The Court reiterates that the rule of exhaustion of domestic remedies referred to in Article 35 § 1 of the Convention is based on the assumption that the domestic system provides an effective remedy in respect of the alleged breach. It is for the Government claiming non-exhaustion to satisfy the Court that an effective remedy was available in theory and in practice at the relevant time; that is to say, that the remedy was accessible, capable of providing redress in respect of the applicant's complaints and offered reasonable prospects of success (see Vučković and Others v. Serbia (preliminary objection) [GC], nos. 17153/11 and 29 others, §§ 71-77, 25 March 2014).

36. The Court has accordingly recognised that Article 35 § 1 must be applied with some degree of flexibility and without excessive formalism. It has further recognised that the rule of exhaustion is neither absolute nor capable of being applied automatically; for the purposes of reviewing whether it has been observed, it is essential to have regard to the circumstances of the individual case. This means, in particular, that the Court must take realistic account not only of the existence of formal remedies in the legal system of the Contracting State concerned but also of the general context in which they operate, as well as the personal circumstances of the applicant. It must then examine whether, in all the circumstances of the case, the applicant did everything that could reasonably be expected of him or her to exhaust domestic remedies (see İlhan, cited above, § 59).

37. In response to the Government's argument that the applicants could have instituted judicial proceedings in the domestic courts, the Court reiterates that domestic remedies must be "effective" in the sense either of preventing the alleged violation or its continuation, or of providing adequate redress for any violation that has already occurred (see A.H. and Others v. Russia, nos. 6033/13 and 15 others, § 347, 17 January 2017). In the present case the crux of the applicants' complaints concerned their disfranchisement, namely their inability to vote in the 2017 parliamentary elections.

38. The Court notes that none of the applicants had attempted a domestic remedy before complaining to it. Nevertheless, the Government were not able to argue that the ordinary judicial proceedings suggested by them could have been effective. Given that the ban on voting rights for convicted serving prisoners stemmed directly from legislation, including the Constitution, and that the Constitutional Court had already expressed its opinion as to the compliance of that legislation with the Constitution and the Convention, it would be illusory to expect that the applicants would have been able to succeed in pursuing any other remedies. The arguments that the Helsinki Committee presented to the Constitutional Court are the same as those presented by the applicants in their applications to the Court. The Court is therefore not satisfied that, in the specific circumstances of the present case, any of the remedies suggested by the Government was apt to afford the applicants redress for their complaints or offered reasonable prospects of success.

39. The Government's objection as regards the requirement to exhaust domestic remedies should therefore be dismissed.

Compliance with the six-month time-limit

40. Furthermore, the Government submitted that the applicants had not observed the six-month time-limit laid down in Article 35 § 1 of the Convention. The applications should have been lodged with the Court within six months from the entry into force on 7 January 2016 of the legal provisions that restricted the applicants' voting rights.

41. The applicants contended that the starting-point of the six-month period for applying to the Court had been 5 June 2017, when the Constitutional Court had taken its decision, and that their applications had therefore been submitted within the six-month time-limit.

42. In other similar applications the Court has concluded that applicants must lodge complaints with it about their inability to vote in specific elections within six months from the dates of the elections (see McLean and Cole v. the United Kingdom (dec.), no. 12626/13, §§ 25 and 37, 11 June 2013, and Dunn v. the United Kingdom (dec.), nos. 566/10 and 130 others, § 19, 13 May 2014). In the light of the parties' submissions, the Court considers that all the applicants lodged their applications with it on 19 September 2017, within six months from the parliamentary elections which took place on 25 June 2017. The Government's objection about the non-observation of the six-month time-limit should therefore be dismissed.

Conclusion

43. The Court concludes that the applications are neither manifestly ill-founded nor inadmissible on any other grounds listed in Article 35 of the Convention. They must therefore be declared admissible.

Merits

The parties' submissions

44. The applicants submitted that their disenfranchisement amounted to a violation of their right to free elections. They argued that the legitimate aim of restrictions on the right to stand for election should be different from the aim pursued by restrictions on the right to vote. They argued that the law lacked any legitimate aim when it came to the restrictions on the right to vote. The report accompanying the draft law subsequently passed as Law no. 138/2015 referred only to restrictions on the right to stand in elections. It did not mention what the purpose of the restrictions on the right to vote was, why they were necessary in the Albanian context, how those restrictions would protect the public interest, and whether any other measures had been considered. The applicants argued that the national authorities had also not properly evaluated the restrictions according to the criteria for proportionality.

45. The applicants contended that the restriction on voting rights was similar to an ancillary penalty, since it was applied automatically after the decision on conviction became final.

46. The applicants invited the Court to draw a distinction between the present cases and Scoppola v. Italy (no. 3) ([GC], no. 126/05, 22 May 2012). They submitted that in that case the voting ban had only applied to those sentenced to more than three years' imprisonment and to those convicted of certain crimes against the State. By contrast, Law no. 138/2015 provided for disenfranchisement for a large number of crimes, including minor offences, irrespective of the prison term.

47. The Government pointed out that the Contracting States enjoyed a wide margin of appreciation where the right to vote was concerned (referring to Hirst v. the United Kingdom (no. 2) [GC], no. 74025/01, § 61, ECHR 2005‑IX) and that the suspension of the applicants' right to vote had pursued the legitimate aims of preventing crime and upholding the rule of law. In the Government's opinion, the right to vote was a public duty that formed part of a person's civic responsibility, and the restrictions therefore pursued a legitimate aim. Influence on decision-making by individuals convicted of one or more of the crimes provided for by law would undermine the formation of a reliable political body which should serve the country's citizens. The Government noted that Law no. 138/2015 had been passed with a three-fifths majority in Parliament, as had the Criminal Code, thus showing a broad consensus in Parliament regarding those provisions.

48. The Government also submitted that the restrictions on the right to vote were not applied in a general, automatic and immediate manner. Furthermore, the conditions for depriving individuals of the right to stand for election were less strict than for disenfranchising them, which was in accordance with the Venice Commission's Code of Good Practice in Electoral Matters and also with its Opinion no. 807/2015 (see paragraph 23 above).

49. The Government invited the Court to draw a distinction between the case of Hirst (cited above) and the present case because in the United Kingdom, at the time of the judgment in Hirst, the loss of the right to vote had not been based on a policy condition such as serving a prison sentence following conviction for a specified serious criminal offence in a judgment that had become final, but had applied automatically to any individual who was serving a prison sentence or who was in detention on remand and had not been given a final court decision.

50. The Government argued that contrary to what the applicants had maintained, the suspension of their voting rights was not an ancillary penalty since it was not imposed by the courts, but was a legal restriction applied in specific situations. That measure was proportionate because it applied only to a list of specified serious crimes and crimes relating to the abuse of public office or electoral misconduct. As in the Italian legal system, in Albanian law the loss of the right to vote depended on judgments in criminal cases becoming final (compare Scoppola, cited above, § 35). The restrictions did not apply to remand prisoners. This showed that the Government had sought to balance the competing interests and had assessed the proportionality of the suspension of convicted prisoners' voting rights and applied the suspension to a list of specified offences.

51. The legal provisions in question did not remove the applicants' voting rights definitively but suspended them during their time in prison. After serving their prison sentences the applicants would be able to cast their vote in other elections in the country.

52. The Government also placed emphasis on the fact that Law no. 138/2015 had gone through a careful and comprehensive approval process. The Venice Commission's opinion on the Law was an important part of the process. A special parliamentary committee had been established in order to draft the Law.

53. Noting that the Court should analyse the specifics of each case and its individual circumstances, the Government's view was that the restriction of the applicants' voting rights had been proportionate and based on a legitimate aim, because they had all been convicted of serious crimes.

The Court's assessment (a) General principles

54. The Court has set out the relevant general principles in Hirst (cited above, §§ 56-62 and 69-71) and Scoppola (cited above, §§ 81-87). It reiterates, in particular, that Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention guarantees subjective rights, including the right to vote and to stand for election (see Mathieu-Mohin and Clerfayt v. Belgium, 2 March 1987, §§ 46-51, Series A no. 113). Nevertheless, the rights enshrined in Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 are not absolute. There is room for implied limitations and the Contracting States must be afforded a margin of appreciation in this sphere. The Court has repeatedly affirmed that the margin in this area is wide (see Mathieu‑Mohin and Clerfayt, cited above, § 52; Matthews v. the United Kingdom [GC], no. 24833/94, § 63, ECHR 1999-I; and Labita v. Italy [GC], no. 26772/95, § 201, ECHR 2000-IV).

55. The severe measure of disenfranchisement must not, however, be resorted to lightly and the principle of proportionality requires a discernible and sufficient link between the sanction and the conduct and circumstances of the individual concerned (see Hirst, cited above, § 71). Exclusion of any groups or categories of the general population must accordingly be reconcilable with the underlying purposes of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 (see Hirst, § 62, and Scoppola, § 84, both cited above).

56. With a view to securing the rights guaranteed by Article 3 of Protocol No. 1, the Contracting States may decide either to leave it to the courts to determine the proportionality of a measure restricting convicted prisoners' voting rights, or to incorporate provisions into their laws defining the circumstances in which such a measure should be applied. In the latter case, it will be for the legislature itself to balance the competing interests in order to avoid any general, automatic and indiscriminate restriction (see Anchugov and Gladkov v. Russia, nos. 11157/04 and 15162/05, § 107, 4 July 2013, and Kulinski and Sabev v. Bulgaria, no. 63849/09, § 37, 21 July 2016).

57. However, it is for the Court to determine in the last resort whether the requirements of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 have been complied with; it has to satisfy itself that the conditions do not curtail the rights in question to such an extent as to impair their very essence and deprive them of their effectiveness; that they are imposed in pursuit of a legitimate aim; and that the means employed are not disproportionate (see Mathieu-Mohin and Clerfayt, cited above, § 52).

(b) Application of these principles to the present case

58. The Court notes that the present applications concern the inability of six Albanian citizens to vote in the parliamentary elections of 2017 while serving prison sentences. The Court must therefore ascertain whether, in the present case, depriving the applicants of the right to vote was compatible with Article 3 of Protocol No. 1. To do this, it must first determine whether there was an interference with the applicants' rights under that provision. If so, it will then have to consider whether that interference pursued one or more legitimate aims and whether the means employed to achieve them were proportionate.

(i) Interference

59. The Court observes that the applicants were deprived of the right to vote by virtue of the relevant provisions of the legislation on parliamentary elections (see paragraph 18 above), which was based on Article 45 § 3 of the Albanian Constitution (see paragraph 16 above). The deprivation constituted an interference with their right to vote enshrined in Article 3 of Protocol No. 1.

60. The Court will therefore determine whether the measure in question pursued a legitimate aim in a proportionate manner having regard to the principles identified above.

(ii) Legitimate aim

61. The Court has already held that the disenfranchisement of convicted prisoners serving prison sentences may be considered to pursue the aims of preventing crime and enhancing civic responsibility and respect for the rule of law (see Hirst, cited above, §§ 74 and 75, and Frodl v. Austria, no. 20201/04, § 30, 8 April 2010).

62. Unlike other provisions of the Convention, Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 does not specify or limit the aims which a restriction may pursue. A wide range of purposes may therefore be compatible with that provision (see, for example, Podkolzina v. Latvia, no. 46726/99, § 34, ECHR 2002-II).

63. The Court acknowledges that during the process leading to the approval of Law no. 138/2015 the main focus was on the restriction on the right to stand for election. Despite this, the Albanian Parliament requested the opinion of the Venice Commission, which also provided some guidelines regarding the restriction on the right to vote (see paragraph 23 above). As to the aims served by the interference, the Government presented the same arguments as those in the Constitutional Court's decision (see paragraph 22 above), namely that the restriction on the voting rights served to guarantee public trust in the functioning of elected State bodies. It is a measure aimed at protecting the system of democratic values, crime prevention, increasing civic responsibility and respect for the rule of law, as well as protecting relevant institutions from illegal influence in the selection of officials and policy-making. Having regard to its findings in Hirst (cited above, §§ 74-75), the Court finds no reason to regard those aims as untenable or incompatible per se with the rights guaranteed by Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention.

(iii) Proportionality

64. The applicants were deprived of the right to vote in parliamentary elections because at the time of those elections they were all serving prison sentences imposed on them by final court decisions for one of the criminal offences set out in Law no. 138/2015. The Court has to establish whether the restrictions in question were proportionate to the aims pursued.

65. The Court notes that the Albanian Parliament followed a careful procedure in the approval of the Law and had sought the opinion of the Venice Commission before commencing the drafting process. The Law enjoyed a high degree of support from Parliament, being approved by an outright majority, thus demonstrating a consensus among all political factions.

66. As to the legal framework, it should be noted that in the Albanian system the measure of suspending the right to vote is applied by operation of law once the decision on a person's conviction for one of the offences specified in Law no. 138/2015 has become final, irrespective of the duration of the sentence imposed. In order to notify the convicted individual of the voting restriction, the Law provides for the inclusion of the restriction in the judgment of the court. Nevertheless, the restriction is valid even if it is not mentioned in the judgment (see paragraphs 11 and 20 above).

67. The Court reiterates that the essential criteria for determining the proportionality of a disenfranchisement measure relate primarily to whether the measure is applicable generally, automatically and indiscriminately within the meaning indicated in the Court's case-law. While the intervention of a judge is in principle likely to guarantee the proportionality of restrictions on prisoners' voting rights, such restrictions will not necessarily be automatic, general and indiscriminate simply because they were not ordered by a judge. The Court has already held that, in the absence of a common approach among the member States of the Council of Europe, the Contracting States may, with a view to securing the rights guaranteed by Article 3 of Protocol No. 1, decide either to leave it to the courts to determine the proportionality of a measure restricting convicted prisoners' voting rights, or to incorporate provisions into their laws defining the circumstances in which such a measure should be applied (see Scoppola, cited above, §§ 101 and 102). In the latter case, it will be for the legislature itself to balance the competing interests in order to avoid any general, automatic and indiscriminate restriction (ibid., § 102). Indeed, the circumstances in which the right to vote is forfeited may be set out in detail in the law, making its application conditional on such factors as the nature or the gravity of the offence committed (ibid., § 99).

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020231025ejap0000p


Finland seizes an oligarch's €2.5 million Kirkkonummi estate
270 字
2023 年 11 月 7 日
Nordic Daily
NORDAI
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Helsinki, Finland: The National Enforcement Agency has confiscated sanctioned Russian businessman Boris Aljoschin's Kirkkonummi holiday villas.

At the request of the Finnish Foreign Ministry, the agency confiscated two nearby lots worth 2.5 million euros. The principal property is a 1.6-hectare oceanfront cottage lot that Aljoschin purchased in 2018 for 2.3 million euros.

Two years later, in 2020, the Defense Ministry granted him permission to purchase the neighboring lot for 250,000 euros.

In his land permit application submitted to the Ministry of Defense in the summer of 2020, Aljoshin stated that he spent his summers fishing in the waters around Kirkkonummi. He said he wanted to purchase the adjacent 8,000-square-meter plot to build a new vacation home because the building rights for his first property had been exhausted.

Russian defense industry links

The EU added the 68-year-old businessman to its sanction list last June for his links to Russia's defense industry, including companies manufacturing MiG and Sukhoi fighter jets as well as drones.

In 2021, Suomen Kuvalehti suggested that in the early 2000s, Aljoshin served as a deputy prime minister for industrial policy, later working with companies linked to the aviation industry.

The National Enforcement Agency had kept Aljoshin's name secret, but Finnish news agency STT said it had confirmed his identity and property ownership through other sources.

Police assisted the National Enforcement Authority in an operation on an island owned by arms manufacturer Igor Kesaev, who is suspected of having ties to the Russian security service FSB.

SIA Impact Media

文件 NORDAI0020231108ejb70001j


News
Finnish company exported spare parts for trucks worth millions of euros to Russia, investigation finds
European Pravda
336 字
2023 年 11 月 27 日
Ukrainska Pravda
DLSUKE
英文
© 2023. Ukainska Pravda. All rights reserved.
The Finnish company HD-Parts has exported truck parts worth millions of euros to Russia since the beginning of Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine.

Source: Yle[https://yle.fi/a/74-20062182]’s investigation, as reported by European Pravda

Details: Journalists say the company sent mainly spare parts for Swedish Volvo and Scania trucks to Russia.

At the same time, the management of HD-Parts denies the violation of sanction rules.

Lasse Lindqvist, the founder and chairman of the HD-Parts board, said that customs inspected and approved each shipment to Russia. He stated that he had all the necessary documents.

Lindqvist simultaneously confirms that at least 3/4 of HD-Parts' turnover is accounted for by Russian exports.

The Finnish customs do not comment on the situation with HD-Parts but clarify that they conduct checks when products that may be subject to sanctions are indicated in the export declaration.

The journalists checked the list of spare parts supplied to the Russian Federation by HD-Parts and concluded that the names of the HD-Parts’ batches largely correspond to goods prohibited for import into Russia.

Russian customs data show that trucks were also exported from Finland to Russia. In particular, about a dozen second-hand Scania and Volvo trucks, as well as semi-trailers of other brands, ended up in Russia during the war.

Customs data indicate that they were owned by Idän Liikenteenvälittys IL from Lappeenranta. The cost of supplies was hundreds of thousands of euros.

Background:

* At the beginning of November, it became known that the trial of a woman accused of purchasing small arms ammunition components inside the country and smuggling them to Russia was about to begin in Finland.

* Apart from that, Finland seized the real estate of Russian businessman Boris Aleshin, who is on the EU sanctions list and is connected to the Russian defence industry.

Support[https://www.pravda.com.ua/eng/supportus/] UP or become our patron[https://www.patreon.com/pravdaua]!

Click to view image[https://img.pravda.com/images/doc/0/f/0f0b329----.jpg]

LLC "UP MEDIA PLUS"

文件 DLSUKE0020231127ejbr00030


Domestic
Information from STT: The new sanctions will probably support the expropriation of the Helsinki arena from the Russian oligarchs*** TRANSLATED ***
Mikko Gustafsson, Markku Uhari
871 字
2023 年 11 月 28 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2023. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
An even stronger support for expropriations has been prepared for the new sanctions package against Russia. This would make it possible for the former home hall of the hockey team Jokers to open to the public again.

The new sanctions against Russia will probably provide the means by which the Helsinki arena can be used by the Russian-Finnish oligarchs, either for better or for worse. The sanctions package is being prepared in Brussels.

The former home arena of the ice hockey team Jokers has been sitting empty in Helsinki's Pasila since the second spring, when Russia started a large-scale war of aggression in Ukraine. Some of the owners and background influencers of the arena belong to the close circle of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

The EU has imposed sanctions on contributors to the war. However, according to STT's information, in the new sanction preparations, there have been negotiations that the sanctioned owners could sell the frozen assets.

The package has also been designed to provide support for expropriations if assets such as the Helsinki arena cannot be made available to the public.

Among the hall's owners on the EU's sanctions list are the oligarch brothers Arkadi and Boris Rotenberg and Gennadi Timchenko, who are close to Putin. The US sanctions also include Boris Rotenberg's son Roman and businessman Kai Paananen, who play a role in the board of the arena's background company.

If the arena changed hands, the trade money received by the banned group would still remain frozen.

Hungary should be convinced

The 12th sanctions package, which is being prepared in the administrative quarters of Brussels, therefore probably contains the means by which the Helsinki arena could be transferred to capable owners. The biggest obstacle to the completion of the package is Hungary, which the other countries should get to accept the package.

Until now, Hungary has always finally agreed to accept the sanctions. At the moment, there is no separate opposition to the sale and expropriation of assets, but they are a matter of refining the technical details.

The first of the methods presented in the preparation would be softer. For example, you could get an exception for half a year to sell the assets frozen in it.

If the owners decided to sell their frozen assets and permission was granted, the assets that had changed shape would still remain frozen.

The second method, on the other hand, would apply to situations where the property would be used against the seller's wishes. It would provide a stronger support for expropriations than at present.

Hints about the preparations

Forcible expropriation would be allowed if it is accepted in the national legislation of an EU country.

Expropriation is interference with property protection, which is why it is provided for in the Finnish constitution. For example, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Elina Valtonen(coordinator) has said on Yle that Helsinki's arena should be able to be used in the name of public interest.

According to the Constitution, the expropriation of property must be based on a general need. In this case too, the owner would receive compensation, which, however, would remain frozen in the case of the Helsinki arena.

In Finland, a permit for expropriation could be granted by the Government, i.e. the government, upon presentation by the responsible ministry. The Government's decision could be appealed.

Despite the laxity of the legislation, confiscated property has not been expropriated in Finland before. However, EU-level registration would provide additional opportunities for the success of the expropriation.

Sanoma's sports department said last week, citing a source, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is currently preparing for expropriation.

Are the owners interested in selling?

His own question is, would the current owners of the hall be interested in selling the shares when the opportunity arises.

At least in September, for example, Helsingin Sanomat reported that this would be the case. Also, according to STT's information, there have been negotiations on the shares of the management company.

In the case of the Helsinki arena, it is not the arena itself that is frozen, but the shares of those listed in the hall's background companies. Sanctions prevent the use of the hall, because renting the hall for a concert, for example, could be considered a direct transfer of money to the sanctioned parties.

In Arena's background company Helsinki Halli Oy, the controlling power is exercised by Arena Events Oy. It is owned by the Rotenberg brothers and Timshenko through their own companies.

Arena Events' share in the actual background company entitles the oligarchs to more than 94 percent of the voting rights. The enforcement agency has frozen the assets.

The board of background company Helsinki Halli Oy is headed by Boris Rotenberg's son Roman, and Kai Paananen also sits on the board.

At the end of November, Paananen did not want to comment to STT about the owners' desire to sell the hall or a possible expropriation.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020231128ejbs000rt


Valtioneuvosto - Foreign Ministry publishes open online course on sanctions
Valtioneuvosto published this content on 01 Dec 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 01 Dec 2023 06:49:49 UTC.
659 字
2023 年 12 月 1 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/foreign-ministry-publishes-open-online-course-on-sanctions]

Foreign Ministry publishes open online course on sanctions

Foreign Ministry publishes open online course on sanctions

Ministry for Foreign Affairs

Publication date 1.12.2023 8.33 | Published in English on 1.12.2023 at 8.40

Press release

Effective implementation of sanctions requires an understanding of sanctions and their application. In order to expand Finns' knowledge of sanctions, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has published an online course on sanctions open to all. The course covers not only the basic aspects of sanctions that are repeated across all sanctions systems, but also the special features of the sanctions against Russia.

"The EU sanctions against Russia are unprecedentedly extensive, which poses challenges for many operators in the practical implementation of the sanctions. In terms of the effectiveness of sanctions, it is of paramount importance that both companies and authorities know how to apply them. I hope that the introductory course on sanctions helps operators to apply sanctions correctly," says Elina Valtonen, Minister for Foreign Affairs.

The course goes over the basics of sanctions and how to comply with them. Many fundamentals, such as the concepts of funds and economic resources, the freezing of funds, and the principles of export and import bans, are repeated in different sanction regimes. The course highlights sanctions regulations, especially those related to the extensive sanctions against Russia, through examples. It includes a specific section on identifying the circumvention of sanctions and practical instructions for due diligence by companies and authorities.

Anyone can complete the introductory course[https://www.eoppiva.fi/koulutukset/pakotteiden-perusteet/] on sanctions in Finnish online on the eOppiva learning platform[https://www.eoppiva.fi/]. It is possible to obtain a certificate of completion of the course. Registration is required to obtain a certificate. The course takes a few hours to complete.

The 'Pakotteiden peruskurssi' ('Introduction to Sanctions') project was led by the HAUS Finnish Institute of Public Management, commissioned by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. The contents of the course were drawn up with contributions from sanctions specialists from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and other authorities, as well as representatives of trade, industry and business. As far as is known, the course is the first public online training on sanctions offered in an EU Member State.

"The introductory course on sanctions will hopefully increase the knowledge of sanctions in different organisations. It is also worth remembering that the Sanctions Team of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs can provide advice on the interpretation of sanctions and guidance on issues related to the implementation or circumvention of sanctions," says Pia Sarivaara, Team Leader of the Foreign Ministry Sanctions Team.

"However, the main responsibility for compliance with sanctions and decision-making in sanctions matters always lies with the organisation itself."

The Ministry for Foreign Affairs is the national competent authority responsible for the implementation of EU sanctions. In addition, several other authorities are involved in the implementation of sanctions in accordance with their respective competences. Applications for derogations[https://um.fi/applying-for-an-exemption-from-sanctions], specified in sanctions regulations, are primarily handled by the Unit for Public International Law of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs.

The best way to reach the Sanctions Team of the Unit for Public International Law of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is by email at pakotteet.um(at)gov.fi.

Inquiries:

* Pia Sarivaara, Counsellor, Sanctions Team, Unit for Public International Law, tel. +358 295 350 660

* Introduction to Sanctions (in Finnish)[https://www.eoppiva.fi/koulutukset/pakotteiden-perusteet/]

* Email addresses of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs are in the form firstname.lastname(at)gov.fi

commercial policy[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/search?q=commercial+policy]

* This content was originally posted here[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/foreign-ministry-publishes-open-online-course-on-sanctions]

Disclaimer

Government of Finland published this content on 01 December 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 01 December 2023 06:56:32 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020231201ejc1002s3


The Foreign Ministry has released an open online course on sanctions
422 字
2023 年 12 月 2 日
Nordic Daily
NORDAI
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Helsinki, Finland: Understanding sanctions and how to apply them is required for effective sanctions implementation. In order to expand Finns' knowledge of sanctions, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has published an online course on sanctions open to all. The course covers not only the fundamental principles of sanctions that apply to all sanctions regimes but also the unique peculiarities of sanctions on Russia.

"The EU sanctions against Russia are unprecedentedly extensive, which poses challenges for many operators in the practical implementation of the sanctions. In terms of the effectiveness of sanctions, it is of paramount importance that both companies and authorities know how to apply them. I hope that the introductory course on sanctions helps operators to apply sanctions correctly," says Elina Valtonen, Minister for Foreign Affairs.

The course goes over the basics of sanctions and how to comply with them. Many fundamentals, such as the concepts of funds and economic resources, the freezing of funds, and the principles of export and import bans, are repeated in different sanction regimes. The course highlights sanctions regulations, especially those related to the extensive sanctions against Russia, through examples. It includes a specific section on identifying the circumvention of sanctions and practical instructions for due diligence by companies and authorities.

Anyone can complete the introductory course on an external website on sanctions in Finnish online on the eOppiva learning platform. It is possible to obtain a certificate of completion of the course. Registration is required to obtain a certificate. The course takes a few hours to complete.

The 'Pakotteiden peruskurssi' ('Introduction to Sanctions') project was led by the HAUS Finnish Institute of Public Management, commissioned by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. The contents of the course were drawn up with contributions from sanctions specialists from the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and other authorities, as well as representatives of trade, industry, and business. As far as is known, the course is the first public online training on sanctions offered in an EU Member State.

"The introductory course on sanctions will hopefully increase the knowledge of sanctions in different organizations. It is also worth remembering that the Sanctions Team of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs can provide advice on the interpretation of sanctions and guidance on issues related to the implementation or circumvention of sanctions," says Pia Sarivaara, Team Leader of the Foreign Ministry Sanctions Team.

"However, the main responsibility for compliance with sanctions and decision-making in sanctions matters always lies with the organization itself."

SIA Impact Media

文件 NORDAI0020231204ejc20001e


Pension funds have suspended payments to sanctioned retirees
249 字
2023 年 12 月 5 日
Nordic Daily
NORDAI
英文
Copyright 2023 SIA Impact Media
Helsinki, Finland: Pension firms in Finland are cross-referencing their consumer data with penalty lists.

As a result of Russia's ongoing war in Ukraine, a growing number of firms are being forced to verify whether their clients are on sanction lists.

For example, Asiakastieto's system, which accumulates information about businesses subject to sanctions, has seen hundreds of thousands of checks this year alone.

"Usage of our service has tripled since the beginning of the war. Some major groups conducting checks include pension funds, electricity companies, construction firms, automobile industries, as well as real estate and leasing services," noted Teemu Kettula, Product Owner at Asiakastieto.

Pension funds have an obligation to verify their customers' identities. They actively compare sanction lists with customer data. For Ilmarinen, this has led to interruptions in the disbursement of some pensions.

"We've had to suspend pension payments for individuals due to sanctions. It's crucial to emphasize that these are isolated cases," highlighted Tiina Nurmi, Executive Vice President of Insurance and Pension Services at Ilmarinen.

Similarly, Elo, another pension fund company, has implemented a stringent policy regarding both pension recipients and businesses affected by sanctions.

"We cannot uphold insurance for a business or entrepreneur placed on a sanction list. However, the employees of that company will still receive their pension entitlements based on their earnings, even during the period when the company is on the sanction list," explained Sari Läntinen, a lawyer at Elo.

SIA Impact Media

文件 NORDAI0020231206ejc50001v


LITHUANIAN HIGHLIGHTS 11222
Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė: Karolis Broga
3212 字
2023 年 12 月 6 日
Lithuanian News Agency - ELTA
ELTA
英文
© 2023, ELTA News Agency
NO. 11222 (95628) WEDNESDAY MORNING, DECEMBER 6

 

NAUSĖDA CONGRATULATED FINLAND ON INDEPENDENCE DAY

 

Vilnius, December 6 (ELTA) – President Gitanas Nausėda extended congratulations on Wednesday to President Sauli Niinistö and the people of Finland celebrating Independence Day, said the presidency.

"Finland is a close neighbour and ally of Lithuania. We enjoy friendly relations and are committed to expanding them further both bilaterally and at the EU level,” the president wrote in his message of congratulations.

Nausėda expressed his delight to have welcomed Finland as the 31st full member of the Alliance at the NATO Summit in Vilnius this past July. Finland’s membership in NATO is highly important for the security of the Baltic Sea region and the Alliance as a whole.

The president underscored the significance of close ties between Lithuania and Finland in the context of Nordic-Baltic cooperation. "Our unity is critical to overcoming the security challenges facing the region, the hybrid threats we confront and the global consequences of Russia’s war against Ukraine. Speaking with one strong voice, we stand up for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. We fight disinformation and we work for security and stability across the region and around the world,” the president wrote.

Nausėda wished Finland and its people continued well-being and prosperity and extended his best wishes to the Finnish president.

 

SPEAKER OF THE SEIMAS CONGRATULATES THE FINNISH PARLIAMENT ON INDEPENDENCE DAY

 

Vilnius, December 6 (ELTA) – On behalf of the Seimas and on her own behalf, Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen, speaker of the Seimas, congratulated Jussi Halla-aho, speaker of the Eduskunta of the Republic of Finland, on Independence Day, the national day of the country.

She wished the parliament a harmonious and smooth work to build a better and safer future for the Finnish population, said the press service of the Seimas.

"Just like 106 years ago, when Finland declared its independence from the tsarist Russia, today we are facing a tense geopolitical situation and challenges to democracy, security and international law. Today, cooperation in multilateral formats, such as the European Union and NATO, as well as bilateral cooperation are more important than ever,” the congratulatory letter reads.

Ms Čmilytė-Nielsen also took the opportunity to invite her Finnish counterpart to pay a visit to Lithuania.

 

PM CONGRATULATES FINLAND ON INDEPENDENCE DAY

 

Vilnius, December 6 (ELTA) – On behalf of the Lithuanian people and the Government, Prime Minister Ingrida Šimonytė sincerely congratulated Finland on its Independence Day, said the prime minister’s press service.

"As close partners and allies in the EU and NATO, our two nations remain committed to the shared ideals of liberty and democracy and are working closely together to build a strong and forward looking Nordic-Baltic region, as well as sustainable peace in the Baltic Sea region, on our continent and beyond,” states the greeting from the head of Government.

"I firmly believe that friendly relations between our two countries will be further enhanced by our cooperation aimed at strengthening democratic values and rules-based international order. Today, with our nations facing multiple threats, including hybrid ones, it is crucial for our countries to deepen our cooperation even further. Our solidary has never been more critical in countering common challenges and building resilient Europe,” Šimonytė wrote.

 

LITHUANIA TO HOLD 2024 EUROPEAN ELECTIONS ON 9 JUNE

 

Vilnius, December 5 (ELTA) – Lithuania will elect its representatives to the European Parliament on 9 June 2024, the Seimas decided on Tuesday.

The parliament’s resolution on the election date was supported by 109 MPs against four, with 11 abstentions.

European Union (EU) countries will hold European elections from 6 to 9 June 2024, as decided by the EU Council in May this year.

"The Code on Elections lays down that [the elections to the European Parliament] should be held on Sunday, 9 June, and political campaigning should start on 9 December at the latest,” Seimas Speaker Vikorija Čmilytė- Nielsen said as she presented the draft motion.

Nearly a month earlier, on 12 May 2024, Lithuanians will be electing their next president and voting on dual citizenship in a mandatory referendum.

 

PARLT SPEAKER TO SUBMIT DRAFT MOTION TO IMPEACH GRAŽULIS ON THURSDAY

 

Vilnius, December 5 (ELTA) – Seimas Speaker Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen intends to put forward a draft motion on the date of impeaching MP Petras Gražulis in the Parliament on Thursday.

The Constitutional Court on Tuesday ruled that MP Gražulis had violated the Constitution and had broken his oath by casting vote for another member of the Seimas.

The conclusion gives the green light to the Parliament to revoke the mandate of Gražulis. Eighty-five MP votes are needed to do so.

"I believe we will be able to begin the impeachment proceedings in the Seimas next week,” she told ELTA.

In November this year, the Seimas initiated the impeachment of Gražulis on another ground – after a court found him guilty of abuse of office. The Parliament is set to decide on removing MP Gražulis from office on 19 December.

Gražulis faces impeachment over 2022 March conviction of abuse of office as he unlawfully represented the interests of the company Judex, used the company’s finances and attempted to influence civil servants. The judgment was upheld both by the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court. He was fined EUR 15,000.

If Gražulis’ mandate were revoked because he voted for another MP, he would be banned from standing for Parliament for ten years. If the politician were to lose his mandate as a result of the criminal case, this sanction would not apply.

Čmilytė-Nielsen said the lawmakers should first take decisions on the basis of the Constitutional Court’s ruling on voting for another MP.

"It would be logical for the Seimas to decide on this impeachment first, because the appeal to the Constitutional Court was made earlier. This would be the most logical [step] bearing in mind the terms set,” the Seimas speaker said.

 

NATO JETS SCRAMBLED ONCE LAST WEEK

 

Vilnius, December 6 (ELTA) – On 27 November-3 December, NATO Air Policing Mission Detachment fighter aircraft were scrambled once to intercept aircraft of the Russian Federation violating flight rules in international airspace over the Baltic Sea, announced the Ministry of National Defence.

On 27 November, NATO Air policing fighter detachment aircraft were scrambled to identify and escort one AN-26 flying in international airspace from the mainland of the Russian Federation to Kaliningrad.

No flight plan was pre-filed for the flight, the crew kept the onboard transponder switched off and maintained radio communication with the regional air traffic control centre.

 

IRREGULAR MIGRANTS WERE NOT DETECTED AT BORDER WITH BELARUS ON TUESDAY

 

Vilnius, December 6 (ELTA) – On 5 December, Tuesday, irregular migrants did not attempt to access Lithuania via Belarus, reports the State Border Guard Service (VSAT).

According to the agency, border guards have not encountered migrants at border with Belarus for three days in a row.

Meanwhile, Latvia stopped four irregular migrants from entering its territory via Belarus on Tuesday. Polish border guards on Monday stopped one foreigner who attempted to cross the border illegally from Belarus.

So far in 2023, the VSAT has turned away 2,540 irregular migrants that tried to enter Lithuania via Belarus. The figure stood at 11,211 in 2022 and 8,106 in 2021.

Since the start of the migrant crisis caused by Belarus in the spring of 2021, Lithuania has thwarted a total of 21,857 illegal border crossing attempts.

 

LITHUANIAN 15-YEAR-OLDS OUTPERFORM PEERS IN A NUMBER OF COUNTRIES IN PISA TESTS

 

Vilnius, December 5 (ELTA) – Lithuanian 15-year-olds show similar scores in international reading, mathematics and life science tests as a few years ago, says the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport.

The results of Lithuanian teenagers are in line with the average of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and ahead of a large number of other countries participating in the study, it also said.

On Tuesday, the OECD published the 2022 results of its Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) tests.

"PISA tests are taken by fifteen-year-olds, regardless of the Year they are in. Some of them are still in Year 7, some are in Year 10, and most of them are in Year 9 and Year 8. We can see that the results are also strongly influenced by the grade in which the pupil is enrolled, as it means that the pupil has been educated for a much greater number of years,” said Minister Gintautas Jakštas, presenting the study at the ministry.

The study ranks Lithuanian 15-year-olds 24th out of 81 countries in mathematical literacy, 32nd in reading and 29th in science.

The best performers in Lithuania were found to be pupils from the capital and big cities. According to the study, Lithuanian 15-year-olds make friends easily but sometimes struggle to concentrate.

In Lithuania, boys are better at maths, while girls have better reading skills, life satisfaction is higher in Lithuania than in other countries, the OECD study shows.

In Lithuania, 7.257 pupils from 292 schools took part in the study, representing around 24,300 15-year-olds (around 92% of all 15-year-olds in Lithuania), the majority of whom were in Year 9.

 

AVERAGE AFTER-TAX INCOME UP BY NEARLY 11% IN Q3 – SODRA

 

Vilnius, December 5 (ELTA) – After-tax labour income in Lithuania grew by EUR 119 or 10.7% in the third quarter, year-on-year, State Social Insurance Fund Sodra said on Tuesday.

The average monthly income from work was EUR 1,235, after taxes, in July-September, according to Sodra.

Meanwhile, pre-tax labour income rose by EUR 209, or 11.7%, to EUR 1,989. Real labour income per capita went up by around 7%.

"After-tax labour income grew by nearly 11%, while annual inflation ran at nearly 4% in September. We estimate that the real income growth was around 7%,” said Kristina Zitikytė, adviser with Sodra’s statistical analysis unit.

Data available for October also show growth in labour income, she added.

"Labour income continued to grow in October, rising by just over 13%.In October, average income was around EUR 2,011. This is a reminder to us that this year we have already seen many months when average labour income reached and exceeded the mark of EUR 2,000,” Sodra’s analyst said.

According to Sodra, the biggest annual increase in labour income was observed for construction workers: 18.8% to EUR 1,483 before taxes or around EUR 970 after taxes, which is still below the national average.

Zitikytė said that the rise in wages of construction workers may have been due to a change in the procedure for payment of bonuses for outdoor work. Some workers have left the shadow economy due to the Transparent Worker ID.

Labour income in the high value-added information and communication sector grew by 8.7% to EUR 3,113 before taxes.

Sodra also said that wages in the public sector increased similarly as the average, with a 11.6% rise (to EUR 2,145 before taxes) for public administration employees, and 12.3% (EUR 2,069 before taxes) for healthcare and social workers.

 

LITHUANIA’S INDUSTRIAL PRODUCER PRICES DOWN BY 9.8% IN OCTOBER Y-O-Y – EUROSTAT

 

Vilnius, December 5 (ELTA) – In October 2023, industrial producer prices rose by 0.2% in both the euro area and the EU, compared with September 2023, according to estimates from Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union. In September 2023, prices increased by 0.5% in both the euro area and the EU.

In October 2023, compared with October 2022, industrial producer prices decreased by 9.4% in the euro area and by 8.7% in the EU.

In Lithuania, industrial producer prices fell by 0.6% in October. The annual decline was 9.8%.

 

EVENTS IN LITHUANIA

 

to take place on Wednesday, December 6

 

SEIMAS

 

Speaker of the Seimas Viktorija Čmilytė-Nielsen:

9:00

To attend a sitting of the Board of the Seimas;

10:00

To take part in a conference on assistance to people with disabilities who have suffered sexual violence;

12:00

To hold an internal meeting;

12:30

To hold an internal meeting;

13:00

To hold an internal meeting.

 

OFFICE OF THE GOVERNMENT

 

8:00

To hold an internal meeting;

8:30

To hold an internal meeting;

13:00

To chair Government sitting and informal meeting of the ministers.

 

MINISTRIES

 

Minister of Transport and Communications Marius Skuodis:

To attend the 28th UN Climate Change Conference (COP28) in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates.

Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis:

To meet with Australia’s new ambassador accredited to Lithuania.

Some of the upcoming events announced by the news agency ELTA.

 

ESTONIAN, LATVIAN PARLT COMMITTEE CHAIRS VISIT US OVER CONTINUED SUPPORT TO UKRAINE

 

Tallinn, December 5 (ELTA) – Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu (Parliament of Estonia) Marko Mihkelson and his Latvian counterpart Rihards Kols are on a visit to the United States, the Riigikogu’s press service said on Tuesday.

The politicians’ meetings focus on maintaining support for Ukraine and developing a clear strategy for victory.

Mihkelson pointed out that the views of US senators and members of the House of Representatives were important because only the Congress could make decisions on funding for continued support to Ukraine.

The MP said that Estonia, like Latvia and Lithuania, was one of the most active supporters of Ukraine who also contributed significantly to its own defence.

"At the meetings, we reaffirm our commitment to keeping and developing good relations with the US, to continuing to fulfil our Alliance commitments and to further supporting Ukraine. Among other things, we call for using of Russia’s seized assets to support Ukraine,” he said, and added that Ukraine needed support until it had won the war.

On Tuesday, Mihkelson was set tospeak at an event in support of the Baltic States, Ukraine and Israel, which will be attended by US Senators and members of the House of Representatives, as well as experts on US foreign and defence policy, and representatives of embassies, the State Department, think tanks and interest groups.

Mihkelson and Kols have also planned to meet with members of the House of Representatives Chip Roy and Don Bacon, and the representatives of Meridian International Center.

On Monday, the MPs had meetings at the Department of State, the American Jewish Committee and several think tanks. The chairs of Foreign Affairs Committees of the Estonian and Latvian parliaments also met with former US Ambassador to NATO Kurt Volker. All meetings focused on countering the narrative of war fatigue and shaping a clear victory strategy for Ukraine.

 

ESTONIA DROPS TO FOURTH IN LATEST PISA RANKINGS

 

Tallinn, December 5 (ELTA) – Although Estonia’s 15-year-olds were only outperformed by their contemporaries from three other countries in the OECD’s latest PISA test, the math and functional reading skills of Estonia’s basic school pupils have fallen over the last four years, the ERR public broadcaster reports.

Teachers say this is mainly down to distance learning due to the Coronavirus pandemic, while the lack of sufficiently qualified teachers may also play a role.

"Compared to 2018, we are still up at the top. (&) We can all be proud of the Estonian education system and its results,” said Estonian Minister of Education and Research Kristina Kallas (Eesti 200), at a press conference to present the results.

Kallas stressed that almost all countries, except Japan, had less points this time round than in 2018.

 

LATVIAN PRESIDENT MEETS WITH JAVOIŠS, MEMBER OF NATIONAL RESISTANCE MOVEMENT

 

Riga, December 5 (ELTA) – Latvian President Edgars Rinkēvičs on Tuesday met with Bruno Javoišs, a member of the National Resistance Movement, art historian, translator, public worker and Latvian patriot, the presidency reports.

Exactly 60 years ago, on the morning of 5 December 1963, on what is now Radio Street in Riga, Bruno Javoišs hoisted the red-white-red flag he had sewn himself on the 76-metre-high radio tower next to the then city militia headquarters. This date was chosen deliberately and symbolically, because during the Soviet occupation, 5 December marked the Day of the USSR Constitution.

At the time, Javoišs was 22 years old and a first-year student at the Riga Aviation Institute. After climbing the tower, Javoišs was arrested and sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment, which he served in the Mordovia camps. He spent his imprisonment years together with Gunārs Astra, Jānis Ziemelis, Knuts Skujenieks and many other members of the national resistance movement.

Bruno Javoišs graduated from Riga High School No. 50. After serving his sentence in 1971, Javoišs moved to Tartu. Javoišs graduated the University of Tartu as an art historian. After the restoration of independence of the Republic of Estonia, Javoišs founded and headed the Latvian Society of Southern Estonia, which at that time united about 100 Latvians.

Thanks to the activities of the leader and the association, the cemetery of the First World War Latvian Riflemen and refugees in Tartu New St. John’s Cemetery was restored. Javoišs lives in Tartu, but regularly visits Latvia and participates in various national patriotic events.

As a member of the national resistance movement and a public figure, Bruno Javoišs has been awarded the Golden medal of the Order of the Three Stars and is a Commander of the Order of Viesturs.

 

LATVIA SEES 18% RISE IN PASSENGER TRANSPORT BY ROAD IN JAN-SEP

 

Riga, December 5 (ELTA) –that in Latvia observed an increase in passenger traffic by all modes of transport in January-September 2023, year-on-year, the country’s Central Statistical Bureau (CSB) said on Tuesday.

During the nine months of 2023, the number of passengers carried by land passenger transport comprised 139.4 million passengers, which is 17.9% more than in the nine months of 2022.

The number of passengers carried by rail transport comprised 13 million, a rise of 11.3%. The number of passengers carried by national transport rose by 11.3%, but the number of passengers carried by international transport by 16.7%.

A total of 77.1 million passengers were carried by regular bus traffic lines, which is 15% more than a year ago. Number of passengers carried in national lines increased by 15%, but the number of passengers carried in international lines by 4.3%.

The number of passengers carried by trolleybuses comprised 28.7 million passengers, a rise of 34.9%, but by trams – 20.6 million passengers, a growth of 12.9%.

In the nine months of 2023, 303.5 thousand passengers arrived at and departed from Ventspils and Liepāja ports with ferries. Their number has increased by 3.8%, compared to the corresponding period of the previous year. At Ventspils port passenger turnover comprised 230.5 thousand passengers, 2.4% more, but at Liepāja port – 73 thousand passengers, which is 8.5% more. Ferry traffic at Riga Passenger Terminal is closed since 2021.

In the nine months of 2023 the number of passenger arrivals and departures at Riga International Airport comprised 5 million, which is 28.2% more than in the nine months of 2022.

Naujienu agentura ELTA, UAB

文件 ELTA000020231206ejc6000gp


Finnish border guards ask for extending arrest of Russian citizen Torden
239 字
2023 年 12 月 11 日 10:13 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
The Finnish Border Guard Service has sent a petition to court for extending the detention of Russian citizen Vojislav Torden, who was previously detained at the request of Ukraine, the newspaper Helsingin Sanomat reports.

According to the daily, if the detention lasts more than a few days, the border guard service must submit a request for extending it to the district court. The hearing is due on Monday.

The newspaper also writes that the Finnish residence permit, which was previously issued to Torden because his wife studies in the country, has been cancelled. The Russian will be deported and banned from re-entering Finland.

On December 8, the Supreme Court ordered the immediate release of 36-year-old Torden, refusing to extradite him to Ukraine. Immediately after his release, Torden was detained by Finnish border guards, Helsingin Sanomat said.

Torden, who previously bore the name Yan Petrovsky, is a citizen of Russia. He was included in the sanction lists of the European Union and the US Department of the Treasury. Ukraine demands his extradition on charges of crimes allegedly committed in Donbass in 2014 and 2015.

Torden was detained at Helsinki airport on July 20. The next day the court decided to take him into custody for violating immigration laws. On August 28, Torden was visited by officials from the consular department of the Russian embassy in Helsinki.

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020231211ejcb000rz


Politics
The EU's new sanctions package enables the expropriation of the Helsinki arena from Russian oligarchs*** TRANSLATED ***
Simu Perälä, Markku Uhari
685 字
2023 年 12 月 19 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2023. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
According to the expropriation option included in the package, the property of the sanctioned person can be released from freezing, so that the sanctions are not an obstacle in the case of expropriation in the public interest.

The European Union's 12th sanctions package against Russia enables the sale or expropriation of the empty Helsinki arena.

Pia Sarivaara, head of the sanctions team at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, tells STT that the sanctions package extended for half a year the possibility of an exemption for the sale of companies owned or controlled by certain sanctioned entities. In practice, this means that the trading of hall shares can be permitted, i.e. the frozen shares can be sold. Regarding sales, according to Sarivaara, there is now a six-month time window for the business. The amount received from the sale would be frozen.

In addition, the package included the possibility of expropriation. According to it, property owned or controlled by a sanctioned person or entity can be exempted from freezing, so that the sanctions are not an obstacle in the event of expropriation in the public interest.

- Of course, it first goes according to the national processes, but if that process were to be concluded to the end, then it would also be possible to authorize the release of the frozen assets. In that case, the transaction amount would be frozen instead of the transferable property, says Sarivaara.

"Sanction regulations will not be an obstacle"

Sarivaara of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, however, reminds that basically the sale of the Helsinki arena is about whether the sellers are ready to sell and whether an agreement can be reached on the deal with potential buyers.

- That is, of course, the starting point. Sanction regulations at least do not become an obstacle in that the trade cannot be made. There is the possibility of an exemption.

Sarivaara says that the basic issue is, however, between the trading parties, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no role in it.

Helsingin Sanomat reported today, based on its source, that the Helsinki arena would open to the public already next fall or at some point in 2024.

- I no longer see any obstacle to at least hockey matches being organized in the Helsinki Arena at some point in 2024- perhaps already in the fall, a government source told HS.

According to HS's source, right now it seems that the Russian owners don't seem to be selling the arena, but have to start the expropriation process.

The former home arena of the ice hockey team Jokeri has been lying empty in Pasila, Helsinki, since spring 2022, when Russia started a large-scale war of aggression in Ukraine. Some of the owners and background influencers of the arena belong to the close circle of Russian President Vladimir Putin. Among the hall's owners on the EU's sanctions list are the oligarch brothers Arkadi and Boris Rotenberg and Gennadi Timchenko, who are close to Putin. The US sanctions also include Boris Rotenberg's son Roman and businessman Kai Paananen, who play a role in the board of the arena's background company.

Permission for expropriation from the government

Expropriation is interference with property protection, which is why it is provided for in the Finnish constitution. For example, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Elina Valtonen(coordinator) has said on Yle that Helsinki's arena should be able to be used in the name of public interest.

According to the Constitution, the expropriation of property must be based on a general need. The owner would receive compensation, which, however, in the case of the Helsinki arena, would also remain frozen.

In Finland, a permit for expropriation could be granted by the Government, i.e. the government, upon presentation by the responsible ministry. The Government's decision could be appealed.

Assets that have been forcibly listed have not been expropriated in Finland.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020231219ejcj003h1


Politics
The Helsinki arena can be extorted from the Russian oligarchs*** TRANSLATED ***
Simu Perälä, Markku Uhari
590 字
2023 年 12 月 19 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2023. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
Redemption is made possible by the EU's new sanctions package against Russia.

The European Union's twelfth sanctions package against Russia enables the sale or expropriation of the empty Helsinki arena.

The head of the sanctions team at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Pia Sarivaara, told STT that the sanctions package extended for half a year the possibility of an exemption for the sale of companies owned or controlled by certain sanctioned entities. In practice, this means that the trading of hall shares can be permitted, i.e. the frozen shares can be sold. Regarding sales, according to Sarivaara, there is now a six-month time window for the business. The amount received from the sale would be frozen.

In addition, the package included the possibility of expropriation.

According to it, property owned or controlled by a sanctioned person or entity can be exempted from freezing, so that the sanctions are not an obstacle in the event of expropriation in the public interest.

"Sanction regulations do not prevent"

However, Sarivaara reminds us that basically the sale of the Helsinki arena is about whether the sellers are ready to sell and whether we can reach an agreement on the deal with potential buyers.

- That is, of course, the starting point. Sanction regulations will at least not become an obstacle that the trade cannot be made. There is the possibility of an exemption.

Sarivaara says that the basic issue is, however, between the trading parties, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no role in it.

Helsingin Sanomat reported on Tuesday, based on its source, that the Helsinki arena would open to the public already next year.

- I no longer see any obstacle to at least hockey matches being organized in the Helsinki Arena at some point in 2024- perhaps already in the fall, a government source told HS.

According to HS's source, right now it seems that the Russian owners don't seem to be selling the arena, but have to start the expropriation process.

The former home arena of the ice hockey team Jokeri has been lying empty in Pasila, Helsinki, since spring 2022, when Russia started a large-scale war of aggression in Ukraine.

Some of the owners and background influencers of the arena belong to the close circle of Russian President Vladimir Putin. Among the owners of the hall on the EU sanctions list are the oligarch brothers Arkadi and Boris Rotenberg and Gennadi Timshenko. They are all entwined close to Putin.

Boris Rotenberg's son Roman and businessman Kai Paananen are also subject to US sanctions. They influence the board of the arena's background company.

Permission from the government

Expropriation is interference with property protection, which is why it is provided for in the Finnish constitution.

According to the Constitution, the expropriation of property must be based on a general need. The owner would receive compensation, which, however, in the case of the Helsinki arena, would also remain frozen.

For example, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Elina Valtonen(coordinator) has said on Yle that Helsinki's arena should be able to be used in the name of public interest.

In Finland, a permit for expropriation could be granted by the Government, i.e. the government, upon presentation by the responsible ministry. The Government's decision could be appealed.

Assets that have been forcibly listed have not been expropriated in Finland.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020231219ejcj00af1


Insight EU Monitoring - Premium Digest
13496 字
2024 年 1 月 12 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2024. Comecon Media GmbH
A full-text overview of today's most important posts on our Insight EU portal

DAILY DIGEST

PREMIUM

www.ieu-monitoring.com[http://www.ieu-monitoring.com]

* U.S. – Background press call by a Senior Administration Official on Taiwan elections

* UN underlines need to move forward on peace efforts in Colombia

* France welcomes UN Resolution condemning Houthi attacks

* Stockholm: Foreign and security policy issues on the Billström/Kamikawa meeting

* Finnish ministry receives EIA programme for Olkiluoto NP extension

* Finland’s eastern border to remain closed

* Finland: Government proposes approval of Digital Services Act implementation

* Valencia is the 2024 European Green Capital

* Romania: EU Commission approves €126m to support ports facing increased trade flows

* EP Briefing: Russia’s war on Ukraine – implications for the Arctic

* EU Court of Justice: Advocate General’s Opinion in Case C-48/22 P (Google and Alphabet v Commission)

* EU Court of Justice: EU Advocate General’s Opinion in Joint Cases C-662/22, C-667/22, Case C-663/22, C-664/22, C-666/22, Case C-665/22

* Insight EU Environment Monitoring 10 January 2024

* Market risk: The EBA revises reporting requirements

* Insight EU Climate Monitoring 10 January 2024

* Insight EU Energy Monitoring 10 January 2024

* Data economy: European Data Act enters into force

* MiFID II pre-trade controls: ESMA and NCAs to coordinate supervisory activities

* Stateless person of Palestinian origin: EU Advocate General’s Opinion in Case C-563/22

* An EU Disability Card to support persons with disabilities’ right to free movement

* EU Court of Justice: Advocate General’s Opinions in Cases C-808/21 and C-814/21

U.S. – Background press call by a Senior Administration Official on Taiwan elections[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/u-s-background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-taiwan-elections/425525/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 06:30 am

Washington, D.C., 11 January 2024

MODERATOR: Hi there. Good evening, everybody. And I know a few folks maybe heard us having a little chatter here before the kickoff of the call. So, just wanted to say that this call is going to be held under embargo until the close of the call. The call is going to be on background, attributable to senior administration officials.

For awareness but not for reporting, joining us on the call today is [senior administration official].

And with that, I will hand it over to her for some quick remarks, and then we’ll open it up to questions.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Great, thank you so much. And, all, thanks so much for joining tonight. You heard me trying to figure out how to approach a few things ahead of time, so don’t often get the sausage but sometimes you do.

It’s been a few months since we’ve held a backgrounder on Taiwan issues. And with the elections coming up on January 13th, we thought it was timely to do.

I’ll give just a brief laydown and then pause for questions at the end. And hopefully we can wrap this up. [Moderator], what do we have — about half an hour or so?

MODERATOR: Yep, just about.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Great. Sounds good.

So, on January 13th, Taiwan will hold presidential and legislative elections following a transition period. The Taiwan president-elect will be inaugurated on May 20th. This election marks the island’s fourth transition between democratically elected administrations since fully democratic elections were first held in 1996.

The United States has full confidence in Taiwan’s democratic processes, and there is strong bipartisan support for its free and fair elections.

Taiwan is a model for democracy not only in the region but also globally. We oppose any outside interference or influence in Taiwan’s elections.

Of course, the United States does not take sides in these elections, does not have a favored or preferred candidate. Regardless of whom is elected, our policy toward Taiwan will remain the same, and our strong unofficial relationship will also continue.

The United States and China of course have had differences on cross-Strait issues, but over the last 40 years we have managed these differences.

When President Biden met with President Xi in San Francisco this past November, he made clear that U.S. policy toward Taiwan has not and will not change. He reiterated that we are committed to our longstanding One China policy which is guided by the Taiwan Relations Act, the Three Joint Communiqués, and the Six Assurances.

He indicated that we oppose any unilateral changes to the status quo from either side. We do not support Taiwan independence. We support cross-Strait dialogue, and we expect cross-Strait differences to be resolved by peaceful means, free from coercion, in a manner that is acceptable to the people on both sides of the Strait. We do not take a position on the ultimate resolution of cross-Strait differences, provided they are resolved peacefully.

I’m not going to speculate on what the PRC reaction will be to the elections or their outcome, but will note that the election is part of a normal, routine democratic process. Beijing will be the provocateur should it choose to respond with additional military pressure or coercion.

Of course, peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait is critical to countries and economies around the globe. Taiwan is a key part of global supply chains, and by some estimates, about half of all global trade flows through the Taiwan Strait.

For all these reasons, a disruption to peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait would seriously damage the global economy, and the spillover would affect all economies around the world.

Throughout this election and transition period, we will ensure channels of communication are open with Beijing, both diplomatic and the recently reopened mil-mil channels. In keeping with past precedent and our unofficial relationship with Taiwan, we will also ensure AIT and the AIT chair are in close touch with Taiwan interlocutors to reinforce both our support for Taiwan’s democratic processes and also our strong commitment to peace, stability, and the status quo. There should be no unilateral changes by either side to the status quo.

We also intend to send an unofficial delegation after the Taiwan election. We’re not in a position to confirm the timing of the delegation or the participants, in part because contrary to press reports, some of this is still being decided. We will have more to share in the coming days.

But I did want to provide some context about these types of delegations and the frequency with which we have used them not just in this administration, but other administrations in the past.

First, given our unofficial relationship with Taiwan, we often send these high-level unofficial delegations of former government officials to Taipei. We have a decades-long tradition of doing so; this is nothing new.

In the last 20 years, we have sent former Cabinet secretaries, former deputy secretaries of state, former national security advisors, former assistant secretaries, former members of Congress, former governors, former chairmen of the Joint Chiefs, and even former White House chiefs of staff.

In fact, President Biden has sent an unofficial delegation twice before of former U.S. government officials in April of 2021 and February of 2022. In those instances, one was post-U.S. inauguration. In April ‘21, two former deputy secretaries joined. We have also — and I think former members of Congress as well. Neither of these, over the past several years, were viewed as escalatory by the PRC.

So, sending delegations is well within precedent. It is, of course, consistent with our One China policy, consistent with the status quo, and timed after the election to ensure that we are not endorsing one candidate or one party over the other.

Second, we also have a longstanding precedent for sending former senior USG officials with the AIT chair to Taiwan, after the Taiwan elections. And this has been ongoing, again, for about 20 years, back to 2000. We’re going to maintain that precedent after this election too.

In 2016, we sent former Deputy Secretary Bill Burns and the AIT chair to Taipei to meet with the incoming team and the losing candidates.

I will pause there perhaps.

And again, I think the point I want to convey in this backgrounder is, first, I think elections, normal process ongoing for some time. We’re not expecting at this point or predicting what will happen or what the PRC response will be. But the point being here, we’re focused on peace, stability, and status quo, and talking via our normal channels of communication with both Beijing and Taipei through types of del- — unofficial delegations like the one we will be sending post-election, as well as via AIT and the AIT chair.

So, I’ll pause there and welcome any questions. Over to you.

MODERATOR: With that, we’ll defer to the conference room folks to give instructions on how to ask questions, and we’ll start calling them.

First, we’ll go to Trevor Hunnicutt with Reuters.

Q Hey, thanks for doing the call. Two related questions. You know, it’s been pretty well documented that Beijing is doing its part to interfere in these elections. Is the Biden administration doing enough to help Taiwan defend against that kind of interference? And, two, are you concerned that a future administration in Taipei will pause or reverse asymmetric defense preparations? Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks. I think on the interference question, we’ve been pretty clear in our communications with Beijing, and publicly for that matter, that any form of interference coercion we have serious concerns about. It is interfering with the legitimate democratic political processes, and it certainly would paint Beijing as a provocateur in this election.

On the question about defense, you know, as part of our unofficial relationship with Taiwan, or unofficial partnership with Taiwan, AIT, of course, has been in regular touch with all of the candidates. And I think our expectation is that the strong partnership that we have would endure both on security assistance issues but also on economic, trade, people-to-people, and all that whole list of pieces or parts of the relationship.

But again, I think, you know, before we have a president in place, or president-elect, I don’t want to speculate beyond that. But I would say, overall, our expectation is that our unofficial relationship would continue to be strong in all the dimension of security assistance, people-to-people, economic, and trade.

MODERATOR: Next, we’re going to go to Nick Schifrin with PBS.

Q Thanks for doing this. Can you just say on that first point: You know, the Taiwanese are very specific in the kinds of interference that they say are already happening — cyberattacks, economic coercion, and some others. Can you say whether the U.S. believes Beijing is already committing those actions that Taiwan accuses them of, is already trying to influence the election?

And in terms of after the election, the delegations that you spoke about, the precedent is not only to go to Taipei but also send a delegation to Beijing. Even if you can’t detail the people, can you confirm that the delegation — that a delegation would go to Beijing after the election, along the lines of precedent that the U.S has sent in the past after Taiwanese elections? Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Great, thanks. On the first one, I think, you know, we’ll continue to use the channels of communication that we have with Beijing and that have been effective through various periods of higher tension over the last year.

On the question of interference or influence, you know, obviously, this is something we’re watching quite closely. We’re in touch via AIT with Taipei on this, on what they’re seeing, what they’re concerned about.

The point I want to emphasize and I think it’s important to convey is we have complete confidence in Taiwan’s democratic processes. We’re not concerned that this is going to impact the election outcome. And they’ve been extremely diligent and careful about pointing out where there’s disinformation, pointing out where there’s misinformation, you know, different attempts Beijing or Beijing’s proxies may be making in this space.

I mean, it is no secret, I think, that Beijing has views on the outcome of the elections and is trying to shape and coerce in various different ways.

But what I want to convey here is that we are confident in Taiwan’s democratic election processes.

Q And then, the delegation to Beijing?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah, I think on that — that was my first answer. I think we’ll use the channels of communication that we have used in other times with Beijing. I think how we do that and the manner in which we do that is different according — you know, it changes over time. So we have not always sent a delegation to Beijing. And I’ll leave it there for the time being.

MODERATOR: Next, we’re going to go to Demetri with the FT.

Q Thanks. Without asking you to confirm the names of the high-level former officials going to Taipei, can you give us an understanding of what they’re actually going there to do?

And then, separately, in the meetings today in the White House, did Liu Jianchao make clear what China would like Taiwan — the Taiwanese election victor to say and also what they would like them not to say in their victory acceptance speech?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks, Demetri. On the purpose of the unofficial delegation, you know, the way these have been used in the past is to ensure that we are communicating clearly to both the president-elect, but also the other candidates as well, about the importance of strong unofficial partnership, being clear about what the U.S. One China policy is and what it is not.

And given, you know, the uniqueness of this unofficial relationship, doing that face-to-face via these unofficial delegations is really the most effective way to do it. It’s exactly the type of engagement that contributes to peace and stability, in our view. And it’s also just critical to manage cross-Strait tensions and cross-Strait issues in this way. That direct — there’s really no replacement for that direct communication. And that’s what we’re trying to get at through this unofficial delegation.

As to the Liu Jianchao meeting, I won’t go into specifics of what was raised, but I think what we heard from him — it’s worth keeping in mind, you know, he’s not an MFA official. He’s from sort of a different part of the institution than we normally — than normally travels.

So — but even given that, I’d say the conversation was quite consistent with what we have heard in other senior-level engagements about PRC concerns about this election, about the sensitive period ahead. Nothing in there would surprise you or be different than what, you know, President Biden heard from President Xi and we read out in the post-Woodside meetings.

MODERATOR: Next, we’re going to go to Charles Hutzler.

Q Hi, thanks for doing this. I just wanted to follow up on Demetri’s questions. I mean, first of all, on this message that Beijing should not interfere, that no one should interfere in Taiwan’s election, can you sort of catalog when that message has been delivered to Beijing most recently? Has it been delivered publicly? And, as well, what’s delivered to Liu Jianchao?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks for the question, Charles. Yeah, I think in terms of the concerns about — or, you know, underscoring the need to ensure there’s no interference, that’s a message we’ve consistently delivered, I say, in about every high-level engagement over the last six months or so, if not before.

So, certainly in the Woodside summit, that was a message that was clearly delivered. In National Security Advisor Sullivan’s meetings with Wang Yi, that certainly has been something that we have conveyed as well, and as well through the channel we have here with Ambassador Xie Feng.

So this is a consistent message that the U.S. is sending to PRC interlocutors, including with Liu Jianchao.

MODERATOR: Next, we’ll go to Shaun Tandon with AFP.

Q Hey there. Thanks for this call. Could I extend a little bit on the question that Nick asked, talking about the actions that China has already taken? Do you see this as consistent with what China has done in previous Taiwanese elections or anything different?

And in terms — of course, there’s the military talks this week, the mil-to-mil at the Pentagon. Do you think that affected at all the equation in terms of what you expect in terms of behavior from China?

And just briefly, trade. There, of course, were trade talks with Taiwan in the past year. Do you expect this to go full speed ahead with the new administration, no matter who it is? Or are you waiting to see a new administration form? Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks for that. On coercion or shaping and influencing, I think this has been a longstanding practice of Beijing. I think what we’re seeing is consistent with what we have seen in the past, without commenting on specifics, of course. But I think, you know, there’s a pattern of behavior we have seen here that is fairly consistent.

On trade, you know, I think trade issues, of course — or the trade relationship with Taiwan is important. We have worked hard, and I think we’re all proud of the 21st century trade initiative in Phase One that was signed last year. Our intent is to continue moving forward on Phase Two as well, but I don’t have any details for you on when. I simply don’t have that at my fingertips. But I would not expect that is something that would slow down dependent on the results of the election. I think that’s something there is bipartisan support for in Taipei as well.

MODERATOR: And our last question is going to go to Morgan Chalfant with Semafor.

Q Thanks so much for doing this. I know you won’t get into predictions about a Chinese reaction, but can you talk about how the U.S. is preparing for a potential Chinese military reaction? And how worried are you about, you know, a provocative reaction disrupting some of the progress that the U.S. and China has made over the last couple of months?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: You know, I think anytime we’re heading into a period of higher tension, there are, of course, always contingency conversations in the U.S. government that is part of prudential planning. I don’t want to get into specifics on those, but of course we have to be prepared and thinking through any eventuality, ranging from, you know, no response to higher end.

Sorry, and the second part of your question?

Q I was just wondering how worried you are about, you know, a provocative response disrupting some of the progress that the U.S. and China has made over the last couple of months.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah, no, it’s a good question, but I think it’s putting the frame of Taiwan elections and cross-Strait issues in a context that I don’t think is the right context.

The health of the U.S.-China relationship I don’t think you can view as a derivative of cross-Strait tensions. I mean, we are deeply engaged in diplomacy with China to try to manage difficult situations. Our expectation is not that China is going to change its cross-Strait policy, it’s how do we manage this difficult time and try to avoid unintended conflict, ensure our intent is clear, and ensure that we are in communications. And that’s precisely what we’re doing through this period of diplomacy over the last, you know, year or so.

MODERATOR: You know what, we’ve actually got time for one more. Let’s go to Kevin Collier with NBC.

Q Hi, thanks for that. Can you articulate — I understand that there are, you know, different groups that have made allegations of information operations and election interference that China has used to target Taiwan, but what is the NSC’s understanding of that issue? What has China done?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: You know, I think it’s — Taiwan is pretty advanced in being able to pinpoint and identify what’s going on in their own system. So I think rather than looking at us as the source for this, I would look to Taiwan as the source and look at their announcements, look at what they’ve put out there in open source on this.

I think broadly speaking, you know, we’ve seen — and it is not surprising we have seen — Chinese att- — or Beijing’s attempts to try to shape the information environment, try to put economic pressure on the island through announcements of tariff changes that we’ve seen over the last couple of weeks.

So, again, none of this is surprising to me. And I think Taiwan is quite good in this space in calling it out for what it is. And I would point to them as the source of that information.

MODERATOR: All right, that concludes this evening’s call. Thank you all, and we should follow up shortly with a transcript.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks so much, folks. Look forward to continuing the conversation.

7:08 P.M. EST

Source – The White House[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/01/11/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-taiwan-elections/]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/u-s-background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-taiwan-elections/425525/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

UN underlines need to move forward on peace efforts in Colombia[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/un-underlines-need-to-move-forward-on-peace-efforts-in-colombia/425523/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 06:05 am

New York, 11 January 2024

Recent developments in Colombia have highlighted the need to move forward in implementing the 2016 peace agreement signed by the Government and the FARC-EP militia group, UN Special Representative Carlos Ruiz Massieu[https://www.un.org/sg/en/content/profiles/carlos-massieu-aguirre] told the Security Council on Thursday.

Presenting the latest quarterly report by the UN Verification Mission in Colombia[https://colombia.unmissions.org/en], which covers the period from 27 September to 26 December 2023, he expressed hope that this year will be a decisive one for peace.

“Despite the many serious challenges this country still faces in extinguishing the embers of an armed conflict that has lasted more than six decades, it is an immense privilege and opportunity for the United Nations to be in this position to assist the Colombian Government and people in their drive to consolidate peace,” he said.

Speed up commitment

Mr. Ruiz Massieu reported that last year showed evidence of the clear links between the implementation of the peace accord and initiatives taken by the authorities to hold dialogues with other armed groups.

He underscored the need to move forward in these processes, emphasizing the opportunity to speed up commitments on ethnic issues and land reform.

“Translating the eagerly awaited public policy for the dismantling of illegal armed groups and criminal organizations…into tangible emphatic action whose results will be felt by the populations on the ground will be another fundamental step in this necessary transition between making plans and implementing them,” he added.

Attacks on ethnic communities

Although “security is the basis of the successful development of any peace initiative”, he pointed to developments that have sparked concern such as the recent killing of four FARC-EP ex-combatants. He also condemned “unjustifiable attacks” against indigenous communities and people laying claim to land.

“The situation in certain zones of departments such as Cauca, which is characterized by significant presence of indigenous and Afro-Colombian peoples, is particularly challenging as a consequence of the presence and actions of various armed actors,” he said.

“It is precisely in areas such as these where there is a need for comprehensive State presence to slow and contain the violence.”

Commitment to peace

Encouraged by the continued commitment to peace by the vast majority of former FARC-EP members, he expressed confidence that Government efforts, such as a recently established reintegration programme, will meet their needs and expectations.

Mr. Ruiz Massieu also noted “positive progress” in the dialogue between the Government and the largest remaining rebel group, ELN, as well as developments such as their bilateral ceasefire, which began in August.

Similarly, he welcomed progress made in the dialogue between the authorities and another group, the self-styled EMC FARC-EP. The sides signed a bilateral ceasefire in October that he said “has resulted in a necessary level of trust, which will allow the process to continue.”

Source – UN[https://news.un.org/en/story/2024/01/1145447]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/un-underlines-need-to-move-forward-on-peace-efforts-in-colombia/425523/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

France welcomes UN Resolution condemning Houthi attacks[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/france-welcomes-un-resolution-condemning-houthi-attacks/425521/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 05:50 am

Paris, 11 January 2024

France welcomes the January 10th adoption of a UN Security Council resolution strongly condemning Houthi attacks on shipping in the Red Sea.

The Security Council, which France has chaired since January 1, demands that the Houthis immediately end these attacks and release the Galaxy Leader and its crew, captured on November 19, 2023. The Security Council reiterates that navigational rights and freedoms must be respected and that member states have the right to respond to such attacks in accordance with international law.

Together with its partners, France will continue to assume its responsibilities and help bolster maritime safety in this area, as it was called upon to do on December 9 and 11 when the Navy frigate Languedoc destroyed drones.

Source – French Government[https://www.diplomatie.gouv.fr/en/french-foreign-policy/france-and-the-united-nations/news-and-events/news/news-2024/article/un-france-welcomes-the-adoption-of-a-security-council-resolution-condemning?xtor=RSS-1]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/france-welcomes-un-resolution-condemning-houthi-attacks/425521/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Stockholm: Foreign and security policy issues on the Billström/Kamikawa meeting[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/stockholm-foreign-and-security-policy-issues-on-the-billstrom-kamikawa-meeting/425519/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 05:34 am

Stockholm, 11 January 2024

Bilateral issues, foreign and security policy developments in Europe and the Indo-Pacific region, and the situation in the Middle East were on the agenda when Mr Billström received Japan’s Minister for Foreign Affairs Yōko Kamikawa in Stockholm on 10 January.

“Japan and Sweden share the view that security in Europe and in the Indo-Pacific region are closely linked. The two countries are like-minded in defending the international world order and condemning Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine. In light of the geopolitical developments, close cooperation between our countries is particularly important,” says Mr Billström.

Sweden and Japan have long enjoyed excellent relations and it is a priority for the entire Swedish Government to deepen them. The cooperation is based on common values and support for democracy and the rules-based world order. This includes extensive exchange in areas such as trade and investment, security and defence policy, research, culture and multilateral issues. Japan is Sweden’s second-largest trade partner in Asia, and Japanese investments in Sweden have increased in recent years.

Source – Swedish Government[https://www.government.se/articles/2024/01/foreign-and-security-policy-issues-on-the-agenda-when-foreign-minister-tobias-billstrom-welcomed-japanese-counterpart-yko-kamikawa-to-stockholm/]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/stockholm-foreign-and-security-policy-issues-on-the-billstrom-kamikawa-meeting/425519/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Finnish ministry receives EIA programme for Olkiluoto NP extension[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finnish-ministry-receives-eia-programme-for-olkiluoto-np-extension/425517/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 05:11 am

Helsinki, 11 January 2024

On 5 January 2024, Finnish Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment received from Teollisuuden Voima Oyj an environmental impact assessment (EIA) programme referred to in the Act on the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure. The programme concerns extending the service life of Olkiluoto 1 and Olkiluoto 2 nuclear power plant units located in the Olkiluoto nuclear power plant area in Eurajoki as well as increasing their thermal output.

The extension of the current use until 2048 or 2058 would mean that the service life would increase to 70 or 80 years. Olkiluoto 1 and Olkiluoto 2 plant units were put into service in 1978 and 1980, respectively. The service life originally planned for the units was 40 years, but it was previously extended to 60 years. The thermal output of plant units would increase from the current 2,500 megawatts (MW) to 2,750 MW.

An environmental impact assessment (EIA) programme refers to a plan for the necessary studies and arrangements for the assessment procedure. The programme is prepared by the operator in charge of the project. The coordinating authority for the EIA procedure is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment.

The Ministry will request comments on the EIA programme and provide citizens and organisations an opportunity to express their opinions later in January.

Source – Finnish Government[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/1410877/ministry-of-economic-affairs-and-employment-receives-an-eia-programme-to-extend-service-life-of-olkiluoto-nuclear-power-plant-units-ol1-and-ol2-and-to-increase-their-thermal-output]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finnish-ministry-receives-eia-programme-for-olkiluoto-np-extension/425517/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Finland’s eastern border to remain closed[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finlands-eastern-border-to-remain-closed/425515/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 04:41 am

Helsinki, 12 January 2024

Finnish Government has decided that the border crossing points on the land border between Finland and Russia will remain closed until 11 February 2024. It will not be possible to submit applications for international protection at any border crossing points on the land border between Finland and Russia. The Government decided on the matter in its session on 11 January 2024.

On 14 December 2023, the Government decided to temporarily close the border crossing points on Finland’s eastern border for one month and to centralise the submission of applications for international protection. This was to stop instrumentalised migration at Finland’s eastern border.

“Based on information gathered by the authorities, it is very likely that Russia’s hybrid influence activities will resume and expand as we saw earlier. We therefore consider it necessary to keep the eastern border closed,” says Minister of the Interior Mari Rantanen.

The risk that instrumentalised migration will resume at the eastern border poses a serious threat to national security and public order in Finland. According to the authorities, it is clear that the Russian authorities or other actors have been facilitating instrumentalised migration. This phenomenon also involves international crime.

Based on information provided by the authorities, there are still migrants in the neighbouring area waiting for the eastern border to open. There are also more people in the migrants’ countries of origin who wish to migrate to Finland.

The Government will regularly assess the content and scope of the decision as the situation develops in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and other public authorities. The decision will be repealed or amended if it is no longer necessary to prevent a serious threat to national security or public order. The Ministry of the Interior is also examining alternative ways to put an end to the phenomenon.

Source – Finnish Government[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/1410869/finland-s-eastern-border-to-remain-closed]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finlands-eastern-border-to-remain-closed/425515/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Finland: Government proposes approval of Digital Services Act implementation[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finland-government-proposes-approval-of-digital-services-act-implementation/425513/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 03:59 am

Helsinki, 11 January 2024

Finland Government proposes that the President of the Republic adopt the acts nationally implementing the EU Digital Services Act, which aims to improve the transparency and safety of online intermediary services for users.

The Digital Services Act seeks to protect users from illegal content and ensure their fundamental rights online. It applies to internet access providers, cloud services and social media services, online marketplaces and search engines.

As an EU regulation, the Digital Services Act is directly applicable legislation. In Finland, its implementation requires the establishment of supervisory authorities and new regulation on powers and sanctions.

The authority for digital services coordination and the main supervisory authority for the Act will be the Finnish Transport and Communications Agency Traficom. Other authorities supervising the implementation of the Act will include the Consumer Ombudsman and the Data Protection Ombudsman. The supervisory authority for very large online platforms with over 45 million users in the EU will be the European Commission.

The national supervisory authorities will be given the necessary powers, such as the right to carry out inspections. Violation of the Act can lead to sanction fees. Decisions on imposing sanction fees of more than EUR 100,000 will be made by a collegial body to be set up in Traficom.

Next steps

On 12 January 2024, the President of the Republic is expected to approve the bills passed by Parliament. The acts will enter into force on 17 February 2024 when the application of the Digital Services Act begins.

Source – Finnish Government[https://valtioneuvosto.fi/en/-/1410829/government-proposes-approval-of-digital-services-act-implementation]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finland-government-proposes-approval-of-digital-services-act-implementation/425513/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Valencia is the 2024 European Green Capital[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/valencia-is-the-2024-european-green-capital/425511/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 03:40 am

Brussels, 11 January 2024

Today, the Spanish city of Valencia will officially become the European Green Capital for 2024[https://environment.ec.europa.eu/topics/urban-environment/european-green-capital-award/winning-cities/valencia-2024_en], taking over from the Estonian city of Tallinn. During the opening ceremony, Mayor María José Catalá will receive the Green Book from Tallinn’s deputy mayor Tiit Terik.

Virginijus Sinkevičius, Commissioner for Environment, Oceans and Fisheries, said:

“Valencia has earned the Green Capital title because of its ambitious sustainability strategy, and it has learned from lessons in the past. For many decades, the city has been driven forward by a bold civic movement that sustains genuine change. People are Valencia’s asset. This year will enhance the experiences of citizens and support them even more in delivering the change we all need achieve for a better future.”

Valencia earned the title thanks to its past and current achievements in the field of sustainable tourism, climate neutrality, as well as fair and inclusive green transition. As illustrated by its motto ‘On a Mission Together’, with its strong emphasis on people, Valencia effectively combines responses to environmental challenges with societal ones. 97% of city’s inhabitants live within 300 metres of green urban areas. The city has also a proven commitment to improving air quality and restoring nature ecosystems, such as the Devesa dune and wetland ecosystems[https://www.birdingplaces.eu/en/birdingplaces/spain/el-raco-de-lolla]. Valencia also stimulates a healthier, sustainable, and inclusive food production through its “Neighbourhood and Food Programme”.

Over 300 activities and events are foreseen to reach all sectors of the city – from specialised audiences in sustainability, production, and business, to the residents of Valencia.

The European Green Capital Award encourages cities to become greener and cleaner, and to improve the quality of life for their inhabitants. The call for applications[https://environment.ec.europa.eu/topics/urban-environment/european-green-capital-award/applying-awards_en] for the next cycle of awards is now open until 30 April 2024.

More information on Valencia as Green Capital is available in the news item[https://environment.ec.europa.eu/news/valencia-kicks-2024-new-european-green-capital-2024-01-11_en] and on the European Green Capital and Green Leaf Awards[https://environment.ec.europa.eu/topics/urban-environment/european-green-capital-award_en] website.

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEX_24_141]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/valencia-is-the-2024-european-green-capital/425511/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Romania: EU Commission approves €126m to support ports facing increased trade flows [https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/romania-eu-commission-approves-e126m-to-support-ports-facing-increased-trade-flows/425507/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 03:12 am

Brussels, 11 January 2024

The European Commission has approved, under EU State aid rules, a €126 million Romanian scheme to support investments in ports facing increased trade flows after Russia’s war against Ukraine. The measure facilitate flow trades in and from Ukraine in line with the objectives of the EU’s Solidarity Lanes action plan[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:52022DC0217].

The Romanian scheme

Romania notified to the Commission its plans to support companies active in certain Romanian ports to invest in additional handling or storage facilities for processing goods deviated from their normal trading routes due to Russia’s war against Ukraine, and the collapse of Ukraine’s direct maritime export routes. The scheme, with a budget of €126 million (around RON 626 million), will run until 31 December 2024.

Under the scheme, the aid will take the form of grants up to €10 million to logistics companies active in Romanian maritime and inland ports located on: (i) the eastern border of the EU (Constanta, Galati, Giurgiu); (ii) the Danube – Black Sea Canal (Poarta Alba, Midia, and Navodari); (iii) the Sulina Canal or in the “satellite” ports of Constanța (Midia, and Mangalia). The aid cannot exceed the lowest of the following amounts: (i) €10 million per beneficiary, (ii) the funding gap, or (iii) 65% of the eligible costs of the project.

The measure will be partly funded through EU Cohesion funds[https://ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/funding/cohesion-fund_en] and will contribute to the functioning of the EU-Ukraine Solidarity Lanes[https://eu-solidarity-ukraine.ec.europa.eu/eu-assistance-ukraine/eu-ukraine-solidarity-lanes_en] by facilitating the trade flows in and from Ukraine.

The Commission’s assessment

The Commission assessed the measure under EU State aid rules, in particular Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ALL/?uri=CELEX%3A12008E107], which enables Member States to support the development of certain economic activities subject to certain conditions.

The Commission found that:

* The aid is necessary and appropriate to trigger the investment, which could not be carried out absent the aid as neither a market investor nor any financial institution would have financed it on commercial terms due to the uncertainties linked to the Russian war and the temporary nature of the trade flows it created.

* The aid is proportionate and limited to the minimum necessary to trigger the investments. Moreover, the aid level is based on a proven funding gap. Operators can receive only the aid that is necessary to cover the additional cost of equipment and storage needed for handling goods diverted from their normal trading routes.

* The positive effects of the aid outweigh any potential negative effects on competition and trade between EU Member States. The trade flows concerned have naturally appeared in the ports that are geographically closest to Ukraine and will disappear once the crisis is resolved.

On that basis, the Commission approved the Romanian scheme under EU State aid rules.

For More Information

The non-confidential version of the decision will be made available under the case number SA.109965 in the State aid register[https://ec.europa.eu/competition/elojade/isef/index.cfm?clear=1&policy_area_id=3] on the Commission’s competition[https://competition-policy.ec.europa.eu/index_en] website once any confidentiality issues have been resolved. New publications of State aid decisions on the internet and in the Official Journal are listed in the Competition Weekly e-News[https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/comp/newsletter-archives/view/service/2012].

Quotes

This €126 million scheme will allow Romania to reduce bottlenecks created by the sudden surge in goods arriving in the Danube and Black Sea coast ports. The aid will support port operators to process and store queuing goods, thereby reducing the blockade caused by Russia’s war against Ukraine. This will contribute to the EU Solidarity Lanes action plan without unduly distorting competition in the Single Market.

Margrethe Vestager, Executive Vice-President in charge of competition policy

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_24_104]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/romania-eu-commission-approves-e126m-to-support-ports-facing-increased-trade-flows/425507/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EP Briefing: Russia’s war on Ukraine – implications for the Arctic[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ep-briefing-russias-war-on-ukraine-implications-for-the-arctic/425502/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 02:17 am

Brussels, 11 January 2024

Russia’s brutal war of aggression against Ukraine may not be taking place geographically in the Arctic, but it has already had a plethora of impacts on the circumpolar north, the repercussions of which are likely to spread well beyond the region.

First, the war has negatively affected cooperation, as activities with Russia in the framework of regional forums such as the Arctic Council (AC), the Barents Euro-Atlantic Council (BEAC), the Council of the Baltic Sea States (CBSS) and the Northern Dimension have either been significantly scaled down or suspended. The repercussions of curtailed scientific cooperation, which has been a hallmark of Arctic exceptionalism for decades, are feared to be especially serious, in a context where unprecedented climate change necessitates urgent joint circumpolar action.

In parallel, Russia’s war on Ukraine has had a negative impact on the indigenous peoples of the Arctic, with those living in Russia most affected. With the return of full-blown war to European soil, as well as the implications of climate change, heated geopolitics has also returned to the ‘high north’. Russia’s aggression has been a catalyst for two Nordic countries – Finland and Sweden – to apply for membership of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO), reinforcing the Arctic dimension of the alliance.

This development is set to strengthen NATO in the region; however, the intensifying hybrid threats and a non-conventional military build-up by Russia are likely to further increase tensions in the Arctic. Russia’s isolation and the effects of economic sanctions imposed owing to its military aggression also create room for possible new dynamics and alliances in the region in the context of the changing power balance and China’s rising ambitions there.

These developments are of great concern for the EU, which – in line with its Arctic policy outlined in successive Commission communications and Council conclusions – has been actively involved in matters relevant to the Arctic. The consequences of scaled-down cooperation on climate change, the environment and livelihoods, and the changes in the security environment and China’s ambitions, all touch upon core interests of the EU.

Through its resolutions, the European Parliament has been advocating for enhanced protection for the Arctic region, for ‘peaceful cooperation while taking into account the new security realities’, and for a stronger EU policy in the Arctic that is better adapted to the current geopolitical situation.

Source : © European Union, 2024 – EP[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/portal/en/legal-notice]

VISIT WEBSITE[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/thinktank/en/document/EPRS_BRI(2024)754604]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ep-briefing-russias-war-on-ukraine-implications-for-the-arctic/425502/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Court of Justice: Advocate General’s Opinion in Case C-48/22 P (Google and Alphabet v Commission)[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-court-of-justice-advocate-generals-opinion-in-case-c-48-22-p-google-and-alphabet-v-commission/425498/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 01:38 am

PRESS RELEASE No 4/24

Luxembourg, 11 January 2024

Advocate General Kokott proposes that the Court of Justice confirm the fine of €2.4 billion imposed on Google for favouring its own comparison shopping service.

Google, as found by the Commission and confirmed by the General Court, was leveraging its dominant position on the market for general search services to favour its own comparison shopping service by favouring the display of its results.

In its decision of 27 June 20171, the Commission found that Google had given preference to the results of its own comparison shopping service over those of competing comparison shopping services on its general search results page. Google presented search results from its comparison shopping service at the top and – using attractive image and text information – highlighted them in so-called Shopping Units. The search results of competing comparison shopping services, on the other hand, appeared only lower down on that page as a blue link. As a result, users clicked on the results of Google’s comparison shopping service more frequently than those of its competitors. The concomitant diversion of data traffic from Google’s general results page was not based on the better quality of Google’s comparison shopping service. It resulted rather from the self-preferencing and leveraging effected through Google’s general results page, in other words from the exploitation of its dominant position on the market for online general search services2.

However, competing price comparison services were dependent on data traffic from Google’s general search results page in order to be economically successful and able to remain on the market for specialised product services. The Commission came to the conclusion that Google had abused its dominant position on the markets for online general searches and for specialised product searches and therefore imposed a fine of €2,424,495,000 on Google, for which Alphabet as Google’s sole shareholder is jointly and severally liable in the amount of €523,518,000. Google and Alphabet challenged the Commission’s decision before the General Court of the European Union. By judgment of 10 November 20213, the General Court essentially dismissed the action and, in particular, confirmed the fine. By contrast, the General Court did not consider it proven that Google’s disputed conduct had anticompetitive effects, even potential effects, on the market for general search services. It therefore annulled the decision in so far as the Commission had also found an infringement of the prohibition of abuse of a dominant market position in respect of that market.

Google and Alphabet then lodged an appeal with the Court of Justice, requesting that the judgment of the General Court be set aside in so far as it had dismissed their action and that the Commission’s decision be annulled. Advocate General Juliane Kokott proposes that the Court of Justice should dismiss the appeal and thus confirm the fine imposed on Google.

The self-preferencing of which Google is accused constitutes an independent form of abuse through the application of unreasonable conditions of access to competing comparison shopping services, provided that it has at least potentially anticompetitive effects (as the Commission found in the present case in the form of an exclusionary effect on the market for specialised product searches). The strict criteria for the recognition of abuse through the refusal of access to an ‘essential facility’ (the so-called Bronner criteria4) are not applicable to such a form of abuse.

The Commission and the General Court rightly noted that the unequal treatment of competitors was the result of self-preferencing by recourse to leveraging, whereby Google exploited its dominant position on the market for online general search services in order to gain a competitive advantage on the downstream market for specialised product search services, on which it did not (yet) hold such a position.

NOTE: The Advocate General’s Opinion is not binding on the Court of Justice. It is the role of the Advocates General to propose to the Court, in complete independence, a legal solution to the cases for which they are responsible. The Judges of the Court are now beginning their deliberations in this case. Judgment will be given at a later date.

NOTE: An appeal, on a point or points of law only, may be brought before the Court of Justice against a judgment or order of the General Court. In principle, the appeal does not have suspensive effect. If the appeal is admissible and well founded, the Court of Justice sets aside the judgment of the General Court. Where the state of the proceedings so permits, the Court of Justice may itself give final judgment in the case. Otherwise, it refers the case back to the General Court, which is bound by the decision given by the Court of Justice on the appeal.

1 Decision C(2017) 4444 final relating to a proceeding under Article 102 TFEU and Article 54 of the Agreement on the European Economic Area (EEA) (Case AT.39740 – Google Search (Shopping)); see also Commission Press Release IP/17/1784.

2 In Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Spain, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Sweden, the United Kingdom and Norway.

3 Judgment of the General Court of 10 November 2021, Google and Alphabet v Commission (Google Shopping), T-612/17; see also Press Release No. 197/21.

4 Named after the judgment of the Court of Justice of 26 November 1998, Bronner, C-7/97, see Press Release No. 72/98.

Source – EU Court of Justice – Email

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-court-of-justice-advocate-generals-opinion-in-case-c-48-22-p-google-and-alphabet-v-commission/425498/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Court of Justice: EU Advocate General’s Opinion in Joint Cases C-662/22, C-667/22, Case C-663/22, C-664/22, C-666/22, Case C-665/22 [https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-court-of-justice-eu-advocate-generals-opinion-in-joint-cases-c-662-22-c-667-22-case-c-663-22-c-664-22-c-666-22-case-c-665-22/425494/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 01:26 am

Luxembourg, 11 January 2024

PRESS RELEASE No 5/24

Advocate General Szpunar: a Member State cannot impose general and abstract obligations on an online service provider operating on its territory but established in another Member State

In Italy, providers of online intermediation services and search engines, such as Airbnb, Google, Amazon and Vacation Rentals are subject to certain obligations: they must be entered in a register, periodically submit various information to an administrative authority and pay a financial contribution. Penalties are imposed in case of a failure to meet those obligations.

With the exception of Expedia, which is established in the United States and simply objects to the obligation to supply information, those online service providers, established in the European Union, challenge those obligations before the Italian courts. According to the service providers, those obligations are contrary to the EU Regulation promoting fairness and transparency for business users of online intermediation services1, whilst Italy states that the law in question implements EU rules. Furthermore, the companies established in the EU consider that these obligations infringe, inter alia, the principle laid down in the Directive on electronic commerce2, according to which information society services are, in principle, subject to the law of the Member State in which the service provider is established (in this case Ireland or Luxembourg). In that context, the Italian court decided to refer questions to the Court of Justice.

According to Advocate General Maciej Szpunar, EU law and, more specifically, the Directive on electronic commerce does preclude the imposition of such general and abstract obligations on an online service provider established in another Member State. Further, and as regards the Regulation promoting fairness and transparency for business users of online intermediation services, he considers that the obligations set out in the Italian law do not constitute implementing measures for that regulation. It therefore does not justify those obligations. The objective of that regulation is to contribute to the proper functioning of the internal market by putting in place a fair, predictable, sustainable and trusted environment for online commercial transactions within the internal market. In that context, a Member State may only collect information that is relevant to its obligations under that regulation and to the objectives thereof.

NOTE: The Advocate General’s Opinion is not binding on the Court of Justice. It is the role of the Advocates General to propose to the Court, in complete independence, a legal solution to the cases for which they are responsible. The Judges of the Court are now beginning their deliberations in this case. Judgment will be given at a later date.

NOTE: A reference for a preliminary ruling allows the courts and tribunals of the Member States, in disputes which have been brought before them, to refer questions to the Court of Justice about the interpretation of European Union law or the validity of a European Union act. The Court of Justice does not decide the dispute itself. It is for the national court or tribunal to dispose of the case in accordance with the Court’s decision, which is similarly binding on other national courts or tribunals before which a similar issue is raised.

1 Regulation (EU) 2019/1150 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on promoting fairness and transparency for business users of online intermediation services.

2 Directive 2000/31/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2000 on certain legal aspects of information society services, in particular electronic commerce, in the Internal Market (Directive on electronic commerce).

Source – EU Court of Justice – Email

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-court-of-justice-eu-advocate-generals-opinion-in-joint-cases-c-662-22-c-667-22-case-c-663-22-c-664-22-c-666-22-case-c-665-22/425494/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Environment Monitoring 10 January 2024[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-10-january-2024/425466/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 01:26 am

DG ENV

* The European Commission appoints a new Director for its Directorate-General for Environment

DG MARE

* The European Commission appoints a new Director for its Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries

CHEMICALS

* Joint industry recommendations launched on Assessment of Regulatory Needs reports (ARN): An early warning signal for chemicals

SEABED MINERALS

* Norway gives green light for seabed minerals

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* CM 1109 2024 INIT – Working Party on Maritime Issues – EU Maritime Security Strategy (EUMSS)

* ST 5147 2024 INIT – Regulation establishing a framework for setting ecodesign requirements for sustainable products and repealing Directive 2009/125/EC – Letter to the Chair of the European Parliament ENVI Committee

* CM 1027 2024 REV 1 – Working Party on CONSUMER PROTECTION AND INFORMATION – ATTACHES MEETING (1+1)

* CM 1133 2024 INIT – Informal videoconference of the members of the Working Party on International Environment Issues (Biodiversity) (morning only)

* CM 1135 2024 INIT – Working Party on International Environment Issues (Global)

* ST 17021 2023 COR 2 – Commission Delegated Regulation amending Directive 2000/14/EC as regards the methods to measure airborne noise emitted by equipment for use outdoors – Intention not to raise objections to a delegated act

* ST 5043 2024 ADD 1 – Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on packaging and packaging waste, amending Regulation (EU) 2019/1020 and Directive (EU) 2019/904, and repealing Directive 94/62/EC – Four-column table Annexes II, V and XII

* ST 5043 2024 INIT – Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on packaging and packaging waste, amending Regulation (EU) 2019/1020 and Directive (EU) 2019/904, and repealing Directive 94/62/EC – Four-column table

* ST 5147 2024 INIT – Regulation establishing a framework for setting ecodesign requirements for sustainable products and repealing Directive 2009/125/EC – Letter to the Chair of the European Parliament ENVI Committee

EFSA BRIEFS

* Guidance for the assessment of detoxification processes in feed

Please note that there may be a delay of several hours in the availability of these content tables that indicate the current topics we are covering.

To receive real-time monitoring emails, subscribe to our annual target group full-text services on the Insight EU Store page:

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.12.6 noptimize

/noptimizehttps://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566632081[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566632081] https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566632081[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Environment-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566632081] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.12.6

If you need tailored regulatory monitoring services that focus on specific policy areas, institutions, or topics, please contact Insight EU without hesitation at sales@ieu-monitoring.com[mailto:sales@ieu-monitoring.com] or follow one of the links below:

* Insight EU Premium (complete daily portal posts – except Insight EU Monitoring mails):

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Specialized Insight EU Monitoring mails – subscriptions:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Tailored and targeted Insight EU Monitoring offers: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

* FAQs[https://ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information

* Free basic Insight EU Monitoring Digest and weekly Insight EU Agenda:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-10-january-2024/425466/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Market risk: The EBA revises reporting requirements[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/market-risk-the-eba-revises-reporting-requirements/425491/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 12:58 am

11 January 2024

The European Banking Authority (EBA) published today amendments to the reporting requirements for market risk. As the implementation of the Fundamental Review of the Trading Book (FRTB) in the EU approaches, the EBA revised the information to be reported on the own funds requirements under the alternative approaches, and adds reporting on reclassifications of instrument between the regulatory books.

The amending technical standards complement the high-level information on the alternative standardised approach (ASA) that has been reported since 2021 with details on the instruments and positions in scope of the ASA, as well as a summary and detailed information on the instruments and positions in scope of the alternative internal model approach (AIMA).

The amending technical standards also introduce a simple template capturing information on the reclassification of instruments between the banking and trading books of an institution.

The revised reporting requirements, excluding the reporting on reclassifications, are expected to apply, for the first time, for the reporting as of the reference date of 31 March 2025.

Legal basis and background

The reporting requirements were developed on the basis of Article 430 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (‘Capital requirements regulation’, CRR) and reflect the upcoming amendments to the CRR introduced by the CRR3. Against the background of the CRR3, the amending ITS transfer the reporting requirements currently included in Regulation (EU) 2021/451 (‘ITS on specific reporting requirements for market risk’) into Regulation (EU) 2021/453 (‘ITS on Supervisory Reporting’).

The updated data point model, validation rules and XBRL taxonomy accompanying the legal text will be published as part of release v3.5 of the EBA reporting framework.

Documents

* Draft amending ITS on reporting requirements for market risk (FRTB reporting): Download[https://www.eba.europa.eu/sites/default/files/2024-01/3b524236-7899-4b45-9561-4f565d9f5872/Final%20Report%20on%20amending%20ITS%20on%20reporting%20requirements%20for%20market%20risk%20%28FRTB%20reporting%29.pdf]

* Annex I – TBT and MOV template [XLSX]: Download[https://www.eba.europa.eu/sites/default/files/2024-01/b5004791-d7cf-43ac-982a-2d708275cc86/Annex%201%20to%20EBA-ITS-2024-02%20%28Annex%20I%2C%20TBT%20and%20MOV%20template%29.xlsx]

* Annex II – TBT and MOV instructions: Download[https://www.eba.europa.eu/sites/default/files/2024-01/cceff5a4-155b-4d8d-9485-27df743ba952/Annex%202%20to%20EBA-ITS-2024-02%20%28Annex%20II%2C%20TBT%20and%20MOV%20instructions%29.docx]

* Annex III – ASA-AIMA templates [XLSX]: Download[https://www.eba.europa.eu/sites/default/files/2024-01/6a6c019f-6f77-4012-b804-d6279da2fc0f/Annex%203%20to%20EBA-ITS-2024-02%20%28Annex%20III%2C%20ASA-AIMA%20templates%29.xlsx]

* Annex IV – ASA-AIMA instructions: Download[https://www.eba.europa.eu/sites/default/files/2024-01/6d090b44-469f-4c59-a7f0-28c2604dc0ed/Annex%204%20to%20EBA-ITS-2024-02%20%28Annex%20IV%2C%20ASA-AIMA%20instructions%29.docx]

* Annex V – Correlation table: Download[https://www.eba.europa.eu/sites/default/files/2024-01/f18628e4-2a41-4e94-beae-2f0c25b06184/Annex%205%20to%20EBA-ITS-2024-02%20%28Correlation%20table%29.docx]

* Annex VI – MOV example: Download[https://www.eba.europa.eu/sites/default/files/2024-01/83bf3c7a-b1a0-4064-9eef-612548a8168b/Annex%206%20to%20EBA-ITS-2024-02%20%28MOV%20example%29.xlsx]

* Annex VII – OG-scope example: Download[https://www.eba.europa.eu/sites/default/files/2024-01/dcc3f0cb-8e5a-4943-a5e2-4bb23cb3a08e/Annex%207%20to%20EBA-ITS-2024-02%20%28OG-scope%20example%29.pdf]

* Annexes I to IV in tracked changes: Download[https://www.eba.europa.eu/sites/default/files/2024-01/2f823bdf-731c-4421-bcbf-7c26d6e99ce4/Annexes%201%20to%204%20to%20EBA-ITS-2024-002%20in%20tracked%20changes.zip]

Regulatory activityAdopted and published in the Official Journal of the EU

Implementing Technical Standards on specific reporting requirements for market risk[https://www.eba.europa.eu/activities/single-rulebook/regulatory-activities/supervisory-reporting/implementing-technical-2?version=2023#activity-versions]

Topic

Supervisory reporting [https://www.eba.europa.eu/regulation-and-policy/supervisory-reporting]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/market-risk-the-eba-revises-reporting-requirements/425491/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Climate Monitoring 10 January 2024[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-10-january-2024/425465/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 12:34 am

G20

* Efforts from the world’s largest economies are urgent to mitigate climate change

CLIMATE IMPACT

* PIK: More rain, fewer droughts – rainfall effects from targeted forestation can reduce climate change

Please note that there may be a delay of several hours in the availability of these content tables that indicate the current topics we are covering.

To receive real-time monitoring emails, subscribe to our annual target group full-text services on the Insight EU Store page:

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.12.6 noptimize/noptimizehttps://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566579964[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566579964] https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566579964[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Climate-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566579964] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.12.6

If you need tailored regulatory monitoring services that focus on specific policy areas, institutions, or topics, please contact Insight EU without hesitation at sales@ieu-monitoring.com[mailto:sales@ieu-monitoring.com] or follow one of the links below:

* Insight EU Premium (complete daily portal posts – except Insight EU Monitoring mails):

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Specialized Insight EU Monitoring mails – subscriptions:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Tailored and targeted Insight EU Monitoring offers: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

* FAQs[https://ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information

* Free basic Insight EU Monitoring Digest and weekly Insight EU Agenda:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-10-january-2024/425465/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Energy Monitoring 10 January 2024[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-10-january-2024/425464/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 12, 2024 12:31 am

ENERGY SECURITY

* Keynote speech by Commissioner Breton – “A Europe that protects its citizens, transforms its economy, and projects itself as a global power” at the European Policy Centre

CLEAN ENERGY RESOURCES

* WTO: High demand for energy-related critical minerals creates supply chain pressures

ENERGY REGULATION

* ACER unveils outcomes from its roundtable meetings on REMIT data reporting

UKRAINE

* Ukrhydroenergo prepares claims against the Russian Federation

ENERGY MERGERS

* EU Commission clears creation of joint venture by VERBUND and Burgenland Energie

HYDROGEN

* The EU Commission and the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Climate Action are announcing a new milestone in boosting sustainable and clean energy funding for the hydrogen ramp-up across Europe

* Latest hydrogen industries’ headlines

* Hydrogen Europe: EET Hydrogen’s plans for UK H2 production facility approved

* Hydrogen Europe: Bosch to launch H2 engine for trucks and construction vehicles

* Bosch Bets on Hydrogen for EV Trucking Future

* Bosch Launching Hydrogen Combustion Engine

* Rheinbahn Düsseldorf orders 10 Solaris hydrogen buses

* Hyundai Motor CES exhibits envision transition to hydrogen energy, SDV solutions

* Hyundai Motor exhibition at CES 2024 envisions transition to hydrogen energy and software–defined mobility solutions

* UK’s largest green hydrogen facility get nod from local authorities

* Global Energy Perspective 2023: Hydrogen outlook

* Initiative to develop hydrogen aviation in the Baltic Sea region

* Hydrogen Energy Back in the Vehicle Conversation at CES

* Japan To Test Data Center Powered By Reused Hydrogen Fuel Cells

* Green Hydrogen Can Enable Energy Transition In India’s Net-Zero Journey: WEF Report

* Yanmar Technology Initiates Hydrogen Fueled 4 Stroke Engine Development

* Hydrogen Energy Back in the Vehicle Conversation at CES 2024

* World’s first hydrogen-electric boat powered by PCBFC wraps up real-world testing

* Notice: Hydrogen Allocation Round 2

* ScottishPower and ZeroAvia form green hydrogen partnership

* UK Hydrogen Projects Celebrated in Brand New Map Launched by Leading Industry Trade Association

* Major new global hydrogen thrust brightens spotlight on platinum group metals

* The future of motorcycles could be hydrogen

* India targets 5 MMTPA green hydrogen to curb USD 185 bn energy import bill

* India to cut green hydrogen costs, seeks private sector support: Amitabh Kant

EU COUNCIL REGISTER

* CM 1076 2024 INIT – Informal videoconference of the members of the Working Party on Atomic Questions

* ST 16891 2023 INIT – Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION amending Regulation (EU) 2022/2577 laying down a framework to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy – Political agreement

* ST 16891 2023 COR 1 – Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION amending Regulation (EU) 2022/2577 laying down a framework to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy – Political agreement – Decision to use the written procedure for the adoption

* ST 16184 2023 INIT Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION amending Regulation (EU) 2022/2577 laying down a framework to accelerate the deployment of renewable energy – Political agreement

* ST 16468 2023 INIT – Any other business Urgency of implementation of the Renewables Directive and the Energy Efficiency Directive – Information from the Commission

Please note that there may be a delay of several hours in the availability of these content tables that indicate the current topics we are covering.

To receive real-time monitoring emails, subscribe to our annual target group full-text services on the Insight EU Store page:

Ecwid shopping cart plugin v 6.12.6 noptimize/noptimizehttps://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566727506[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566727506] https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566727506[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/Insight-EU-Energy-Daily---Annual-Subscription-p566727506] noptimize

/noptimize

END Ecwid Shopping Cart v 6.12.6

If you need tailored regulatory monitoring services that focus on specific policy areas, institutions, or topics, please contact Insight EU without hesitation at sales@ieu-monitoring.com[mailto:sales@ieu-monitoring.com] or follow one of the links below:

* Insight EU Premium (complete daily portal posts – except Insight EU Monitoring mails):

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe[https://ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]

* Specialized Insight EU Monitoring mails – subscriptions:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

* Tailored and targeted Insight EU Monitoring offers: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/order-form[https://ieu-monitoring.com/order-form]

* FAQs[https://ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information

* Free basic Insight EU Monitoring Digest and weekly Insight EU Agenda:

portal.ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda[https://ieu-monitoring.com/free-digest-and-agenda]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-10-january-2024/425464/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Data economy: European Data Act enters into force[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/data-economy-european-data-act-enters-into-force/425482/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 11, 2024 11:33 pm

Brussels, 11 January 2024

Today, the European Data Act enters into force. The new rules define the rights to access and use data generated in the EU across all economic sectors and will make it easier to share data, in particular industrial data.

The Data Act will ensure fairness in the digital environment by clarifying who can create value from data and under which conditions. It will also stimulate a competitive and innovative data market by unlocking industrial data, and by providing legal clarity as regards the use of data.

Margrethe Vestager, Executive Vice-President for a Europe fit for the Digital Age, said:

Today marks a key milestone in our digital transformation journey. Through well-defined legislation on data, we put the user in control of sharing data generated by their connected devices, while ensuring the protection of trade secrets and safeguarding the European fundamental right to privacy.

Thierry Breton, Commissioner for Internal Market, said:

The entry into force of the Data Act is a key milestone in our efforts to shape the digital space. It will foster a thriving EU data economy that is innovative and open – on our conditions. European citizens and businesses will benefit from the wealth of industrial data that becomes available, triggering new data-driven applications, notably in the field of artificial intelligence.

Measures to boost the EU’s data economy

In recent years, there has been a rapid growth of connected devices in the European market. The use of connected objects (or the Internet of Things) generates increasing amounts of data. This represents a huge potential for innovation and competitiveness in the EU.

The new rules enable users of connected products to access the data generated by these devices, and to share such data with third parties. For example, the owner of a connected car or the operator of a wind turbine will be able to request the manufacturer to share certain data generated by the use of these connected products with a repair service of the owner’s choice. This will give more control to consumers and to other users of connected products and it will boost aftermarket services and innovation. Incentives for manufacturers to invest in data-generating products and services will be preserved, and their trade secrets will remain protected.

Public sector bodies will be able to access and use data held by the private sector to help respond to public emergencies such as floods and wildfires, or when implementing a legal mandate where the required data is not readily available through other means.

The Data Act also protects European businesses from unfair contractual terms in data sharing contracts that one contracting party unilaterally imposes on the other. This will enable small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), in particular, to participate more actively in the data market.

Furthermore, the Data Act will allow customers to switch seamlessly (and eventually free of charge) between different cloud providers. These measures will promote competition and choice on the market while preventing vendor lock-in. For instance, any European enterprise could combine data services from different cloud providers (“multi-cloud”) and benefit from the vast opportunities in the EU cloud market. It will also drastically reduce costs for businesses and administrations when they move their data and applications to a different cloud provider.

The Data Act also includes safeguards against unlawful requests by third-country authorities to transfer or access non-personal data held in the EU, ensuring a more reliable and secure data-processing environment.

Finally, the Data Act introduces measures to promote the development of interoperability standards for data-sharing and for data processing services, in line with the EU standardisation strategy[https://ec.europa.eu/docsroom/documents/48598].

Next steps

Following its entry into force, the Data Act will become applicable in 20 months, i.e. 11 September 2025.

Background

On 23 February 2022, the Commission proposed[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_1113] the European Data Act to ensure fairness in the digital world and foster innovation. A political agreement[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_3491] was reached by the European Parliament and the Council on 28 June 2023. The Data Act is a key milestone of the Commission’s data strategy[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_20_273], which is an important enabler for meeting the 2030 Digital decade objectives[https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/priorities-2019-2024/europe-fit-digital-age/europes-digital-decade-digital-targets-2030_en].

The Data Act complements the Data Governance Act[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/news/european-strategy-data-data-governance-act-becomes-applicable#:~:text=The%20Data%20Governance%20Act%20entered,increasing%20trust%20in%20data%20sharing.], which became applicable in September 2023 and creates the processes and structures to facilitate data sharing by companies, individuals and the public sector. The Data Governance Act will also establish Common European data spaces[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/policies/data-spaces#:~:text=A%20common%20European%20data%20space,added%20at%20a%20later%20stage.] to make more data available for use in the economy and society, while keeping the companies and individuals who generate the data in control.

More Information

* EU Official Journal Text[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32023R2854&qid=1704709568425]

* Data Act[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/policies/data-act]

* Data Act – Questions & Answers[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/qanda_22_1114]

* Data Act – Factsheet[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/news-redirect/736381]

* Factpage on the European Data strategy[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/europe-fit-digital-age/european-data-strategy_en]

* Data Governance Act[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52020PC0767]

Related topics

* Electronic communications and Privacy[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/related-content?topic=110] Digital Privacy[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/related-content?topic=156] Big data[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/related-content?topic=70] Data[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/related-content?topic=69] Advanced and Cloud Computing[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/related-content?topic=50] Open data[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/related-content?topic=74] Internet of Things[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/related-content?topic=125] Artificial intelligence[https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/related-content?topic=119]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/data-economy-european-data-act-enters-into-force/425482/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

MiFID II pre-trade controls: ESMA and NCAs to coordinate supervisory activities[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/mifid-ii-pre-trade-controls-esma-and-ncas-to-coordinate-supervisory-activities/425480/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 11, 2024 11:08 pm

11 January 2024

The European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), the EU’s financial markets regulator and supervisor, has launched a Common Supervisory Action (CSA) with National Competent Authorities (NCAs), with the objective of assessing the implementation of pre-trade controls (PTCs) by EU investment firms using algorithmic trading techniques.

PTCs are used by investment firms to carry out checks at order entry to limit and prevent sending erroneous orders for execution to trading venues. Following the May 2022 flash crash, ESMA and NCAs have focussed their attention on the implementation of PTCs in the EU, gathering evidence through questionnaires submitted to a sample of EU investment firms. As a follow up, ESMA and NCAs have decided to launch a CSA with the goal of gathering further and more detailed insights on how firms are using PTCs across the EU.

The CSA will cover the following aspects:

* Implementation of PTCs, including their calibration methodology and the use of hard and soft blocks in the design of PTCs;

* Establishment of credit and risk limits and their interaction with PTCs;

* Monitoring and governance framework related to PTCs;

* Implementation and monitoring of PTCs in case of outsourcing of trading activity to third countries.

This initiative and the related sharing of practices across NCAs aim at ensuring consistent application of EU rules, helping to promote stable and orderly markets in line with ESMA’s objectives. The rules governing the use of PTCs are set out in MiFID II and more specifically in CDR 2017/589 (RTS 6) which specifies the organisational requirements of investment firms engaged in algorithmic trading.

Next Steps

ESMA and NCAs will carry out the CSA in the course of 2024.

Source – ESMA[https://www.esma.europa.eu/press-news/esma-news/esma-and-ncas-coordinate-supervisory-activities-mifid-ii-pre-trade-controls]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/mifid-ii-pre-trade-controls-esma-and-ncas-to-coordinate-supervisory-activities/425480/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Stateless person of Palestinian origin: EU Advocate General’s Opinion in Case C-563/22[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-court-of-justice-advocate-generals-opinion-in-case-c-563-22-stateless-person-of-palestinian-origin/425477/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 11, 2024 03:10 pm

Luxembourg, 11 January 2024

Advocate General Emiliou: Palestinian applicants for refugee status can claim that UNRWA’s protection has ‘ceased’ in the light of the general living conditions prevailing in the Gaza Strip.

—

Applicants must not be obliged to show that they are specifically targeted or affected by those conditions due to their personal circumstances.

SN and LN are two stateless persons of Palestinian origin, who used to live in the Gaza Strip. They are registered with the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA). In August 2022, they sought asylum for the second time in Bulgaria, after the Bulgarian authorities rejected their first applications for international protection.

Under the EU Status Directive1, stateless persons of Palestinian origin registered with UNRWA are excluded from obtaining refugee status. However, that exclusion no longer applies if UNWRA’s protection or assistance has ‘ceased’. The Sofia Administrative Court (Bulgaria) referred a series of questions concerning the interpretation of the Status Directive to the Court of Justice.

In today’s Opinion, Advocate General Nicholas Emiliou recalls that the Court has found that the cessation of UNRWA’s protection or assistance happens not only if that agency ceases to exist, but also if the person concerned has been forced to leave UNRWA’s area of operation for reasons unconnected with his or her will2. In their assessment, competent national authorities must consider not only the reasons that led the applicants to leave UNRWA’s area of operation, but also whether it is currently possible for them to return there.

For people living in the Gaza Strip – where the level of insecurity and the living conditions have been changing rapidly, especially since the events taking place there since 7 October 2023 – that means that precise and up-to-date information as to the general situation currently prevailing in that area must be taken into account.

It cannot be excluded that part of UNRWA’s area of operation (in this case, the Gaza Strip) may experience systemic deficiencies of such gravity that there is a substantial risk that any person sent back there would find himself or herself in a situation where he or she is unable to meet his or her most basic needs such as access to food, personal hygiene and a place to live and which undermines his or her physical or mental health or puts him or her in a state of degradation incompatible with human dignity contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.

In such a situation, evidence of such general living conditions suffices. Applicants cannot be required to demonstrate that those general conditions are ‘undignified’ for them, in an individualised manner, for example, because of their particular vulnerability. Nor that they are specifically affected by those conditions due to factors particular to their personal circumstances, such as for example, the fact that their house is located in a street regularly targeted by missiles (as seems to be the case of SN and LN). However, Advocate General Emiliou notes that the right to refugee status is not unconditional even in such a situation. The person concerned must always apply for international protection. Furthermore, an individual assessment is still required to verify, among other things, whether the individual is not excluded from being a refugee under the EU Status Directive3.

Advocate General Emiliou also examines the situation when a stateless person of Palestinian origin applies for refugee status for the second time but relies, for the first time, in that application, on the specific regime in the EU Status Directive available to Palestinians registered with UNRWA, as opposed to the general criteria that applies to other asylum-seekers. In such cases, those authorities are obliged to reassess the factual elements relating to the reasons why the person concerned has left the area of operation of UNRWA, in the light of the requirements specified in that provision. This assessment must take place even where those elements were already considered in the first rejected application.

NOTE: The Advocate General’s Opinion is not binding on the Court of Justice. It is the role of the Advocates General to propose to the Court, in complete independence, a legal solution to the cases for which they are responsible. The Judges of the Court are now beginning their deliberations in this case. Judgment will be given at a later date.

NOTE: A reference for a preliminary ruling allows the courts and tribunals of the Member States, in disputes which have been brought before them, to refer questions to the Court of Justice about the interpretation of European Union law or the validity of a European Union act. The Court of Justice does not decide the dispute itself. It is for the national court or tribunal to dispose of the case in accordance with the Court’s decision, which is similarly binding on other national courts or tribunals before which a similar issue is raised.

1 Directive 2011/95/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on standards for the qualification of third country nationals or stateless persons as beneficiaries of international protection, for a uniform status for refugees or for persons eligible for subsidiary protection, and for the content of the protection granted.

2 Judgment of 5 October 2023, C-294/22, Refugee Status of a Palestinian stateless person.

3 Examples of situations that would exclude an applicant from refugee status would be where the applicant has committed a crime against peace, war crime, or a crime against humanity; or where the applicant has committed a serious non-political crime outside the country of refuge.

Source – EU Court of Justice – Email

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-court-of-justice-advocate-generals-opinion-in-case-c-563-22-stateless-person-of-palestinian-origin/425477/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

An EU Disability Card to support persons with disabilities’ right to free movement[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/an-eu-disability-card-to-support-persons-with-disabilities-right-to-free-movement/425474/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 11, 2024 02:50 pm

Brussels, 11 January 2024

The new rules would make it easier for persons with disabilities to travel in the EU by ensuring access to special conditions, including parking, in all member states.

The proposed directive introduces an EU-wide Disability Card and revamps the European Parking Card for persons with disabilities to make sure that, when travelling for a short period, they have access to the same special conditions as those residing in that member state, including access to parking. Persons with disabilities regularly encounter barriers when travelling or visiting another member state as their disability status is not always recognised across the EU.

Both cards will be for EU citizens whose disability status and rights are recognised by the member state they reside in, their family members, and those accompanying or assisting them. To ensure third country nationals who reside in the EU are covered, the Commission put forward a complementary proposal[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52023PC0698].

The Employment and Social Affairs Committee unanimously adopted its position on the proposed law[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A52023PC0512] by 39 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions.

Free of charge, format, and deadlines

MEPs propose that the disability card should be issued or renewed within 60 days of someone applying for it and the parking card within 30 days. They also introduce the option of requesting a digital version of the parking card, to be ready in 15 days.

Both cards would be available in physical and digital format and free of charge, MEPs propose. They also want the rules and conditions to apply for the card to be available in accessible formats, also in national and international sign languages and braille, and in easily understandable language.

Recognition of disability status for work, study, and Erasmus+

To ensure access to benefits and social assistance for those working or studying in another member state, MEPs amended the proposal to temporarily protect European Disability Card holders that move to another member state for work or study, until their status is formally recognised, including those travelling for an EU mobility programme, such as Erasmus+.

Access to information

MEPs call on member states and the Commission to raise awareness about the European Disability Card and the European Parking Card for persons with disabilities, including by setting up a website with information on how to obtain, use and renew the cards in all EU languages and national and international sign language.

Quote

Lucia Ďuriš Nicholsonová[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/197766/LUCIA_DURIS+NICHOLSONOVA/home] (Renew, SK), rapporteur, said: “With the adoption of this crucial piece of legislation, persons with disabilities are a step closer to having freedom of movement within the EU. We are on track to finalise the new law in just a few months, which shows our will to deliver for persons with disabilities who have waited many years for this legislation. The directive was endorsed by all political parties and we will do our utmost to move swiftly in the upcoming negotiations with the Council, so people can benefit from the cards as soon as possible.”

Next steps

Once the draft position is endorsed by the full house during the January plenary session, negotiations with the Council on the final form of the law can begin. Member states already agreed on their position[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2023/11/27/european-disability-card-travelling-across-the-eu-to-become-easier-for-persons-with-disabilities/].

Source – EU Parliament[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20240108IPR16647/eu-disability-card-to-support-persons-with-disabilities-right-to-free-movement]

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/an-eu-disability-card-to-support-persons-with-disabilities-right-to-free-movement/425474/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Court of Justice: Advocate General’s Opinions in Cases C-808/21 and C-814/21[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-court-of-justice-advocate-generals-opinions-in-cases-c-808-21-and-c-814-21/425472/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Jan 11, 2024 02:41 pm

Luxembourg, 11 January 2024

PRESS RELEASE No 3/24

Advocate General Richard de la Tour: by refusing to grant the right to become members of a political party to Union citizens who are not nationals of Poland or of the Czech Republic but who reside there, those Member States infringed EU electoral law.

The laws in force in Poland and the Czech Republic grant the right to become a member of a political party solely to nationals. Consequently, according to the European Commission, Union citizens who reside in those Member States but are not nationals (‘mobile’ Union citizens) cannot exercise their right to stand as a candidate in municipal and EU elections under the same conditions as Polish and Czech nationals. Claiming that that situation results in discrimination on grounds of nationality, which is incompatible with Article 22 TFEU, the Commission brought two actions for failure to fulfil obligations before the Court of Justice, against Poland and the Czech Republic respectively.

Advocate General Jean Richard de la Tour proposes that the Court rule that those actions are well founded. According to him, while membership of a political party falls within the competence of the Member States, they must, when exercising that competence, comply with the obligations deriving from EU law. It follows from this that every ‘mobile’ Union citizen must be able to exercise his or her right to stand as a candidate in municipal and EU elections under the same conditions as nationals.

In that regard, in view of the central and fundamental role of political parties in Member States’ electoral systems as well as for participating in democratic life, Advocate General Richard de la Tour considers that a ‘mobile’ Union citizen who cannot stand as a member of a political party is placed a position which reduces his or her prospects of being elected in municipal or EU elections as compared to nationals. In that context, the Advocate General points out that nationals have an option open to them when standing in those elections, that is to say, they can stand as members of a political party or as independents, whereas ‘mobile’ Union citizens have only the second pathway available to them.

As regards the possible justification of that discrimination, the Advocate General considers that ‘mobile’ Union citizens’ membership of a political party, with a view to guaranteeing the effectiveness of their right to stand as candidates in municipal and EU elections, is not such as to undermine the national identity of Poland or of the Czech Republic.

NOTE: The Advocate General’s Opinion is not binding on the Court of Justice. It is the role of the Advocates General to propose to the Court, in complete independence, a legal solution to the cases for which they are responsible. The Judges of the Court are now beginning their deliberations in this case. Judgment will be given at a later date.

NOTE: An action for failure to fulfil obligations directed against a Member State which has failed to comply with its obligations under European Union law may be brought by the Commission or by another Member State. If the Court of Justice finds that there has been a failure to fulfil obligations, the Member State concerned must comply with the Court’s judgment without delay.

Where the Commission considers that the Member State has not complied with the judgment, it may bring a further action seeking financial penalties. However, if measures transposing a directive have not been notified to the Commission, the Court of Justice can, on a proposal from the Commission, impose penalties at the stage of the initial judgment.

Source – EU Court of Justice – Email

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-court-of-justice-advocate-generals-opinions-in-cases-c-808-21-and-c-814-21/425472/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

You are receiving this e-mail because you have signed up for the premium version of our Insight EU Monitoring Digest.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any problems in receiving or opening this mail, or if you are interested in other services we offer.

You find more information about us on our FAQ page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] and on our subscription page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]. Or simply contact our publisher[mailto:j.weidemann@ieu-monitoring.com?subject=Letter%20to%20the%20publisher].

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020240112ek1c00002


Sanna Marin Is Still Dancing
Elle, 2024 年 2 月 1 日 05:00 GMT, 3393 字, (英文)
The former prime minister of Finland changed the image of who a politician can be.Shirt, Brunello Cucinelli, $1,995. Pants, Lafayette 148 New York, $898. Necklace, $3,250, ring, $1,890, Cartier.

Finland Eyes Tougher Legislation To Boost Borders And National Security
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 2024 年 2 月 19 日 19:17 GMT, 5756 字, (英文)

Politics
Information from STT: Yandex's ex-CEO is getting out of Russia sanctions*** TRANSLATED ***
Mikko Gustafsson
639 字
2024 年 2 月 21 日
STT
STTEN
英文
Copyright 2024. STT, for more information see https://stt.fi[https://stt.fi]
EU countries are trying to hit Russian aircraft purchases with new sanctions.

According to STT's information, Arkadi Volozh, one of the founding members and former CEO of the search engine and technology company Yandex, is getting out of the Russian sanctions. The Yandex group also includes Yango, a taxi service operating in Finland.

EU countries reached an agreement on new sanctions against Russia on Wednesday. According to STT's information, Volozh's release from the scope of sanctions is related to the periodic review of old sanctions, in which the assessment of the legal service of the Council of the EU weighed in.

With the sanctions agreed on Wednesday, the EU countries want to strike, for example, the network that secures Russian aircraft purchases. According to diplomatic sources from different countries, the purpose is to attack Russian warplanes by, among other things, making it difficult to obtain parts for drones.

The other EU countries would have been ready to agree on new sanctions already last week, but Hungary was not ready for that. It is known that the country has long wanted, for example, certain oligarchs out of the scope of sanctions, but according to diplomatic sources, these removals are not being carried out now.

Did Volozh change his behavior?

Russian Volozh, 60, was initially included in the scope of the EU's Russia sanctions in June 2022. According to previous sanctions justifications, he worked in an industry that is a significant source of income for the Russian government.

- Yandex is also responsible for promoting state media and narratives in its search results, and for ranking and removing content critical of the Russian government, such as content related to Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine.

The reasons for the sanctions are from June 2022. Since then, Volozh has resigned as CEO of Yandex, and the group's parent company currently operates in the Netherlands. Yandex has announced that it will withdraw from the Russian market.

According to STT's information, the Legal Service of the Council of the EU has considered, among other things, whether Volozh should be considered to have changed his behavior that led to the sanctions. The legal service evaluates, among other things, whether the sanction solution can be credibly defended in court if necessary.

The lists are getting longer

As a result of the sanctions against Volozh, assets related to Yandex have been frozen in Finland as well. The Yandex Group has not been placed under sanctions, but the Finnish authorities have in their previous decisions considered Volozh to exercise control over Yandex and its subsidiaries.

Because of Volozh, sanctions have also been applied to Yandex Group. The enforcement agency has frozen Yandex's patents registered in Finland, among other things.

Global DC, the Finnish subsidiary of Yandex Group, has a data center in Mäntsälä in Uusimaa, among other things. According to information previously reported by Helsingin Sanomat, its shares are also frozen.

According to STT's information, as a result of the 13th Russia sanctions package decided on Wednesday, 27 new entities are joining the list leading to a trade ban in the EU region, 10 of which are from outside the EU. Among other things, Chinese companies are involved.

After the new package, there are already about 650 parties on that list.

The intention was to add the names of more than 190 operators to the second banned list. Ending up there means, among other things, a travel ban and freezing of assets. After the additions, there are already more than 2,100 operators on the list.

The new sanctions are due to be formalized by the anniversary of Russia's expanded war of aggression in Ukraine.

*** DISCLAIMER: THIS IS AN AUTOMATED TRANSLATION FROM FINNISH ***

Oy Suomen Tietotoimisto

文件 STTEN00020240221ek2l00a15


Politics
Finnish Customs investigates over 700 violations of anti-Russian sanction
Kateryna Shkarlat
321 字
2024 年 2 月 22 日 05:00 GMT
RBC-Ukraine
RBCUK
英文
© 2024. LLC «UBT MEDIA». All rights reserved
The Finnish Customs has initiated over 740 preliminary investigations in the last two years related to violations of anti-Russian sanctions, informs Yle.

The Customs press service has reported that Finland's control over compliance with sanctions has yielded results. A total of 29,000 violations in the transportation of goods were identified, 2,800 targeted inspections were conducted, and 740 preliminary investigations were initiated.

Sami Rakshit, the Director of the Customs Control Department, stated that sanctions continue to evolve to close loopholes for bypassing restrictions.

"Within customs supervision, we have identified several attempts to circumvent sanctions, such as the use of forged customs documents or attempts to conceal the ownership structure of companies and the real destinations of goods," Rakshit explained.

According to him, after the border closure, trade between the two countries shifted to the railway checkpoint Vainikkala and the ports of southern Finland. He also noted that customs officials will pay special attention to attempts to circumvent sanctions on these routes.

Closing of Finland's borders with Russia

To recap, on November 30, 2023, Finland decided to close all border crossings on the border with Russia due to an influx of illegal migrants from the Russian side.

In mid-December, the Finnish government resumed the operation of two border checkpoints. However, due to a new wave of migrants, the border had to be closed again.

It's worth noting that the Prime Minister of Finland, Petteri Orpo, rejected the possibility of reopening the border with Russia. According to him, the issue with illegal migrants has not been resolved.

Recently, the Finnish government decided to extend the closure of the border with Russia for another two months. Thus, the border checkpoints will remain closed at least until April 14.

Photo: Finland investigates more than 700 cases of circumvention of sanctions against the Russian Federation (pixabay.com)[https://newsukraine.rbc.ua/static/img/p/i/pixabay_com_559af12854cffcac94c942ae5b308eaa_1300x820_c579a7976f353328f210791ac3a27928_1300x820.jpg]

RBC-Ukraine LLC

文件 RBCUK00020240222ek2m00001


Insight EU Monitoring - Free Basic Digest
2046 字
2024 年 2 月 28 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2024. Comecon Media GmbH
A brief overview of today's most important posts on our Insight EU portal

DAILY DIGEST

BASIC

www.ieu-monitoring.com[http://www.ieu-monitoring.com]

* UN Syria envoy appeals for urgent de-escalation across the Middle East

* The UK and US sanction Houthi enablers

* 55th session of the UN Statistical Commission – Switzerland elected Chair of the UN Statistical Commission

* Finland agrees on principles guiding 6G development with partner countries

* Maritime safety: EU Council and Parliament strike deals to support clean and modern shipping in the EU

* The King and Queen of the Belgians visit Europol

* Russia: Statement by the EU HR on the conviction of human rights defender Oleg Orlov

* Joint Declaration on Gender Equality: EU gender equality ministers focus on future policy

* EU–China Regional Policy Cooperation: Speech by EU Commissioner Elisa Ferreira

* S&Ds: Palestinian lives matter! We call for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Gaza

* Rural toolkit: EU funding and support for digital infrastructure in rural areas

* Digital cooperation: EU and Canada discuss next steps

* Insight EU Environment Monitoring 26 February 2024

* Insight EU Climate Monitoring 26 February 2024

* Insight EU Energy Monitoring 26 February 2024

* EU provides initial €171m in humanitarian aid for Greater Horn of Africa region

* New global rules to simplify trade in services enter into force in the WTO

* EU Commission recommends that Member States continue saving gas to secure supplies and stabilize markets

* World NGO Day: Statement by the EU HRVP Josep Borrell

UN Syria envoy appeals for urgent de-escalation across the Middle East[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/un-syria-envoy-appeals-for-urgent-de-escalation-across-the-middle-east/429453/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 28, 2024 05:11 am

The Special Envoy also addressed the bleak humanitarian situation in Syria a year after deadly earthquakes that struck the north and neighbouring Türkiye, killing thousands and displacing millions. UN Emergency Relief Coordinator Martin Griffiths, who also briefed the Council, stressed that much more is still needed to address the long-term impact of the earthquakes and the wider humanitarian crisis in Syria, which has only deteriorated over the past 12 months.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/un-syria-envoy-appeals-for-urgent-de-escalation-across-the-middle-east/429453/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

The UK and US sanction Houthi enablers[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/the-uk-and-us-sanction-houthi-enablers/429450/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 28, 2024 04:51 am

Today the UK and US have announced a number of sanctions against those that support, enable or deliver work of the Houthis, the Iran-backed proxy group in Yemen responsible for widespread attacks against commercial shipping in the Red Sea. The UK will today sanction 2 individuals and 3 organisations for their role in providing financial or military support to the Houthis, in order to expose and disrupt their efforts to undermine regional stability across the Middle East. The UK will also sanction a Houthi security minister for threatening the peace, security and stability of Yemen by supporting attacks against shipping in the Red Sea.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/the-uk-and-us-sanction-houthi-enablers/429450/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

55th session of the UN Statistical Commission – Switzerland elected Chair of the UN Statistical Commission[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/55th-session-of-the-un-statistical-commission-switzerland-elected-chair-of-the-un-statistical-commission/429446/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 28, 2024 04:03 am

The 55th session of the United Nations Statistical Commission opened on Monday 27 February 2024 with the election of its Bureau. The Director General of the Federal Statistical Office (FSO), Georges-Simon Ulrich, has been elected Chair for the coming year. Comprising five member countries (Switzerland, Mexico, Tunisia, Slovenia and South Corea), the Bureau moderates the Statistical Commission's discussions and is responsible for reporting the results.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/55th-session-of-the-un-statistical-commission-switzerland-elected-chair-of-the-un-statistical-commission/429446/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Finland agrees on principles guiding 6G development with partner countries[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finland-agrees-on-principles-guiding-6g-development-with-partner-countries/429443/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 28, 2024 03:50 am

Finland has joined the multilateral Joint Statement Endorsing Principles for 6G led by the United States. The joint statement was published at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona on 27 February 2024. The joint statement contains an agreement on common principles that will guide the development of 6G nationally and internationally. By joining the joint statement, Finland will strengthen cooperation with its key strategic partners in future wireless communications networks.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/finland-agrees-on-principles-guiding-6g-development-with-partner-countries/429443/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Maritime safety: EU Council and Parliament strike deals to support clean and modern shipping in the EU[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/maritime-safety-eu-council-and-parliament-strike-deals-to-support-clean-and-modern-shipping-in-the-eu/429435/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 28, 2024 02:53 am

Port state control (PSC) is a system of inspection of foreign ships in ports of states other than the flag state by PSC officers, to verify that the competency of the master, officers and crew on board, the condition of a ship, and its equipment comply with the requirements of international conventions and, in the EU, with applicable EU law. As such, PSC is important in ensuring maritime safety and in protecting the marine environment.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/maritime-safety-eu-council-and-parliament-strike-deals-to-support-clean-and-modern-shipping-in-the-eu/429435/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

The King and Queen of the Belgians visit Europol[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/the-king-and-queen-of-the-belgians-visit-europol/429433/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 28, 2024 02:41 am

Their Majesties the King and Queen of the Belgians have visited Europol today in The Hague, the Netherlands, where they heard about the Agency’s work in helping EU Member States fight serious and organised crime across Europe. Europol’s Executive Director Catherine De Bolle welcomed their Majesties, who were accompanied by the Belgian Minister of the Interior Annelies Verlinden.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/the-king-and-queen-of-the-belgians-visit-europol/429433/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Russia: Statement by the EU HR on the conviction of human rights defender Oleg Orlov[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/russia-statement-by-the-eu-hr-on-the-conviction-of-human-rights-defender-oleg-orlov/429429/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 28, 2024 02:27 am

Orlov had committed no crime or offence, he has exercised his Constitutional right to express his views and voice his opinion about the policies of the government of his country. This sentence goes against the Russian legislation and the Russian Constitution and is clearly politically motivated. We call on the Russian authorities to immediately and unconditionally release all political prisoners and to abandon their oppressive legislation used to suppress civil society and independent voices.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/russia-statement-by-the-eu-hr-on-the-conviction-of-human-rights-defender-oleg-orlov/429429/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Joint Declaration on Gender Equality: EU gender equality ministers focus on future policy[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/joint-declaration-on-gender-equality-eu-gender-equality-ministers-focus-on-future-policy/429422/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 28, 2024 02:11 am

On 27 February 2024, the EU gender equality ministers have met in Brussels to look back at the series of achievements of the current term of the European Parliament and Commission and lay ground for the mandate of the next Parliament and Commission. The Belgian Secretary of State for Gender Equality, Equal Opportunities and Diversity Marie-Colline Leroy, chaired the informal ministerial meeting, held at the Egmont Palace in Brussels in the framework of the Belgian presidency of the Council of the EU.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/joint-declaration-on-gender-equality-eu-gender-equality-ministers-focus-on-future-policy/429422/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU–China Regional Policy Cooperation: Speech by EU Commissioner Elisa Ferreira[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-china-regional-policy-cooperation-speech-by-eu-commissioner-elisa-ferreira/429424/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 28, 2024 01:22 am

"China and Europe both have a long and proud history. With strong regional and local traditions. And a track record of development through cooperation and solid technical expertise. This history has taught us many things. I think of the old proverb: “If you want to go fast, go alone, but if you want to go far, go together” - EU Commissioner Ferreira

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-china-regional-policy-cooperation-speech-by-eu-commissioner-elisa-ferreira/429424/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

S&Ds: Palestinian lives matter! We call for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Gaza[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sds-palestinian-lives-matter-we-call-for-an-immediate-and-unconditional-ceasefire-in-gaza/429420/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 28, 2024 12:59 am

Thanks to the strong pressure by the Socialists and Democrats, the European Parliament has today debated the war in Gaza and the dire situation of civilians on the brink of a humanitarian catastrophe. While Israel is threatening a reckless ground operation at Rafah and the International Court of Justice has ordered Israel to ensure its military does not take actions that violate the Genocide Convention, we call for an immediate and unconditional ceasefire in Gaza and the release of all hostages still in the hands of Hamas.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/sds-palestinian-lives-matter-we-call-for-an-immediate-and-unconditional-ceasefire-in-gaza/429420/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Rural toolkit: EU funding and support for digital infrastructure in rural areas[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/rural-toolkit-eu-funding-and-support-for-digital-infrastructure-in-rural-areas/429412/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 27, 2024 11:46 pm

The Rural Toolkit helps identify and take advantage of EU funding and support initiatives to foster development of digital infrastructure in rural territories. Tailor your search to find the suitable financial instruments, grant or technical assistance.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/rural-toolkit-eu-funding-and-support-for-digital-infrastructure-in-rural-areas/429412/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Digital cooperation: EU and Canada discuss next steps[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/digital-cooperation-the-eu-and-canada-discuss-next-steps/429411/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 27, 2024 11:43 pm

As a follow-up to the virtual meeting between Commissioner for Internal Market Thierry Breton and Canada's Minister of Innovation, Science and Industry François-Philippe Champagne on 1st February, the EU and Canada discussed next steps for increased cooperation in cybersecurity, artificial intelligence (AI), quantum science and semiconductors, public policy related to online platforms, secure international connectivity, and cyber security.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/digital-cooperation-the-eu-and-canada-discuss-next-steps/429411/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Environment Monitoring 26 February 2024[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-26-february-2024/429382/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 27, 2024 11:03 pm

REPROTOXIC SUBSTANCES:Protecting workers against lead and diisocyanates: EU Council signs off on new limit values+++UNEA:Environment: UN and EU presidency share the same priorities+++World unites at UN Environment Assembly to combat ‘triple planetary crisis’+++UN Environment Assembly opens with calls for stronger multilateral action+++Bundesumweltministerin Steffi Lemke vertritt Bundesregierung bei der UNEA-6 in Nairobi+++

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-environment-monitoring-26-february-2024/429382/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Climate Monitoring 26 February 2024[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-26-february-2024/429381/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 27, 2024 10:27 pm

CCS & CCU: Habeck will den Einsatz von CCS ermöglichen: „Ohne CCS können wir unmöglich die Klimaziele erreichen“ +++ BDI zu Eckpunkten einer Carbon-Management-Strategie: Grundsatzentscheidung für CCS/CCU-Technologien ist wichtiger Schritt hin zu Klimaneutralität +++ TRANSPORT EMISSIONS: United Nations adopts landmark global decarbonization strategy in transport by road, rail and inland waterway

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-climate-monitoring-26-february-2024/429381/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Insight EU Energy Monitoring 26 February 2024[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-26-february-2024/429383/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 27, 2024 09:57 pm

ENERGY EFFICIENCY: EU Commission VP Suica delivers a keynote speech via video message for the opening of the European Citizens Panel (ECP) on Energy Efficiency +++ OPEC and Africa exchange views on array of key energy issues +++ 52nd OPEC Meeting of the Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee +++ NUCLEAR ENERGY: Upcoming IAEA Nuclear Energy Summit in Brussels

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/insight-eu-energy-monitoring-26-february-2024/429383/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU provides initial €171m in humanitarian aid for Greater Horn of Africa region[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-provides-initial-e171m-in-humanitarian-aid-for-greater-horn-of-africa-region/429398/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 27, 2024 12:34 pm

People in the Horn of Africa are facing mounting humanitarian needs as the region is plagued by multiple conflicts, climate extremes and economic shocks. Around 65 million are estimated to be in immediate need of assistance. The EU announced today an initial allocation of €171 million in humanitarian aid to the region. This funding is in addition to €72 million already announced for Sudan. Overall, the total initial allocation for humanitarian aid to the Greater Horn of Africa in 2024 is €243 million.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-provides-initial-e171m-in-humanitarian-aid-for-greater-horn-of-africa-region/429398/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

New global rules to simplify trade in services enter into force in the WTO[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/new-global-rules-to-simplify-trade-in-services-enter-into-force-in-the-wto/429396/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 27, 2024 12:27 pm

The set of rules agreed in the Joint Initiative on Services Domestic Regulation will streamline authorisation requirements and ease procedural hurdles faced by businesses around the globe, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. This agreement will help reduce the costs of global services trade by more than €110 billion every year, by ensuring transparency, efficiency and predictability of authorisation and qualification requirements and procedures.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/new-global-rules-to-simplify-trade-in-services-enter-into-force-in-the-wto/429396/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

EU Commission recommends that Member States continue saving gas to secure supplies and stabilize markets[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-recommends-that-member-states-continue-saving-gas-to-secure-supplies-and-stabilize-markets/429394/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 27, 2024 12:25 pm

Gas savings by businesses and citizens across the EU have made an important contribution to tackling the energy crisis, spurred by Russia's invasion of Ukraine two years ago. Collectively, the EU reduced gas demand by 18% between August 2022 and December 2023, saving around 101 billion cubic metres of gas. These efforts go above and beyond the 15% savings target which was agreed under emergency legislation adopted in Summer 2022, and were essential to preserve stable supplies, stabilise energy markets in the EU, and show solidarity with Ukraine.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/eu-commission-recommends-that-member-states-continue-saving-gas-to-secure-supplies-and-stabilize-markets/429394/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

World NGO Day: Statement by the EU HRVP Josep Borrell[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/world-ngo-day-statement-by-the-eu-hrvp-josep-borrell/429391/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Feb 27, 2024 12:20 pm

NGO workers, human rights defenders, and journalists are increasingly threatened and attacked, often with impunity.

The work of civil society is often stigmatised, through “foreign agent” laws or other legislative and administrative measures which hamper legitimate NGO activities. The use of excessive force against peaceful protesters hinders democratic participation. The EU strongly condemns attacks on freedom of association and peaceful assembly.

READ IN BROWSER >>>[https://ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/world-ngo-day-statement-by-the-eu-hrvp-josep-borrell/429391/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

You are receiving this e-mail because you have signed up for the premium version of our Insight EU Monitoring Digest.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any problems in receiving or opening this mail, or if you are interested in other services we offer.

You find more information about us on our FAQ page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] and on our subscription page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/plans/subscribe]. Or simply contact our publisher[mailto:j.weidemann@ieu-monitoring.com?subject=Letter%20to%20the%20publisher].

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020240228ek2s00002


搜索摘要
所有单字	sanction
至少其中一个单字	Russia
不包括这些单字	
这确切的词句	
日期	21/02/2022 至 29/02/2024
资讯来源	所有资讯来源
作者	所有作者
公司	所有公司
新闻主题	所有新闻主题
行业	所有行业
地区	芬兰
语言	英文
搜索结果已找到	220
时间戳记	2024 年 3 月 10 日 14:03 GMT
© 2024 Factiva, Inc. 版权所有。	
 

Translate
