跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
Live updates: Ukraine diplomat urges China to talk to Putin
By The Associated Press
5761 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 04:44 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The latest on the Russia-Ukraine crisis[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-attack-a05e7c4563ac94b963134bba83187d46] :

TOKYO — The Ukrainian ambassador to Japan is urging China to join international efforts to stop the Russian “massacre” in his country amid Beijing’s lack of criticism of Moscow’s actions.

“We would very much welcome that China exercises its connection with Russia and talks to Putin and explains to him that it is inappropriate in the 21st century to do this massacre in Europe,” Ukrainian diplomat Sergiy Korsunsky told a news conference in Tokyo.

China has not criticized Russia over its actions against Ukraine, and has joined in verbal attacks on Washington and its allies.

“I do believe China can play a much more active role to work with Putin in a manner we expect for civilized countries to do,” he said.

Korsunsky also asked support from the United States and its allies to provide anti-missile defense equipment to fight Russian cruise missile attacks. He said Ukraine wants to join NATO and called for its support in resolving the conflict.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Explosions are being heard before dawn in Kyiv as Western leaders scheduled an emergency meeting and Ukraine’s president pleads for international help.

The nature of the explosions was not immediately clear, but the blasts came amid signs that the capital and largest Ukrainian city was increasingly threatened following a day of fighting that left more than 100 Ukrainians dead.

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the government had information that “subversive groups” were encroaching on the city, and U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Kyiv “could well be under siege” in what U.S. officials believe is a brazen attempt by Russian President Vladimir Putin to dismantle the government and replace it with his own regime.

U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin told lawmakers on a phone call that Russian mechanized forces that entered from Belarus were about 20 miles from Kyiv, according to a person familiar with the call

___

BEIJING — China’s Embassy in Ukraine says it is arranging evacuation flights for Chinese citizens. An embassy statement Friday says conditions in Ukraine have “deteriorated sharply” but makes no mention of the Russian invasion.

The embassy gave no details on where the evacuation flights would be leaving from. Nor did it say when the charter flights might happen, saying that scheduling will depend on the “flight safety situation.”

It says travelers should be packed and ready to react quickly once flight schedules are announced. Passengers must have a passport from China, Hong Kong or Macau or a “Taiwan compatriot card.”

The embassy earlier advised Chinese in Ukraine to stay home and to put a Chinese flag on their vehicles if they planned to travel long distances.

___

MANILA, Philippines — The Philippines top diplomat says he will travel to Ukraine’s border with Poland to ensure the safety of Filipinos fleeing from the eastern European country now under attack by Russian forces.

Foreign Secretary Teodoro Locsin Jr. did not specify in his tweet Friday where he is going. Nor did he say how many of the approximately 380 Filipinos in Ukraine are trying to flee amid the Russian invasion.

Locsin expressed gratitude to Poland for agreeing to accept fleeing Filipinos without entry visas.

The Philippines has not condemned Russia’s assault on Ukraine but has called for a peaceful resolution of the conflict. Its outgoing president, Rodrigo Duterte, has been a vocal Asian critic of U.S. security policies and has nurtured close ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin and Chinese leader Xi Jingping.

___

TOKYO — Asian stock prices are higher early Friday after U.S. shares recovered toward the end of a wild trading day Thursday as the world slapped sanctions on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine.

Benchmarks are up in Japan, South Korea, Australia, Hong Kong and Shanghai.

Japan announced additional sanctions on Russia, including freezing the assets of Russian groups, banks and individuals and suspending exports of semiconductors.

Prices for oil and other commodities have risen sharply, raising inflation fears.

Despite uncertainty about the Ukraine crisis, as well as worries about COVID-19, the turnaround on Wall Street seemed to buoy Asian trading.

___

BRUSSELS — European Union leaders are putting on a united front after a six-hour meeting during which they agreed on a second package of economic and financial sanctions on Russia.

The EU Council president accuses Russia of using “fake pretexts and bad excuses” for justifying its invasion of Ukraine and says sanctions will hurt the government,

The legal texts for the sanctions agreed on are expected to be finalized overnight and be submitted for approval to EU foreign affairs ministers Friday.

EU Commission president Ursula von der Leyen says the package includes targeting 70% of the Russian banking market and key state-owned companies.

She says Russia’s energy sector also will be targeted “by making it impossible for Russia to upgrade its refineries.” And there will be a ban on sales of software, semiconductors and airliners to Russia.

___

ADELAIDE, Australia — Australia’s prime minister is accusing China of throwing Russia a lifeline by easing trade restrictions at a time the much of the world is trying to stop the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison was reacting Friday to a report in The South China Morning Post that China had announced it was fully open to Russian wheat imports.

Morrison noted that Australia, the United States, Britain, the European Union and Japan are imposing sanctions on Russia, and said China 's easing of trade restrictions "is simply unacceptable.”

In his words: “You don’t go and throw a lifeline to Russia in the middle of a period when they’re invading another country.”

___

TOKYO — Japan has announced additional sanctions on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine.

Prime Minister Fumio Kishida said Friday that the new measures include freezing the assets of Russian groups, banks and individuals and suspending exports of semiconductors and other sensitive goods to military-linked organizations in Russia.

Kishida says that “Japan must clearly show its position that we will never tolerate any attempt to change the status quo by force.”

Earlier in the week, Japan suspended new issuances and distribution of Russian government bonds in Japan, aiming of reduce funding for Russia’s military. It also banned trade with the two Ukrainian separatist regions.

Japan has long sought to regain control of northern islands Russia seized at the end of World War II and previously had tended to be milder toward Moscow.

___

UNITED NATIONS — The U.N. Security Council will vote Friday on a resolution that would condemn Russia’s military aggression against Ukraine “in the strongest terms.” It also would demand an immediate halt to Russia’s invasion and the withdrawal of all Russian troops.

A senior U.S. official says the Biden administration knows the measure will be vetoed by Russia, but believes it is very important to put the resolution to a vote to underscore Russia’s international isolation.

The official says the council vote will be followed by a resolution voted on quickly in the 193-member U.N. General Assembly where there are no vetoes.

The final draft resolution, obtained Thursday by The Associated Press, would reaffirm the council’s commitment “to the sovereignty, independence, unity, and territorial integrity of Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders.”

The council is scheduled to vote at 3 p.m. EST Friday.

___

WASHINGTON — The White House is expressing outrage at “credible reports” from Ukrainian officials that the staff at the shuttered Chernoybl nuclear plant have been taken hostage by Russian troops.

Press secretary Jen Psaki said Thursday that “we condemn it and we request their release.”

Psaki says the U.S. has no assessment on the state of the plant where radioactivity is still leaking decades after the worst nuclear disaster in history. But she says hostage taking could hamper efforts to maintain the nuclear facility and is “incredibly alarming and greatly concerning.”

Psaki spoke after Alyona Shevtsova, an adviser to the commander of Ukraine’s Ground Forces, wrote on Facebook that the staff at the Chernobyl plant had been “taken hostage” when Russian troops seized the facility.

___

BRUSSELS — An official at France’s presidential office says the aim of French President Emmanuel Macron’s phone call to Russian leader Vladimir Putin was to demand the immediate halt of military operations.

According to the official at the Elysee Palace, Macron called Putin from Brussels on Thursday just before the start of an urgent meeting of European Union leaders focusing on sanctions against Russia.

The official says Macron made the call after consulting with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

The official says Macron reminded Putin “that Russia was facing massive sanctions.” The official spoke anonymously in accordance with the French presidency practice.

According to the Kremlin’s report on the call, Putin and Macron agreed to continue their contacts.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says 137 civilians and military personnel have been killed so far in the Russian invasion of his country.

He calls them “heroes” in a video address released early Friday in which he also says hundreds more have been wounded.

Zelenskyy says that despite Russia’s claim it is attacking only military targets, civilian sites also have been struck. In his words: “They’re killing people and turning peaceful cities into military targets. It’s foul and will never be forgiven.”

The president says all border guards on Zmiinyi island in the Odesa region were killed Thursday. Ukraine’s border guard service earlier in the day reported that the island was taken by the Russians.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s president is ordering a full military mobilization to challenge the Russian invasion.

President Volodymyr Zelenskyy issued a decree Thursday evening saying the mobilization would last 90 days.

He ordered the military’s General Staff to determine the number of those liable for service and reservists as well as the order of the call-up.

Zelensky gave his Cabinet the job of allocating funds to pay for the mobilization.

___

BRUSSELS — European Union leaders pledged Thursday to impose tough economic and financial sanctions on Russia, but there is a lack of consensus within the West over cutting the country off the SWIFT financial payment system.

The Belgium-based cooperative is used by more than 11,000 institutions globally. It shuffles money from bank to bank, and removing Russia from it would likely also have an impact on European economies.

Ukraine has requested the move. While the head of the European Parliament, Roberta Metsola, said EU sanctions need to include the exclusion of Russia from the scheme, many EU leaders remain unconvinced.

Dutch Prime minister Mark Rutte, for instance, said such a decision would also hurt European economies. Rutte said it should be a last-resort measure that could be decided at a later stage.

“A number of countries are hesitant since it has serious consequences for themselves,” he said.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary - Several thousand demonstrators gathered in front of the Russian embassy in Hungary’s capital on Thursday to denounce Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and demand that Hungary’s government cut its close ties with Moscow.

Waving the flags of Ukraine and the European Union, protesters chanted for peace and an end to the Russian attacks, and demanded that Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban pull his country out of its business dealings with Russia.

The demonstration in Budapest was organized by a coalition of six opposition parties that have united to unseat Orban and his ruling Fidesz party in parliamentary elections April 3.

That coalition’s candidate for prime minister, independent conservative Peter Marki-Zay, criticized Orban for his close ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin, and urged the prime minister to “take a clear stand on Hungary’s commitment to the European Union and NATO, our allies.”

___

BRUSSELS — Josep Borrell, the EU’s top diplomat, said he spent his day “reaching out all over the world” to organize a united front against Russia.

Borrell carried his two phones upon arrival at the urgent meeting of EU leaders held on Thursday evening in Brussels.

He said he called more than 20 countries.

“The African Union, (countries in) Latin America, in Southeast Asia, India, Japan, .... a lot,” he said.

Borrell added that the sanctions he prepared with the EU’s executive arm that were agreed by leaders in retaliation to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine will start having effect once adopted by the EU Council during a meeting of foreign affairs ministers scheduled Friday.

The EU said sanctions will cover “the financial sector, the energy and transport sectors, dual-use goods as well as export control and export financing, visa policy, additional listings of Russian individuals and new listing criteria.”

___

PARIS — French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said on Thursday that sanctions that the European allies are discussing to impose on Russia are “massive and aimed at asphyxiating Russia’s economy”.

Measures that will be taken against Russia are “very massive, very strong and I believe they will be very effective,” Le Drian said in an interview with the French broadcaster TF1.

France is working with allies in NATO and at the United Nations on getting an international consensus to isolate Russia following President Vladimir Putin’s decision to invade Ukraine.

___

WASHINGTON — The U.S. State Department has at least temporarily withdrawn its remaining diplomatic presence from Ukraine.

The department says a core group of essential personnel who had relocated from the capital of Kyiv to the western city of Lviv near the Polish border earlier this month will now work from offices in Poland rather than on Ukrainian territory.

Earlier this week, the department had instructed those diplomats to work in Lviv during daylight hours but to spend their nights in Poland.

The department says they were ordered late Wednesday not to make the commute back to Lviv to work beginning Thursday until further notice.

___

VIENNA — The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency says it has been informed by Ukraine that “unidentified armed forces” have taken control of the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, adding that there had been “no casualties or destruction at the industrial site.”

IAEA Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi called for “maximum restraint” to avoid actions that could put Ukraine’s nuclear facilities at risk.

“In line with its mandate, the IAEA is closely monitoring developments in Ukraine with a special focus on the safety and security of its nuclear power plants and other nuclear-related facilities,” he said in a statement.

___

WASHINGTON — U.S. aviation regulators widened the area of eastern Europe and Russia where U.S. airlines and pilots are barred because of the conflict.

In a new directive Thursday, the Federal Aviation Administration prohibited U.S. airlines from flying over any part of Ukraine or Belarus and the western part of Russia.

Earlier restrictions had barred U.S. airlines from flying over the eastern part of Ukraine. The restrictions cover both passenger and cargo flights, but not military ones.

___

MOSCOW — A Russian military plane crashed in the country’s Voronezh region that borders with Ukraine, the Russian military said Thursday night.

The An-26 plane was carrying out a planned flight transporting military equipment and crashed because of technical failure, military officials said, adding that the plane’s entire crew died in the crash.

They didn’t specify how many crew members were on board of the plane.

___

WASHINGTON — U.S. President Joe Biden says the sanctions against Russia for invading Ukraine will not disrupt the global oil and natural gas markets.

Biden says, “Our sanctions package is specifically designed to allow energy payments to continue.”

The president announced a series of sanctions at a White House speech Thursday. The sanctions include restrictions on exports to Russia and sanctions on Russian banks and state-controlled companies.

Biden also says that U.S. oil and gas companies should not exploit the geopolitical risks to hike their prices and raise their profits.

A key concern has been preserving Russian oil and natural gas exports, which are vital sources for Europe and other countries. Financial markets already view the Russian invasion in Ukraine as straining energy supplies with the soon to expire futures contract for Brent crude increasing more than 5% to top $100 a barrel.

___

UNITED NATIONS -- Ukraine’s ambassador to the United Nations has asked the president of the 193-member General Assembly to prepare for an emergency session in the coming days in light of Russia’s military aggression.

Ukraine’s U.N. Ambassador Sergiy Kyslytsya tweeted Thursday that the meeting should be held under the so-called “Uniting for Peace” resolution. The resolution gives the General Assembly the power to call emergency meetings to consider matters of international peace and security when the Security Council is unable to act because of the lack of unanimity among its five veto-wielding permanent members -- the United States, Russia, China, Britain and France.

The U.N. Security Council is expected to vote Friday on a resolution condemning Russia in the strongest terms possible for attacking Ukraine and demanding the immediate withdrawal of all its forces — knowing that Russia will veto the legally binding measure, according to a senior U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly.

___

ROME — Addressing fellow G-7 leaders, Italian Premier Mario Draghi warned that the crisis over Ukraine “could last for a long time, we must be prepared.”

He thanked U.S. President Joe Biden for sharing intelligence in recent weeks. He also had praise Thursday evening for the European Commission for putting what he called “a good proposal of sanctions on the table.”

Italy is “completely aligned with France, Germany and the European Union” on sanctions, he said.

“We must be united, firm, decisive and we must re-affirm in every possible moment our full support to Ukraine,’’ Draghi said in his G-7 remarks, according to the premier’s office.

___

JERUSALEM — Israeli police say they arrested four people suspected of scrawling anti-Putin graffiti on the gate of the Russian embassy in Tel Aviv during a protest.

Several hundred people staged a demonstration outside the Russian Embassy in Tel Aviv on Thursday over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Another smaller protest was held outside the Russian consulate in the northern port city of Haifa.

Israel is home to a large population of immigrants former Soviet Union and their descendants who arrived in the 1990s and 2000s.

Israel maintains good relations with both Ukraine and Russia and has tried to avoid involvement in the conflict. Earlier on Thursday Israel’s foreign minister condemned Russia’s invasion.

___

UNITED NATIONS — Repeating a plea for Russia to halt its invasion of Ukraine, the U.N. chief said Thursday the world body was freeing up $20 million for urgent humanitarian needs in the country.

“Stop the military operation. Bring the troops back to Russia,” Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said at U.N. headquarters. He called the offensive wrong and unacceptable, but not irreversible.

“It’s not too late to save this generation from the scourge of war,” Guterres said.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has said the assault is meant to protect civilians in eastern Ukraine, where pro-Russian separatists have been fighting the government for nearly eight years. The U.S., however, said ahead of time that Russia would try to justify an invasion by falsely claiming that the rebel-held areas were under attack.

The U.N. said Thursday it was relocating some of its roughly 1,500 staffers in Ukraine. However, Guterres reiterated that the U.N. will continue providing aid to people in the country, “regardless of who or where they are.”

___

BRUSSELS — Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo said European Union leaders need to adopt sanctions that will be strong enough to impact the Russian economy and the country’s military industrial complex.

“We don’t need sanctions that bark, we need sanctions that bite,” De Croo said upon his arrival at an urgent meeting of EU leaders in Brussels to discuss a new package of measures targeting Russia.

De Croo said the main goal of the sanctions should be to make it hard for Russian financial institutions to access international markets.

Asked whether Russia should be expelled from the Swift payment system financial system that moves money from bank to bank around the world, De Croo said he is open for discussions on that topic.

___

OTTAWA, Ontario — Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says he spoke with President Zelenskyy and says Canada is imposing more severe sanctions.

The sanctions will target 58 people and entities connected to Russia, including members of that country’s elite and their families, the paramilitary organization known as the Wagner Group and major Russian banks.

The measures, announced Thursday after Trudeau attended a virtual G-7 meeting, will also affect members of the Russian Security Council, including key cabinet ministers.

Canada is also cancelling existing export permits for Russia and will not issue new ones.

Trudeau also says the federal government will be prioritizing immigration applications for Ukrainians who want to come to Canada and is launching a dedicated telephone line for anyone who has any urgent questions about immigrating from Ukraine.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — An adviser to Ukrainian president says that Ukraine has lost control over the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant after a fierce battle.

Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, said the condition of the plant’s facilities, a confinement shelter and storage of nuclear waste is unknown.

A nuclear reactor in then-Soviet Ukraine exploded in April 1986, spewing radioactive waste across Europe in the world’s worst nuclear disaster. The exploded reactor has been covered by a protective shelter to prevent radiation leak and the entire plant has been decommissioned.

Podolyak said that after “absolutely senseless attack of the Russians in this direction, it is impossible to say that the Chernobyl nuclear power plant is safe.”

He charged that Russia may mount provocations there and described the situation as “one of the most serious threats to Europe today.”

___

NEW DELHI, India — Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi phoned Russian President Vladimir Putin late Thursday night and appealed for an “immediate cessation of violence,” his office said in a statement.

Modi called for efforts to return to diplomatic discussions, saying the “differences between Russia and the NATO group can only be resolved through honest and sincere dialogue.”

Modi also expressed concern over Indian citizens in Ukraine - officials earlier in the day said some 4,000 out of the 20,000 Indian nationals had been evacuated with efforts on to bring the rest back home.

The conversation between the two leaders comes hours after the Ukraine envoy in New Delhi urged Modi to contact Putin, saying the country “has a special relationship with Russia and New Delhi can play a more active role in controlling the situation.”

___

WARSAW — Some of the first refugees from Ukraine have arrived in European Union member Poland by road and rail.

A scheduled train from Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine arrived Thursday afternoon in the Polish town of Przemysl, near Ukraine’s western border, carrying a few hundred passengers.

The passengers of various ages, arriving with bags and backpacks, told The Associated Press they were fleeing war. Some live in Poland and were returning urgently from visits to their homeland.

The chief of Poland’s border guards, Gen. Tomasz Praga, said there was a visible increase in the number of people wanting to cross into Poland.

Officials said Poland has prepared at least eight centers with food, medical care and places to rest.

Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said that “innocent people are being killed” in Ukraine and appealed to the Poles to extend every possible assistance to the Ukrainians who have found themselves in need of help.

___

NAIROBI, Kenya — The African Union chair is urging an immediate cease-fire in Ukraine “to preserve the world from the consequences of planetary conflict.”

The statement by Senegal President Macky Sall and AU Commission chair Moussa Faki Mahamat also calls on Russia to respect Ukraine’s territorial integrity and international law, expressing “extreme concern at the very serious and dangerous situation.”

Few among Africa’s 54 countries have publicly reacted to the invasion.

___

PRISTINA, Kosovo - Kosovo leaders on Thursday rejected Russian President Vladimir Putin’s claim of similarities with Ukraine’s eastern rebel provinces.

Kosovo’s president, prime minister and other senior ministers issued a joint statement denouncing Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

“The massive and unprovoked attack against Ukraine’s cities and villages is one of the most dangerous hits made to the architecture of the international security built after World War II,” said the statement.

Kosovo declared independence in 2008 after a bloody conflict with Serbia years earlier left more than 10,000 people dead and triggered a NATO intervention. Pristina’s government is recognized by the United States and most EU nations, but Belgrade has refused to recognize its independence and relies on support from Russia and China in its bid to retain claims on the territory.

“Dictator Putin’s effort to refer to the Kosovo case and draw parallel are totally unstable, abusive and an attempt to camouflage the lack of any base or reason for the barbarous attack of its forces against a sovereign state,” said the statement.

___

LONDON — British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he would aim to cut Russia off from the U.K.’s financial markets as he announced a new set of sanctions in response to President Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.

The sanctions include freezing the assets of all major Russian banks, including VTB Bank, the nation’s second-biggest bank, Johnson said Thursday. Britain also plans to bar Russian companies and the Russian government from raising money on U.K. markets.

Britain will also ban the export of a wide range of high-tech products, including semiconductors, to Russia and bar the nation’s flagship airline, Aeroflot, from landing at U.K. airports.

The slate of sanctions comes days after Johnson was criticized for acting too cautiously in response to Russian aggression earlier this week.

Ukraine’s ambassador to the U.K., Vadym Prystaiko, earlier called on world leaders to ban trade in Russian oil and gas and block foreign investment in the country.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian Defense Ministry has formally confirmed that its forces have moved into Ukraine from Crimea.

Until Thursday's statement Russia had said only that it unleashed a barrage of air and missile strikes on Ukrainian air bases, air defense batteries and other military facilities.

The ministry said it has destroyed a total of 83 Ukrainian military facilities. Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov confirmed that Russian ground troops advanced toward the city of Kherson northwest of the Crimea peninsula.

Kherson sits on water reservoir used in the past to provide the bulk of fresh water for Crimea until Ukraine cut it with a dam in 2017 in response to Moscow’s 2014 annexation of Crimea from Ukraine. Konashenkov said Thursday's move allows the resumption of the water supply to Crimea.

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has made a televised address to the nation condemning the Russian attack on Ukraine sharply and vowed that Russian President Vladimir Putin “will not win.”

Scholz said Thursday evening that “we will not accept this violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty by Russia” and vowed to imply severe sanction together with Germany’s allies.

Regarding the military attack on Ukraine, Scholz stressed that Putin “is on his own. It was not the Russian people who decided to go to war. He alone bears full responsibility for it. This war is Putin’s war.”

The chancellor said that “Putin should not underestimate NATO’s determination to defend all its members. That applies explicitly to our NATO partners in the Baltic States, in Poland and in Romania, in Bulgaria and in Slovakia. Without ifs and buts. Germany and its allies know how to protect themselves.”

___

UNITED NATIONS -- A senior U.S. official says the U.N. Security Council is expected to vote Friday on a resolution condemning Russia in the strongest terms possible for attacking Ukraine and demanding the immediate withdrawal of all its forces — knowing that Russia will veto the legally binding measure.

The United States believes it is very important to put the resolution to a vote to underscore Russia’s international isolation, and emphasizes that the veto will be followed quickly by a resolution in the 193-member U.N. General Assembly where there are no vetoes, the official said Thursday. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly.

“This is a first step in how the U.N. responds to this premeditated war of choice that Russia has chosen to take, and we will see action in the General Assembly in the coming days,” he said, adding that it is part of a much broader, coordinated response that includes steps the Biden administration and its allies are taking.

The resolution is drafted under Article 7 of the U.N. Charter, which can be enforced militarily, according to the official.

___

By Edith M. Lederer

___

MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin says he was “forced” to order a military action in Ukraine because of the Western refusal to heed Russian security demands.

Speaking at a Kremlin meeting with businesspeople Thursday, Putin said the military action was a “forced measure” that stemmed from rising security risks for Russia.

He said that he was surprised by the West’s “intransigence” regarding Moscow’s security demands. “I was surprised that didn’t move a millimeter on any issue,” he said. “They have left us no chance to act differently.”

Turning to Western sanctions, he said “Russia remains part of the global economy and isn’t going to hurt the system that it is part of as long as it remains there.”

“Our partners should realize that and not set a goal to push us out of the system,” he said in an apparent warning to the West.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensnkyy has urged Moscow to end hostilities, adding that Russian airborne troops have been checked outside Kyiv.

“It wasn’t Ukraine that chose the path of war, but Ukraine is offering to go back to the path of peace,” he said Thursday.

He said a Russian airborne force in Hostomel airport outside Kyiv, which has a big runway, has been stopped and is being destroyed.

The Ukrainian leader said many Russian warplanes and armored vehicles were destroyed but didn’t give numbers. He also said an unspecified number of Russian troops was captured.

He said a difficult situation is developing in Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city just over 20 kilometers from the Russian border. In the north the Russians are slowly advancing toward Chernihiv, Zelenskyy said.

He appealed to global leaders, saying that “if you don’t help us now, if you fail to offer strong assistance to Ukraine, tomorrow the war will knock on your door.”

___

BERLIN — Group of Seven leaders have strongly condemned Russia's attack on Ukraine.

The German government, which currently heads the G7, put out a joint statement after a virtual leaders’ meeting Thursday, vowing to bring “forward severe and coordinated economic and financial sanctions.”

It called “on all partners and members of the international community to condemn this attack in the strongest possible terms, to stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine, and raise their voice against this blatant violation of the fundamental principles of international peace and security.”

___

HELSINKI — Baltic NATO members Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have received the first batches of U.S. military troops and equipment promised this week by U.S. President Joe Biden in the wake of the Ukraine crisis.

An undisclosed number of U.S. F-35 fighters landed Thursday afternoon at NATO’s air base in Amari, near Estonia’s capital Tallinn, Estonian media reported. F-35 fighters were reported to have arrived also at NATO’s air base in Lithuania.

On Wednesday evening, the first 40 American soldiers from the 173rd Airborne Brigade arrived in Latvia, Latvian media reported.

___

A senior U.S. defense official says Thursday's attack by Russia appears to be the first phase in what will likely be a multiple phased, large-scale invasion.

The official said it began around 9:30 p.m. U.S. eastern time, with land- and sea-based missile launches. The official said that roughly more than 100 missiles, primarily short-range ballistic missiles, but also medium-range ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, surface-to-air missiles and sea-launched missiles, were launched in the first few hours of the attack.

The official said the Russians are moving on three axes: From Crimea to Kherson, from Belarus toward Kyiv, and from the northeast to Kharkiv.

The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said it’s not clear how many Russian troops are in Ukraine now, and the main targets of the air assault have been barracks, ammunition warehouses, and 10 airfields. The official said Russian ground forces began to move in to Ukraine from Belarus around 5 a.m. Eastern time.

___

By Lolita C. Baldor in Washington D.C.

___

LONDON — Hundreds of protesters have gathered in London to urge Britain and other democracies to step up action against Russia.

Ukrainians living in the U.K. and activists gathered outside Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Downing Street office Thursday, singing the Ukrainian national anthem.

Natalia Ravlyuk, who helped organize the protest, said they wanted the “toughest sanctions and total isolation of Russia now.”

“We ... feel betrayed by democratic states because we have been talking about this war for eight years,” she said. “They just need to wake up and stop Putin now.”

Earlier dozens of protesters also gathered outside the Russian embassy in London.

___

UNITED NATIONS — The United Nations migration agency says it's ready to respond to emerging humanitarian needs in Ukraine.

Antonio Vitorino, director general of the Geneva-based International Organization for Migration, said: “IOM ... is committed to staying and delivering vital assistance to the people of Ukraine.”

“Eight years of conflict in Ukraine have displaced over 1.4 million people who now rely on assistance to meet their daily needs,” he said in a statement. “This escalation will only deepen the humanitarian needs and compound the suffering of millions of families.”

—-

Follow AP’s coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: Adds item from Ukraine diplomat in Japan. ; With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220224ei2o00jah


Hungary This Week - February 25, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 2 月 25 日, 9186 字, (英文)
Hungarian wage growth slows to 9.7% y/y in DecemberYear-on-year wage growth in Hungary slowed to 9.7% in December from 10.1% in the previous month, data released by the Central Statistics Office (KSH) on February 23 show. The data for ...

Former EU chief shames Germany, Hungary, and Italy for blocking the harshest sanctions on Russia
mjankowicz@businessinsider.com (Mia Jankowicz)
43 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 12:23 GMT
Business Insider
BIZINS
英文
Copyright 2022. Insider Inc
The EU stepped back from the harshest sanction on Russia, Donald Tusk lambasted three countries that he said prevented a tougher response.

Insider Inc.

文件 BIZINS0020220225ei2p000xg


Hungarian prime minister fails to call Russian invasion an aggression
795 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 06:52 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, Russian President Vladimir Putin’s closest ally in the EU, has failed to call out the Russian invasion as aggression, instead stressing that Hungary must stay out of the military conflict. Orban is in a precarious situation as he faces a tight election in less than six weeks and has made Hungary dependent on Russian energy and nuclear technology.

"What matters most to us is the security of the Hungarian people," he said in a short message posted on Facebook, after an extraordinary session of the National Security Operative Corps. No details were published of the meeting.

"Sending either troops or military equipment to Ukraine was out of the question, though we will, of course, provide humanitarian aid,” Orban said, reflecting on comments by Peter Marki-Zay, the prime ministerial candidate of the united opposition, who hinted that if he was in power, he would comply with Nato's request to help Ukraine with guns and even with troops.

Orban claimed the opposition's proposals would endanger Hungary's gas and energy supplies and the utility price cuts.

Hungary’s strongman, who was a guest of the Kremlin just three weeks ago and hailed his trip as being on a peace mission, has been one of the last EU leaders to condemn Russia’s invasion. It was just a short comment in his Facebook video and did not go beyond that, unlike his V4 or EU peers, who used strong words to denounce Russia’s military action.

The government's communication showed signs of wavering, as a Facebook post well into the morning was talking just about a "military operation in Ukraine". The pro-government press still echoed the pro-Russian stance when the conflict started. Defence Minister Tibor Benko on Wednesday evening basically repeated the Russian position on the two breakaway regions, blaming Ukraine for the threat of war.

Just a couple of days ago, Hungary’s Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto was talking about the need to tone down the hysteria, referring to US and Nato warnings about a possible Russian attack. On the morning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, he posted from Bahrain, saying war was the worst-case scenario and the task now is to ensure the security of all Hungarians

Political analysts say Orban is treading a careful line as he is under pressure to supports sanctions imposed by the EU, but also being closely aligned with Moscow, he has a lot to lose economically if they are too strong. Stressing the importance of energy supply and maintaing low gas prices was clearly a message to voters before the April 3rd elections.

Fidesz' base also remains predominantly pro-Russian and by condemning Putin with harsh worlds, he risks losing voters to radical rightwing Our Homeland, which is just barely below the 5% ceiling.

Orban went to Moscow on the first day of February to hammer out a deal to increase Russian gas supplies by 1 bcm to 5.5 bcm, but no agreement was reached. Hungary signed a 15-year contract with Gazprom in October.

The expansion of the Paks power plant could be in jeopardy if Russian businesses are hard-hit by sanctions. The main constructor of the project, Rosatom, has failed to receive the final permit for building two 1,200 MW blocks and the €12.5bn investment is five to six years behind schedule. VTB, the bank financing the €10bn loan, is on the sanction list.

Opposition parties criticised Orban for "his refusal to condemn the war started by Russia" and the steps taken by Putin "even when the lives of Transcarpathian Hungarians are in danger". An estimated 150,000 ethnic Hungarians live in the western part of the country.

Hungary has attacked Ukraine’s education law for being discriminatory, creating a bitter dispute between the two countries. Hungary has blocked Ukraine’s talks on Nato accession unless Kiev changes the regulations.

"As a member of the EU and Nato, Orban should condemn Putin's aggression against Ukraine and join EU sanctions against Russia by suspending the expansion of the Paks power plant and expel with immediate effect the Russian spy bank", Marki-Zay said on Thursday, referring to Budapest-based International Investment Bank (IIB), which moved its HQ from Moscow in 2019.

The opposition alliance is planning a rally in a show of solidary for Ukraine in front of the Russian embassy in Budapest.

Hungarian authorities, churches, and charity groups are preparing for the flood of refugees. Traffic has jammed up at the half dozen border crossings on the 130km long border with Ukraine, with a waiting time of one to two hours, according to police reports from the late afternoon.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220225ei2p001rx


CENAFTAENG
What is the Swift payment system and why would the exclusion of Russia affect?
Pool CEO
485 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日
CE NAFTA 2.0-USMCA
NAFTA
英文
Copyright © ContentEngineLLC
Several European countries crossed the Rubicon when considering excluding Russia from the Swift banking system in response to the invasion of Ukraine, accentuating pressure on the continent, where members such as Germany and Hungary fear for their energy supply.

So far, the European leaders meeting in Brussels have not decided on any measures to block Russian banks from this international payments interface, an essential mechanism of world finance.

 

What is Swift and why does it have so much value?

Swift, an acronym for Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication , is a Brussels-based company, subject to Belgian and European law.

Founded in 1973, it is one of the most important banking and financial messaging networks, enabling interbank settlement between financial institutions around the world.

Specifically, this system allows a country like Germany to pay electronically for its purchases of Russian gas.

According to the website of the Russian national association Rosswift, Russia is the second country after the United States in number of users of this system, with about 300 member banks and institutions.

And if you disconnect from Russia...

Blocking a country from this system is considered an "economic nuclear weapon," as the impact is important for that country's financial relations with the rest of the world.

But disconnecting a swift state is also preventing its own banks from transacting with the banks of the punished country.

If Russian banks are disconnected from Swift, import and export payments with Russia will be more difficult

confirms Eric Dor, director of Economic Studies at the French school IESEG School of Management.

 

 

Meaningless sanctions

A fact that did not escape the nations most economically dependent on Russia, such as Germany. "You always have to be careful not to harm yourself more than others. In this case, the sanctions are meaningless," said German MP Jürgen Trittin, the international's specialist for the environmental party.

On Thursday, Hungarian Prime Minister Victor Orban welcomed the fact that the sanctions decided "do not extend to energy"," guaranteeing "the supply of gas to Hungary and the other EU member states".

On average, 40% of gas imports into Europe come from Russia, with significant differences between 70-80% from Austria, 55% from Germany and 17% from France.

But the point of view is not shared by all. "EU governments that have blocked difficult decisions have disgraced themselves," said former European Council President Donald Tusk.

They fear that sanction will not arrive

British Prime Minister Boris Johnson advocated at the G7 meeting for such a move, according to a spokesman.

U.S. President Joe Biden said Thursday that cutting Russia from the Swift network remains "an option," acknowledging that "it is not currently a position shared by Europeans."

Already in 2014, shortly after Russia's annexation of Crimea, the option had been discussed, but eventually abandoned.

 

 

 

Content Engine LLC

文件 NAFTA00020220226ei2p0000b


The Ukraine Crisis: Eastern European Neighbors Face a Military Reckoning
By Drew Hinshaw and Natalia Ojewska
656 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日
The Wall Street Journal
J
A9
英文
Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
RZESZOW, Poland -- European countries on the border with Russia or Ukraine put troops on high alert and are rapidly expanding their militaries, with the Russian invasion of its smaller neighbor set to be a watershed moment for the U.S.'s easternmost allieson the continentand the military alliance that binds them together.

Lithuania introduced a state of emergency and reinforced military deployments near its border with Russia, while Poland kept active military personnel on duty and canceled leaves of absence and rotations home for the foreseeable future.

Both countries also called on the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to invoke Article 4, a clause that would require all 30 governments in the military alliance to hold consultations on the crisis in Ukraine. Meanwhile, Slovakia and Hungary sent troops to manage a possible influx of people fleeing Ukraine.

Defense ministers, intelligence officers and senior politicians from Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia -- all NATO members that border either Russia or Ukraine -- say the long buildup to the invasion of Ukraine has driven them to aggressively ratchet up their military capabilities.

"We don't want to take chances," said Latvia's Defense Minister Artur Pabriks. "We never again want to be under the rule of such guys as him and under the Russians and we will do whatever it takes to keep them out of the country."

Latvia and its Baltic neighbors called Thursday for Russia to be disconnected from the Swift global payment system, escalating diplomatic pressure for what U.S. officials have seen as a sanction of last resort.

For years, Central and Eastern European countries counted on NATO's common-defense clause to protect them against aggression from Russia. At the same time, the alliance avoided rotating substantial numbers of troops there to avoid provoking Russia or violating commitments under a 1997 Russia-NATO agreement.

But U.S. reticence to move troops through the region has steadily fallen away. On Thursday, the first group of 40 U.S. troops arrived in Latvia, to be followed by hundreds more across the Baltic states. The U.K. is sending tanks and armored cars to Estonia and doubling its troop deployments there.

At the same time, governments in Poland and Estonia are ramping up their own capabilities, to ensure their defenses are enough to deter a Russian invasion -- or repel one for long enough to allow NATO allies to assist them.

The Polish government is seeking to nearly double the head count of the country's military to 300,000 people, which would make it one of Europe's largest by troop levels.

That increase began last July, when Polish President Andrzej Duda received intelligence reports from the U.S., later confirmed by Poland's own security services, that Russia -- supported by Moscow's close ally, Belarus -- was likely to escalate conflicts with neighboring states in coming months, a senior adviser to Mr. Duda said. Those plans accelerated in the fall, when Belarus encouraged thousands of asylum seekers, mostly from the Middle East, to cross Poland's border.

Now Poland is buying 250 Abrams tanks from the U.S., part of $6 billion of other defense equipment purchased from American defense contractors that includes thousands of antitank missiles and other sophisticated weapons systems. The government is seeking more personnel to operate weaponry like the $4.75 billion Patriot air defense missile system, which first arrived in the country last year.

"We saw the signals and we reacted," said the adviser.

Latvia is moving to increase its mandatory military service for young adults -- which is currently one day a month, over two years -- to three weeks, hoping to draw more army recruits. It is negotiating with the U.S. to acquire rocket artillery and new air and coastal defense systems. And all three Baltic countries are also increasingly pooling resources to combine capabilities, officials said.

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 J000000020220225ei2p0001k


Live updates: Zelenskyy declines US offer to evacuate Kyiv
By The Associated Press
9102 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 04:04 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The latest on the Russia-Ukraine crisis[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-attack-a05e7c4563ac94b963134bba83187d46] :

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was asked to evacuate Kyiv at the behest of the U.S. government but turned down the offer.

Zelenskyy said in response: “The fight is here; I need ammunition, not a ride,” according to a senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of the conversation, who described Zelenskyy as upbeat.

Invading Russian forces closed in on Ukraine’s capital on Saturday, in an apparent encircling movement after a barrage of airstrikes on cities and military bases around the country.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — A second Russian Ilyushin Il-76 military transport plane was shot down near Bila Tserkva, 50 miles (85 kilometers) south of Kyiv, according to two American officials with direct knowledge of conditions on the ground in Ukraine.

On Friday, Ukraine’s military said it had shot down a Russian military transport plane with paratroopers on board.

According to a statement from the military’s General Staff, the first Il-76 heavy transport plane was shot down near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles south of Kyiv. The Russian military has not commented on either incident so far, and the reports could not be immediately verified.

___

TOKYO — Japanese Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi says he spoke with his U.S. counterpart, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, on the phone Saturday and they agreed they must respond to Russia's invasion of Ukraine properly to prevent it from becoming “a wrong lesson” because of its potential influence in Asia and the Indo-Pacific region.

Hayashi declined to comment if Japan plans to join the United States, Britain and the European Union in imposing sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Hayashi said Japan will stay in close touch with other Group of Seven members and other international leaders while watching the developments.

Hayashi told reporters that he and Blinken reaffirmed their commitment to work closely with the rest of international society and they agreed it is necessary to reject Russia's unilateral act to change the status quo.

___

UNITED NATIONS—Russia has vetoed a U.N. Security Council resolution demanding that Moscow stop its attack on Ukraine and withdraw all troops.

Friday’s vote was 11-1, with China, India and the United Arab Emirates abstaining. It showed significant but not total opposition to Russia’s invasion of its smaller, militarily weaker neighbor.

The United States and other supporters knew the resolution wouldn’t pass but argued it would highlight Russia’s international isolation. The resolution’s failure paves the way for backers to call for a swift vote on a similar measure in the U.N. General Assembly. There are no vetoes in the 193-member assembly. There’s no timetable as yet for a potential Assembly vote.

___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria on Friday introduced a ban on the entry of Russian aircraft into the country’s airspace.

All aircraft licensed by the Russian Federation may not enter the sovereign airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the airspace over its territorial waters, the government announced. The ban is effective starting Saturday.

The government said it took the action in connection with the escalation of the military conflict and in solidarity with Ukraine.

___

SYDNEY—Australia is imposing sanctions against all 339 members of the Russian parliament and is considering sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin as well as his Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne also announced on Saturday sanctions against eight Russian oligarchs close to Putin. Australia was also taking steps to imposed sanctions on key figures in the Belarusian government who had aided the Ukraine invasion.

Payne said she was seeking advice from her department on following western allies’ example in sanctioning Putin.

“It is an exceptional step to sanction leaders, but this is an exceptional situation,” Payne said.

___

WASHINGTON—Ukraine’s top diplomatic envoy in the U.S. is urging countries to sever diplomatic relations with Russia over its invasion of their country.

Ambassador Oksana Markarova’s request came in an emergency meeting Friday at the Washington-based Organization of American States, whose members were debating a resolution condemning the military attack ordered by President Vladimir Putin.

“It’s hard to imagine that something like this happens in the center of Europe in the 21st Century,” an emotional Markarova said during the meeting. She urged delegates to supply Ukraine with defensive weapons and follow the lead of the Federated States of Micronesia, a Pacific island nation that earlier Friday broke all ties with Russia.

Alexander Kim, a senior diplomat at Russia’s embassy in Washington, towed closely to the Kremlin’s unsubstantiated claim that the military incursion was an attempt to “de-Nazify” a government that had committed scores of atrocities against civilians.

“We are open to diplomacy,” Kim told representatives of more than 30 Latin American governments, many of whom have pursued closer relations with Moscow in recent years. “However, diplomacy presumes an ability to negotiate. It is not a tool for blackmailing and imposing the decision of Washington and its satellite states.”

___

LONDON—British Prime Minister Boris Johnson says he is in “close contact” with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, as he hailed “the fierce bravery and patriotism” of Ukraine’s government and people.

In a recorded message, Johnson said “the scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy,” calling it bloodshed Europe has not seen in a generation or more.

He said “the people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the face of this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.”

Johnson also urged Russians to oppose the invasion, which he called “a tragedy for Russia” as well as for Ukraine.

Speaking in Russian, he said: “I do not believe this war is in your name.”

Britain has imposed asset freezes and other sanctions on scores of Russian companies and several oligarchs, and has joined the U.S., Canada and the European Union in slapping sanctions on President Vladimir Putin and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary—Hungary’s foreign minister has offered Budapest as a possible location for negotiations between the leaders of Russia and Ukraine as Russia’s invasion intensifies.

“Budapest can serve as a safe venue for both the Russian and Ukrainian negotiation delegations,” Peter Szijjarto said in a video on Facebook late Friday, adding that he had made the proposal to both Russia’s and Ukraine’s governments, neither of which dismissed it.

“I sincerely hope that an agreement can be reached within a few hours or days to start discussions; the sooner the talks begin, the sooner there will be peace and the fewer people will have to die in the war,” Szijjarto said.

___

BRUSSELS—With a military intervention in Ukraine off the table, countries around the world are looking to heap more financial punishment on Moscow.

The United States, Britain and European Union said Friday they will move to sanction Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

The EU’s unanimous decision, part of a broader sanctions package, indicated that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki indicated the U.S. sanctions will include a travel ban.

___

TORONTO—Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is announcing sanctions on Russian Vladimir Putin, his chief of staff and foreign minister Sergey Lavrov.

Trudeau also says Canada supports the removal of Russia from the SWIFT banking system.

The prime minister is also announcing sanctions against Belarus.

Meanwhile, Canada’s largest province is pulling Russian products from shelves from government owned liquor stores.

Ontario Finance Minister Peter Bethlenfalvy says the province joins Canada’s allies in condemning the Russian government’s act of aggression against the Ukrainian people, and will direct the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to withdraw all products produced in Russia from store shelves.

The French-speaking province of Quebec is also considering banning Russian liquor.

___

UNITED NATIONS—The U.N. plans to seek over $1 billion in donations for humanitarian relief in Ukraine over the next three months, the world body’s humanitarian chief said Friday.

Martin Griffiths said at a news briefing that the exact amount of the appeal is still being decided but will be “well north of $1 billion.”

The U.N. announced Thursday that it was immediately allocating $20 million to expand its humanitarian operations in Ukraine. Even before Russia’s attack this week, the world body estimated about 3 million people were in need of aid after years of fighting between Russian-backed separatists and the Ukrainian government in the country’s east.

Now, “the scale of need in these very, very extraordinary circumstances is going to be of the highest,” Griffiths said.

The U.N. issues multiple appeals each year for international donors, mainly governments, to finance humanitarian efforts in trouble spots around the world. Last month, it requested more than $5 billion for Afghanistan, the largest-ever appeal tied to a single country.

___

RICHMOND, Va.—Criminal ransomware operators are posting messages on the dark web pledging to launch retaliatory cyberattacks if Russia is attacked.

The ransomware group Conti, which experts say has ties to Russia, said in a note on its dark web site Friday that it would “use all our possible resources to strike back at the critical infrastructures of an enemy.”

Ransomware gangs are mostly Russian-speaking and operate with near impunity out of Russia and allied countries.

In a follow up note, the Conti group stressed it was not an ally of any government and said: “we condemn the ongoing war.”

Major ransomware attacks in the last year, including against the biggest U.S. fuel pipeline, have underscored how gangs of extortionist hackers can disrupt the economy and put lives and livelihoods at risk. The U.S. government has been warning critical infrastructure entities to prepare for possible attacks and to make sure their defenses are up to date.

Non-state hackers have promised to be active in both sides of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The online collective Anonymous recently pledged to conduct cyberattacks to support Ukraine.

___

BERLIN—The German government says it plans to deploy troops and the Patriot anti-missile system to Slovakia as part of NATO plans to strengthen the alliance’s eastern flank.

The Defense Ministry said Friday that it plans to send an infantry company as part of a combat troop battalion. And it said that Germany also will contribute the Patriot system.

The ministry stressed that the so-called “enhanced vigilance activity battlegroup” has a purely defensive function.

Slovakia is a NATO and European Union member that borders Ukraine. Germany already is beefing up its troop contingent in Lithuania, another nation on NATO’s eastern flank.

___

KYIV, Ukraine--Russian troops are bearing down on Ukraine’s capital of Kyiv.

Mayor Vitaly Klitschko says five explosions hit an area near a major power plant on the city’s eastern outskirts. There was no information on the cause of the blasts, which Klitschko said occurred at intervals of several minutes. No electricity outages were immediately reported.

The invasion of a democratic country has fueled fears of wider war in Europe and triggered worldwide efforts to make Russia stop.

___

BELGRADE, Serbia—Serbia defied calls from the European Union and the U.S. to join sanctions against Russia, although its autocratic president said that Moscow’s assault against Ukraine is against the international law.

With the move, Serbia remains a rare European state together with Belarus not to join Western sanctions introduced against Moscow for its invasion of a sovereign European state.

“Serbia respects the norms of the international law,” President Aleksandar Vucic said. “But Serbia also understands its own interests.”

Vucic said that Serbia regards the violation of Ukraine’s territorial integrity as “very wrong,” but added it won’t join international sanctions against Russia.

Despite formally seeking EU membership, Serbia has been strengthening ties with its traditional Slavic ally Russia. Moscow has been supplying Serbia’s armed forces with weapons, leading to more tensions in the Balkans which went through a bloody civil war in the 1990s.

___

ROME—Thousands of Romans and Ukrainians who live in the Italian capital marched side-by-side to the Colosseum to denounce Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

They took up the call by Rome’s mayor to clutch lit candles on Friday evening and walk from the square atop the Capitoline Hill to the ancient arena, a few minutes’ stroll away.

Several of the Ukrainians among the marchers wept. They put a hand over their heart while singing the Ukrainian anthem. Others held Ukrainian flags or protest signs or shouted, “hands off our country” or voiced other denunciations of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Among the marchers was Ruslan Yakubovskyy, a Ukrainian.

“I live here, I bought a home here, my family is here, but I am thinking about going back to Ukraine to fight and lend a helping hand,″ he said. “The situation is so difficult that either it’s that the rest of the world is pretending not to see or it doesn’t want to see it at all."

City Hall and the Colosseum were illuminated in the colors of the Ukrainian flag, yellow and blue.

___

WARSAW, Poland - Presidents of NATO’s eastern flank member states gathered Friday in Warsaw voiced their support for tough sanctions on Russia and its leaders for the invasion of Ukraine.

Nine presidents of the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine held a security summit with the participation of European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. They also remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

“There cannot be any ‘business as usual’ in this situation in relations with Russia because that would have been a betrayal of the principles of the honest, open world,” Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, said after the talks that he had hosted.

___

LONDON — Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Britain would introduce sanctions against Russian leader Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to inflict maximum punishment for invading Ukraine, his Downing Street office said Friday.

Johnson’s pledge comes as the European Union approved an asset freeze on Putin and Lavrov. The comments from Johnson suggest that Western powers are acting in concert on unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor.

In comments to NATO leaders, the UK leader pressed again for immediate action to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions. European nations have faced criticism for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network in offering sanctions on Thursday.

Johnson said “the world must make certain President Putin would fail in this act of aggression.”

___

TIRANA, Albania—Albania's prime minister on Friday said the tiny Western Balkan country would welcome Ukrainian refugees.

Speaking after a NATO summit Prime Minister Edi Rama said that like all the other NATO member countries, Albania would be ready to welcome a few thousand Ukrainians leaving their country due to the Russian invasion.

Rama did not give any concrete number.

Albania, a NATO member since 2009, has followed the United States and European Union on its stand denouncing Russian invasion.

Albania was the first to offer shelter and then house some 2,400 Afghan evacuees after the Taliban came to power in August last year. Some 300 have already left, mainly for the United States.

___

BRUSSELS — NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Friday that U.S. President Joe Biden and his counterparts have agreed to send parts of the organization’s response force to help protect allies in the east over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking after chairing a NATO meeting, Stoltenberg said the leaders decided to send parts of the NATO Response Force and elements of a quickly deployed spearhead unit. He did not say how many troops would be deployed, but confirmed that the move would involve land, sea and air power.

The NRF can number up to 40,000 troops, but Stoltenberg said that NATO would not be deploying the entire force. Parts of a force known in NATO jargon as the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF), which is currently led by France, will also be sent.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has released a video of himself and his senior aides in Kyiv to reassure the nation as Russian troops were closing in on the capital.

In the video Zelenskyy recorded in the street outside the presidential office, he said he and his top officials are staying in the capital.

“Our troops are here, citizens are here,” Zelenskyy said, adding that “All of us are here protecting our independence of our country. And it will continue to be this way. Glory to our defenders, Glory to Ukraine, Glory to Heroes.”

Russian troops bore down on Ukraine’s capital Friday, with gunfire and explosions resonating ever closer to the government quarter.

In the fog of war, it was unclear how much of Ukraine remains under Ukrainian control and how much or little Russian forces have seized. The Kremlin accepted Kyiv’s offer to hold talks, but it appeared to be an effort to squeeze concessions out of Ukraine’s embattled president instead of a gesture toward a diplomatic solution.

___

ROME — Premier Mario Draghi’s Cabinet on Friday formally approved previously announced participation by 250 Italian military forces and 139 land vehicles in NATO’s enhanced Forward Presence in Latvia, as well as air policing by some 12 aircraft currently deployed in Romania and patrols by an intelligence-gathering aircraft and a refueling aircraft as part of NATO’s shoring up of its eastern flank allies in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The government also approved deployment of 235 military forces aboard two or three naval vessels, as well as an aircraft as part of surveillance and intelligence-gathering in the eastern Mediterranean and the Black Sea.

Also getting the government’s formal OK was the mobilization of 1,350 military personnel, involving 77 land vehicles and two naval vessels – with the second one to be deployed in the second half of the year -- as well as five aircraft as part of the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force.

Approval was granted for that force to be increased to as many as 1,970 military personnel. The same Cabinet session also granted authorization to provide at no cost non-lethal military equipment to Ukraine, including protective devices for soldiers and de-mining equipment

___

BRUSSELS — Latvia’s foreign minister says the European Union has agreed to freeze the assets of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov along with other sanctions over the invasion of Ukraine.

The move indicates that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

Foreign Minister Edgard Rinkevics announced the EU decision Friday in a tweet.

He said another package of sanctions is to be prepared by the EU.

___

PARIS — The leader of the Belarus opposition in exile says the European Union should slap tougher sanctions on Belarus for its role in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Sviatlana Tiskhanouskaya says Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko, a close ally of Russia, has turned her country into “an aggressor” in Ukraine.

She told The Associated Press on Friday that Belarus has become “an aircraft carrier” for the Russian military, carrying troops to Ukraine, re-fueling its war machine and housing soldiers of the invading force.

The United States, the EU, Britain and Canada last year imposed sanctions on Belarusian officials, businesses and several sectors of the economy and the financial system following a brutal crackdown on Lukashenko’s opponents. They were protesting his fraudulent re-election for a sixth term.

French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday called the Belarus government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine and said it will also be targeted with sanctions.

___

WASHINGTON — Russian state broadcaster RT says it was subjected to “massive” denial-of-service attacks after the online collective Anonymous pledged to carry out cyberattacks in support of Ukraine, which is being invaded by Russian forces.

RT said in a statement that the attacks on its websites came from about 100 million devices, mostly based in the U.S. But the broadcaster said it was resolving the issues and its website appeared to be functioning normally Friday.

Anonymous announced a day earlier on Twitter that it is “officially in cyber war against the Russian government” and noted later that the Russian Ministry of Defense website was down.

But it is difficult to attribute a cyberattack to Anonymous or even confirm that someone is a member of a collective that is open to anyone who claims to use hacking for a particular cause.

___

GIBRALTAR — Punitive measures against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine have spread to a tiny speck of territory on Spain’s southern tip, with Gibraltar’s government taking steps against Russia Today television.

Gibraltar on Friday announced it was suspending the Russian state broadcaster for spreading “disinformation.” It also revoked a visa waiver program for Russian citizens.

The office for Chief Minister Fabian Picardo described Russia Today as a “mouthpiece for the Kremlin” that “will become a dangerous source of disinformation that Gibraltar cannot accept on its networks.”

___

LONDON — Britain’s Ministry of Defense says the bulk of Russian forces advancing on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv are more than 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the center of the city.

The ministry said it continues to monitor “sporadic clashes’’ between Russian and Ukrainian forces in the northern suburbs of the capital.

The intelligence update, delivered via Twitter, also said that armored units were forced to open a new route toward Kyiv after failing to capture Chernihiv, a city northeast of the capital near the Belarusian border.

___

BRUSSELS — Europe’s foremost human rights organization has suspended Russia because of its invasion of Ukraine, though it remains a member.

The 47-nation Council of Europe announced Friday that Russia was suspended with “immediate effect” from the Committee of Ministers and the parliamentary assembly “as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed attack on Ukraine.”

The Strasbourg-based organization said Russia remained a member and continued to be bound to the relevant human rights conventions.

“Suspension is not a final measure but a temporary one, leaving channels of communication open,” a statement said.

___

VIENNA — The International Atomic Energy Agency says the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant reported higher-than-usual radiation levels after being taken over by Russian forces invading Ukraine.

But it said Friday that current radiation levels do not pose a threat to the public.

Ukraine’s regulatory authority previously said that increased radiation levels may be due to military vehicles stirring up soil that remains contaminated from the accident in 1986, still known as the worst nuclear disaster in history.

But the measures are “within the operational range measured in the Exclusion Zone since it was established,” according to the IAEA.

The Chernobyl Exclusion Zone is a 2,600-square-kilometer (1,000-square-mile) area of forest lying between the Belarus-Ukraine border and the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.

Russian forces took control over the site Thursday after a fierce battle with Ukrainian national guards protecting the plant.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says prospects for possible peace talks between Russia and Ukraine look uncertain due to apparent differences over a venue.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin has agreed to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials in Minsk, Belarus, where President Alexander Lukashenko runs a pro-Russian government.

That agreement came in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s offer earlier in the day to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Peskov told reporters that after the parties discussed Minsk as a possible venue, Ukrainian officials changed course and said they were unwilling to travel to Minsk and would prefer to meet in NATO member Poland. They then halted further communication, Peskov said.

Putin has claimed that the western refusal to heed Russia's demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order an invasion of the neighboring country.

___

PRAGUE -- The Czech Republic’s transport minister says his country has banned all Russian airlines from Czech airports, in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Martin Kupka said Friday the ban covers all regular flights between Prague and Moscow and Prague and St. Petersburg, as well as charter flights.

Russian planes will also be banned from landing at the western Czech spa town of Karlovy Vary, a popular destination for Russian tourists. The measure becomes affective at midnight.

Additionally, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala said his country will stop issuing visas for Russian citizens and will urge other European Union countries to do the same.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania -- Major retail chains in Lithuania started to remove Russian and Belarusian products from shelves, a move joined by online shops and widely applauded by the public as a protest against Moscow’s decision to invade Ukraine.

Maxima LT, the largest chain in the Baltic nations, said Friday the Russian goods it sells are mainly alcohol, dried products and candy, amounting to millions of euros (dollars) in sales.

Other retailers like drug stores and home suppliers made similar announcements. The Lithuanian postal service said it will not be distributing any more Russian periodicals.

International companies such as IKEA are facing pressure to remove Russian-made goods from sale in the small Baltic country, which fears Russian aggression.

___

MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin has hailed his troops for their courage as they press their offensive across Ukraine and bear down on Kyiv.

Speaking during Friday’s meeting of his Security Council, Putin claimed that most Ukrainian military units are reluctant to engage Russian forces.

He said the units offering resistance are mostly volunteer battalions made up of right-wing Ukrainian nationalists.

He offered no evidence for his claims, which could not be independently verified.

Echoing an earlier Russian military statement, Putin accused Ukrainian forces of deploying heavy weapons in urban areas in several big cities, including Kyiv and Kharkiv, to use civilians as shields.

The Russian president urged the Ukrainian military to end their resistance and turn on their leaders.

___

WARSAW, Poland - European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is in Warsaw for urgent talks with NATO’s nine eastern flank members on how to enhance the region’s security, following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The participants were also due to remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, hosting the talks between the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine, in his opening speech said that “demons of a great war, unseen since 1945” have returned to Europe.

NATO’s eastern flank members fear Moscow could also target them.

___

FORT STEWART, Ga. — The U.S. Army says 3,800 soldiers from Fort Stewart, Georgia, are among additional forces deploying to Europe following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Troops from the Army post southwest of Savannah, Georgia, “will deploy to reassure NATO allies, deter further aggression against NATO member states and train with host-nation forces,” Fort Stewart commanders said in a statement late Thursday.

Fort Stewart is home to the Army’s 3rd Infantry Division, which saw multiple combat deployments during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Most of the 3rd Infantry soldiers heading to Europe are assigned to the division’s 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team.

“The Raider Brigade is trained and equipped to deter aggression and to reassure and defend our allies,” Col. Pete Moon, the 1st Brigade’s commander, said in prepared statement.

The Georgia-based soldiers appear to be among 7,000 additional U.S. forces deploying to Germany to bolster NATO following the invasion of Ukraine. President Joe Biden ordered the deployments Thursday.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told Chinese President Xi Jinping he’s ready to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials.

The Kremlin said in its readout of Friday’s call that Xi underlined that he “views the Russian leadership’s action in the crisis situation with respect.”

In a reference to new Western sanctions against Russia over its invasion in Ukraine, the Kremlin noted that Putin and Xi agreed “it’s inadmissible to use illegitimate sanctions for achieving selfish goals of certain countries.”

Chinese state TV reported that Xi emphasized that China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations.”

___

NEW DELHI — Dozens of parents, relatives and friends of Indian students stranded in Ukraine held a demonstration near the Russian Embassy in New Delhi to demand the students' immediate evacuation.

Police barricaded the roads leading to the embassy on Friday and asked the protesters to meet Indian Foreign Ministry officials to discuss the repatriation of nearly 16,000 Indians, including students.

Some of the demonstrators held video conferencing calls with some of those stuck in metro trains and bomb shelters in Kyiv.

``We are running low on food and water in a crowded bunker,” one of the callers in Ukraine said.

Indian Embassy officials are now traveling to border areas of Ukraine touching Poland, Romania Slovakia and Hungary to facilitate the exit of Indian nationals so that they can be evacuated to India, said foreign ministy official Harsh Vardhan Shringla.

___

BRUSSELS — Germany’s foreign minister said Friday that the European Union will take in all people fleeing Ukraine due to the current conflict.

“We need to do everything to immediately take in the people who are now fleeing bombs, fleeing tanks, that’s also what we’ve been preparing for in recent weeks,” Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock told reporters in Brussels.

“We tried everything so this day wouldn’t come,” she said. “And it came because the Russian president chose it, opted for war and against human lives.”

“That’s why we will take in all of the people who are fleeing now,” Baerbock said. “We will bring the people from Ukraine to safety.”

___

BUCHAREST, Romania — Moldova’s national naval agency says a ship in “neutral waters” of the Black Sea has been hit by a missile, leaving two crew members seriously injured.

The Naval Agency said in a statement that the source of the missile that hit the Moldova-flagged Millennial Spirit on Friday is unknown.

“A fire broke out onboard the ship; the equipment and lifeboats were destroyed,” the agency said in a statement. “The ship’s crew left the ship equipped only with life jackets.”

The agency said that the company that operates the tanker is a Ukrainian legal entity and the crew members are Russian citizens.

Rescue operations were carried out by Ukrainian authorities, the Moldovan agency said.

___

LONDON — An expert in international trade says he thinks world leaders are reluctant to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions because it is the “nuclear option” of sanctions.

Disconnecting Russia from SWIFT to try to force President Vladimir Putin to end his invasion of Ukraine would have major economic costs for western countries, said Hosuk Lee-Makiyama, director of the European Centre for International Political Economy.

Lee-Makiyama told the BBC that if Russia were cut off for foreign payments for its gas and oi,l it would quickly start expropriating the 300 billion euros EU investors have plowed into the country.

“It’s a nuclear option that it’s going to basically exterminate yourself and your enemy,” he said.

World leaders, who have so far ruled out military intervention in Ukraine, have few good options for deterring Putin because he knows they fear a direct confrontation with Russia, Lee-Makiyama said.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russia is ready to send a delegation to Belarus for talks with Ukrainian officials.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin is ready to send the delegation in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's offer to discuss a non-aligned status for Ukraine.

That indicates Zelenskyy would be willing to negotiate dropping his country’s bid to join NATO, as Russia has demanded.

Before the invasion, the West had rejected the demand. Putin claimed the refusal to discuss keeping Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order a military action in Ukraine to “demilitarize” it.

___

BANGKOK — Myanmar’s ruling military council offered its support Friday for Russia’s attack on Ukraine, while the shadow government leading opposition to army rule condemned Moscow’s action.

A statement by the spokesman for Myanmar’s military government said Russia acted correctly to perpetuate its “sovereignty.”

A text message to Myanmar journalists from Maj. Gen. Zaw Min Tun also said the invasion demonstrated Russia’s position as a “world power” helping to keep global relations in balance.

Myanmar’s military rulers face armed domestic opposition, and like Russia’s leaders now, are the target of strong sanctions from Western governments seeking a return to democratic rule.

Myanmar’s National Unity Government, established by lawmakers prevented from taking their seats when the army seized power in February last year, deplored Moscow’s action.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania — Lithuania's Radio and Television Commission has temporarily suspended the operation of six Russian-language TV channels for their alleged incitement to war and propaganda.

The six TV channels were taken off the air Friday

Planeta RTR, Rossijya 24, Belarus 24, NTV Mir, RTR Planeta and Rossiya 24 were suspended for five years, and PBK and TVCI for three years, commission Vice Chairman Ricardas Slapsys told the Baltic News Service.

Lithuania, the most southern of the three Baltic nations, borders Russia’s Kaliningrad region to the southwest, Belarus to the east, Latvia to the north and Poland to the south.

Latvia banned several Russian television channels had their right to broadcast in Latvia suspended Thursday for several years.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has taken control of an airport just outside Kyiv, as Kremlin forces bear down on the Ukrainian capital.

The claim could not be independently verified.

Taking possession of the airport in Hostomel, which has a long runway allowing the landing of heavy-lift transport planes, would mean Russia can airlift troops directly to Kyiv’s outskirts.

Hostomel is just 7 kilometers (4 miles) northwest of the city.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that the Russian airborne forces used 200 helicopters to land in Hostomel and killed over 200 troops belonging to Ukraine's special forces.

Konashenkov claimed that Russian troops suffered no casualties. That contradicts Ukrainian claims that Russian troops sustained heavy casualties in the fighting there.

___

BERLIN — Germany’s Defense Ministry has confirmed media reports that it is deploying additional military assets to NATO’s eastern flank.

German weekly Der Spiegel reported that the deployments included 150 soldiers and about a dozen Boxer armored fighting vehicles, two ships and anti-missile systems.

Ministry spokesman Christian Thiels declined to say Friday exactly how many soldiers were being deployed. But he confirmed that a navy corvette would leave Saturday for patrols in the Baltic while a frigate will be deployed in the Mediterranean, both under NATO command.

Germany is also assessing whether to deploy Patriot anti-missile systems to an eastern European NATO country, Thiels said.

Decisions on deploying further troops could be expected soon, he added.

___

BEIJING — Chinese state TV says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, that Moscow is willing to negotiate with Ukraine, even as Moscow's forces invade its neighbor.

The report Friday followed a Kremlin announcement that Putin’s government was considering an offer by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to negotiate non-aligned status for his country.

Putin said Moscow “is willing to conduct high-level negotiations with the Ukrainian side,” China Central Television reported on its website.

It gave no indication whether Putin said he was responding to Zelenskyy’s offer or gave any details of what the two sides might negotiate.

Russia complains that the United States and its allies ignored Moscow’s “legitimate security concerns” by expanding the NATO military alliance eastward, closer to Russia’s borders.

Xi said China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations,” CCTV said.

___

ANKARA, Turkey — Turkey’s foreign minister says officials are still assessing a request by Ukraine for Turkey to close to Russian shipping the straits at the entrance of the Black Sea.

Mevlut Cavusoglu warned, however, that under a 1936 convention Ankara may not be able to deny total access to the Russian vessels.

Ukraine on Thursday formally asked Turkey to close the Turkish Straits to Russian warships in line with the Montreux Convention which allows Turkey to restrict the passage of belligerent countries’ warships during times of war. The convention stipulates however, that warships belonging to Black Sea coastal countries can return to their bases.

“If there is a demand for the ships of the warring countries to return to their bases, then (passage) must be allowed,” Cavusoglu was quoted as telling Hurriyet newspaper in an interview.

The minister said Turkish experts were assessing if the current situation amounted to "a state of war.”

___

BERLIN — Germany’s president is appealing to Russian President Vladimir Putin to “stop the madness of this war now.”

President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in Berlin on Friday said that “we don’t want enmity with the Russian people, quite the contrary, but this wrongdoing cannot go without a clear answer.”

Steinmeier, whose post is largely ceremonial but holds moral authority, said that Germany will do its part in deterring Putin from using force against its NATO allies.

The president, who served twice as Germany’s foreign minister, said that Putin “should not underestimate the strength of democracies” and Germans shouldn’t either.

He said it’s good that people are going out to demonstrate, adding: “The Russian president should not believe for a second that people in Germany and Europe simply accept this brutal violence.”

___

VATICAN CITY — Pope Francis went to the Russian embassy in Rome on Friday to personally express his concern about the war in Ukraine, in an extraordinary papal gesture that has no recent precedent.

Popes usually receive ambassadors and heads of state in the Vatican. For Francis to travel a short distance to the Russian embassy outside the Vatican walls was a sign of his strength of feeling about Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine.

Vatican officials said they knew of no such previous papal initiative.

Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni confirmed the pontiff wanted “clearly to express his concern about the war.” Pope Francis was there for just over a half-hour, Bruni said.

Francis has called for dialogue to end the conflict and has urged the faithful to set next Wednesday as a day of fasting and prayer for peace in Ukraine.

But he has refrained from publicly calling out Russia, presumably for fear of antagonizing the Russian Orthodox Church, with which he is trying to build stronger ties.

___

GENEVA — The U.N. human rights office says it is receiving increasing reports of civilian casualties in Ukraine in the wake of Russia’s military invasion.

Spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani of the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights says its staffers have so far verified at least 127 civilian casualties. They include 25 people killed and 102 injured, mostly from shelling and airstrikes.

She cautioned Friday that the numbers are “very likely to be an underestimate.”

Shamdasani also said the rights office was “disturbed by the multiple arbitrary arrests” of demonstrators in Russia who on Thursday protested against the conflict.

“We understand more than 1,800 protesters were arrested,” she said, before adding that it was unclear how many might have been released already.

Meanwhile, spokeswoman Shabia Mantoo of the U.N. refugee agency, UNHCR, said its latest update had that more than 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes in Ukraine. She said the agency’s planning figures anticipated that “up to 4 million people may flee to other countries if the situation escalates.”

___

LONDON — Latvia’s defense minister is criticizing European nations for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network and refusing to provide weapons to help Ukraine defend itself.

Artis Pabriks’ comments came after the U.S. and European Union stopped short of blocking Russia’s access to the SWIFT payments system when they announced a new round of sanctions late Thursday.

Pabriks also chided fellow EU nations that have refused to provide “lethal aid” to Ukraine, saying only the U.K., Greece, Poland and the Baltic states had done so.

In an interview with the BBC on Friday, Pabriks suggested that many European leaders don’t want to take these steps because they would cause economic hardship for their own countries.

“If you are really not ready yourself to spill blood, at least spill money now,’’ he said. “Do it now, because if you lose Ukraine all European geopolitics will change. … There will be much more pressure on Poland, much more pressure on the Baltics.’’

The Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia fear they could be the Kremlin’s next target.

___

DAMASCUS, Syria — Syrian President Bashar Assad is praising Russia’s military incursion into Ukraine and denouncing what he calls western “hysteria” surrounding it.

Assad spoke by phone Friday with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

“What is happening today is a correction of history and a restoration of balance which was lost in the world after the breakup of the Soviet Union,” Assad said, according to state-run news agency SANA.

He said confronting NATO expansionism is Russia’s right.

Russia is a main backer of Assad’s government and its military intervention in 2015 in the country’s civil war helped tip the balance of power in his favor.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says it will analyze the Ukrainian president’s offer to discuss a non-aligned status for his country, as a Russian military invasion pushes closer to Kyiv.

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he was ready to hold talks on the issue.

Asked about Zelenskyy’s offer, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Friday described it as “a move in a positive direction.”

He said in a conference call with reporters that “we paid attention to that, and now we need to analyze it.”

But Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Zelenskyy “is simply lying” when he offers to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Lavrov said at a briefing that Zelenskyy “missed the opportunity” to discuss a neutral status for Ukraine when Russian President Vladimir Putin proposed it.

Putin says the West left him no option but to invade when it rejected Moscow’s demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO.

___

BRUSSELS — A senior European Union official says the 27-nation bloc intends to slap further sanctions on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine.

EU Council president Charles Michel tweeted Friday: “Second wave of sanctions with massive and severe consequences politically agreed last night. Further package under urgent preparation.”

Michel announced the move after a call with Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

Michel said Kyiv “is under continued attack by Russian forces” and called on Russia to immediately stop the violence.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary has extended temporary legal protection to Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion, as countries in eastern Europe prepare for the arrival of refugees at their borders.

Hungary, which borders Ukraine to the west, has in the past taken a firm stance against all forms of immigration. It has controversially refused to accept refugees and asylum seekers from the Middle East, Africa and Asia.

But in a decree published late Thursday, Hungary’s government announced that all Ukrainian citizens arriving from Ukraine, and all third-country nationals legally residing there, would be entitled to protection.

The section applying to third-country nationals makes it possible for non-Ukrainians — for example, Belarussian refugees living in Ukraine — to receive protection in the European Union.

Prime Minister Viktor Orban has said that Hungary will play no part in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, but that it would accept refugees arriving at its borders.

___

LONDON — British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has expressed his solidarity with Ukraine in telephone call with the country’s leader.

Johnson’s Downing Street office said Friday that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy offered an update on Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes.

“The prime minister assured President Zelenskyy that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing,’’ Johnson’s office said in a statement. “He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russia’s campaign of violence and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.’’

___

BERLIN — The German government says it has suspended the granting of export credit and investment guarantees for business with Russia.

The Economy Ministry said Friday that the granting of new export credit guarantees and investment guarantees for Russia was suspended on Thursday.

The so-called Hermes credit export guarantees protect German companies from losses when exports aren’t paid for. Investment guarantees are granted by the German government to protect direct investments by German companies from political risk in the countries where they are made.

The Economy Ministry said that new export credit guarantees to the tune of 1.49 billion euros ($1.67 billion) were granted last year for business with Russia. New investment guarantees came in at a fraction of that amount, at 3.75 million euros ($4.2 million).

___

WARSAW, Poland — Poland’s Border Guard says that some 29,000 people were cleared to enter through the country’s land border with neighboring Ukraine on Thursday, the day Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began.

Before that, there were some 12,000 average daily entries from Ukraine into European Union and NATO member Poland, through land, sea and airport checkpoints, according to Border Guard statistics.

Poland has lifted the requirement of COVID-19 quarantine or vaccination certificates for refugees from Ukraine. A number of reception centers with camp beds, soup kitchens and medical care have been organized in locations close to the border with Ukraine.

___

BEIJING — China is holding back from labeling Russia’s attack on Ukraine an invasion.

At the same time, it is upholding the sanctity of territorial sovereignty, in a nod to its own insistence that Taiwan is part of China.

“The sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries should be respected and maintained,” China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Wang Wenbin said Friday.

“At the same time, we also see that the issue of Ukraine has its own complex and special historical merits, and we understand Russia’s legitimate concerns on security issues,” he added.

Wang did not answer questions about whether China would recognize the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics, in Ukrainian territory claimed by Russia, as independent states.

___

MOSCOW — Russia’s civil aviation authority has banned U.K. flights to and over Russia in retaliation against the British government’s ban on Aeroflot flights.

Rosaviatsiya said that all flights by the U.K. carriers to Russia as well as transit flights are banned starting Friday.

It said the measure was taken in response to the “unfriendly decisions” by the British authorities who banned flights to the U.K. by the Russian flag carrier Aeroflot as part of sanctions over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has destroyed 118 Ukrainian military assets since the beginning of its assault on its neighbor and as it pushes into the outskirts of Kyiv.

The claim could not be independently verified and was not confirmed by Ukraine amid a flurry of claims and counterclaims by each side.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that among the targets were 11 Ukrainian air bases, 13 command facilities, 36 air defense radars, 14 air defense missile systems, 5 warplanes, 18 tanks and warships.

However, U.K. Defense Secretary Ben Wallace rejected Russian claims of success on the first day of its invasion of Ukraine, saying it had “failed to deliver” on its day one objectives.

Wallace told Sky News that the Western assessment is that Russia had failed to take its major objectives and is behind on its timetable for advance.

“They’ve lost over 450 personnel,’’ he said.

___

BERLIN — Former German Chancellor Angela Merkel has condemned Russia’s attack on Ukraine, calling it “a deep cut in European history after the end of the Cold War.”

Germany’s dpa news agency quoted Merkel saying Friday that there was “no justification for this blatant attack of international law. I condemn it in the sharpest possible manner.”

Merkel, who grew up in East Germany and speaks Russian, was heavily engaged in negotiations with Russian President Vladimir Putin throughout her 16 years in office, which ended in December.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s nuclear energy regulatory agency says that higher than usual gamma radiation levels have been detected in the area near the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, after it was seized by the Russian military.

The State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate said Friday that higher gamma radiation levels have been detected in the Chernobyl zone, but didn’t provide details of the increase.

It attributed the rise to a “disturbance of the topsoil due to the movement of a large amount of heavy military equipment through the exclusion zone and the release of contaminated radioactive dust into the air.”

Ukrainian authorities said that Russia took the plant and its surrounding exclusion zone after a fierce battle Thursday.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Russian airborne troops were protecting the plant to prevent any possible “provocations.” He insisted that radiation levels in the area have remained normal.

The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said it was told by Ukraine of the takeover, adding that there had been “no casualties or destruction at the industrial site.”

The 1986 disaster occurred when a nuclear reactor at the plant 130 kilometers (80 miles) north of Kyiv exploded, sending a radioactive cloud across Europe. The damaged reactor was later covered by a protective shell to prevent leaks.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan warned “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards, Khan said in a statement Friday.

Khan adds that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Kyiv mayor Vitaly Klitschko said at least three people were injured when a rocket hit a multi-story apartment building in Ukraine's capital on Friday, starting a fire.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that the Russian military's claim it is not targeting civilian areas is “a lie.” He said that military and civilian areas in Ukraine are both being hit by Russian attacks.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began early Thursday with a series of missile strikes, many on key government and military installations, quickly followed by a three-pronged ground assault. Ukrainian and U.S. officials said Russian forces were attacking from the east toward Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city; from the southern region of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014; and from Belarus to the north.

___

PARIS — French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday that France and its European allies have decided to “inflict very severe blows on Moscow,” further sanctioning individuals and targeting finance, energy and other sectors. The legal texts for the sanctions will be finalized and submitted for approval to EU foreign ministers later Friday.

Macron also said the EU has decided on economic aid for Ukraine in the amount of 1.5 billion euros ($1.68 billion).

The French president also called the Belorussian government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine, and said it will also be targeted.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — As Russian troops continued pressing their offensive Friday, intense fighting also raged in the country’s east.

Russian troops entered the city of Sumy near the border with Russia that sits on a highway leading to Kyiv from the east. The regional governor, Dmytro Zhivitsky, said Ukrainian forces fought Russian troops in the city overnight, but other Russian convoys kept rolling west toward the Ukrainian capital.

“Military vehicles from Sumy are moving toward Kyiv,” Zhivitsky said. “Much equipment has passed through and is heading directly to the west.”

Zhivitsky added that another northeastern city, Konotop, was also sieged. He urged residents of the region to fight the Russian forces.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan issued a statement Friday on Twitter while on a visit to Bangladesh, where he is investigating crimes against Myanmar’s Rohingya minority.

Khan said he alerted “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards," Khan added.

He said that “any person who commits such crimes, including by ordering, inciting or contributing in another manner to the commission of these crimes may be liable to prosecution before the Court.”

Khan added that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

Follow AP’s coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: With Zelenskyy and a 2nd Russian plane reportedly shot down. With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220225ei2p00mau


Ukraine invasion: What to know as Russian forces target Kyiv
By MENELAOS HADJICOSTIS
Associated Press
1679 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 07:57 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
NICOSIA, Cyprus (AP) — After a barrage of airstrikes on cities and military bases around the country, Russian forces were closing in on Ukraine's capital[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-vladimir-putin-volodymyr-zelenskyy-boris-johnson-business-08f569df695831ee467979527ea2e241] on Saturday. The city warned of street fighting and urged residents to stay inside and take cover.

With growing signs that Russia aims to overthrow him, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called on Ukrainians to “stand firm,” saying the "fate of Ukraine is being decided right now.”

He refused American help to evacuate, according to a senior U.S. intelligence official, who quoted Zelenskyy saying that he needed anti-tank ammunition but “not a ride.”

The assault, anticipated for weeks by the West, amounts to Europe's largest ground conflict since World War II as President Vladimir Putin tries to restore Moscow's Cold War influence.

It is unclear how much or little Russian forces have seized or the extent of the casualties. Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov claimed Saturday that since the start of Russia’s attack, its military had hit 821 Ukrainian military facilities, 87 tanks and other targets.

Konashenkov didn’t say how many Ukrainian troops were killed and didn’t mention any casualties on the Russian side. His claims and Ukraine’s allegations that its forces killed thousands of Russian troops could not be independently verified.

However, U.S. defense officials said they believe the Russian offensive has encountered considerable resistance and is proceeding more slowly than Moscow had envisioned, though that could change quickly.

Here are the things to know about the conflict and the security crisis in former Soviet-dominated Eastern Europe:

RUSSIAN TROOPS MARCH ON

Kyiv officials are warning residents that street fighting is underway against Russian forces. They advised residents to remain in shelters or if home to avoid going near windows or on balconies, and to take precautions against being hit by debris or bullets.

The Ukrainian military said a battle was underway near a military unit to the west of the city center. Kyiv Mayor Vitaly Klitschko said new explosions shook the area near a major power plant that the Russians were trying to attack.

A missile slammed into a high-rise building on the southwestern outskirts of Kyiv, Klitschko said Saturday. He said rescue workers were heading there and posted an image on a messaging app, showing a gaping hole on one side of the building.

Russian troops were trying to advance on the city from several directions. The Russian invasion of Ukraine began Thursday with massive air and missile strikes and ground troops moving in from the north, east and south.

The Russian military said Friday it had encircled the cities of Sumy and Konotop in northeastern Ukraine, but was “taking steps to ensure civilians’ safety.” It said it also seized a strategic airport outside Kyiv, allowing it to quickly build up forces to take the capital.

Meanwhile, a senior U.S. defense official said Friday it’s estimated that Russia has now launched more than 200 missiles into Ukraine and some have hit residential areas, although it was unclear if they were deliberately targeted.

Ukraine’s military reported shooting down an II-76 Russian transport plane carrying paratroopers near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles (40 kilometers) south of Kyiv.

A second Russian Ilyushin Il-76 was shot down near Bila Tserkva, 50 miles (85 kilometers) south of Kyiv, according to two American officials with direct knowledge of conditions on the ground in Ukraine.

HINTS OF TALKS TO STOP THE FIGHTING

Hopes for a negotiated end to the war rose and then dimmed on Friday after a tentative agreement to discuss Zelenskyy’s offer to designate Ukraine a non-aligned country appeared to break down.

The Kremlin initially said it was ready to send a delegation to Belarus, then later backpedaled, saying the Ukrainian government had indicated it preferred to meet in Warsaw and then halted communications. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov also questioned the sincerity of the Ukrainian president's offer and said Zelenskyy should have agreed to talks earlier on.

But late Friday, Zelenskyy spokesman Sergii Nikiforov wrote on Facebook that the two sides were consulting on a place and time for the talks.

Hungary’s foreign minister, Peter Szijjarto, offered Budapest as a possible location. Also writing on Facebook, he said he put the proposal to both Russia's and Ukraine's government and neither dismissed it.

Before the invasion, the West had rejected Russia’s demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO. Putin used the refusal to justify the invasion, claiming that the West left him no other choice.

CIVILIANS IN HARM'S WAY

Waking to the second day of Russia's invasion, horrified civilians found themselves at risk [https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-europe-lifestyle-kyiv-ed0e4c3b29d4b287afaa4e43aead4f0e] as artillery shells rained down on some residential buildings on Kyiv's outskirts.

City residents stood uneasily in doorways of apartment buildings watching armored personnel carriers driving down the streets.

After 8 p.m., a large boom was heard near Maidan Nezalezhnosti, the square in central Kyiv. And the mayor said five explosions struck near a major power plant just outside the city. The causes of the explosions was not immediately known.

Ravina Shamdasani, a spokeswoman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights, said its staffers have so far verified at least 25 civilian deaths and 102 injured, mostly from shelling and airstrikes.

A spokeswoman for the U.N. refugee agency, Shabia Mantoo, said more than 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes in Ukraine and that “up to 4 million people may flee to other countries if the situation escalates.”

FLEEING FOR SAFETY

Thousands of Ukrainians crossed Friday into neighboring countries [https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-hungary-europe-slovakia-39a0abe9fcb9dd9e9fc7304aa2a9305b] to the west in search of safety from the unfolding war in their country.

With men of military age banned from leaving the country, most of those who crossed borders were women, children and the elderly.

One woman from Kyiv who arrived in Przemsyl, Poland, described how men were pulled off trains in Ukraine before they got to the border.

Cars were backed up for several miles at some border crossings as authorities in Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Moldova mobilized to receive the Ukrainians, providing shelter, food and legal help. These countries also eased their usual border procedures, including COVID-19 testing requirements.

POPE'S PERSONAL APPEAL FOR PEACE

The pope broke protocol with an in-person visit[https://apnews.com/article/pope-francis-europe-religion-florence-e593465a714b79047ee7f6cfc51b0c08] Friday to the Russian Embassy to “express his concern about the war” in Ukraine.

Pope Francis’ extraordinary gesture was viewed as a sign of his anger at Russia’s actions, and his willingness to make a personal appeal for the end of hostilities.

The pope traveled to and from the embassy in a small white car, with Vatican officials saying they knew of no such previous papal initiative.

NUCLEAR WAR NIGHTMARE REVISITED

Reviving Cold War fears of a nuclear showdown, Putin has warned in a speech that he has the weapons available if anyone dares to use military means[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-vladimir-putin-europe-poland-nuclear-weapons-2503c0d7696a57db4f437c90d3894b18] to try to stop his takeover of Ukraine.

Whether an empty threat or not, Putin's words re-animated the specter of nuclear war — through accident or miscalculation.

The Russian president said in a speech early Thursday that despite “losing a considerable part of its capabilities after the fall of the Soviet Union," Russia remains “one of the most powerful nuclear states" and has “a certain advantage in several cutting-edge weapons."

TURNING THE SCREWS ON RUSSIA

The West has taken a military option in Ukraine off the table, but world leaders — with the exception of Moscow ally China — are preparing measures aimed at hurting the Russian economy and its leaders[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-vladimir-putin-business-china-asia-b57700241d650315db1eb0e8516ce2d6], including Putin himself.

The U.S., Britain, Canada and European Union said Friday they will sanction Putin and Lavrov, his foreign minister. The EU unanimously agreed to freeze their assets.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki indicated the U.S. sanctions will include a travel ban.

Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said the sanctions showed the “total helplessness” of the West. “Who are you going to talk to? ... A nuclear power, a great country; who have you decided to play with?” Zakharova said in televised remarks.

EU ministers have said that even further sanctions were still possible, including booting Russia out of SWIFT, the dominant system for global financial transactions.

Asian and Pacific countries have joined the West in taking punitive measures against Russia, including export controls aimed at starving its industries and military of semiconductors and other high-tech products.

In retaliation to a British ban on Aeroflot flights, Russia’s civil aviation authority forbade U.K. flights to and over Russia starting Friday.

Canada’s largest province is pulling all Russian vodka from government-owned liquor stores, Ontario's finance minister said. Quebec is considering a ban on Russian liquor.

The Council of Europe also suspended Russia from the continent’s foremost human rights organization.

And in pop culture, the wildly popular Eurovision song contest also banned Russia from the May finals in Turin, Italy.

SPORTING WORLD TURNS ITS BACK

Russia has been stripped of hosting the Champions League final by UEFA w[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-soccer-sports-champions-league-paris-249b9dd81765c7cc4dd7a3fc4eb2547b] ith St. Petersburg replaced by Paris, and Formula One dropped this season’s Russian Grand Prix in Sochi in September

The showpiece final in the European men’s football season will still be held on May 28 but at the 80,000-seat Stade de France.

The International Ski Federation announced Russia will not host any more of its World Cup events this winter, and the European curling championships scheduled to be held in November in Perm, Russia, will also be relocated, the sport’s international governing body announced on Friday.

The International Tennis Federation also canceled all events taking place in Russia indefinitely.

___

Associated Press writers around the world contributed to this report.

___

Follow AP’s coverage of the tensions between Russia and Ukraine at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: to add Russian Defense Ministry claims, revise section on potential for talks. With AP Photos.; AP Video.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220225ei2p00n5d


EU still mulling cutting Russia from SWIFT after fresh Zelensky appeal
360 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 13:25 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Saturday again asked European nations to sever Russia from the SWIFT banking system as Hungary and Italy suggested they were not blocking the move.

SWIFT's messaging system allows banks to communicate rapidly and securely about transactions, and cutting Russia off would cripple its trade with most of the world.

"There is already almost full support from the EU countries to disconnect Russia from SWIFT. I hope that Germany and Hungary will have the courage to support this decision," Zelensky said in a video address posted online.

The Hungarian government angrily denied suggestions it had blocked moves to exclude Russia from SWIFT.

Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Facebook that such claims were "fake news".

"We have never spoken out against a single sanction proposal, we have not blocked and are not blocking anything," he said.

Government spokesman Zoltan Kovacs further tweeted that "Hungary stands 100 percent in alignment with the joint EU effort.

"We're doing no less than what the EU position calls for. And it's not dependent on Hungary to do more," he added.

However, neither statement explicitly clarified whether Budapest was in favour of the move.

Germany has been more cautious about excluding Russia from SWIFT. Russian gas makes up a higher share of energy supplies in Germany and other parts of Europe than in France, which backs the move.

Italy has been another country which has have been reluctant to exclude Russia from SWIFT over fears Moscow could cut off key gas supplies.

Italian Prime Minster Mario Draghi spoke to Zelensky on Saturday and "reaffirmed... that Italy will fully support the EU line on sanctions against Russia, including those relating to SWIFT," according to an official statement released by the Italian government after the phone call.

Iran has been disconnected from the SWIFT system in the past over its nuclear programme.

Russia meanwhile has been developing domestic financial infrastructure to counter such a threat, including the SPFS system for bank transfers and the Mir card payments system.

Cutting off Russia could complicate remaining trade with Europe.

burs-jsk/ach

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220226ei2q008vh


EU still mulling Russia SWIFT ban after fresh Zelensky appeal
452 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 17:12 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Saturday again asked European nations to sever Russia from the SWIFT banking system as Hungary and Italy suggested they were not blocking the move.

SWIFT's messaging system allows banks to communicate rapidly and securely about transactions, and cutting Russia off would cripple its trade with most of the world.

"There is already almost full support from the EU countries to disconnect Russia from SWIFT. I hope that Germany and Hungary will have the courage to support this decision," Zelensky said in a video address posted online.

The Hungarian government angrily denied suggestions it had blocked moves to exclude Russia from SWIFT.

Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Facebook that such claims were "fake news".

"We have never spoken out against a single sanction proposal, we have not blocked and are not blocking anything," he said.

Government spokesman Zoltan Kovacs further tweeted that "Hungary stands 100 percent in alignment with the joint EU effort.

"We're doing no less than what the EU position calls for. And it's not dependent on Hungary to do more," he added.

However, neither statement explicitly clarified whether Budapest was in favour of the move.

Germany has been more cautious about excluding Russia from SWIFT and now finds itself increasingly isolated on the question.

Russian gas makes up a higher share of energy supplies in Germany and other parts of Europe than in France, which backs the move.

Ahead of a meeting with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, his Polish counterpart Mateusz Morawiecki criticised the "unyielding egoism that we see in certain Western countries, including here in Germany".

He urged Berlin to "finally decide on sanctions that are actually crushing", including the exclusion from SWIFT.

Earlier this week German Finance Minister Christian Lindner said he was "open" to including SWIFT in the EU's sanctions response package.

But he added that it "would mean that there is a high risk that Germany will no longer receive gas, raw material supplies from Russia".

Italy has also been reluctant to exclude Russia from SWIFT over fears Moscow could cut off gas supplies.

Italian Prime Minster Mario Draghi spoke to Zelensky on Saturday and "reaffirmed... that Italy will fully support the EU line on sanctions against Russia, including those relating to SWIFT", according to an Italian government statement released after the phone call.

Iran has been disconnected from the SWIFT system in the past over its nuclear programme.

Russia meanwhile has been developing domestic financial infrastructure to counter such a threat, including the SPFS system for bank transfers and the Mir card payments system.

Cutting off Russia could complicate remaining trade with Europe.

burs-jsk/imm

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220226ei2q00dw1


The UK ambassador to the UN has said "Russia is isolated" after Moscow vetoed a...
5368 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 22:36 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The UK ambassador to the UN has said "Russia is isolated" after Moscow vetoed a UN Security Council resolution calling on it to stop the invasion of Ukraine and withdraw its troops.

Dame Barbara Woodward said following the vote it was "absurd" for Russia to claim the invasion was in self-defence.

"Russia's only act of self-defence is the vote they have cast against this resolution today," Dame Barbara said.

"Make no mistake: Russia is isolated.

"It has no support for the invasion of Ukraine.

"History will record how we voted today and which countries stood up to be counted in defence of the Charter and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.

"The United Kingdom stands steadfast in support of the Ukrainian people and will hold Russia accountable for its aggression."

Milla Jovovich said she was "torn in two" to watch the horror unfolding in her home country of Ukraine, as violence continued.

"I am heartbroken and dumbstruck trying to process the events of this week in my birthplace of Ukraine. My country and people being bombed," the Resident Evil actress wrote online.

"Friends and family in hiding. My blood and my roots come from both Russia and Ukraine.

"I am torn in two as I watch the horror unfolding, the country being destroyed, families being displaced, their whole life lying in charred fragments around them."

Facebook has said it is prohibiting Russian state media from running any advertising on or monetising from its platform.

The firm's head of security policy, Nathaniel Gleicher, said in a statement: "We are now prohibiting Russian state media from running ads or monetising on our platform anywhere in the world.

"We also continue to apply labels to additional Russian state media.

"These changes have already begun rolling out and will continue into the weekend."

Mr Gleicher added Facebook was "closely monitoring" the situation in Ukraine and would "keep sharing steps we're taking to protect people on our platform".

Joe Biden has signed a memorandum on the provision of up to 600 million dollars (£448 million) in immediate military aid to Ukraine.

The document issued by the White House said Mr Biden made the order under part of the Foreign Assistance Act to "determine whether it is important to the security interests of the United States to furnish up to 250 million dollars (£187 million) in assistance without regard to any provision of law".

He also signed it "to direct the drawdown of up to an aggregate value of 350 million dollars (£261 million) in defence articles and services of the Department of Defence, and military education and training, and to make the determinations required under such section to direct such a drawdown".

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has survived a night of Russian assaults on Kyiv and instructed people not to believe "fake news".

"Good morning everybody. Do not believe fake news. I am here," Mr Zelensky said in Ukrainian in a selfie video posted to social media.

"We will not lay down our weapons. We will defend our Country. Our weapons are our strength. This is our land. Our country. Our children. We will protect all of them," he added in the video, which appeared to be shot in downtown Kyiv.

Armed Forces Minister James Heappey has said that Ukrainian forces defending Kyiv have been putting up "incredible resistance".

Mr Heappey said the situation was "very grave" but that the fighting in the capital was so far confined to "very isolated pockets of Russian special forces and paratroopers".

"The main armoured columns approaching Kyiv are still some way off. That is a testament to the incredible resistance the Ukrainian armoured forces have put up over the last 48 hours or so," he told Sky News.

"Clearly the Russian plan is to take Kyiv but the reality is that the Ukrainians are thwarting them thus far.

"It looks like the Russian plan is nowhere near running to schedule.

"I think that will be a great cause of concern for President Putin and rather points to the fact that there was a lot of hubris in the Russian plan and that he may be awfully advised."

Armed forces minister James Heappey has said the UK is looking to continue to supply weapons to the Ukrainian armed forces.

Mr Heappey said that Defence Secretary Ben Wallace chaired a donors conference of Friday with 25 nations, some of whom pledged to send arms and other aid.

"We know what the Ukrainians want. We are doing our best to get it to them," he told Sky News.

Mr Heappey said the Government was working on plans to support a resistance movement and a Ukrainian government in exile if Kyiv does fall.

"That is a decision for the National Security Council to take but it is something that the Prime Minister has asked us in the Ministry of Defence to look at and plan for," he said.

He said that the West was facing a prolonged period of "acute competition" with Russia as it sought to achieve fundamental change in the country.

"There is a 10, 20-year project where the West will be back into quite acute competition, where imposing cost on Putin and the kleptocrats who surround him so that he fails, and he is seen to fail, and he has no opportunity to anoint his successor, and Russia fundamentally changes as a country as a consequence because the Russian people have had enough of him.

"That is something where the UK and our allies have got time to make good strategic decisions."

A former spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin has claimed that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky wants to provoke the Russian army into killing citizens to get Nato to react.

Sergei Markov, who is now deputy chairman of the Russian Public Forum on International Affairs, told Times Radio on Saturday: "He wants to provoke Russian army to use artillery for the big damages of the Ukrainian citizens."

Asked if he was suggesting that President Zelensky wants the Russian army to kill Ukrainian citizens, Mr Markov said: "Exactly. It is his main political (aim) too."

He added: "That's the major goal now - to invoke Nato to stop Russian army."

Mr Markov also said: "Russian army doesn't want to kill Ukrainian soldiers."

He then claimed that 87% of the Ukrainian army joined the Russian army in Crimea in 2014, and that with the current assault on Ukraine, "a majority of the soldiers with Ukrainian army will make decision to join Russian army".

Armed forces minister James Heappey has said Britain and other Western allies would continue to support the Ukrainians in every way they could.

"The more the Ukrainians successfully resist, the more I think they will be emboldened. People are rallying to the flag. There is every chance President Putin has bitten off more than he can chew," he told ITV.

"We, like Ukraine's other allies in the West, will continue to support them in every way we reasonably can but we have to be very clear-eyed about the size of the Russian force he has amassed against them."

Mr Heappey expressed concern that Mr Putin had gone "all in" on the invasion and warned of more "utterly brutal fighting" ahead.

"I think there is a fanaticism and a fervour in his language that is very concerning. He has gone all in on this," he said.

"He has put a huge proportion of the Russian armed forces into this campaign in Ukraine and I am very concerned that he has backed himself into a corner.

"I think you are going to see more and more utterly brutal fighting and some of Russian and Ukraine's bravest and best are going to lose their lives because of Putin's hubris."

Labour MP Stephen Kinnock, who lived in St Petersburg for three years, said President Vladimir Putin has made a "terrible and deeply damaging strategic miscalculation" and "cannot win in this situation".

The Aberavon MP told BBC Breakfast: "We've got to be ready to be in this for the long haul. There will be a long insurgency against Russia if it does seek to occupy Ukraine and, in the end, Russia will lose that insurgency.

"Mr Putin has made a tremendous and terrible and deeply damaging strategic miscalculation here. He cannot win in this situation and the international community has to stand firm against."

Mr Kinnock also argued that Russian citizens do not want "to be a pariah state", saying "I lived and worked in Russia for three years in St Petersburg and the people there, they want to be a part of the international community.

"They do not want to be a pariah state. They do not want to be isolated. They want to engage with the rest of the world.

"So we have to just keep ratcheting up the pressure on Mr Putin and we have to do more to support the Ukrainian armed forces."

Armed forces minister James Heappey said Britain is continuing to press for Russia to be excluded from the Swift system of international banking payments.

Mr Heappey said it was the "ultimate economic sanction" but that more diplomacy was needed to get international agreement.

"Swift is not a unilateral decision that the UK can take," he told the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

"We will continue to push with every means at out disposal - and we have encouraged parliamentarians to reach to their networks of parliamentarians around Europe - in order to change some minds.

"That really is the ultimate economic sanction. It is the one that the UK Government wants to see enacted.

"It is just clear that there is more diplomacy required before that is going to happen."

Armed forces minister James Heappey said the Ukrainian military was facing a prolonged struggle with the Russians which could carry on for months.

"Nobody should think that this is anywhere near over. What stands in front of Ukraine, its armed forces and very tragically its people, is days, weeks months more of what we have seen over that last 48 hours," he told BBC Breakfast.

"President Putin, if you listen to his speeches, look at his press conferences over the last two or three days, there has been a fanaticism in the language that he used, a fervour in the tone of his voice. He has gone all in on this.

"I am afraid that that means that what is in front of Ukraine is bloody, brutal. We will do everything we can to help them resist but people shouldn't necessarily think that a happy ending is just around the corner.

"This is going to be a long slog. It is going to be brutal. We are going to see some horrendous things on our TV screens."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted: "Yesterday I urged NATO and Nordic partners to do all they can to support Ukraine and Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

"I am pleased even more allies have come forward with defensive and humanitarian aid. We must stand with the Ukrainian people as they defend their country and democracies everywhere."

Tobias Ellwood, Conservative chairman of the Defence Committee, said there are "huge lesson" to be learned in understanding the "wider geopolitical picture that is now changing in front of us".

The former soldier recalled serving in Bosnia, telling ITV News: "Nato wasn't part of Bosnia there, but there was a commitment to European security, and now we are playing catch-up.

"We're actually reacting to events rather than getting ahead of them. And the big question is - when do you stand up to Putin? Do you make sure that you hold him back today?

"Or do you allow him to advance and end up having a bigger battle later on when you realise what his intentions are.

"Things won't stop here. Let's make this very, very clear. Putin's ideological intention to expand his sphere of influence will go way beyond Ukraine."

Tobias Ellwood said there are "many ways" Ukraine can be assisted other than "putting in boots on the ground".

The MP told ITV News: "We need to reconsider this no-fly zone, let's say west of the Dnieper River, because that would change the optics here."

Mr Ellwood added: "If we don't stand our ground now, where will this go? And don't forget there are other adversaries around the world, namely China, watching very carefully how the West reacts here."

He said if the West is seen to be "timid" or "risk-averse" then China "will take full advantage of that weakness too".

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said almost 116,000 people have fled Ukraine since the Russian invasion began on Thursday.

It tweeted: "Latest update is that almost 116,000 have fled to neighbouring countries since 24 Feb - mainly Poland, Hungary, Moldova, Slovakia and Romania.

"Numbers are rising."

The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine, saying: "Russian forces have continued their advance on Kyiv with the bulk of their forces now 30km from the centre of the city.

"Russia has yet to gain control of the airspace over Ukraine, greatly reducing the effectiveness of the Russian Air Force.

"Ukrainian Armed Forces continue to put up staunch resistance across the country.

"Russian casualties are likely to be heavy and greater than anticipated or acknowledged by the Kremlin."

The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have said they "stand" with the people of Ukraine as they "bravely fight" for their future.

In a personal tweet signed by the couple, they wrote: "In October 2020 we had the privilege to meet President Zelenskyy and the First Lady to learn of their hope and optimism for Ukraine's future.

"Today we stand with the President and all of Ukraine's people as they bravely fight for that future."

Home Secretary Priti Patel tweeted: "I have cancelled the visas of the Belarusian Men's Basketball Team who were due to play in Newcastle tomorrow night.

"The UK will not welcome the national sports teams of those countries who are complicit in Putin's unprovoked and illegal invasion of £Ukraine."

In Manchester, hundreds gathered in Piccadilly Gardens for a Stand For Ukraine rally.

The crowd, many wearing Ukrainian blue and yellow flags and with traditional flower headbands, sang Ukrainian songs and chanted: "Stop Putin. Stop the war."

Prayers in Ukrainian and English were led by a priest.

Many held placards with slogans including "Help victims in Ukraine", "Stop Russian Hitler" and "Putin lies, Ukraine never dies".

One woman who spoke at the rally in Manchester said her mother was Russian and her father was Ukrainian.

She said she had seen on the news that a missile had hit an apartment building in the district of Kyiv where she grew up.

She told the crowd: "It's happening now and you will be next eventually.

"Kyiv is three hours' flight from Manchester. It is Europe, we are a democratic, peaceful country.

"Why do we have war? It's only because of Putin, who is a complete nut job."

Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted that he head spoken the Dutch prime minister about the situation in Ukraine: "I spoke to Mark Rutte this afternoon to thank him for strong cooperation in ensuring a supply of defensive aid to Ukraine. We discussed SWIFT and the need for urgent action to exclude Russia.

"The UK and the Netherlands are united in our condemnation of Putin's attack on Ukraine."

The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine, saying: "The speed of the Russian advance has temporarily slowed likely as a result of acute logistical difficulties and strong Ukrainian resistance.

"Russian forces are bypassing major Ukrainian population centres while leaving forces to encircle and isolate them.

"Overnight clashes in Kyiv are likely to have involved limited numbers of pre-positioned Russian sabotage groups.

"The capture of Kyiv remains Russia's primary military objective."

Sir Keir Starmer has called for the expulsion of Russia's ambassador to the UK following the invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking during a visit to Birmingham, the Labour leader said the Government should order Andrei Kelin to leave the country immediately.

"I think the Russian ambassador should be told to leave the country," he said in a pooled clip for broadcasters.

"Russia is invading a European country. It isn't right that he is here. He should be told to go straight away."

Sir Keir said the Government needed to move further and faster on sanctions against Russia.

"We have got to break open these companies that are supporting Putin, anybody who is supporting his regime. So we need to go further and faster on this," he said.

Sir Keir Starmer has said Britain should be prepared to take in Ukrainian refugees fleeing the Russian invasion.

Speaking during a visit to Birmingham, the Labour leader said the Government has "got this one wrong" in continuing to apply existing rules for Ukranians.

"We must help Ukrainian people looking for safety. That is what we have always done as a country in a moment like this," he said in a pooled clip for broadcasters.

"The Government has got this one wrong. They are applying the same rules as they had before."

He called for a "humanitarian approach" with "sanctuary for those who are fleeing from Russian aggression, fleeing from this invasion, fleeing for their lives".

He added: "We must do more in this respect."

Sir Keir Starmer urged the Government to come forward with legislation to expose Russian oligrachs who hide their wealth by buying up property in the UK as quickly as possible.

Announcing the sanctions package in the Commons on Thursday, Boris Johnson said ministers would set out measures before Easter for a register of overseas property ownership.

Following reports that the Government was preparing to fasttrack the legislation, Sir Keir said Labour would support such a move.

"The Government says it is bringing forward primary legislation. My message to them is 'Get on with it'. We will fully support it," he in a pooled clip for broadcasters during a visit to Birmingham.

"It can go through Parliament very, very quickly. We have been calling for this legislation to break open companies to see who the real beneficiaries are for years.

"This will now go through because we will support it but it won't be enforced for months to come so I am frustrated that it has taken this long for the Government to come forward."

Police have intervened after a man holding a Russian flag close to a Ukrainian protest in London was almost punched.

The man, who had an English accent, stood across the road from the Russian embassy and was confronted by a number of protesters.

As police urged him to leave, a woman who was visibly angry shouted: "People are dying how can you support him?"

She raised a fist and swung her arm towards the man before police intervened.

The man put the flag away and left.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he has spoken by telephone with Boris Johnson and expressed gratitude for Britain's support.

Mr Zelensky tweeted: "Grateful to the British Prime Minister for his position, new decisions to enhance the combat capabilities of the Ukrainian army. Agreed on further joint steps to counter the aggressor."

Downing Street said Boris Johnson and President Zelensky "agreed on the need for the international community to isolate Russia completely diplomatically and financially".

In a statement, No 10 said: "The Prime Minister spoke to Ukrainian President Zelenskyy this evening.

"He paid tribute to the incredible heroism and bravery of President Zelenskyy and the Ukrainian people.

"The leaders agreed that President Putin is being met with a greater Ukrainian resistance than he calculated on.

"The Prime Minister updated on the UK's support to Ukraine and the progress rallying international partners to hold Russia to account for their campaign of destruction.

"The leaders agreed on the need for the international community to isolate Russia completely diplomatically and financially. They welcomed the increased willingness to take action on excluding Russia from SWIFT.

"The Prime Minister and President Zelenskyy expressed their mutual concern about the role Belarus is playing as a conduit for President Putin's violence. "

YouTube has announced it is taking action against a number of channels in response to Russia's assault on Ukraine, including restricting access to Russian state-controlled broadcaster RT.

In a statement on Saturday, a spokesperson said: "In light of extraordinary circumstances in Ukraine, we're taking a number of actions.

"We're pausing a number of channels' ability to monetise on YouTube, including several Russian channels affiliated with recent sanctions.

"We will be significantly limiting recommendations to these channels.

"And in response to a government request, we've restricted access to RT and a number of other channels in Ukraine.

"We will continue to monitor new developments and may take further actions."

Speaking at RAF Brize Norton, Boris Johnson said: "Let's be in no doubt, things are not going all the way of President Putin, very far from it.

"The Ukrainians are fighting heroically, and in some places with great success, as many of us thought they would because they're a great country and a very brave country.

"But as you rightly point out, there are some terrible atrocities being committed and there will be some very grim days ahead for Ukraine.

"We've got to do everything we can to change the heavy odds that Ukraine faces and to help them, and so that's why we're sending humanitarian supplies, we're sending financial supplies and military supplies as well.

"The UK was the first European country to send military aid to Ukraine. Last night, many other countries joined in sending, in pledging to send military assistance, you're starting to see that grow."

The Department of Foreign Affairs has told Irish citizens to avoid non-essential travel to Russia.

In an update to travel guidance, the Department said: "Due to the ongoing disruption to flight services to and from Russia, the Department of Foreign Affairs is advising citizens to avoid non-essential travel to Russia at this time.

"Further flight cancellations and uncertainty on travel routes from Russia are expected in the coming days.

"Citizens with plans to depart from Russia should consult closely with their airline and/or travel agent, and consider booking flights sooner than planned, in case of widening disruptions in the coming period."

Boris Johnson said President Putin's engagement in diplomacy was a "charade" and that he has a "weird, semi-mystical view of Ukraine as part of Russia".

Speaking on Saturday night, the Prime Minister said: "I think we have to face the hideous reality that the diplomacy, as far as President Putin was concerned, was a charade.

"He never really intended to alter his course. You read the article that he wrote many months ago - it was clear that he's attached to a weird, semi-mystical view of Ukraine as part of Russia.

"And that is a view that the Ukrainian people fervently, passionately reject and they're showing that they will fight to reject it.

"Our job now is to help them, to help change the very heavy odds they face and that's why we're sending the support their way."

Mr Johnson said: "You ask 'Should we do more?' The answer is yes. And we need to make sure that we apply those much tougher economic sanctions, including Swift, and what's starting to happen is that the horror of what is unfolding in Ukraine is becoming clear to Western audiences, and that is, in turn, putting huge pressure on Western politicians.

"We've got to act together and we've got to do more."

Boris Johnson said there is "fake news" online about the UK not taking refugees.

Asked why the UK is not taking in refugees like some other countries, he told reporters: "Of course we're going to take refugees. This country's had a historic and proud role in taking refugees from all conflicts.

"And if you think what we did in Afghanistan, for instance, the UK was way out in front.

"I'm aware that there's some fake news on the internet about that and I really want to knock that on the head.

"The UK is way out in front in our willingness to help with refugees.

"We've sent 1,000 troops to the theatre, to be ready to help with the influx and of course we will help people fleeing in fear of their lives."

Boris Johnson said the Swift banking system is "incredibly important" for putting economic pressure on Russia.

Asked whether the UK needs to do more to push other countries to ban Russia from Swift, Mr Johnson said: "I think that what you've seen just today is more countries joining the call of the UK to use Swift.

"Swift is the mechanism that stops people making payments to Vladimir Putin's Russia.

"It's incredibly important for tightening the ligature - the economic ligature - around the Putin regime.

"And today you've seen more and more countries, France and others, coming forward to say that they will not block a banning, a boycott of Swift."

Boris Johnson said it is "inconceivable" that sporting relations can continue with Russia under Vladimir Putin.

Asked if the UK should break off sporting connections with Russia following Poland and Sweden's refusal to play the national football team in the World Cup play-offs, Mr Johnson called the situation "sad".

"I mean, it's a sad thing because I don't think we've had a situation like this for a very, very long time," the Prime Minister said.

"But it's inconceivable to me to imagine that normal sporting relations with Putin's Russia can continue."

Asked about whether it is frustrating that countries like China abstained from the UN Security Council vote to condemn Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Boris Johnson said "outrage and disgust" is growing in countries that have so far been "apathetic".

"I think what you're seeing today, and over the last few hours, is a sense around the world that this is a horror that they simply hadn't expected," he said.

"And I think that feeling is strong and growing, not just in countries in the middle ground, but in Russia itself you're starting to see that feeling that this is something unconscionable.

"So I think (in) the countries that have been apathetic on this issue so far, a sense of of outrage and disgust is growing at what the Putin regime is doing in Ukraine.

"In the meantime, the UK is going to do everything we can to help and support our friends in Ukraine."

Ursula von der Leyen, president of the European Commission, has condemned the "barbaric actions" during Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Ursula von der Leyen has announced an enhanced package of sanctions against Russia.

In a statement on Saturday, the EU Commission president said: "The Russian army is committing barbaric actions during its invasion of Ukraine.

"It is bombing and launching missiles, killing innocent people.

"At the same time, the entire world is witnessing the determined and brave resistance by the Ukrainian army and population."

The UK has agreed with the EU and US to cut some Russian banks out of the Swift banking system.

A statement issued by the White House said: "We, the leaders of the European Commission, France, Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States condemn Putin's war of choice and attacks on the sovereign nation and people of Ukraine. We stand with the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian people in their heroic efforts to resist Russia's invasion. Russia's war represents an assault on fundamental international rules and norms that have prevailed since the Second World War, which we are committed to defending. We will hold Russia to account and collectively ensure that this war is a strategic failure for Putin.

"This past week, alongside our diplomatic efforts and collective work to defend our own borders and to assist the Ukrainian government and people in their fight, we, as well as our other allies and partners around the world, imposed severe measures on key Russian institutions and banks, and on the architects of this war, including Russian President Vladimir Putin.

"As Russian forces unleash their assault on Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities, we are resolved to continue imposing costs on Russia that will further isolate Russia from the international financial system and our economies. We will implement these measures within the coming days.

"Specifically, we commit to undertake the following measures:

"First, we commit to ensuring that selected Russian banks are removed from the SWIFT messaging system. This will ensure that these banks are disconnected from the international financial system and harm their ability to operate globally.

"Second, we commit to imposing restrictive measures that will prevent the Russian Central Bank from deploying its international reserves in ways that undermine the impact of our sanctions.

Third, we commit to acting against the people and entities who facilitate the war in Ukraine and the harmful activities of the Russian government. Specifically, we commit to taking measures to limit the sale of citizenship-so called golden passports-that let wealthy Russians connected to the Russian government become citizens of our countries and gain access to our financial systems.

Fourth, we commit to launching this coming week a transatlantic task force that will ensure the effective implementation of our financial sanctions by identifying and freezing the assets of sanctioned individuals and companies that exist within our jurisdictions. As a part of this effort we are committed to employing sanctions and other financial and enforcement measures on additional Russian officials and elites close to the Russian government, as well as their families, and their enablers to identify and freeze the assets they hold in our jurisdictions. We will also engage other governments and work to detect and disrupt the movement of ill-gotten gains, and to deny these individuals the ability to hide their assets in jurisdictions across the world.

"Finally, we will step up or co-ordination against disinformation and other forms of hybrid warfare."

Ms von der Leyen said: "As Russian forces unleash their assault on Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities, we are resolved to continue imposing massive costs on Russia that will further isolate Russia from the international financial system and our economies.

"In co-ordination with President Biden, President Macron, Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Prime Minister Draghi as well as Prime Minister Trudeau and Prime Minister Johnson, we considered a significant tightening of our international response.

"The European Union and its partners are working to cripple Putin's ability to finance his war machine."

Ms von der Leyen told the news conference: "I will now propose to EU leaders the following measures.

"First, we commit to ensuring that a certain number of Russian banks are removed from Swift. This will ensure that these banks are disconnected from the international financial system and harm their ability to operate globally.

"Swift is the world's dominant global interbank payment system. Cutting banks off will stop them from conducting most of their financial transactions worldwide and effectively block Russian exports and imports.

"Second, we will stop Putin from using his war chest. We will paralyse the assets of Russia's central bank. This will freeze its transactions and it will make it impossible for the central bank to liquidate assets.

"And finally, we will work to prohibit Russian oligarchs from using their financial assets on our markets. All of these measures will significantly harm Putin's ability to finance his war and they will have an eroding, a severely eroding, impact on his economy.

"Putin embarked on a path aiming to destroy Ukraine but what he's also doing, in fact, is destroying the future of his own country."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220226ei2q000b5


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungarian government joins list of countries supporting Russia's exclusion from SWIFT system
248 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Hungary' s government on Saturday joined the growing list of supporters in support of pulling Russia out of the SWIFT financial transfer system, the system that connects 11,000 financial institutions around the world.

Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Poland's Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki spoke by phone Saturday and Orbán is fully committed to imposing sanctions, "including blocking the SWIFT system."

Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said Budapest is not "blocking" the sanction in relation to the SWIFT system. "We have never opposed or blocked any sanctions proposal," he has claimed.

Morawiecki is one of the most active leaders on the SWIFT issue and, in fact, this Saturday he met in Berlin with Germany's Chancellor Olaf Scholz to discuss the issue. His spokesman, Piotr Muller, told Bloomberg that "in the last 24 hours there has been a shift in the attitudes of several governments that were previously skeptical".

The SWIFT system was founded in 1973 and is the tool used for interbank communications. It connects thousands of financial institutions around the world and facilitates secure money transfers.

ResponsibleDISENSO FOUNDATION (+ info)PurposeTo attend and manage the subscription to the newsletter (+ info)RightsAccess, rectify or delete the data, as well as other rights, as explained in the additional information (+ info)Additional informationYou can consult additional and detailed information on Data Protection on our website: Privacy Policy

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220226ei2q008c2


CE Noticias Financieras English
Putin's ally and Bolsonaro's host, Orbán defends sanctions on Russia
865 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Vladimir Putin's closest European leader, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, lived up to his reputation as a political chameleon and said on Saturday (26) that he supports all sanctions against Russia over the war in Ukraine.

Putin (back) and Orbán toast from a distance due to the Russian's fear of Covid-19 in the Kremlin - Alexei Nikolski - 1.feb.2022/Kremlin/Sputnik/Reuters " Hungary has made it clear that we support all sanctions, so we will not block anything [within the European Union], whatever the EU premiers agree on, we will accept and support," Orbán said in a rare English-language speech on his country's border with Ukraine.

Even more significantly, he agreed that Russia should be disconnected from the international payment system called Swift. With this, the EU is all but ready to execute the move, which depends on a government decision by each member.

Orbán, in power for the second time since 2010, is an icon of so-called illiberalism. He himself coined the neologism, speaking of illiberal democracies and citing Putin as a great symbol of this movement, in opposition to what he calls the decadence of the West. They were together on the 1st of last month.

Not by chance, the Hungarian is one of the few world leaders who has a good relationship with Jair Bolsonaro (PL). Last week, the Brazilian president made a highly symbolic trip: he raised "solidarity" with Putin in Moscow and then embraced Orbán as "my brother."

The Russian visit was more controversial because of the obvious war theme, which Bolsonaro tried to capitalize on as at that moment Putin was giving signs that he might back off his military pressure on Ukraine. The explosions from Thursday (24) onwards told another story, generating great embarrassment for the Brazilian, who is already a pariah in Western forums.

But it was during the trip to Budapest that the Brazilian felt most at ease, speaking ill of immigration and chanting fascist slogans with high resonance in Hungary. Now, apparently the discursive knot for Bolsonaro's more ideological supporters will grow.

Orbán made a career as an activist against the Soviet legacy in his country, and until the 2010s was a critic of Putin. Then they aligned, although the Hungarian has always maintained ambiguity in his positions. The response now seems to have more to do with the election he faces in April than with great empathy for Ukrainian hardships, but the result is the same.

Also this Saturday, another member of the illiberal Eurasian group, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, indicated positions even more contrary to Putin - with whom he has a very close relationship, including military, but also full of vacillations.

Since Turkey is a member of NATO like Hungary, for the moment it is on the side of the Western military alliance. Its Chancellor has been calling for an end to Russian attacks and, as Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelenski published on Twitter, has agreed to close transit for Russian ships in the straits in his country that connect the Mediterranean to the Black Sea.

There is no clarity about what the Ukrainian speaker was referring to. On Friday, the Turks said they would allow passage for all Russian warships based in Crimea, home of the Black Sea Fleet. They are actively participating in the war.

At the same time, Ankara said it would not allow reinforcements, although there are questions about the legality of this under the convention governing marine traffic there. After Zelenski's post, the Turkish government said there is no decision on the issue.

But real problem for Putin is on the Swift issue. In addition to Hungary, Cyprus also voted for a boycott by the European Union. What does this mean?

The small island concentrates a market of Russian billionaires who have offshores there to reinvest, to use the euphemism, in Russia. There are legitimate businesses there too: the second largest bank in the country is Russian. Overnight, this tap can run dry.

Swift is the English acronym for the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication. It is a private cooperative based in Belgium that brings together some 11,000 banks and institutions in 200 countries, and functions as a kind of social network of its members.

Each has its own code, and the interconnected electronic system provides a secure connection to validate money sent from one side to the other. There were 42 million confirmation messages in 2021, from individuals to government - who handle about half of their transactions through the system.

SWIFT does not apply sanctions, but the countries in which its members are located do. Thus, the EU is seeking consensus to apply the sanction as a whole. The Russians are the second country with the most member institutions, around 300.

In recent days, the Russian Central Bank has said it can survive the veto by using its own system developed after Putin annexed Crimea in 2014. There is also the issue that many countries need the system to trade with the Russian energy sector, which is very important for Europe.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220226ei2q005ao


Szijjarto denies information about Hungary blocking sanctions against Russia, offers Budapest for negotiations between Ukraine and Russia
207 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 12:28 GMT
Interfax: Ukrainian General Newswire
IXUKRN
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
KYIV. Feb 26 (Interfax-Ukraine) - Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto called the information that Hungary is blocking the imposition of part of the sanctions against the Russian Federation, in particular, the disconnection of Russia from the SWIFT system, a fake.

"I see with regret and shock that some representatives of international politics and the international press are not allowed to produce fake news and lie. I can't think of how people die while there is a war, some people operate fake news factories. Now they are lying that Hungary is blocking some of the sanctions against Russia, for example, regarding the SWIFT system," Szijjarto wrote on Facebook on Saturday.

He said that this information is false.

"We have never spoken out against a single sanction proposal, we have not blocked or blocked anything. Fake news spreaders should be of any nationality, shame on you!!!" Szijjarto said.

The head of Hungarian diplomacy added that he is negotiating with the representatives of Russian and Ukrainian governments to start direct discussions in Budapest.

"I will be asking the UN leaders for help in this today here in New York too," Szijjarto said.

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 IXUKRN0020220226ei2q004v1


World
Ukraine rejects peace talks with Russia in Belarus
Charles Miranda on Ukraine/Poland border, Natalie O’Brien, Stephen Drill, Clare Armstrong
3672 字
2022 年 2 月 27 日 08:58 GMT
Daily Telegraph​ - ​Online
NLDLTW
英文
© News Pty Limited. No redistribution is permitted.
Ukraine has refused to hold peace talks in Belarus, demanding Vladimir Putin’s negotiators meet in Poland, Turkey or Hungary instead.

As Russia’s invasion enters a fourth day, the Kremlin offered to hold talks with Ukraine in Belarus, where it launched its deadly attack.

There are signs that Russia was now preparing for a bloody prolonged street battle after fierce Ukrainian resistance, with the Ukrainian military claiming it had killed 3000 Russian soldiers.

Ukraine president Volodomyr Zelensky said on Sunday night Australian time that peace talks could not be held in Belarus.

He demanded any talks be held in either Warsaw, Poland, Istanbul, Turkey, or Budapest, Hungary.

Zelensky released a video message after Russian spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Sunday that negotiators were being sent to the city of Homel.

“The Russian delegation is ready for talks, and we are now waiting for the Ukrainians,” Peskov said.

From all over the world, from Australia to Georgia, thousands of people have come out to protest Russia invading Ukraine

It comes as an update from the Ukrainian army claimed that Russia had slowed the pace of its invasion because its troops had been unable to get fuel.

“Columns of armoured technology of Russian aggressors slowed the pace of promotion deep into the territory of Ukraine,” the military said in a statement.

“The enemy’s troops, deprived of timely refilling of fuel and ammunition, stop.”

It claimed the Ukrainian army had killed 3000 Russian soldiers, taken 200 prisoners, down 16 aircraft, 18 helicopters and 102 tanks by 7pm Australian time on Sunday.

The Ukrainian military added it had “broken a column of Russian soldiers” in the Luhansk region near Severodonetsk in the east of Ukraine.

Video footage showed a group of police and civilians who claimed to have stopped a Russian tank in Chernihiv, 160km north of Kyiv.

AUSTRALIA SET TO PROVIDE ‘LETHAL AID’ TO UKRAINE FIGHTERS

Australia will dramatically step up support for Ukraine with the supply of “lethal aid” to help its military defend against Russian invasion.

Prime Minister Scott Morrison confirmed Australia is now in talks with NATO allies including the US and UK to provide financial support for Ukraine’s military efforts, rather than directly providing weapons.

Mr Morrison said there was “nothing off the table” as Australia considered both lethal aid to help Ukraine and harsher sanctions against Russia.

“We’ll be seeking to provide whatever support we can for lethal aid through our NATO partners, particularly the United States and the United Kingdom,” he said.

“We’ll be working through those channels, because that’s the most effective way to do it.

“(NATO) are already providing support in these areas, and we will be assisting them with what they are doing.”

Mr Morrison said Australia was already providing “significant” non-lethal support to Ukraine, including medical supplies and humanitarian aid.

Asked if Russian diplomats would be expelled from Australia or if more economic sanctions would be imposed, Mr Morrison would not rule anything out.

“Russia must pay a heavy price, they must pay a heavy price,” he said.

“And we will continue to add to that price, as we consider every single option that is in front of us. I’ve taken nothing off the table.”

Mr Morrison said “rapid processing” of Ukrainian visas to come to Australia was now completed, with any future applications to be treated as a “top priority”.

He said Australia would provide support for Ukrainians through humanitarian and other visa programs, such as for skilled migrants and students.

“After two years where our immigration intake has been below (normal levels), there is quite a lot of room within those programs to take in more places,” he said.

UKRAINE’S CAPITAL CITY ROCKED BY EXPLOSIONS

Kyiv has been hit by two massive explosions as the city braces for a renewed attack from Russia.

Footage aired by CNN showed a pulsing orange glow illuminating the sky, likely from a fire, and reportedly near an airport.

Thousands of Ukrainian residents remained underground in Kyiv overnight, as besieging Russian troops vowed to capture the capital in 48 hours and force the President to formally surrender.

But the move comes as the US, UK and European Union take the so-called “nuclear option” against Russia not with a weapon but economics in a move which will decimate the Russian economy.

The option was initially considered in 2014 when Russia invaded Crimea but the concept was dropped when Vladimir Putin branded the thought as tantamount to an act of war, involves kicking Russian banks out of the international banking system and restrictions on its central bank, markedly constrain its import and export market.

The new raft of sanctions comes as Russia takes a stranglehold on Ukraine’s capital.

Kyiv residents were told to stay off the streets in a full-time curfew lasting from 5pm Saturday until 8am Monday or risk being considered “saboteurs or reconnaissance” groups allegedly roaming and taking coordinates of Ukrainian military urban strongholds, to be targeted by precision shelling.

Group of armed locals, akin to a gun-toting neighbourhood watch, are walking at night to hunt suspects.

Many locals have already abandoned their homes but the various border points with Poland are taking between 24 to 60 hours to process and clear the hundreds of thousands seeking to flee the violence.

Men between 18 and 60 are legally not allowed to leave Ukraine under last week’s declared martial law orders for them to stay and fight, but they drive their families who then wait in the elements for clearance.

In all, the UN predicts four million Ukrainians will attempt to relocate to other countries.

That choked freeway to the border may not remain open for much longer with reports Russia is looking to circle the city including cutting of that western exit point.

Some locals are also moving into the underground subway for a huge makeshift city to avoid the bloodshed above. That call came after reports Putin was considering using thermobaric rockets, missiles with highly explosive fuel and chemicals that emit a devastating blast wave that tear whole buildings apart.

Ukrainian authorities confirmed 200 people including three children have been killed and more than 1000 others including 33 children have been wounded in the Russian offensive.

The relentless missile assault on the city centre and skirmishes on the outskirts has been likened to the devastating 1941 assault on the city by German troops.

US intelligence has said 50 per cent of Russian’s military force had now crossed the border into Ukraine.

Much of the focus is on the capital and as such, Ukrainian authorities have destroyed key bridges across the Dnipro River to slow Russia’s advance.

The defiance shown by Ukraine’s regular and volunteer armies that is now likely to see weeks or longer of urban warfare was best summed up by Ukraine’s ’s foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba yesterday.

“Go to hell,” he said when Russian President Vladmir Putin suggested his forces surrender to stop the bloodshed.

Ukraine’s armed forces went on to shoot down a second Russian bomber and also a missile that was aimed at a dam serving Kyiv.

While the capital has shown a degree of resistance against Russian forces, Ukraine still looks likely to lose all of its ports with fighting at Mariupol and Odessa expected to increase on Sunday.

FURIOUS PUTIN ‘HOLED UP IN LAIR’

Russian President Vladimir Putin is “furious” that his invasion of Ukraine hasn’t been “easy” after Russian troops have been unable to take even one major city in three days of fighting, according to a member of the European Union Parliament.

“Putin is furious, he thought that the whole war would be easy and everything would be done in 1-4 days,” tweeted Riho Terras, who said he was citing Ukrainian intelligence reports.

“The Russians are in shock of the fierce resistance they have encountered,” Terras,

who is also the former defence chief of NATO member Estonia, said in a lengthy thread on Twitter.

He claimed the report showed Russia don’t have a “tactical plan” to take a Ukraine that is fighting back, stating that the entire invasion plan relied on “sowing panic among civilians and armed forces and forcing (Ukrainian President Volodymyr) Zelensky to flee.”

Terras posted an image of what appeared to be an intelligence report written in Russian that said, “Putin is raging. He was sure it would be a cake walk.”

Terras, citing the intelligence report, said the Russian military has enough rockets only for three or four days, and with the new sanctions imposed will not be able to replace their depleted weapons.

According to Terras, Putin was holed up in his “lair in the Urals,” and brought Russian oligarchs with him so they couldn’t flee the country.

RUSSIA ORDERS ADVANCE ‘FROM ALL DIRECTIONS

Russia has ordered its troops to advance in Ukraine “from all directions”. The capital is under siege and the curfew is being enforced with shoot-on-sight orders, AFP reports.

Residents have started taping over exposed window panes and covering up street names, building numbers and other identifiable city markings to try to confuse the invading Russian force.

Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko has introduced a 5pm to 8am curfew for the next two days, saying any civilian seen on the streets during the curfew will be considered a Russian “saboteur”.

“All civilians who will be on the street during the curfew will be considered members of the enemy’s sabotage and reconnaissance groups,” Mayor Klitschko said on Twitter.

“For safety’s sake, stay at home or in shelters as much as possible! Do not go out and do not go to the city.”

Moscow said it had fired cruise missiles at military targets and would “develop the offensive from all directions” after accusing Ukraine of having “rejected” talks.

Russian troops are reportedly only 30 kilometres from the centre of Kyiv, the British Ministry of Defence said on Saturday while officials have reported 198 civilian deaths.

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky vowed his country “will win” against Russia and called on anyone who wants to defend his country to come forward, saying “we will arm you” in a national address from Kyiv.

As Russian troops advanced on the capital with missile strikes, Mr Zelensky pledged to “destroy the occupiers”. He said Ukraine’s forces had halted the Kremlin’s push to capture Kyiv and oust him and urged Russians to pressure leader Vladimir Putin to stop the invasion.

“We’ve derailed their plan,” the 44-year-old leader said, stressing that the Ukrainian army was in control of the capital Kyiv and main cities around it.

He also thanked Russians who spoke out against the war and asked them to keep up the pressure on the Kremlin saying: “Simply stop those who are lying to you, lying to us, lying to the entire world.”

“I want everyone in Russia to hear me. Everybody. Hundreds of captured soldiers who are here in Ukraine don’t know why they were sent here to kill people or be killed.

“People need to tell the government why the war has to be stopped, more people from your country will stay alive.

“Your nationals are voicing their opposition to this war. We know many people in Russia are shocked now by the brutality of the Russian government, this is the right reaction.”

NED-5580-Russian invasion of Ukraine begins

Mr Zelensky said they were controlling Kyiv and key points around the city.

“Anyone who wants to defend Ukraine, please come, we will arm you,” he said.

In the final section of his speech, he said: “We need to stop this war. We can live in peace together, globally as humans. Our military, our national guard, our national police, our territory defence, special service, nationals of Ukraine, please carry on. We will win. Glory to Ukraine.”

His comments come after reports emerged he rejected an offer to be evacuated from US President Joe Biden.

“The fight is here; I need ammunition, not a ride,” Mr Zelensky said, according to a US official.

Russian troops paratroopers and Special Forces pressed toward Ukraine’s capital after an incredible urban resistance by Ukrainian fighters has held them outside the capital Kyiv in some of the fiercest gunbattles of the conflict so far.

The apparent deadlock in street fighting left Russian forces to resort to another barrage of air and ship fired cruise missiles including on dozens of civilian homes and apartment blocks, which have struck inside Kyiv notably close to the airport.

GERMANY WANTS ‘TARGETED’ SWIFT EXCLUSION

Germany has changed its position overnight about imposing restrictions on Russia’s access to the SWIFT global interbank payment system, joining other Western powers in support of harsher sanctions aimed at halting Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

“We are urgently working on how to limit the collateral damage of decoupling from SWIFT in such a way that it affects the right people. What we need is a targeted and functional restriction of SWIFT,” Germany’s Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock and Economy Minister

Germany, which has the EU’s biggest trade flows with Russia, had been reluctant to get on board with cutting off Russia from the world’s main international payments network, saying it must first weigh the economic consequences of such move.

The move would hit Russian trade and make it harder for Russian companies to do business. SWIFT is a secure messaging system that facilitates rapid cross-border payments and is the principal mechanism for financing international trade.

RUSSIAN SHELLS BLAST KYIV BUILDING

Ukraine’s Interior Ministry has released images of the apartment building in Kyiv that was damaged early Saturday, which showed several apartment units destroyed, their walls and windows missing as the building was left with a massive hole.

Some windows on the bottom few floors were also smashed, with debris surrounding neighbouring streets.

“Incredible resistance,” British Armed Forces Minister James Heappey said of the Ukraine forces fighting, limited to isolated pockets about Kyiv.

But he tempered his optimism of how long Ukrainian forces backed by ordinary reservists could hold out, describing the next 24 hrs as “very grave”.

“The main armoured columns approaching Kyiv are still some way off,” he said. “That is a testament to the incredible resistance the Ukrainian armoured forces have put up over the last 48 hours or so. Clearly the Russian plan is to take Kyiv but the reality is that the Ukrainians are thwarting them thus far.”

UKRAINIANS DEFIANT AS STREET FIGHTING CONTINUES

Such is the desperation, Ukrainian civilians some of whom have never held a gun before were told to stop the tanks, the Ukrainian Defence Ministry urging them to “make Molotov cocktails and neutralise the enemy”.

But other towns have not fared better, with reports some are now being overrun by Russian tanks, including the city Melitopol.

More than 60 Russian military units were also approaching the city of Balakliya in Ukraine’s Kharkiv region, it’s mayor has warned locals.

NATO gifted weaponry to Ukraine forces have been significantly depleted, Russian state member celebrating a running sheetof apparent victories.

They include Russian forces destroying 820 military infrastructure facilities in Ukraine including 14 airfields, 48 radarstations, and 24 anti-aircraft missile systems.

The Russian military have also shot down seven fighter jets, seven helicopters and nine drones as well as 87 tanks and otherarmoured vehicles.

On sea, eight Ukrainian military boats have been sunk or disabled.

The losses have prompted some in the EU to suggest intervention but that has been over ruled.

NATO has deployed “thousands” of troops but only to bolster the defences of Baltic nations on Ukraine. This includes the so-called Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF), which is currently led by France.

Meanwhile Russian misinformation campaign continues, with social media alive with Russian appeals to the Ukraine forces todown their weapons because their government had been taken over by “terrorists” and drug addict neo-Nazis and the Ukrainepresident has fled the capital.

Do not believe fake news. I am here,” Volodymyr Zelensky said in Ukrainian in a selfie video posted to social media, thatappeared to have been filmed in Kyiv.

“We will not lay down our weapons. We will defend our Country. Our weapons are our strength. This is our land. Our country. Our children.”

RUSSIA COMING FROM ALL SIDES

The attack on Kyiv by Russian Forces is reportedly coming from all sides and the Russians are understood to be targeting military installations as they advance and attempt to take the capital.

The Ukrainian embassy in Moscow is now also evacuating to Latvia, Reuters reports.

Mr Zelensky also spoke with French President Emmanuel Macron.

“Weapons and equipment from our partners are on the way to Ukraine. The anti-war coalition is working!” he said.

President Joe Biden has instructed the US State Department to release $US350m in military aid to Ukraine.

Mr Zelensky said Saturday Ukraine would decide the fate of the country.

“This night will be the hardest … We must withstand,” he said in an address to the people. “This night the enemy will be using all available means to break our resistance. This night they will launch an assault,” he said.

“This night will be harder than the day. Many cities of our state are under attack: Chernihiv, Sumy, Kharkiv, our boys and girls in the Donbas, the cities of the south, special attention to Kyiv,” he added. “We can’t lose the capital.”

Ukrainian citizens have taken up arms are fighting back courageously. Ukrainians forces have reportedly downed five helicopters, blown up more than a dozen tanks and brought down a drone.

NED-5574-Russian troops on Ukraine's border

Former heavyweight boxing champion Vitali Klitschko, now the mayor of Kyiv, said he would take up arms alongside his brother and fellow world beater, Wladimir, to fight in a “bloody war”.

Mr Klitschko, who was known as Dr Ironfist during his boxing days, said he was ready to fight.

“I don’t have another choice, I have to do that. I’ll be fighting.”

Ukrainian Members of parliament, including Golos party leader, Kira Rudik, have been calling on for a no-fly zone to be imposed over Ukraine to give them a chance to fight back.

Ms Rudik told western media outlets it would give Ukraine the help it needs to fight the superpower.

“We can do the rest,” she said.

Mr Zelensky who has vowed to stay and fight himself also called on Western nations – and nearby Europe in particular to “act without delay” …

MORE TALKS AS UKRAINE CITIES UNDER ATTACK

Leaders from Poland and Lithuania urged the European Union on Saturday to go further in their support for Ukraine in the face of a Russian invasion, as they headed into a meeting with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.

Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said all sanctions against Russia should be on the table, including shutting the Nord Stream pipelines that supply Russian gas to Europe and halting its access to the SWIFT global payments system, Reuters reports.

Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda also said it was important that Ukraine was provided with “real military help.”

It came as Russia offered talks with Ukraine for the first time since the crisis began. Mr Zelensky has been seeking talks with Vladimir Putin since before the invasion began.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has said Russia was prepared for talks with Ukraine, but only in the context of “demilitarisation” and about Ukraine’s “neutral status”.

Gunfire and loud explosions have been reported in the second-largest city, Kharkiv in the northeast.

Mariupol, a strategically important port city on the Sea of Azov to the south, is also reportedly under attack.

Ukraine had said at least 137 civilians and soldiers have been killed. Russia has not admitted any deaths on its side

More than 100,000 Ukrainians are estimated to have fled their homes, heading for the borders.

There is a 37 km long traffic jam with cars heading into Poland. On the other side of the border thousands of volunteers are lining up offering food, water and to take in women and children fleeing the conflict.

Making it more difficult for Ukrainians, their internet is experiencing serious disruptions as the fighting continues a setback which could hamper Ukrainians efforts to stay in touch.

A network monitoring organisation It is being reported that the network had been hit with “significant disruptions” from Kharkiv on Thursday to Kyiv on Saturday morning.

The disruptions have been attributed to power outages, cyberattacks, sabotage, and kinetic impacts.

Russian state media has also been banned from running ads on any platform anywhere in the world owned by Meta, Facebook’s parent company.

AUSTRALIA MAY SANCTION PUTIN

In Australia the Federal Government is seeking advice on joining other countries in imposing direct sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Foreign Affairs Minister Marise Payne who has just returned from Europe and South-East Asia said eight Russian oligarchs will be targeted with sanctions following the invasion of Ukraine are senior figures in mostly state-owned banks and all close to President Vladimir Putin.

“They have influence over decisions and have amassed great wealth through their positions of power,” Senator Payne said.

She said the “unity of partners is extremely important. The invasion is a wholesale breach of international law. It is a breach of the UN Charter, and the most flagrant violation of sovereignty and territorial integrity that Europe has seen in decades.”

Senator Payne said that the option of expelling Russian diplomats in Australia remains “a live option”. “It is not something that we are considering currently, it enables us to have a direct line of communication with the Russian government. We did call in the ambassador to meet with the Secretary of DFAT to make absolutely clear our views,” she said at a press conference in Sydney.

Nationwide News Pty Ltd.

文件 NLDLTW0020220226ei2q001p5


CE Noticias Financieras English
Breaking news: Russia warns EU that sending arms to Ukraine is "extremely dangerous" decision
7654 字
2022 年 2 月 28 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Putin's warning 12:57 Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov has warned that the delivery of armaments to Ukraine by EU countries is an "extremely dangerous" and "destabilizing" decision. His words come after Putin put his nuclear forces on alert this Sunday. "From our point of view, it can and will become an extremely dangerous and destabilizing factor that in no case will contribute to stability or restoration of order in Ukraine," he added.

More than half a million Ukrainians have had to leave their country due to the Russian invasion 11:47 Ukrainians who have left their country due to the Russian invasion now number over half a million, to which must be added more than 100,000 internally displaced persons due to the conflict, the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) the United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) reported today. Poland, Hungary, Moldova and Romania are for the moment the main recipients of this influx of refugees, UNHCR indicated in several of its official Twitter accounts.

Zelenski releases prisoners with military experience to fight Russians 11:27 "Anyone who can join the fight against the occupiers should do so. The decision was not easy from a moral point of view, but useful from the point of view of our protection. Under martial law, participants in hostilities, Ukrainians with real combat experience, will be released and will be able to atone for their guilt in the most dangerous places of war

. The key now is defense," Zelensky said. Zelenski calls for Ukraine's immediate admission to the European Union 10:43 Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelenski today called on the European Union (EU) for his country's immediate accession to the EU club. "We appeal to the European Union for immediate accession of Ukraine under a new special procedure," Zelenski said in a new video message to the population of his country.

Russia claims to have seized Zaporozhie nuclear power plant, Europe's largest 10:33 "Russian Armed Forces fully protect and control the area of the Zaporozhie nuclear power plant," according to Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov. However, the Ukrainian electric company Energoatom assures that this is "false" news

. UN confirms more than 100 civilians killed, including 7 children 10:17 The UN has assured on Monday that it has recorded 102 civilians killed, including 7 children, and 304 wounded since the beginning of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, although it assumes that the real figures "are considerably" higher

. Related It's Communism, stupid! Social Communists defend Putin Bad times to be European The images of the war in Ukraine And now, what can be done? Putin's decision Ukraine is winning Albares encourages the nearly 3,000 Spaniards in Russia to leave the country "quickly" 10:07 "If they wish to leave the country they should do so quickly," the foreign minister warned in an interview on RNE. To do so, they can contact the Embassy and the Spanish consulates

in Moscow and St. Petersburg. "Just as we have done with the Spanish citizens in Ukraine," he has assured. Ukrainian delegation arrives at the site of negotiations with Russia 09:49 "The Ukrainian delegation arrived at the site of negotiations with the Russian side in the Gomel region," the official Belarusian agency BELTA announced. According to this source, the Ukrainian negotiators landed in a Polish helicopter

. The Belarusian Foreign Ministry shows pictures of the room where the meeting will take place. Cyprus also closes its airspace to Russia 09:28 The Government of Cyprus announced the closure of its airspace to Russian airlines, following the recommendation of the European Commission shows pictures of the room where the meeting will take place. Cyprus also closes its airspace to Russia 09:28 The Government of Cyprus announced the closure of its airspace to Russian airlines, following the recommendation of the

. The measure will be effective from tonight, Cypriot Transport Minister Yannis Karuzos said on Twitter. The ruble plunges almost 30%, a historic fall 09:28 The ruble plunged almost 30% against the dollar and the euro on the Forex market today following the announcement by some banks of the SWIFT international interbank communications system and the halt by the European Union (EU) of transactions with the Central Bank of Russia (BCR). Its exchange rate is 119.8 euros per ruble

. Russia's Central Bank raises interest rate to 20 % 09:25 Russia's Central Bank (BCR) raised from today from 9.5 to 20 % interest in order, it claims in a statement, to "ensure the increase of interest on deposits to the levels necessary to compensate for inflationary and devaluation risks

". Zelenski believes that the next 24 hours will be crucial for Ukraine 09:15 The Ukrainian president believes that "the next 24 hours will be crucial" for his country, he said during a conversation with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who has promised Volodymir Zelenski that he will do everything possible to ensure that defensive aid from the UK and its allies

reaches Ukraine. Russia takes control of Ukrainian city of Berdyansk 09:04 Russian troops have taken control of the Ukrainian city of Berdyansk, located in the southeast of the country - between the Crimean peninsula and the self-proclaimed republics of Donetsk and Lugansk - local authorities have confirmed. The mayor's office noted in a message on its Facebook account that "the area has been occupied."

"There is enemy equipment in several communities," it has noted, before adding that one person has been killed and another wounded in the fighting. Russia sent mercenaries to Kiev to assassinate Zelenski, according to The Times 08:57 More than 400 Russian mercenaries are operating in Kiev under Kremlin orders to assassinate Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelenski and his government in order to pave the way for Moscow to take control, The Times reveals. The newspaper claims that the Wagner Group, a private militia led by a Putin ally and operating as an independent branch of the state, brought mercenaries from Africa five weeks ago

with the mission of decapitating the Ukrainian Executive in exchange for a large financial bonus. Everything is ready for the meeting of the Russian and Ukrainian delegations 08:49 The Belarusian authorities have assured that "everything is ready" to host the meeting between the Russian and Ukrainian negotiating delegations to try to reach an agreement to put an end to the conflict unleashed after the Russian invasion, which began on February 24. The meeting will take place "without preconditions"

, according to the Ukrainian president, Volodimir Zelenski. The 106 Spaniards evacuated from Ukraine arrive at Barajas airport 08:03 The 106 Spaniards evacuated from Ukraine from Krakow have landed early Monday at the Adolfo Suarez Madrid-Barajas airport, where they have been received by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, who has pointed out that "it is a day of great relief"

. However, another forty Spaniards have decided to remain in Poland or return to Spain by their own means, according to José Manuel Albares. Biden will talk to his allies to "coordinate a united response" 07:49 The President of the

United States will call his allies this Monday

(11:15 local time) to "coordinate a united response" to the Russian invasion that began last Thursday, according to the White House. The announcement comes a day after Vladimir Putin warned that he was putting the country's strategic deterrent forces on a "special duty regime" in response to "aggressive comments made by NATO leaders." Zelensky does not believe in the outcome of the meeting with Russia on the border 07:45 The Ukrainian president has little hope that a ceasefire agreement can be reached at the meeting of the Ukrainian and Russian delegations on the border with Belarus. "I don't really believe in the outcome of this meeting, but let them try. So that no citizen of Ukraine has any doubts that I, as president, did not try to stop the war

when there was a slightest chance," he has assured. A large convoy of Russian armored vehicles is advancing towards Kiev 07:42 Ukraine has warned in the last hours of the advance of a large convoy of Russian armored vehicles towards Kiev from the south. Ukrainian Interior Ministry advisor Vadim Denisenko assured Strana news portal that "we know where they are heading and we are ready"

. Satellite images from Maxar Technologies show the Russian column more than five kilometers long on its way to the capital. In it one can distinguish fuel transport trucks and other logistical means and armored vehicles that would be about 65 kilometers south of the capital. Bolsonaro refuses to sanction Russia 07:40 The president of Brazil considers that it is "an exaggeration to talk about a massacre"

when talking about the Russian invasion that began last Thursday. According to Jair Bolsonaro, "there is no interest on the part of the Russian leader to practice a massacre. For that reason, there is no sanction or condemnation of President Putin." Ukraine reports 352 civilians killed and almost 1,700 wounded since the beginning of the Russian invasion 22:46 Among the dead there are 14 minors and 116 minors wounded

due to the war actions. The Ukrainian war report also includes more than 4,300 Russian military personnel killed in the offensive, a figure which could not be verified due to the open war situation. The King criticizes the "unacceptable aggression" against Ukraine 21:28 At the opening dinner of the Mobile World Congress (MWC), held at the Museu Nacional d'Art de Catalunya (MNAC), King Felipe VI criticized Russia's "unacceptable aggression

" against Ukraine, to which he expressed his solidarity, and called for respect for international law in order to restore peace as soon as possible.For his part, Pedro Sánchez said he was "convinced" that Europe will emerge "strengthened" and that "satraps like Putin will not get away with

it". Sanchez conveys to Zelenski the support and solidarity of Spain with Ukraine 21:09 The President of the Government, Pedro Sanchez, has reiterated this Sunday to his Ukrainian counterpart, Volodimir Zelenski, in a phone call the support and solidarity of Spain with the country in the face of the Russian military offensive

. US believes China has no intention of bailing out Russia economically 19:35 Senior US administration officials have indicated that China has no intention of bailing out Russia following the tough economic sanctions against its banks agreed on Saturday by the United States, the European Union, the United Kingdom, Canada and Japan. "The latest indications are that China is not coming to the rescue," these sources indicate. "China was restricting the ability of some of its banks to extend credit for Russian energy purchases, suggesting that China is respecting U.S. sanctions," the same sources note."

Russia acknowledges dead, wounded and prisoners in Ukrainian campaign 18:59 The Russian Defense Ministry today acknowledged for the first

time the existence of dead, wounded and prisoners during the "special military operation" ordered by Russian President Vladimir Putin in Ukraine. However, they qualify that the Russian losses "are considerably less than the number of nationalists annihilated or losses in the Armed Forces of Ukraine".

According to UNHCR, there are already 368,000 Ukrainian refugees 17:41 According to UNHCR data on Sunday, the number of Ukrainian refugees stands at 368,000 civilians

, who have fled their homes in the country. Some 150,000 people have already crossed the border into Poland. Most of them are women and children

as the Ukrainian government prohibits men between 18 and 60 years old to leave. At least 10 children killed and 6 schools bombed in Ukraine 17:37 Save the Children claims that at least ten children have been killed by the bombings in Ukraine by Russia, which has attacked six schools in that country, with which the NGO has called for the immediate cessation of the war to protect children from violence and violation of their rights

.They also report that two teachers were killed.

on Friday when a missile hit a school in Gorlovka, in eastern Ukraine, and the United Nations has also confirmed, according to the NGO, the attack on a kindergarten and an orphanage

, in the northeastern city of Okhtyrka, with a seven-year-old girl among the six people killed there. Spain will close its airspace to Russian airlines 16:48 Spain will proceed to close its airspace to Russian airlines, thus following the cooperation guidelines set by the European Union, the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda reports today through its official Twitter account

.It has not yet been decided when the actual closure will take place, as it is awaiting this afternoon's meeting of the European Union's foreign ministers. What they foresee is that it will be in the "next few hours"

, although they have specified that an immediate closure can never be decreed since there may be some flights in transit. Ukraine assures that it "fully" controls Kharkov, the country's second largest city 15:41 The governor of the Kharkov region, Oleh Sinegubov, has assured on Sunday that Ukrainian forces "fully" control the city of Kharkov

, the country's second largest city, after reports emerged that heavy fighting was taking place in the area. Putin puts Russia's nuclear forces on alert 15:08 Russian President Vladimir Putin has put the Russian military's "deterrence forces" on alert, which could include a nuclear component

, on the fourth day of Moscow's invasion of Ukraine

."I order the defense minister and the chief of the General Staff to put the Russian army's deterrent forces on special combat alert," Putin has said in a televised meeting with his military chiefs, in which he blamed this decision on "aggressive statements" by NATO members

. Ukraine confirms that it will negotiate with Russia on the Ukrainian-Belarusian border 14:55 After refusing to hold talks in Belarus, a country he considers complicit in aggression, the President of Ukraine has confirmed that negotiating delegations from Moscow and Kiev will meet on the Ukrainian-Belarusian border

near the Pripyat River.Zelenski has informed that this decision has been negotiated with Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, with whom he had a telephone conversation this Sunday in which they agreed that the meeting will take place "without preconditions

", according to the official Telegram channel of the Ukrainian president. Borrell proposes to finance lethal material for Ukraine from common funds 14:28 "I will propose to the ministers to use the European Peace Fund for two emergency assistance measures. They intend to finance the supply of lethal material for the Ukrainian Army, which is fighting against Russian invaders, and to provide urgently needed non-lethal supplies, such as fuel," Borrell announced in a note ahead of this afternoon's extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council.

France closes its airspace to Russian planes and airlines 14:16 "France closes its airspace from this afternoon

to Russian planes and airlines. Faced with the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the unity of Europe is total," announced the Secretary of State for Transport, Jean-Baptiste Djebbari, on Twitter. Russian and Ukrainian delegations to negotiate in Belarus 14:07 The Russian and Ukrainian delegations confirmed today that they will meet in the Belarusian city of Gomel, close to the Ukrainian border, to negotiate a possible cessation of hostilities

.According to the head of the Russian delegation, Vladimir Medinsky, they are heading from Minsk to Gomel, and so is a Ukrainian mission from Kiev.

Benelux countries join airspace closure 14:07 The governments of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg on Sunday joined the closure of their airspace to Russian aircraft due to the invasion of Ukraine, which was also announced by other European countries

. Germany closes its airspace to Russian flights for three months 14:05 The German Ministry of Transport has announced that the ban will come into force at 3 p.m. today and "will initially be in force for three months". However, it specified that humanitarian and rescue flights, as well as emergency landings, will be excluded from this ban.

Robles applauds the "heroism" of the Ukrainian people 13:50 The Minister of Defense, Margarita Robles, has expressed her "admiration" for the "heroism" of the Ukrainian people who put "resistance" to the "intolerable aggression" of Russia

.In a statement to the media from the Torrejón de Ardoz Air Base (Madrid), where she attended the loading of an Air Force A400M aircraft with defense material destined for Poland, Robles reiterated Spain's "maximum collaboration" with the "heroism" of Ukraine "from the most absolute condemnation of what is happening there".

Switzerland could host Russia-Ukraine talks 13:02 Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky has asked his Swiss counterpart Ignazio Cassis to make the central European country the venue for possible cease-fire talks with Russia, the Zurich daily Tages Anzeiger reports

.According to the newspaper, Cassis is in contact with Zelenski himself and with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, who is visiting Geneva next week, to prepare for the possible negotiations, after Ukraine rejected the Russian proposal that they be held in Belarus.

Italy closes its airspace to Russia 12:54 The Italian government announced today that it has decided to close its airspace to Russia, the first southern European country to do so, and follows measures taken by others such as Finland and Ireland as part of the sanctions process aimed at isolating Moscow economically for its invasion of Ukraine

. UNHCR raises number of Ukrainian refugees to 368,000 12:51 The UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) today raised the number of Ukrainian refugees who have fled their country to 368,000, including an estimated 150,000 who have fled to neighboring Poland. Another 43,000 crossed the border into Romania, and there have also been movements to Moldova, Slovakia and even Russia. In addition, there are an estimated 160,000 internal displacements.

Ukrainian authorities assure that they "fully" control Kharkov 12:48 The governor of the Kharkov region, Oleh Sinegubov, has assured on Sunday that Ukrainian forces "fully" control the city of Kharkov, the second largest in the country, after reports of heavy fighting in the area emerged

."The control of Kharkov is completely ours! The Armed Forces, Police and defense forces are functioning and the city the enemy is being completely eradicated from the city," he said, as reported by the British television network Sky News.

Ukraine sues Russia at the International Court in The Hague 12:08 "Ukraine has filed its lawsuit against Russia at the ICJ. Russia must answer for manipulating the notion of genocide to justify aggression

. We demand an urgent decision ordering Russia to cease its military activity now and expect the trials to start next week," Zelenski tweeted. Ukraine creates a website with information about Russian soldiers killed or imprisoned 11:50 "If your relatives or acquaintances are in Ukraine and are participating in the war against our people, here you can receive information about their fate," says the page 200rf.com

, where "photos and videos that we receive from the battlefield" are posted.The website, created by the Ministry of the Interior, points out that "unfortunately, many of the dead are difficult to recognize. Therefore, we post photos or videos in case someone can recognize them by a mark on their skin

." Austria awaits EU agreement to close airspace 11:28 Austria, a neutral country that is not a NATO member, has prepared to close its airspace to Russian aircraft, but awaits a joint decision by the 27 European Union (EU) partners to make the measure effective. This was announced Sunday by Austrian Minister of Mobility, Energy and Climate Protection, environmentalist Leonore Gewessler, in a statement posted on her Twitter account.

Lukashenko confirms Russian missile launch into Ukraine from Belarusian territory 11:26 Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has confirmed the launch of Russian missiles into Ukraine from his own country, which he justified as "a forced step" in view of the threat posed by Ukrainian forces

.The president specified that "two or three launches" were made "from the south of the country, where Russian troops are deployed for military exercises", at around 23.00 hours on 23 February, the eve of the invasion, he said in declarations reported by the Belarusian official news agency Belta.

Margarita Robles says Putin "must not go unpunished" 11:20 Defense Minister Margarita Robles has assured that Russian President Vladimir Putin "must not go unpunished" and that his aggression against Ukraine may have "criminal consequences"

."I do not dare to say it, but when there is a violation of the legal system, the possibility of criminal consequences exists, of course," Robles has indicated in an interview in El País, picked up by Europa Press.

Finland will also close its airspace 11:05 The Finnish Minister of Transport, Timo Harakka, announced that his country joins the decision of other countries to close its airspace to Russian flights. "Finland is preparing to close its airspace to Russian air traffic," the minister said via his Twitter account.

Ireland to close its airspace to all Russian aircraft 10:47 "Shocking Russian attacks in Ukraine overnight. Ireland will act to close Irish airspace to all Russian aircraft," Foreign Minister Simon Coveney wrote on his Twitter account, while calling on other EU countries to do the same

. Shipment of Spanish military equipment to Ukraine 10:43 This Sunday morning a Spanish Airbus A400M with military equipment for Ukraine leaves the base in Torrejón de Ardoz and flies to Poland, where the equipment will be transported by road to Ukraine

. Russia's Central Bank says it will guarantee liquidity 10:41 Despite the sanctions threatened by the EU, the Central Bank of Russia (BCR) has assured on Sunday that it will guarantee the liquidity in national currency of the country's banks. "The Russian banking system is stable, has sufficient capital and liquidity reserves

for its normal operation in any situation," the regulator has stressed. Zelensky calls on foreigners to come to Ukraine and fight against Russia 10:34 Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky has called on citizens of foreign countries friendly to Ukraine to come to the country to join the fight against Russian aggression, integrated into

a sort of a new international Legion

. In a televised message, the president encourages anyone who wants to join "the defense of security in Europe and the world" to fight "side by side with Ukrainians against the invaders of the 21st century". Ukraine invasion already leaves 116,000 refugees according to the UN 09:43 The Russian invasion of Ukraine has already caused 116,000 people to flee that country, mainly to neighboring Moldova, Romania and Poland. To this figure should be added 160,000 internally displaced persons

. In addition, according to the UN, at least 64 civilians have been killed and some 180 injured. Zelensky rejects talks with Russia in Belarus 09:06 Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky today refused to hold talks with Russia in Belarus, denouncing that dialogue cannot take place in a country that is complicit in Russian aggression against Ukraine

. Kremlin sends negotiating team to Belarus for talks with Kiev 08:48 The Kremlin today sent a Russian negotiating delegation to Belarus for talks with Ukrainian representatives on the Russia-Ukraine war, Russian presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov said

. Russian troops have entered the center of Kharkov 08:44 Oleg Sineguboc, chairman of the Kharkov Regional State Administration, reported Sunday that Russian troops have managed to break through to the center of Kharkov, Ukraine's second largest city

."There has been an advance of Russian enemy vehicles into Kharkov, including the central part of the city," Sineguboc explained, calling on citizens to stay in their homes.

Ukraine resists in the face of Russian attacks and assures that Kiev is "completely controlled" 08:43 The Ukrainian Armed Forces have assured that the situation in Kiev is "calm" and that the capital is "completely controlled" by the Ukrainian Army after the various clashes that have taken place in the city on the fourth day of the conflict

."The situation in Kiev is calm, the capital is fully controlled by the Ukrainian Army and defense. There were several clashes with sabotage groups at night," Mykola Povoroznyk, the first deputy head of the Kiev State Administration, has said, according to the Ukrainian UNIAN agency.

The EU bets on freezing assets of the Russian Central Bank and expelling half of it from the Swift system 23:21 The president of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, has appeared on Saturday night, after 23.00 hours, to announce that the body she presides will propose to the member countries of the European Union new sanctions against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine

.Those measures will include crippling the assets of Russia's Central Bank and excluding several Russian banks from the Swift system of interbank payments, to prevent Russian oligarchs from using their assets on European markets.

"All these measures will significantly impair Putin's ability to finance his war. They will have an erosive impact on the economy. Putin embarked on a path aimed at destroying Ukraine, but what he is also doing, in fact, is destroying the future of his own country," Von der Leyen has said.

Ukraine claims to have killed 1,000 Russian soldiers and captured 300 22:55 Ukraine today claimed to have killed more than 1,000 Russian soldiers in the war launched by the Kremlin last Sunday against the country and to have captured more than 300 uniformed men who surrendered

."The Russian army surrenders massively

. Even senior officers surrender. Today the commander of a Russian military unit surrendered. The commander of the tank battalion also surrendered. We have already taken more than 300 regular fighters," said Oleksiy Arestovych, advisor to the Office of Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky, in an appearance. Anonymous declares cyberwar on Russia and Putin 21:32 Anonymous today declared cyberwar on Russia and its president

, Vladimir Putin, for invading Ukraine, with demands that it withdraw its troops from there or it will carry out cyberattacks against major Russian government websites. "The Anonymous group is in a state of cyberwar against the Russian government," the hackers stated on their Twitter account, in a message accompanied by a video and the hashtag #Ukraine.In addition, Anonymous threatened Putin to reveal what he has hidden for years and promised that this information would be "a crushing blow" to the president and "his corrupt puppets

". Sanchez calls the four former presidents to share impressions on Ukraine 21:09 The President of the Government, Pedro Sanchez, has called the four heads of the Executive who have preceded him in office, Felipe Gonzalez, Jose Maria Aznar, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero and Mariano Rajoy, to share impressions on the crisis in Ukraine, according to government sources

. The first convoy led by the GEO leaves Ukraine and is already safe in Poland 20:10 A first convoy with 40 Spaniards, escorted by the National Police, has just crossed the border and is already safe in Poland. At the border there was another support group formed by about twenty GEO. The Spanish civilians have boarded a bus in Poland that will take them to an airport from where they will be repatriated to Spain.

UNHCR estimates that more than 150,000 Ukrainians have left the country 19:31 The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Filippo Grandi, estimated on Saturday that more than 150,000 refugees have already left Ukraine in the face of the Russian invasion, half of them bound for Poland. Likewise, Grandi has indicated that the organization has registered a growth in the internal displacement

of the Ukrainian population within the country, "but the military situation makes it difficult to estimate the number and provide aid". Thousands of Europeans take to the streets to call for an end to the war in Ukraine 18:46 Thousands of people took to the streets

of several European capitals on Sunday to call on Russia to suspend the invasion of Ukraine

following the initiative of Russian citizens against the operation ordered by the country's president, Vladimir Putin. Resistance in Kiev slows Russian advance, according to US and UK 18:27 According to the United States and the United

Kingdom the Russian military offensive on Ukraine has slowed down and is advancing at a slower pace than expected, apparently because of the difficulty they would be having in key areas such as Kiev

.The advance "has slowed temporarily as a result of logistical difficulties and strong Ukrainian resistance", according to British sources, while a spokesman for the US Department of Defense has explained that the Russians "have encountered more resistance than expected".

Russia orders all-out offensive after accusing Kiev of refusing dialogue 17:21 Russia's Defense Ministry today ordered the army to launch an all-out offensive

after accusing Kiev of refusing to sit down at the negotiating table with the Kremlin. "After the Ukrainian side abandoned the negotiation process, all units have been ordered to advance in all directions in accordance with the operational plan," a spokesman, Igor Konashenkov, was quoted as saying by the Sputnik news agency. Moscow's version contrasts with that of Kiev, which has clarified that it has not rejected the negotiations but the requirements put forward by the Russian authorities. Chechen leader announces deployment of fighters to Ukraine 17:11 The president of the Russian republic of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadirov, announced Saturday the deployment of his fighters to Ukraine to assist Russia in its invasion of the country. Kadirov and several individuals close to him are under sanctions by the United States and its allies for the extreme brutality of his regime

. The Ukrainian Army calls to resist in Kiev by all means 16:44 Meanwhile, the Interior Ministry has confirmed the distribution of a total of 25,000 automatic weapons and more than 10 million rounds of ammunition among the population of the Ukrainian capital under the presumption that, as the president, Volodimir Zelenski, pointed out, "thousands of Russian military", more than 100,000

, according to the Ukrainian head of state, are already in the country. Margarita Robles warns that Putin "is ready for anything" 16:24 The Minister of Defense, Margarita Robles, has assured that the European Union (EU) is going to take "much more rigorous" measures than those taken so far in the war in Ukraine to "stop this madness" and warns that the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, "is ready for anything

, for the total conquest of Ukraine and the overthrow of the president". Poland's President calls for Ukraine's immediate accession to the European Union 16:11 "Poland supports the express way for Ukraine's accession to the EU

. Candidate status should be applied now and membership talks should start immediately afterwards," the leader said on his Twitter account. "It is what Ukraine deserves," he added. GEO continue the evacuation mission of the Spaniards in Ukraine 15:39 GEO continue the evacuation mission of the group of Spaniards

still in Ukraine. The two convoys, which are being escorted by the National Police, are encountering heavy traffic jams due to the fact that there are many local people trying to leave the country towards Poland, Moldova and Romania. The support team includes about twenty GEO

, who have already arrived at the border with Ukraine, where they will be in charge of securing the passage of convoys, supplies and refueling. Are Germany and Hungary opposed to supporting Russia's disengagement from SWIFT? 14:02 "We already have almost full support from European Union (EU) countries to disconnect Russia from SWIFT. I hope that Germany and Hungary will have the courage to support this decision

," Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky said Saturday,Hungary, for its part, has made it clear that they are not blocking this move. "Let's be clear: IT IS NOT TRUE! We have never opposed

, nor blocked, any sanction proposal," said Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó. Movistar offers free calls and SMS between Spain and Ukraine 13:12 Movistar offers "free" and for an "undetermined time" international calls and SMS between Spain and Ukraine in view of the current "very delicate" moment in Ukrainian territory due to the Russian invasion

."At such a delicate time as the current situation in Ukraine, we want to facilitate communication between families, friends and companies," he said. Thus, from Movistar we offer free of charge, for an indefinite period of time, international calls and SMS between Spain and Ukraine for our customers, companies and individuals," said Movistar.

Zelenski assures that Ukraine has "derailed" the Russian attack plan 12:58 The President of Ukraine, Volodymir Zelenski, said today that the country's Armed Forces have "derailed" the Russian attack plan for the capital, Kiev, against which Russia used "everything" to storm it, such as fighters, saboteurs and airborne troops

."I can start with the good news: we have resisted and are successfully repelling enemy attacks. The fighting continues in many cities and regions of our country. Kiev and key cities around the capital are controlled by our Army," he said in a new address to the nation released by the Presidential Office.

Netherlands to send 200 anti-aircraft missiles to Ukraine 11:55 The Dutch government announced on Saturday that it will send 200 Stinger-type surface-to-air missiles to Ukraine "as soon as possible". They are 1.5 meters long and weigh more than 16 kilograms, but have a speed of 2,400 kilometers per hour

and can be used on targets within a radius of up to 5 kilometers. Zelenski calls on EU to decide now on Ukraine's membership 11:42 "It is a time to close the long discussion once and for all

and decide on Ukraine's membership in the EU," Zelenski wrote in a tweet after speaking by phone Saturday with European Council President Charles Michel in what he described as a "new day on the diplomatic front." Ukraine puts at least 198 civilians killed, including three children 11:28 Ukraine today put the number of Ukrainian civilians killed by the war launched by Russia last Thursday against the country at at least 198, according to Ukrainian Health Minister Viktor Liashko. "Unfortunately, according to operational data, we have 198 dead, including 3 children

, and 1,115 wounded, 33 of whom are minors," he said on his Facebook account. Macron warns that the war in Ukraine "will last" 10:31 French President Emmanuel Macron warned on Saturday that the crisis and war in Ukraine "will last", while calling to prepare "with a lot of determination"

.In a speech delivered at the opening of an agricultural fair, where he has twice repeated that "war has returned to Europe", Macron has also warned that the conflict will have "consequences" in this area.

Zelenski assures Macron that he is keeping Kiev despite the fighting 09:48 French President Emmanuel Macron and his Ukrainian counterpart, Volodomir Zelenski, held a telephone conversation on Saturday in which the latter told him, according to the Elysée, that "they had kept Kiev" despite the fighting. Zelenski, for his part, welcomed on Twitter the aid Ukraine will receive in the coming hours. "Weapons and equipment from our partners are on the way - the coalition against war works!".

Russia assures that it has seized the Ukrainian city of Melitopol 09:44 The Russian Defense Ministry has assured on Saturday that it has taken control of the Ukrainian city of Melitopol as part of the military offensive it has launched on Ukrainian territory

."Units of the Russian Armed Forces have established full control over the city of Melitopol," said Defense Ministry spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov.

First package of humanitarian material to Ukraine 09:18 The Spanish Government will send this Saturday, from the air base of Torrejón de Ardoz in the Community of Madrid, the first package of humanitarian material, mainly medical and sanitary aid, to Ukraine. In addition, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has pointed out that the Government is considering sending defensive material to Ukraine as requested by this country after the attack launched by Russia.

Russian shell hits residential building in Kiev 09:15 "One more brutality of the Russian occupants which in no way can be hidden from the world and Russians," said Anton Geraschenko, advisor to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. At the moment, it is not known whether there are any casualties, although the

images released by the media show a multi-storey gap in a thirty-storey building.

Russia strikes over 800 Ukrainian military targets with cruise missiles 09:14 The Russian Armed Forces destroyed during early Saturday morning 821 Ukrainian military targets with cruise missiles, the military entity reported today in its morning war part. Among them 14 military airfields, 19 control and communications posts, 24 S-300 and Osa anti-aircraft missile systems, and 48 radar stations.

In addition, the Russian military also reportedly annihilated 87 tanks and armored vehicles, seven aircraft, seven helicopters, nine Ukrainian drones, and the annihilation of eight gunboats.

Zelensky denies capitulation and that he has ordered the army to lay down its arms 08:28 Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky today denied a possible evacuation, in which the US offered to help, and that he has ordered the army to lay down its arms in the face of the advancing Russian offensive on the capital

."Now a lot of false information has appeared on the net that I have ordered to lay down arms and that an evacuation is taking place. I am here and we are not laying down any weapons," Zelenski said in a video address.

Zelensky stressed that Ukrainians are "going to defend the state, as weapons are our truth".

Explosions and clashes a few kilometers from Maidan Square 08:27 Several explosions have rocked Ukraine's capital Kiev in the early hours of Saturday morning, and clashes are taking place in the area of Beresteiska, a mere nine kilometers from the well-known Maidan Square, and at a thermal power station in Troieschyna, at the other end of the city

.As reported by The Kiev Independent newspaper, there have been about 50 explosions and machine gun fire near the city zoo, and around the Beresteiska metro area, located below the intersection of Peremohy Avenue.

U.S. to impose economic sanctions against Putin 22:21 The United States announced that it will impose economic sanctions today against Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov in retaliation for their aggression against Ukraine

."The United States will join (the European Union) in sanctioning Putin, Foreign Minister Lavrov, and the rest of Russia's security team," White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki said at her daily press briefing.

Ukraine warns of massive cyber-attacks driven by Belarus 22:20 The Ukrainian government's Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-UA) has warned that "massive" cyber-attacks from Belarus towards private accounts of Ukrainian servicemen have been detected in recent days

.These attacks would have been carried out through the method known as 'phishing', a type of cyberattack that seeks to obtain private data of users through the falsification of web pages that the recipient of the scam usually knows.

A thousand people clamor in Madrid against Putin and NATO 21:08 A thousand people, according to the Government Delegation, have concentrated on Friday afternoon in Madrid's Puerta de Sol against the invasion of Ukraine by Russia, in a call, under the slogan "Neither Putin nor NATO", in which the demonstrators have demanded an end to the war and have questioned the role of the Atlantic Alliance in the conflict

. Sanchez appeals to "unity" before NATO to defeat Russia 21:06 The President of the Government, Pedro Sanchez, said Friday that "unity" is the "best tool of deterrence" against the "brutal and unjustified aggression" of Russia against Ukraine and reiterated that Spain is ready to "assume its collective commitments" with its allies

.This is how the head of the Executive expressed himself at an extraordinary telematic meeting of the Atlantic Council, convened by NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg.

For President Pedro Sánchez, this "brutal and unjustified aggression" is "the greatest threat since World War II to the stability and security not only of Ukraine itself, but also of Europe and the rest of the world".

Biden and Zelenski talk for 40 minutes 20:39 U. S. President Joe Biden and his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymir Zelenski discussed military aid and sanctions issues in a phone call Friday

.The White House reported the call between the two leaders lasted about 40 minutes. Although the White House did not disclose the content of the conversation, Zelenski said on Twitter that he had spoken with Biden about "strengthening sanctions," "concrete defense assistance" and "a coalition against war."

Ukraine puts the number of Russian troops killed on the second day of invasion at 2,800 20:38 The Ukrainian National Guard on Friday put the number of Russian troops killed on the second day of the military offensive on Ukrainian territory at 2,800, according to data provided on the social network Twitter

.In addition, they have pointed out that 80 tanks, 516 armored vehicles, ten airplanes and seven helicopters have been destroyed.

These figures contrast with those provided by the Russian authorities, who have reported no casualties among their ranks. A spokesman for the Russian Defense Ministry, Major General Igor Konashenkov, has detailed that Russian troops have taken control of the settlement of Trejizbenka, Lugansk.

The mayor of Kiev ventures a "very difficult" dawn 20:37 The mayor of Kiev, Vitaliy Klitschko, has recognized that the situation in the capital of Ukraine, "without exaggeration, is threatening", and has ventured that the dawn of this Saturday will be "very difficult" as the Russian troops are "close" to the city

.The capital mayor has launched this warning in a message posted on Telegram, where he has also informed that the bridges of Kiev have special control teams to protect infrastructure.

"I thank the city residents for their readiness to defend the capital and the country together with other units of the Armed Forces and law enforcement agencies," Klitschko added, UNIAN agency reports.

Ukrainian president releases video to address rumors that he had fled 18:54 NATO announces deployment of forces to respond to Russian invasion of Ukraine 18:51 NATO leaders on Friday decided to deploy Rapid Response Forces to boost allied defense in the midst of Russia's invasion of Ukraine

.After the virtual meeting of allied leaders, NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg announced the deployment by land, sea and air of these forces to respond to "any contingency"

NATO will attack Russia if it attacks a member country before 18:45 The Minister of Defense, Margarita Robles, appeared Friday at La Moncloa to explain the extraordinary meeting of NATO, which was attended by Finland and Sweden as guests and to which the Kremlin has not hesitated to threaten for it. As she explained, all partners are united in rejecting the Russian invasion of Ukraine, support the EU sanctions against Moscow and demand the immediate withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukrainian soil.

The Minister recalled that all countries wanted to make it clear that if Russia attacks any member country of the Alliance, it will receive the joint military response of all partners in application of Article 5. In this regard, she also insisted that NATO will not send troops to Ukraine to support its legitimate government.

At the meeting, NATO has decided to deploy Rapid Response Forces, multinational military units to operate by land, sea and air that are immediately available to be deployed within days in response to any crisis or emergency situation.

Russia threatens military consequences if Sweden or Finland join NATO 17:51 Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova on Friday threatened two new countries that have been in the orbit of the Atlantic Alliance for years. She said that the possible entry into NATO of Finland or Sweden "will have political and military consequences".

It so happens that the two countries, which are not members of the Atlantic Alliance, participated in the extraordinary meeting of heads of state and government that NATO held this Friday afternoon.

In a statement before the media at the headquarters of his department, he insisted that his country is not closed to new negotiations with Ukraine and that they are ready to send a delegation to Belarus if Ukraine agrees not to join the Atlantic Alliance.

Remains of a T-64BV tank 17:49 Residents of the city of Melitopol film the remains of a Ukrainian T-64BV tank destroyed by Russian troops.

Russian Army enters the Ukrainian city of Kherson 17:08 Authorities in Kherson reported Friday that the Russian Army has overcome the resistance of Ukrainian forces and has managed to penetrate the city, which is home to some 280,000 people

.In a message published through the social network Facebook, the Mayor's Office of Kherson has detailed that the Russian Army has managed to enter the city making use of a "significant force" and "with heavy losses", but that it has achieved it "regardless of the efforts" of the Ukrainian forces.

Pedro Sanchez participates in NATO leaders' summit 16:48 Fire destroys Ukrainian intelligence services building 16:34 The SBU (Ukrainian intelligence services) building in the city of Chernigov, is

on fire. Estonia sends more military equipment to Ukraine: Javelin anti-tank missiles 16:32 The Estonian Ministry of Defense has announced the sending of more military equipment to Ukraine to support the country in its fighting against the Russian troops that have invaded the country. Among the material to be sent are Javelin anti-tank missiles, medical assistance equipment, personal protective equipment and food rations.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220228ei2s006ts


Why Orban won't really change his spots
Daniel Hegedüs
786 字
2022 年 3 月 1 日
EUobserver.com
EUSERCOM
英文
© 2022, EUobserver.com, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
It's already become a cliche to argue that European foreign and security policy matured more over the last weekend than during the past decade.

What was unrealistic a week ago — a strong, joint European position on the hardest possible sanctions on Russia, including Nord Stream 2, SWIFT and freezing the assets of the Russian central bank—is now a hard, cold reality.

The shift also has been seen in Hungary - whose prime minister Viktor Orbán has traditionally been considered Vladimir Putin's most obvious trojan horse in the EU and in Nato.

Orban supported all the EU sanction measures - after some small attempts to delay[https://euobserver.com/world/154407] - and condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Over the past couple of days, it's become the mantra of Hungarian foreign policy that the country shares all joint European positions, irrespectively what those positions may be. Orbán even supported the EU decision on the delivery of lethal weapons to Ukraine.

And Hungary is now keeping a low profile. It's trying to shake off its image as the Russia-pleasing troublemaker.

Genuine U-turn?

Is a genuine U-turn in Hungarian foreign policy unfolding in front of our very own eyes? Could the shockwaves sent by the Russian aggression domesticate Orbán, practically overnight?

No. Take a closer look at the country and its foreign policy, and one sees a protracted balancing, not a U-turn.

Government-controlled media outlets and social media trolls still echo Russia-friendly narratives and disinformation in Hungary. The country is the only one among the four Visegrad States that refused, itself, to provide military aid to Ukraine. The Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia committed considerable military support for Kyiv.

Furthermore, the government of Orbán also prohibited the use of Hungarian transport routes to deliver military aid to Ukraine.

You could say that Orbán has shown he's not ready to break even a single tie forged with Putin over the years, in spite of the clear demand of both the Hungarian opposition and the anti-war protests on Budapest's streets.

He refused to reconsider the controversial Paks II nuclear power plant construction project[https://euobserver.com/climate/152035], just as he refused to follow the Czech government's call to leave the Russia-controlled International Investment Bank (IIB).

The IIB moved its headquarters to Budapest in 2019 and has been widely regarded as a security risk, with accusations the institution providing safe haven for covert Russian intelligence activities.

And Orbán would not be in the position to make a foreign policy U-turn, even if he wanted, for two good reasons.

Mea culpa impossible

First, he cannot admit in the election campaign that his Russia-policy over the past 12 years has been a huge, strategic mistake.

Among his hardcore supporters, Orbán is believed to be infallible. Destroying this myth would not only cause confusion in his electoral base but could easily pose further uncomfortable questions.

If cosying up to autocrats was a failure, his confrontational approach vis-á-vis the European Union and other Western partners might now be seen to have been unwise as well.

The whole worldview of Fidesz, which is the political party Orban leads, is at stake.

In the past, Orbán was indeed able to master neck breaking ideological and policy turns.

But not over such a short period of time, without any preparatory work —and in the middle of an election campaign.

Second, a genuine U-turn of Hungarian foreign policy is impossible and unimaginable without a U-turn in domestic policy.

Although in the coming months the EU will be preoccupied with keeping united on its policy toward Russia, the points of conflict between the EU and Hungary relations won't simply vanish.

To resolve the big questions — what will happen with the suspended Covid recovery fund and the rule of law mechanism — Orbán would need to re-democratise his regime.

For an authoritarian strongman and kleptocrat, this is impossible.

As for keeping close and cordial ties with Russia and China, he's likely to persist with that path. After all, it offered Orbán important leverage over Western partners and the EU.

So much of Orban's modus operandi is to create the impression of available strategic options that may allow him to sustain his regime should Hungary, one day, leave the EU.

That implicit threat won him many battles in the EU, protecting him from genuine sanctions for years.

Hungary's troublesome foreign policy and his autocratisation go hand-in-hand. Orbán can't have one without the other.

There is no hope for a genuine U-turn in Hungarian foreign policy while prime minister Orbán is in power in Budapest.

EUobserver.com ASBL

文件 EUSERCOM20220301ei310002t


Hungarian foreign minister: Sberbank “first victim of the Brussels’ sanctions”]]
Vlagyiszlav Makszimov
429 字
2022 年 3 月 2 日 13:02 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Hungarian foreign minister Péter Szijjártó called Sberbank a ‘victim’ of the EU ’s sanction policy after the Russian bank said it was leaving Europe after bloc regulators announced their license would be revoked.

Russia’s largest lender Sberbank said earlier that day it was leaving the European market after coming under pressure from Western sanctions levied against the state bank in response to Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine.

“Unfortunately, we have the first victim of the Brussels’ sanctions policy, this is the Sberbank in Hungary and Austria”, the chief Hungarian diplomat said at a press conference on Wednesday (2 February), EURACTIV’s media partner Telex reported [https://telex.hu/belfold/2022/03/02/szijjarto-peter-kulugyminiszter-orosz-ukran-valsag-sberbank-bank-gazdasag].

Sberbank suffered financing issues following the announcement of tough European Union sanctions aimed at choking off Russian banks’ access to capital markets, which led to European banking regulators revoking its licenses throughout the bloc on Monday (1 March).

Sberbank ’s Austria-based European arm, Sberbank Europe AG will now enter normal insolvency proceedings, while branches in Croatia and Slovenia were sold to local banks.

The Hungarian National Bank (MNB) said [https://index.hu/gazdasag/2022/03/02/haboru-orosz-ukran-konfliktus-szankcio-mnb-sberbank-csod/] it tried to find a market player that would take over the operation of the bank on market terms but failed.

According to local media reports [https://index.hu/gazdasag/2022/03/02/haboru-orosz-ukran-konfliktus-szankcio-mnb-sberbank-csod/], MNB deputy governor Csaba Kandrács said Hungarian Sberbank ’s market share is around one per cent, so its liquidation will not cause stability problems in the Hungarian banking system.

Speaking at a press conference after the meeting of the Serbian-Hungarian Joint Economic Committee Szijjártó said “this development underlines, even more, the importance of the need to be very careful that the Hungarian people do not pay the price of the war”.

Nevertheless, clients without high deposits at Sberbank Europe are unlikely to suffer considerable financial losses as retail depositors are protected up to €100,000 in the EU.

Serbia, which also hosts a Sberbank subsidiary, has decided not to join the EU ’s sanctions of Russia, instead opting to accept Ukrainian refugees and provide humanitarian and medical assistance.

EU Parliament regrets Serbia not harmonising with EU’s Russia sanctions [https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/eu-parliament-regrets-serbia-not-harmonising-with-eus-russia-sanctions/]

Serbia’s failure to harmonise with the EU ’s sanctions against Russia is regrettable and hurts the country’s accession process, according to a draft resolution on Ukraine which MEPs are set to vote. On the other hand, Montenegro, also an EU candidate, …

Meanwhile, Sberbank announced [https://www.ansamed.info/ansamed/en/news/sections/economics/2022/03/01/ukraine-serbia-aik-banka-takes-over-sberbank_41ab4e6c-cdb0-410e-9799-722c4fee128e.html] on Monday its Serbian subsidiary will be acquired by AIK Banka. Earlier that day Belgrade’s national bank said Sberbank Serbia is liquid and well capitalised.

[Edited by Alice Taylor]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220302ei320005t


News; International
Russian Troops Lay Siege To Several Ukrainian Cities; Russian Military Ramps Up Attacks On Key Ukrainian Cities; Joe Biden Sidesteps Accusing Russia Of War Crimes Amid Invasion; U.N. General Assembly Votes To Condemn Russian Invasion; Residents in Lviv Gear Up for a Fight; Ukrainian President Zelensky: From Comedian to Hero; Growing List of Companies Cut Ties with Russia. Aired 12-1a ET
John Vause, Matthew Chance, Gen. Wesley Clark, Kevin Liptak, Alex Marquardt, Ivan Watson, Anderson Cooper, Phil Black, Brian Todd
7551 字
2022 年 3 月 3 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[00:00:20]

ANNOUNCER: This is CNN Breaking News.

VAUSE: Hello, welcome to our viewers in the United States and around the world. I'm John Vause at CNN's world headquarters in Atlanta.

Just hours ago, another loud explosion was heard near the Ukrainian capital. Another sign perhaps Russia is moving into a more brutal military campaign, escalating attacks on major cities and seven days into what was predicted to be an overwhelming military offensive sweeping across all Ukraine within weeks. Only now, are Russian forces in control of a major Ukrainian city with the fall of Kherson in the South. City officials say fierce fighting there left dozens dead.

Well, in Kharkiv, at least three schools were destroyed by Russian artillery fire and a cathedral reduced to rubble on Tuesday. No words so far on casualties.

But Putin's war of choice has seen some serious setbacks as well. The military convoy, which had been advancing on Kyiv appears to have stalled, possibly out of fuel.

The Ukrainian president who's holed up in a bunker claimed some occupiers are fleeing back to Russia, and he praised the courage of his fellow Ukrainians.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: Our military, our border guards, our territorial defense. Even ordinary farmers capture the Russian military every day, and all the captives say only one thing. They do not know why they are here. Despite the fact that there are dozens of times more of them. The morale of the enemy is constantly deteriorating.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: The U.N. says at least 227 Ukrainian civilians are confirmed dead, the total toll is likely much higher.

Ukraine State Emergency Service said at one point, more than 2,000 civilians had been killed but later backtracked on that.

CNN cannot confirm any of these figures. The Russian military denies targeting civilians and says designated evacuation corridors have been mapped out for Mariupol, Kharkiv and Kyiv, where Russia's increasingly fierce attacks continue to be met with a brave determine Ukrainian resistance.

But as CNN's Matthew Chance reports, many now wonder how much longer can Ukrainians hold out against the full might of the Russian military?

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MATTHEW CHANCE, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Russia's assault on Ukraine continues without mercy. This is what's left of a university in Kharkiv. The country's second city amid upending (PH) of civilian areas.

In the port city of Mariupol, also the scene of heavy shelling, local officials say hundreds of casualties are now feared.

The United Nations has confirmed more than 200 civilians killed across Ukraine in the week since this Russian invasion began. Ukrainian officials say the figure is much higher.

You think those figures would scare people off the streets. If you look at this scene from the town of Konotop, where Russian officer holds up to grenades for protection. After delivering an ultimatum, demanding surrender.

Shame on you, the angry crowd shouts, just go back to where you came from. Minutes later, the local man sets out Russia's turns.

If we stopped resisting, they will shell the city, he tells the crowd but if you vote for it, we will fight back. The decision has to be taken by everyone though, because the artillery is aimed at us.

Across Ukraine, there continue to be courageous acts of civilian defiance against the Russian occupiers. This was a scene in the Southern town of Melitopol now under Russian control. Locals literally lying in front of these military vehicles to resist.

And this resistance on the battlefield too, Russian officials admitting nearly 500 of their own soldiers have been killed so far.

Ukrainians say the figure is closer to 6,000. Either way, the human cost of this war is already tragically high.

Matthew Chance, CNN, Kyiv.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: General Wesley Clark is a CNN Military Analyst and former NATO Supreme Allied Commander. He's with us this hour from Boulder, Colorado. General, thank you for being with us.

[00:05:06]

VAUSE: So, before this invasion began, there were some estimates out there that Russia's military could be done with all of this, could sweep through Ukraine maybe in a couple of weeks.

But now, we're a week in, and they've taken just one major city, (INAUDIBLE) in the South. Clearly, this is not playing out as Putin had planned. What are the problems here? What does he do next?

GEN. WESLEY CLARK, CNN MILITARY ANALYST: Yes, well, the military may have planned -- the Russian military may have plan to come in there and finish it in a week or two. But they didn't count on the warm weather North of Kyiv. And that land up there is not frozen. And so, the Russians have been (INAUDIBLE).

And this was really their main objective, they wanted to sweep into Kyiv, take it and install a puppet government. And they just haven't been able to get there. And they've also discovered that the Ukrainians are pretty good fighters, they're, in fact, resilient against an overwhelming force.

And so, the Russians have had very, very tough going north of Kyiv, in large part because of the fierce resistance. But also, because of the draft (PH) ability the ground. It's been different elsewhere in the country, not because the Ukrainians haven't fought harder. But because it's more amenable to open maneuver.

And the Russians have been able to move their forces, they've been able to amass their forces, and they've been able to more isolate some of the Ukrainian defenders. So, there is a Russian move in the South, it's moving up toward Kyiv. And that is a major concern.

VAUSE: There's also a situation as far as Kyiv is concerned that you have Russian forces, and certainly Mariupol, you have Kharkiv, which is under this heavy, constant shelling as well, these two cities are in the West. And you know, they could fall within days, maybe a little bit longer, but they will fall. Some suggested that then gives Russia effective control of Eastern Ukraine, which cuts off the capital from Ukrainian forces. And so, this could really quickly turn in Putin's favor.

CLARK: So, what Russia really wants is they really want that quarter open through Mariupol that gives them the land bridge to Crimea. And it also helps open the way to Odesa.

So, they would be able to then isolate Kyiv and Ukraine for many seaborne reinforcements. They're already controlling the Black Sea as it is, but they want that coastline. And that's one of their major access of movement.

Together is they're going to come up both sides of the Dnieper River toward Kyiv. So, they can reinforce the encirclement of Kyiv both on the East and on the West banks of the river. VAUSE: CNN is also reporting that U.S. officials believe Russia will increasingly hit civilian targets and see slow annihilation of Ukraine's military. And to that, there comes this ominous warning at the U.N. General Assembly from the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations of what is actually happening within Ukraine itself by the Russians, listen to this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

LINDA THOMAS-GREENFIELD, U.S. AMBASSADOR TO U.N.: We've seen videos of Russian forces moving exceptionally lethal weaponry into Ukraine, which has no place on the battlefield. That includes cluster munitions and vacuum bombs, which are banned under the Geneva Convention.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: How devastating are those weapons if they're used in a -- you know, high civilian population area or an urban area and has proven capable of doing that?

CLARK: Right. Now, these cluster bombs, we saw them coming out of the broad rockets in Kharkiv a couple of days ago, we understand the toss has been moved. Also, this is this flame thrower weapon, or the so- called vacuum bomb that's being used.

They absolutely have no place on this kind of a battlefield. They're weapons of terror. They're being used against civilian targets, and they cause indiscriminate damage. And if you look at all of this, it certainly looks like a war crime in the making to me.

VAUSE: With regards to the ongoing military assistance to Ukraine, now, the U.S. delivered hundreds of stinger anti-aircraft missiles this week, that could bring back some bad memories for the Russian president and many other senior officials in Moscow given how effective the stingers were in Afghanistan against the Soviet invasion. How effective could they be in this conflict in Ukraine?

CLARK: I think the stingers and the javelins are proven to be incredibly effective in this -- in this battle. One of the things about the stingers is that they don't give a signature. So, if you're in an aircraft flying at 20,000 feet, let's say, you cannot determine whether you're being tracked by a stinger or not. There's no way to do any suppression of air defense when you're being engaged by the stinger.

But once the stinger gets a lock on, it's a very accurate weapon. It's very effective and they brought down a number of aircraft with them and helicopters.

As far as the javelins are concerned. That's a fire and forget missile also, you lock it on to the target of 3,000-meter range and it finds the target and attacks it and strikes it often from the top at the most vulnerable points.

[00:10:12] CLARK: So, these weapons have proved remarkably effective. The javelin in particular has been effective in the North where the mobility is hampered. So, the the Russian vehicles are moving more slowly. In some cases, they're stopped, because they're a perfect target for javelin standoff weapon.

VAUSE: Gen. Wesley Clark, as always, thank you, sir.

CLARK: Thank you.

VAUSE: One day after condemning Russia's invasion of Ukraine, during his State of the Union address, U.S. President Joe Biden refused to accuse the country of committing war crimes.

On Wednesday, the president said it was too early to make that call but said it's clear Russia is targeting civilians. Biden renewed his commitment to Ukraine saying the country would overcome its Russian enemy.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Putin is now isolated from the world more than ever and will continue to aid Ukrainian people as they defend their country and help ease their suffering in the process.

When history of this era is written, Ukraine will have left Russia weaker and the rest of the world stronger.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: Live now to Washington and CNN White House reporter Kevin Liptak. And Kevin, he may not be willing to accuse the Russians of war crimes just yet, but they will be at least according to Joe Biden, some severe price to pay if civilians are targeted by the Russians.

KEVIN LIPTAK, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Yes. And what you heard the President say was really channeling what U.S. officials have been warning of for weeks, which is that as Putin grows more frustrated as his campaign becomes stalled somewhat in Ukraine that he could turn to increasingly brutal tactics.

And the president said today that he believed it was clear that Putin was targeting civilians in Ukraine, but he stopped short of calling it a war crime.

Of course, targeting civilians intentionally is considered a war crime. And you already saw today the International Criminal Court beginning investigation into the Russian invasion in Ukraine there at The Hague.

Other world leaders have also called it a war crime, what's happening in your Ukraine, in particular, the British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, but in those remarks in Wisconsin today, the president reiterated this unity you're seeing in the Western world in trying to punish Putin for what he's doing in Ukraine. After he spoke, the White House did announce these new sanctions on Russia but also on Belarus, which is, of course, Russia's ally in this, they're facilitating Russian troops crossing into their border into Ukraine.

Those sanctions include export controls, the same ones that we saw applied to Russia earlier this week. The president also applied new sanctions on the Russian defense sector, so companies that produce aircraft, missiles, weapons, systems that help design warfare, all of those new sanctions applied to those.

We're also told the Treasury Department is working on a new list of oligarchs to apply sanctions to, as well as their families. You heard the president in his State of the Union address, say that he would go after these oligarchs, and what he called their I'll-begotten gains. Things like luxury apartments, private jets, their yachts.

And so, we did hear from the Justice Department today, they're forming a new task force to carry out this initiative. It will include prosecutors, the FBI, the U.S. Marshals Service, all sort of seeking out these assets that Russians may hold in the United States.

How easy that will be is remains to be seen. A lot of these oligarchs use laws to disguise the true identity of their assets in the United States. But clearly, President Biden putting this as a priority of his -- as he laid out in the State of the Union address, the Justice Department is calling this task force KleptoCapture, John.

VAUSE: Kevin, 13 minutes past midnight there in Washington. Thank you for staying up with us. We appreciate that.

We have new developments on the investigation into the Capitol riots in the new court file at a January 6 Committee, alleges former U.S. President Donald Trump and right-wing lawyer John Eastman were part of a conspiracy to overturn the 2020 presidential election.

The filing states evidence and information available to the committee establishes a good faith belief that Mr. Trump and others may have engaged in criminal and/or fraudulent acts.

The committee alleges Eastman helped to orchestrate the plot and attempting to obtain his e-mails, something Eastman has refused to hand over. Claiming attorney client privilege.

When we come back, civilians in Kyiv increasingly in harm's way as Russia changes up invasion tactics, we'll look at a closer look at the aftermath of an attack on a T.V. tower in a moment.

Also ahead, far from home and relying on the kindness of strangers. Reality for one million people who fled Ukraine since the Russian invasion began. Their stories, just ahead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[00:18:56] VAUSE: At the United Nations Wednesday, an historic vote denouncing Russia's invasion of Ukraine. A rare emergency session of the General Assembly overwhelmingly approved a resolution condemning the attacks and demanding Russia's immediate withdrawal. 141 of the 193 members voted in favor. Five countries, including Russia voted against it while 35 countries including China, Cuba and Iran abstained. Ukraine says the vote sends a powerful message.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SERGIY KYSLYTSYA, UKRAINIAN AMBASSADOR TO U.N.: Now people of Ukraine have more reasons to believe in the United Nations. It is just the beginning. Don't think that it was the end in itself or purpose in itself, the vote. The vote is a powerful message to the Russian Federation.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: As more explosions rocked the capital Kyiv, U.S. officials warned that Russian forces are turning to their old brutal tactics of laying siege to cities while targeting civilians and infrastructure from afar.

Just like the Russian missile strike on a T.V. tower in Kyiv Tuesday, which CNN's Alex Marquardt reports could be an ominous sign of much worse to come.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

[00:20:07]

ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR U.S. CORRESPONDENT (voice over): Russia has launched a new phase of this war on Ukraine's communication and information. This was the moment a Russian missile struck Kyiv's T.V. tower. Today, we walk through the rubble of the buildings below it.

Russia has launched a new phase of this war on Ukraine's communication and information. This was the moment a Russian missile struck Kyiv's TV tower. Today, we walk through the rubble of the buildings below it.

Shown around by Rostislav who joined the civilian territorial defense forces just last week when Russia launched their invasion. The 38- year-old is normally a hot air balloon pilot whose wife and daughter have fled the country for safety. The Russian rockets on Tuesday landed all around Rostislav.

ROSTISLAV, CIVIL DEFENSE FIGHTER (through translator): First two, followed by two more, I saw them personally where they were coming from. I was standing next to the wall over there.

MARQUARDT: As Russia ramps up its bombardment of both military and civilian targets in Ukraine, it warned that Ukraine security services, communications facilities would be hit to "suppress information attacks against Russia".

Russia can't help but see that it is losing the narrative. The information war, with the world rallying to Ukraine's side and rejecting Russia on diplomacy, sports, business and on and on.

In the lead up to this Russian invasion, there was a lot of speculation and fear that Russia would try to shut down communications, shut down power and impose a blackout over Ukraine. They have not been able to do that almost a week into this war, but in hitting this T.V. tower and announcing that they would be attacking other communications targets, that may be changing.

While Russia claims to not be targeting civilians, Tuesday's strike killed at least five, the government says, the deadliest in the city of Kyiv, so far.

Near the T.V. tower was a gym, a fire still smoldering. Smoke pouring out of the broken windows with gym equipment covered in dust and debris.

At the garage next door, staff stoically cleaned up glass, broken ceilings and throughout insulation, all of this steps from Babyn Yar, with its memorial for the massacre of over 30,000 Jews in the holocaust, an area that has seen so much suffering for the Jewish people hit by a Russian leader who claims to be de-Nazifying Ukraine.

YAAKOV BLEICH, CHIEF RABBI OF KYIV AND UKRAINE: This fellow who says he's coming to fight the neo-fascists in Ukraine comes and bombs that place which is the memorial to Jews who were killed by the fascists.

MARQUARDT: But the T.V. tower is still up, now also as a symbol, reinforcing Ukraine's resistance against this increasingly harsh Russian invasion, standing tall.

Alex Marquardt, CNN, in the Kyiv region.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: In the past week, from the moment when the Russian tanks and troops began spilling across the border, one million Ukrainians have fled their country according to the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees.

Poland's ambassador to the U.N. says many of those crossing the border are unaccompanied children. Families are being separated at checkpoints. More than half of those evacuating have fled West into Poland.

European Council president met with refugees at a border crossing on Tuesday, he pledged Europe would do everything possible to support them.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHARLES MICHEL, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN COUNCIL (through translator): Our moral task, the European task is to be at the frontline to support and that is with all these teams who are here to bring a bit of humanity to the people who are fleeing bombs, who had to leave relatives behind. We will do everything possible to bring help to welcome Ukrainians in a dignified way. (END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: Many refugees are fleeing to Hungary as well and reality is setting in for tens of thousands who have no idea when they'll be able to return home or if home will even still be there.

CNN's Ivan Watson spoke with evacuees at Hungary's border with Ukraine.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

IVAN WATSON, CNN, SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice over): The train to safety arrives 20 minutes late, rolling across the border from Ukraine loaded with civilians, all fleeing the world's newest war zone.

It is a carefully managed procession. Families emerging one by one. Expatriates from South Asia and Africa. And of course, Ukrainians, welcomed by a Hungarian officials and aid workers.

Each handed a solidarity ticket, a free seat on another train to the Hungarian capital where more help waits.

DAVID OROSY, REFORMED CHURCH IN HUNGARY: They will help them with traveling, with food, with Wi-Fi and all necessary things, even with hotels.

WATSON: Among the new arrivals, Anastasia Hrankina, her son Mark and their cat.

ANASTASIA HRANKINA, UKRAINIAN REFUGEE: Shaddick (PH), her name is Shaddick.

WATSON: They fled Kyiv on the first day of the invasion.

HRANKINA: Two days ago, I was thinking that this war is going to finish just in few days, and that we want them to leave Ukraine. But now, I just can make any plans. I don't know when I'll see my family again.

[00:25:22]

WATSON: The Ukrainian refugees are almost all women and children. Absent here, husbands and fathers, men of fighting age ordered to stay behind to defend the country.

You're going to Ukraine?

OLEKSANDRA SHULENINA, RETURNING TO UKRAINE TO RETRIEVE HER CHILDREN: Sure.

WATSON: Oleksandra Shulenina was on a foreign business trip when Russia invaded. Now, she's hurrying back into Ukraine to collect her children.

SHULENINA: My husband insists that I protect our children. So, I take to my son, to my niece. We can go to Europe when my friend waiting for us and he stay at -- in Ukraine for protect our country.

WATSON: Anastasia Hrankina's husband is also back in Kyiv, defending the city against Vladimir Putin's invasion.

And what would you tell people in Russia?

HRANKINA: I will tell them, just get rid of your president. He's insane.

WATSON: Safe, but now uprooted with no idea if and when these people can ever go home.

Ivan Watson, Zahony (PH), on the Hungarian Ukrainian border.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: French President Emmanuel Macron says refugees have been and will continue to be welcomed in Europe, a continent he says which has been shaken by the war in Ukraine. Macron had a message during an address on Wednesday, here it is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

EMMANUEL MACRON, PRESIDENT, FRANCE (through translator): But still, we are not at war with Russia. We all know what binds us to this great European people that is the Russian people who sacrificed so much during World War II to save Europe from the abyss. We are today alongside all the Russians who refuse an unworthy war to be waged in their name.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: Mr. Macron has maintained contact with the leaders of both Russia and Ukraine. He says he's tried to convince Vladimir Putin to drop arms and prevent the enlargement of this conflict.

More Russians have been arrested for talking out and speaking out against the war in Ukraine.

On Wednesday, at least 350 More antiwar protesters were detained in St. Petersburg. That's according to a local monitoring group, which also says more than 7,600 people, about 8,000 had been detained in Russia for opposing the war since the fighting began.

These images show police arresting an elderly woman who is holding anti -- an anti-war sign. Other protesters cheered and applauded for her as officers took her away.

Well, ground battles are still far far away from parts of Western Ukraine but as you will see, people there do not want to be caught off guard if Russian forces close in, more on that in a moment.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[00:31:20]

VAUSE: Welcome back, everyone. I'm John Vause.

Well, new explosions have been lighting up the sky over the Ukrainian capital as Russia intensifies attacks on cities across the country. This was the scene in Southwestern Kyiv earlier. Meantime, it appears Russia has taken its first big prize, the strategic port city of Kherson.

After fierce fighting, the mayor says the Ukrainian military is no longer in the city. Kherson is located along the Black Sea near Crimea.

Battles are also raging in other parts of the country, including Ukraine's second largest city, Kharkiv to the East.

U.S. officials believe Russian forces are increasingly targeting civilians and warned Russia will seek the slow annihilation of Ukraine's military.

The U.N. says at least 227 civilians have been killed in Ukraine in the week since fighting began. Ukraine's state emergency service had put the number much higher, more than 2,000 but later backtracked.

CNN, though, cannot confirm any of these figures.

While many Ukrainians are fighting the Russian forces head on in close quarters, residents in Lviv in Western Ukraine are also preparing for battle, even though they're not on the front lines, as CNN's Anderson Cooper reports.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR (through translator): In an old factory in Lviv, they prepare for war as best they can, welding steel to block roads. Hedgehogs, they're called.

(on camera): These are most effective, I'm told, when the ground is soft and they can get dug down into the earth. Or perhaps even on a cobblestone street they can dig down between the cobblestones. But with a hedgehog this size, it's unlikely to be able to stop a Russian tank. But perhaps a vehicle or a Humvee.

(through translator): Lviv has so far been unscathed. At night, air- raid sirens sounds, but the fight is still further East. Each night, each day, the determination here grows.

At a brewery in Lviv, they now make Molotov cocktails. Taras Misoko (ph) says they've made 2,000 at least, using empty battles of a popular anti-Putin beer.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's Putin (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE), which means "Putin Dickhead." And you would see --

COOPER (on camera): Wait. The beer is called "Putin Dickhead"?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

COOPER: How long have you've been making Putin Dickhead beer?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Actually, we started to brew this beer in 2015, because in 2014, Russians came to Crimean Peninsula and gathered in Eastern regions. So this label has a history already. So --

COOPER: Wow.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes, you see --

COOPER: (EXAMINING LABEL OF BEER) That's quite the -- that's quite the image.

(voice-over): It's a primitive weapon but potentially deadly. These Molotov cocktails almost have additional materials in them to ensure the fire will stick to whatever it's thrown at.

(on camera): Petrol alone isn't good enough. You want something to make it sticky so that it sticks on -- on a person?

UNIDENTIFIED: Yes. Stick on the surface.

COOPER (voice-over): When we got here to the factory, there was a group of maybe 70 or so men who were all standing around a car. And there was somebody in a uniform, a Ukrainian in uniform, who was explaining to them how to throw a Molotov cocktail inside a vehicle to the best effect.

There's a lot of people here who are trying to get as much training as they can in order to be able to face Russian forces, if and when they come.

In another neighborhood, residents gather supplies and send them wherever they're needed. Spike strips to puncture tires. Flak jackets with metal plates inside.

"We're continuing sending them to our guys there throughout the day," he says. Herer, you can see camouflage nets. They're to use as a cover so that the enemy doesn't know where tanks and armored personnel are located. In other rooms we have medicine and groceries."

[00:35:05]

A week ago, he was a construction worker. But then Putin invaded, and everything changed.

(on camera): You have a message to Vladimir Putin? What is it?

(voice-over): "What would I tell? him?" he says. "I would tell him he can go (EXPLETIVE DELETED) himself."

Fourteen-year-old Andriy's (ph) school is closed. He says volunteering makes him less nervous about the war.

(on camera): Are you scared?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: On the first time, first day I was. But now, I understand that we need help and support to our soldiers and people, and then we will live in peace. In peace.

COOPER (voice-over): Before leaving, we meet Pavlo (ph) and his son Artur (ph), just 10 months old, wrapped in the Ukrainian flag. He told me, "I just want to say my son Artur (ph) will learn to say 'glory to Ukraine' faster than he says 'mom' or 'dad.'"

(on camera): Those will be his first words, "Slava (ph) Ukraine"?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Yes.

COOPER (voice-over): Anderson Cooper, CNN, Lviv, Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: We'll take a short break, when we come back, Russian officials admitting the economy taking some serious blows as companies shut down operations and the West imposes crushing sanctions. More on that in just a moment.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

VAUSE: Well, for years as a comedian, he kept Ukrainians laughing. But now as leader of Ukraine, he has won praise as an unexpected hero. A wartime leader whose courage and sacrifice are inspiring people across his country and around the world.

CNN's Phil Black takes a look at the unconventional career arc of Volodymyr Zelensky.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

[00:40:07]

PHIL BLACK, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): There's one really good reason why, even in peacetime, many wondered whether Volodymyr Zelensky had what it took to lead his country. His preparation for the job was pretending to lead his country. His preparation for the job was pretending to lead his country.

In the popular Ukrainian TV show, "Server to the People," he played another unlikely president. A teacher, suddenly elevated to the highest office after a private rant about corruption goes viral.

In real life, his political party uses the name of the show as its own.

Zelensky's showbiz career was all comedy and light entertainment, including playing Paddington Bear in the movie franchise's Ukrainian release.

Somehow, that path has led him to the role of wartime president at a perilous moment for his country.

(on camera): Is it fair to say that he was an unlikely presidential candidate, and he is a thoroughly improbable wartime leader? JOHN HERBST, ATLANTIC COUNCIL, FORMER AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE: I think that is fair to say. He's a man of extraordinary achievement and capabilities.

BLACK (voice-over): Capabilities widely noticed through his recent example of leadership. So Zelensky's videos from the streets of Kyiv are being watched everywhere. Calm, determined, insistent the world must do more.

And he's provided perhaps the most memorable line of the war so far. Responding to a U.S. offer to get him out of Kyiv with "The fight is here. I need ammunition, not a ride."

HERBST: And you can be sure that that courage has appreciated, has strengthened his own people and their resolve to deal with this this display, this act of blatant aggression.

BLACK (on camera): He could personally make a difference to the outcome, you believe?

HERBST: Oh, there's no doubt about it. Look, he's now an international hero. A living symbol of standing firm against overwhelming odds.

BLACK (voice-over): In an exclusive interview with CNN's Matthew Chance, Zelensky played down the personal risks and hardship he's enduring.

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE: I'm the president of Ukraine. I'm not iconic. I think Ukraine is iconic. And I always was sure in it; I knew it always. I knew it, that Ukraine is special country. Ukraine is the heart of Europe.

BLACK: Zelensky has met his foe. He sat across from Vladimir Putin during talks in late 2019. Clearly the junior, vastly less experienced statesman. Now, Putin's forces are coming from him.

This moment is revealing Zelensky's character, as he rallies his people and the world to resist Russia's assault and save Ukraine's democracy.

Phil Black, CNN, London.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: According to a Western intelligence report, Chinese officials asked senior Russian officials to wait until after the Beijing Winter Olympics before invading Ukraine.

U.S. officials believe the report is credible. China says it's a smear. The invasion began four days after the closing ceremony.

It's unclear whether President Xi made that request when he met with Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, at the start of the games. Moscow and Beijing later issued a joint statement condemning NATO expansion, saying their partnerships had no limits.

We will take a short break on that. Back in a moment. You're watching CNN, 43 -- 43 minutes past the hour. See you in a moment.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[00:47:29]

VAUSE: Welcome back, everyone. The latest developments now on Ukraine.

Air raid sirens sounded, and a large explosion lit up the sky near Kyiv a few hours ago as Russia steps up its attacks.

Russia's defense military says it's now captured Kherson in the South after fierce fighting on Wednesday. This would be the first city to fall to the Russians.

Kherson's mayor says the Ukrainian military is no longer in the strategic port city. Residents must now follow the instructions of the Russians.

Ukraine's state emergency service reported massive shelling and bombing in the central part of Kharkiv, the country's second largest city. The regional police department was hit, and buildings at the national university left in flames.

And the U.N. high commissioner for refugees says one million people have fled Ukraine in the one week since the invasion began.

Not only have Western sanctions sent Russia's economy into freefall, it seems they sparked an exodus of multinational corporations. And the companies not cutting ties completely with Russia are significantly limiting their exposure.

And it won't take long before the average Russian takes notice, whether it's not being able to buy the latest iPhone or not see the latest movie released from three big Hollywood studios.

CNN's Brian Todd has details.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Soon, no amount of waiting in line will get you a coveted new iPhone in Russia. Apple has announced it stopped selling its products in Russia and has moved to limit Russians' access to digital services like Apple Pay.

SUSAN GLASSER, CNN GLOBAL AFFAIRS ANALYST: Huge lines of people in the metro, who were used to using Apple Pay or using a credit card, now they had to find cash.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I'm so used to having my Apple laptop, phone, ear buds, and watch. If I lose it all, I will be very disappointed.

TODD: Apple is growing a different roster of major companies who are even pulling out of Russia completely or scaling back operations, seeking to punish Vladimir Putin and his country far beyond the battlefield. GLASSER: Essentially, a new Iron Curtain is going up around Russia right now. And it's becoming more isolated than at any moment since the Soviet Union collapsed.

TODD: The Ford Motor Company says it's winding down operations in Russia. ExxonMobil is just pulling out of its last major oil and gas project in Russia and pledging not to invest in new developments there.

BP and Shell say they'll get out of their Russian businesses, taking hits of billions of dollars to their balance sheets.

American Express is terminating its relationships with its banking partners in Russia. The world's biggest container ship operators, Maersk and MSC Mediterranean, are halting their cargo bookings to Russian ports.

[00:50:05]

(on camera): Which is the most devastating to the average Russian?

MARTIN CHORZEMPA, PETERSON INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS: Well, maybe the most is actually Maersk and the shipping companies, which have stopped shipping just about anything. So that's not I -- just iPhones. That's about any consumer goods that are imported from abroad.

In the short term, that's going to be a significant impact.

TODD (voice-over): In the media and entertainment space, RT, the Kremlin-backed TV network known for putting out Putin's propaganda, is being dropped by providers like DirecTV.

Netflix has paused all future projects in Russia. Disney and CNN's parent company, WarnerMedia, have stopped releasing movies there.

While the moral component is a strong motivation for these companies, are they also pulling out of Russia to avoid P.R. headaches?

CHORZEMPA: Well, it's pretty easy to have it be both, in fact. Because there's so much risk. Not only reputationally, but also from a legal perspective.

TODD: Another move that will hurt the average Russian psyche: all Russian soccer teams have been banned from competing internationally until further notice, which means Russia may not play in this year's World Cup.

GLASSER: I think Russians will be devastated at being cut off from international sport, the World Cup in particular. Just a few years ago, Russia was hosting the World Cup in Moscow.

TODD (on camera): Ukraine's government is even pressing for Russia to be cut off from the global Internet. Analysts say it's not clear if the nonprofit that operates the global system of I.P. addresses and domain names has the power to do that. And they say it may not even be such a good idea, since cutting Russians off from the rest of the digital world will also cut them off from legitimate outside information about the war and may limit many Russians to only getting propaganda.

Brian Todd, CNN, Washington.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: Steven Hamilton is an assistant professor of economics at the George Washington University. At this hour, he joins us from Brisbane, Australia.

So, Steven, thank you for being with us. I just want to start with you with, you know, for the corporate world, refusing to do business with Rosatem or Gazprom, the two big state-owned energy producers, that's kind of low-hanging fruit. That's one thing.

But at this rate, soon it seems doing any business with Russia will be unacceptable. Are we now watching 30 years of post-Cold War engagement with Russia being rolled back in just days?

STEVEN HAMILTON, ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS, GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY: Yes, good day, John. I think that's exactly right, actually.

I mean, I think a week ago, we expected these sanctions to be somewhat modest. In fact, I was a bit concerned that they wouldn't go far enough as a -- as a deterrent.

But on the weekend, things were stepped up, really to an unprecedented level. And yes, there have been carve-outs from these sanctions, but we have to remember that the financial system is incredibly interconnected.

So it's really hard, if you're a financial firm or operating a financial market, for you to make sure that the transactions you are conducting with Russian are abiding by the sanction rights. So a lot of companies, there are moral issues, obviously. But a lot of companies are just choosing not to go there, for fear that they'll sort of step over the line.

VAUSE: To get around some of the sanctions, Russia could turn to cryptocurrency. China can try and make up for the loss of the consumer goods to a point.

Then there's the ongoing revenue, which is still there from the sale of Russia oil and gas. That hasn't been sanctioned.

But here's how President Joe Biden answered the question about that on Wednesday. Listen to this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Are you considering banning Russian oil imports?

JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: Nothing is off the table.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: Essentially, hitting Russian oil and gas, it's -- it's on the table. And it's not without price, though, for the West. So would it leave Putin, though, with very little else to lose if they went that far?

HAMILTON: Yes, I think that's -- that's right. So we've seen with all of the sanctions, we've seen a gradual escalation. Again, a lot of people have criticized that. But this is how, frankly, a financial war works right now. We start small and gradually ramp up.

As you said, if you go too far, then the other guy's not left with anywhere to go.

So at the moment, you know, we -- the sanctions are very significant. They're very stringent. And frankly, they're devastating Russia's financial system and Russia's economy. But they aren't all the way.

The issue is the next stage of really cutting off those commodity exports, yes, they would decimate Russia. But they would also have a massive effects on the European economy, the U.S. economy, the global economy. And at a time when inflation is so high, where these leaders are coming under political pressure for gas prices, it's a pretty hard thing to do. Right?

So I think they're trying to keep that in reserve and wait and see what Russia does.

VAUSE: We heard from the Kremlin spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, who said, "Russia's economy is experiencing serious blows. But there is a certain margin of safety. There is potential there. There are some plans. Work is underway." You know, all this sort of stuff.

There was a lot of work done over years long before the invasion, this invasion of Ukraine. But overall, have Moscow's efforts to try to insulate the Russian economy, to build this fortress Russia, have they've been a failure? A dismal failure?

HAMILTON: Well, you mentioned before, you know, the integration of Russia into the -- into the global economy. And I think that's the -- that's something they simply can't get around, that Russia is highly integrated.

[00:55:09]

So they had some manufacturing, but a lot off that manufacturing relies on foreign imports. So you might need a Taiwanese microchip for your rockets that you're producing in Russia, right? And there's -- there's kind of no way to get around that.

So, really, regardless of what they've done, Russia is still heavily reliant on the rest of the world.

Now, they've built this really big foreign exchange reserves, more than $600 billion, this huge war chest, to protect themselves against sanctions, right? So to have that there, as something they could use to prop up the currency and also do other things.

The trouble is, they didn't count on the West freezing that war chest. And that's the measure on the weekend that really threw the whole financial system into chaos.

VAUSE: Steven Hamilton, economist and fellow Brisbane boy. Thanks for being with us, Steve. We appreciate. Take care.

HAMILTON: Cheers.

VAUSE: Well, the Russian owner of Chelsea says he plans to sell the football club. Billionaire Roman Abramovich made the announcement Wednesday, saying the move would be in the best interests of the club, fans, employees, as well as sponsors.

We learned last week he gave stewardship of the club over to trustees. Abramovich said when the sale takes place, net proceeds will be donated to a foundation set up to help those affected by Russia's invasion.

I'm John Vause here at CNN's world headquarters in Atlanta. Please stay with us. Our breaking news coverage of Russia's invasion of Ukraine continues right after this.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220303ei33000b5


News; Domestic
Russian Assault Increasing Brutal; West: "Worst" Yet To Come; Mayor: Kharkiv Impacted By "Continuous Bombardment;" Apartment Buildings In Port City Of Mariupol On Fire; U.S. Official: Russians Showing "Willingness To Hit Civilian Infrastructure On Purpose;" U.N.: 133,000+ Ukrainians Have Fled To Hungary. Aired 7-8p ET
Erin Burnett, Nick Paton Walsh, Nic Robertson, Drew Griffin, Ivan Watson
8200 字
2022 年 3 月 3 日
CNN: Erin Burnett OutFront
EBOF
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
ATHENA JONES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: No jail time at all and his defense attorney says it's good he took the stand in his on defense. Wolf?

WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST: Athena Jones reporting on that story. Athena, thank you very much.

And to our viewers, thanks very much for watching. I'm Wolf Blitzer in "THE SITUATION ROOM."

Erin Burnett OUTFRONT starts right now.

ERIN BURNETT, CNN HOST: OUTFRONT next, breaking news, Putin gaining ground in southern Ukraine as the mayor of the second largest city in Ukraine tells me his people are under siege in constant bombardment tonight. He says Putin is intentionally targeting innocent civilians.

Plus, the west punishing Putin looking to go after the pricy yachts belonging to Russia's richest, yachts that include missile defense systems and submarines in addition to massive pools.

And we're live in Moscow tonight where citizens tell CNN that any negative news about Putin's invasion is 'fake news'. Let's go OUTFRONT.

And good evening. I'm Erin Burnett.

OUTFRONT tonight the breaking news, Vladimir Putin is gaining ground tonight in southern Ukraine. His forces now closing in on key cities, port cities like Mariupol. The city trying to stop Russian forces to fight devastating attacks that have cut power and water there and caused inconceivable suffering.

Force yourself to look at this, Surhai (ph), a father and his dead son, a son named Elia (ph).

And tonight reports of heavy shelling near a place where hundreds of people are blocking an access road to a nuclear power plant. The mayor of that town saying a column of Russian vehicles is now heading straight for them. And just a short time ago, I did speak to the mayor of Kharkiv, the second largest city in Ukraine. He told me the bombing in his city is constant and that Putin is now specifically, specifically targeting civilians.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

IHOR TEREKHOV, MAYOR OF KHARKIV (through interpreter): As far as the residential blocks are concerned, what I can say is that I look around and I see that there are no military troops stationed in our residential blocks. And what does that mean? That means that they are purposefully hitting at the residential buildings, intentionally trying to eliminate the Ukrainian people.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BURNETT: Intentionally trying to eliminate the Ukrainian people. I'm going to have more of my conversation with the mayor in just a moment. His words, though, come after the French president Emmanuel Macron spent 90 minutes on the phone with Putin today. And his takeaways, the worst is yet to come and Putin will go all the way.

Well, it's impossible to think about this, the worst is yet to come when this is what we're seeing tonight. In a town just about 30 miles from the capital, this was the scene seconds after it was hit by Russian artillery; cars, buildings on fire, residential homes completely decimated.

And this morning, a shocking image, a hole punched straight through an apartment building, straight through. And to the north, watch as a dashcam captures a blast. That's just dash cam video (inaudible) took at entire neighborhood. Look, you see all this and you wonder the death toll. We don't know. But innocent people are dying, civilians are dying. Every one of those blasts you are seeing, innocent people die and they are being targeted in military strikes. There's really no other way to put it at this point, because it's happening in town after town and these are the facts.

The fear of more bloodshed, more destruction and more death has Ukraine's President challenging Putin now to a face-to-face.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE: It's not about I want to talk with Putin. I think I have to talk with Putin. The world has to talk with Putin, because there are no other ways to stop this war, that's why I have to.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BURNETT: President Biden also responding tonight, hitting Russia's oligarchs with a new set of sanctions. Many of those billionaires now scrambling to prevent their yachts and mega mansions from being seized in U.S., Florida, New York and London, yachts with pools, yachts with anti-missile defense systems, mini submarines, we have a special report on this coming up tonight.

And we begin with our teams across the region in Ukraine, Hungary and Russia this evening. I want to begin though straight with Nick Paton Walsh. He is OUTFRONT live in Odessa. Nick, what is the latest that you are seeing from a city, of course, also under siege?

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Erin, no matter what the sanctions, the condemnation, this seems to be, according to Vladimir Putin himself, going according to his plan and that plan is hideous and terrifying for the hundreds of thousands who live in this third largest city of Ukraine. Across the Black Sea coast, a march of Russian military that appear to be seeing ground in population centers, what they bring with them is utter horror and chaos.

[19:05:02]

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

WALSH (voice over): The town of Kherson refuses to give up it seems. Looting, crippling life here. This Russian soldiers bid to get into a cell phone store, a sign of the lawless world they brought with them where food and medicine is lacking and what life is left made more unbearable by the laying of tripwire mines. Local officials said this one post online to warn others.

On the other side of Russian-held Crimea, Mariupol under siege without water or electricity. The mayor saying, "The Russian 'scum' have found no other way to break us." The prize in the south is this, Odessa, its opera house fortified, its coastline, a harder task, where the tide could bring Russians in with it, yet still lapse, as if nothing has changed.

Odessa brims with locals ready though. Like so many here, these civilian defenders don't want their whereabouts filmed, but are happy to speak.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JENYA: The war starts (inaudible) turn back home and ...

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALSH (voice over): Jenya (ph) is chief marketing officer for an IT company who's traveled Europe in Africa, but joined up to fight on day one.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JENYA: Unfortunately, I have lost two of my friends in Kherson two days ago.

WALSH: I'm sorry.

JENYA: Yes. They also have been ...

WALSH: Were they fighting in Kherson?

JENYA: Yes, they were fighting and they were in volunteer troop, so they have no military background at all, both of them are programmers.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALSH (voice over): We're joined be Lera (ph), age 19, a nanny who fled Russians in Crimea when she was 11.

"We're ready to the end to defend our land," she said. The occupiers came to my home before, my family is still there. Only I could leave because I don't want to live in Russia.

Across town, mother's knit camouflage netting while, like Nellia, their daughters fight, her staying behind to defend Kyiv.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

NELLIA KONONOVA, VOLUNTEER: We know the danger. We know that it will come, but we didn't know when will it come and I asked them, "Children, come here please be safe. Come to me." But they didn't want. "No mom, please stay alive. Stay safe. But we will defend our -" because everybody loves our motherland. Everybody. Sorry. Sorry. Everybody wants to be independent, to be free. They decided to stay there and I can't influence their decision. But I pray every day, I pray every night for them to stay alive.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALSH (voice over): The defying words of Ukrainian soldiers of Snake Island who told her Russian ship where to shove it echo here.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KONONOVA: (Foreign language), Russian ship (inaudible), it's the logo, it's the logo now in Ukraine.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WALSH (voice over): They'll need more than high spirits in the days ahead.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

WALSH (on camera): Now, this city deeply on edge quiet tonight, no sirens that we've heard so far. But a chilling report of an Estonian- flagged cargo ship sank off its coast. Ukrainian officials say that was from shelling by Russian ships that were trying to use that cargo ship as some sort of shield for potentially an amphibious landing here.

That's what people are deeply concerned about that at some point, the threat of Russian ships on the horizon will materialize as something real on their shores here. Erin?

BURNETT: Nick, thank you very much for an incredible reporting.

OUTFRONT now, the Mayor of Kharkiv, Ihor Terekhov. And Mayor I so much appreciate your time tonight so late in these exhausting nights. What is the situation in Kharkiv right now?

TEREKHOV (through interpreter): So the situation is extremely difficult. Today, Kharkiv has been hardly impacted by continuous bombardment. Planes are flying constantly, missiles are being launched. Grenades are launched and residential houses are being hit. Entire residential blocks are being destroyed.

[19:10:00]

We are talking about global destruction of residential blocks, administrative buildings, city administration building, people have no way to live, they're forced to go into shelter. Schools have been moved and even now when we are talking with you, I can hear air raids.

BURNETT: Ihor, you talk about residential buildings. Do you know how many civilians have been killed in your city?

TEREKHOV (through interpreter): Yes, so we definitely have a great number of Kharkiv people who have already been killed or being killed and the casualties are enormous. They are wounded, there are people that have been treated at the moment, operated, taken to hospitals and besides the number of fatalities is very great, that is why I believe it is quite inappropriate to talk about the numbers because the situation is constantly changing.

BURNETT: Mayor, President Zelensky said today and I quote him, he said, "We have nothing to lose but our freedom, our dignity, this is our biggest treasure." How far will you go to defend your freedom and your dignity?

TEREKHOV (through interpreter): Just like the entire Ukrainian people, I'll go till the end.

BURNETT: And I want to ask you, Mayor, about the civilians, the people of your city, more than 1 million of them. You talk about entire blocks of residential buildings being bombed. It seems when you think about that, that this is purposeful. From what you see, is it purposeful right now? Is Vladimir Putin purposely targeting civilians in your city?

TEREKHOV (through interpreter): As far as the residential blocks are concerned, what I can say is that I look around and I see that there are no military troops stationed in our residential blocks. And what does that mean? That means that they're purposefully hitting at the residential buildings, intentionally trying to eliminate the Ukrainian people.

BURNETT: Mayor, I so much appreciate your time. I'm very grateful to you for taking the time and the risk out of your life to talk to us.

TEREKHOV (through interpreter): Thank you.

BURNETT: I want to go now to the former Director of National Intelligence under President Obama, retired Lieutenant General James Clapper. General, I appreciate your time. You heard the Mayor of Kharkiv just staying there through this incredible strain and agony and suffering that everyone around him is going through.

He says Putin is purposely striking residential buildings, trying to eliminate the Ukrainian people. He talks about an enormous number of casualties. Is there any other way to look at this at this point, given that we see residential building now after residential building, personal home after personal home being hit?

JAMES CLAPPER, FORMER DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE: Well, Erin, unfortunately we need to get used to enduring this carnage and mindless destruction and having failed the first attack were very light approach that Putin took, thinking, I guess, assuming that Ukrainians would just roll over and give up and they're not.

So he's going to resort to what has always traditionally been - going back to Soviet era and now Russia, very heavy on destruction and mindless destruction, without any regard for humanity. And it is atrocious. It's wanton (ph) and brutal and mindless. And unfortunately, I think we're going to see more of that.

BURNETT: There has been intense fighting near one of the largest nuclear power plants in the entire continent of Europe. It happens to be located in central Ukraine. Again, it is one of the largest nuclear power plants in entire continent of Europe.

We've got video of gunfire and explosions nearby. The mayor says that there's a column of vehicles heading in the direction of the power plant. He says there's loud shots that have been heard from that. You talked about your concern even for Chernobyl and what we may yet find out about what happened there after those fierce battles. I hear we see something seeming to be specifically about getting the plant itself. How worried are you about something truly horrific happening?

[19:15:00]

CLAPPER: I'm very concerned about it, Erin, and have been since the outset. There are 15 nuclear reactors in Ukraine, which provide about 50 percent of Ukraine's power and six of them are at this one site that is in the southeast quadrant, if you will, not far from Donbas and not far from the Crimea.

And if one of these is struck, either intentionally, god forbid, or unintentionally an accident, a short round, whatever, we'll really have a catastrophe on our hands of biblical proportions and it will not just involve Ukraine, it'll be a regional issue to normal times, too. And so I really worry about this phenomenon. We've already seen apparently high radiation levels in Chernobyl.

BURNETT: Yes, we have and, obviously, also part of what people should be so concerned about is, we've seen those and no one's actually able to fully verify it, because you can't even get in there, because you've got this fierce fighting going on. General, I really appreciate your time in making that loud and clear.

I'm sure everyone heard loud and clear what you said, biblical proportions of something could happen here if you have something with one of these 15 nuclear plants or twice as big as Chernobyl. Thank you very much, General.

CLAPPER: Thanks, Erin.

BURNETT: Next, a chilling warning from Russia's foreign minister saying a third world war can only be a nuclear war. Former National Security Adviser and retired Army Lieutenant General H. R. McMaster will be OUTFRONT.

Plus, fleeing a war zone, I going to speak to one Ukrainian who spent 30 hours traveling to a safer location. A journey that included sheltering in metro stations and dealing with air raid sirens all the way through. You'll hear about him and his family.

And the super yachts owned by some of Russia's wealthiest still sailing the high seas. One even has an anti-missile defense system, bomb proof doors and a mini submarine, what in the world you need that stuff for? Russia's billionaires scrambling to prevent the most prized possessions from now being seized by the West.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[19:20:55]

BURNETT: Breaking news, apartment buildings up in flames tonight in Ukraine. This is new video that we have out of Mariupol in the southeast part of Ukraine where the city's mayor says Russian forces are creating a humanitarian catastrophe. We hear it in town after town where, of course, so many people are still stuck, so many people are still choosing to stay. This as France warns, "The worst is yet to come." That's a quote and that Putin will 'go all the way in Ukraine'. That's the take from the French President Macron. He spoke on the phone with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin.

OUTFRONT now, retired Lieutenant General H. R. McMaster, who was the National Security Adviser for former President Trump. And I also want to point out, of course, General, you were stationed in West Germany during the end of the Cold War, so you have both a personal and a professional understanding of some of what we're seeing here.

General, when you hear France say the takeaway from a 90-minute conversation is that the worst is yet to come and that Putin is going to go all the way. What do you think the worst is yet to come looks like?

LT. GEN. H. R. MCMASTER (RET.), FORMER NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER UNDER PRESIDENT TRUMP: Well, I think it's what we're already seeing, Erin, as he's met much more resistance he had anticipated. He thought the Ukrainians were going to fold and they're fighting courageously. You thought that Ukraine's leader would be weak and instead he's heroic. He thought that the Ukrainians would welcome them, but they refuse to be subjugated by the Russians.

And so what's left is destruction and you see this playing out in the City of Kharkiv, where he's gone from failed offensive towards the city to firing destructive weapons into the city indiscriminately and murdering civilians. And I'm afraid we're going to see more and more of this across Ukraine, because his army, frankly, is not very capable of close combat or at least they're demonstrating they're not very capable of close combat.

And, of course, the Ukrainians are being successful against the ground offensive and what he's going to do is resort to more firepower. And this is what he's done in Syria in enabling the Assad regime's mass murder of innocence there and it's what the Russians did in Chechnya underpins direction in 1999.

BURNETT: One of the things as everybody hopes for this sort of David versus Goliath that nobody thought that Ukrainians could win, but with the power of will and their patriotism and heroism, they can pull it off. The problem is general is that we have to be realistic about what we're looking at. And we're looking at is sure, 90 percent of the combat power that we talked about for months, that was sort of in that horseshoe around Ukraine is now in Ukraine, but that was about 150,000 soldiers.

That's 17 percent of Russia's active duty military. Putin has the second largest air force in the world. He hasn't yet deployed any of it. Now, he's going to need a lot of that force to take and hold Ukraine, but he's got firepower to burn, how much more of his military will he commit to this, General?

MCMASTER: Well, I think we'll see a lot more, but what we've seen so far has not been as effective as you might have imagined or maybe as he imagined and that's because the Ukrainian Army is not the Ukrainian Army of 2014. And the tactical and operational problems that he's taking on is pretty darn complex, Erin.

If you look at the force, you think that's a lot of force, 160,000. But now, divide that on four axes of advance, and then think of the distance that they have to cover, and then recognize that only about 1/3 of those troops are close combat troops. I don't think there's any way, Erin, that he can go all the way if all the way means gaining control of all of Ukraine and consolidating gains politically to put in a puppet government across all of that territory.

I don't think he's going to be able to do that at an acceptable level of loss. And, of course, this is what we don't know, we don't know how many losses have been inflicted exactly on the Russians, but it's a large number. And we do know that the Putin in the past has done everything he could to conceal casualties from the Russian people.

So I know I know that Gen. Clapper talked about Russia and others have talked about Russia's wounds to take casualties, but I think Putin knows that he's in a fragile position internally.

[19:25:00]

There are more political prisoners in Russia today, Erin, than there were at the height of the Cold War. There are more people in his internal security services than there are in his armed forces.

So I think authoritarians are pretty good at looking strong, but I think he has some real vulnerabilities and, of course, he's going to be much weaker, thanks to the sanctions and the way that the free world has come together.

BURNETT: Yes. And certainly just the passion, I mean, the young men that I just met in recent days in Ukraine who are signing up and going to fight. They may have signed up for battalions a few weeks ago. They've never trained before. They're putting on uniforms. They're taking guns and they're going out and they're willing to die. You don't see that from the Russians.

I mean, it is stunning just to see the patriotism and the bravery. But when you contextualize this with how far Putin is willing to go, I have to ask you this part of it, the Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had a warning today when he was talking about the possibility of World War III, if NATO got involved. Here's what he said, General.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SERGEY LAVROV, RUSSIA FOREIGN MINISTER (through interpreter): Everybody knows that third world war can only be nuclear.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BURNETT: Okay. Now, many in the West, General, who oppose, for example, a no-fly zone, they oppose it because they believe that Putin will reply with a nuclear holocaust. Do you share those fears?

MCMASTER: Well, I think it's a legitimate concern and Erin, this is again, a sign of weakness. Putin's conventional forces are proving themselves to be pretty darn incapable, his economy is the size of Italy's economy and is now under severe sanction. What is he left with? Cyber power and nuclear power.

And this is this doctrine of escalation domination that Putin has adopted many years ago, and was really unabashed about making clear the possibility of the first use of nuclear weapons to then pose the United States and NATO was an alternative, hey, either Armageddon or sue for peace on my terms.

This is extremely irresponsible to have a doctrine like escalation domination. But also, Erin, you remember in February of 2018, he's given a speech before the Parliament and he used this animated video and he showed Russian missiles to sending essentially like on Mar-A- Lago in Florida.

BURNETT: I can remember that.

MCMASTER: So this nuclear bluster is not new for him. But again, I think it's another sign of weakness, Erin.

BURNETT: Yes. Well, it's fascinating and I think that context is so important. I mean, that's sort of one of those Kim Jong-un-type of videos that he did point out. All right. General, I really appreciate your time. Thank you so much.

MCMASTER: Thank you, Erin. Thanks, Erin. Great to be with you. BURNETT: All right, you too.

And next, the world has watched in horror as Putin invades Ukraine, but this is what Russians are seeing on their TV. They're seeing this. They're seeing their army handing out humanitarian aid. And that's not all they're seeing, we're live in Moscow tonight.

Plus, he teaches English in one of the hardest hit cities in all of Ukraine. He's going to tell us about his harrowing escape and how he and his family are trying to stay safe tonight.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[19:32:00]

BURNETT: Tonight, a senior U.S. defense official warning that Russian forces have shown a willingness to hit civilian targets on purpose. The mayor of Kharkiv, Ukraine's second largest city, telling me that Putin is intentionally killing civilians.

On Russian state media, though, wow. It's a totally different picture. It's like a humanitarian effort down there.

Nic Robertson is OUTFRONT with this report from Moscow.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: On Russia state TV, audiences are only being told what the Kremlin wants them to know about the war in Ukraine. This new Russian army video shows troops handing out humanitarian aid. They claim Russian forces are giving civilians safe passage from the fighting. A message reinforced in President Putin's latest state TV speech.

VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): Our military have provided corridors in all areas of combat action.

ROBERTSON: The terrible reality the rest of the world sees? Shelling of civilians, suffering, death, and destruction. Never gets aired on Russian state TV. And many Russians believe their government, that the war was forced on them by Ukraine backed by NATO.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I know the truth. This was a forced measure on our side. After what Russia went through in world war ii, it's madness to believe we want war.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): I see what's on TV when I am getting ready for work. We try not to get too involved in it because we've got enough of our own problems.

ROBERTSON: Some do care enough to reach beyond state TV. But even then, they are not convinced by what they see.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): Yes, I have heard some civilians, even children, have died. But I am not sure I can believe it because there is fake news. They are making money. ROBERTSON: Obedient anchors on state TV never question the Kremlin's version of facts and reinforce its tropes about de-Nazification. No mention that President Zelensky is Jewish or Russian missiles killed civilians near a Holocaust Memorial in Kyiv.

Even so, some mostly younger Russians see through their government's lies, get their news from friends, independent and social media.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Almost all of us are understanding this thing that there is a lot of lie around. So we do not know what's happening.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE (through translator): I think this is a crime, an aggression against a neighboring country. Our government invaded. Now, they are killing people.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It's awful. What can we think about it? Normal people understand our situation but we can't do anything, because we're afraid like everyone else.

ROBERTSON: The government is so worried, independent media could challenge their narrative.

[19:35:01]

In the past few days, it shut down two outlets. And is right now preparing a law that would criminalize what it calls fake media. It could carry a maximum 15-year jail sentence.

Despite the Kremlin's best efforts at controlling the narrative, many Russians have taken to the streets, angered by Putin's war.

More than 7,500 people arrested, so far, including this elderly lady at a protest in St. Petersburg Wednesday. And no surprise, this video is yet to be shown on state media.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

ROBERTSON: Yeah. Right now, the truth is perhaps the most dangerous thing for President Putin and Russia, which is why the White House is so concerned that the Kremlin is stifling the independent message, cracking down, shutting down independent media. In fact, CNN has learned that the Biden administration has held at least seven -- held interviews with at least seven Russian-language outlets Echo Moscow radio and other independent stations among them.

Echo Moscow Radio is one of those shut down in the past couple of days. TV Rain was another.

I spoke just a few weeks ago with the anchor there. She said that, every day, they knew they were living on borrowed time. Well, that borrowed time is up because the Kremlin's shutting them down because they cover the protest, they cover -- they try and cover the facts, and now we know and see what's happened to them -- Erin.

BURNETT: Nic, thank you very much. And I want to go now to Mike Litovka who fled his home in Kharkiv and traveled for more than 30 hours to a safer location for now in western Ukraine with his family, and his girlfriend.

And, mike, I so much appreciate your time. I -- I -- I have to imagine it is hard for you to hear a piece like you just heard. Our Nic Robertson in Moscow speaking to Russians about the invasion, and many saying they are against the war.

But -- but -- but many also believing what they see on Russian TV, asking a woman about civilian casualties and she says I am not sure I believe it because there is fake news. There were others who said the same.

Mike, what do you want the Russian people to know?

MYKHAILO LITOVKA, FLED KHARKIV WITH FAMILY AND GIRLFRIEND: Main thing I want -- I'd love people to know is that their country is -- is obviously the aggressor. There is no such thing as -- as a military operation that they are being told. There is no such thing as countries or nationalities here, Russian-speaking people who need to be saved.

This is absolute from my personal experience. My girlfriend's father lives in -- in Russia. And in this situation, he want literally nothing to do with supporting her or her mom or sister who are right now under fire in Kharkiv in -- in -- which is being constantly bombarded. Kharkiv right now is like the Stalingrad of that time.

And the posture of the media in Russia is so strong that the people who are actually from here, they are from Ukraine, they go there, after living there for some time, they assimilate. And they just take everything at face value. It's so strong that, in fact, my girlfriend reached out to him just for financial support in this -- in this case.

She didn't reach out to him with some kind of proof that, okay, this is what you are doing is wrong. She just said look we have a military situation here, we have a war and can you help us some way, at least financially? He said -- to quote directly -- helping you financially will be considered treason here. And that was the end of the conversation.

It's very sad, though, that this is dividing people so much in this way.

BURNETT: I am so sorry for your girlfriend and -- and her family. I mean, just -- it's impossible to truly understand. I do know, Mike, that you documented your journey when you left and I spoke to the mayor earlier this hour. You know, he is there.

Obviously, those air-raid sirens he is hearing as he speaks and talks about them. Extraordinary. He uses the word enormous number now civilian casualties. I know you are incredibly lucky to have left there, but it has been an arduous journey to where you are now, and obviously only a stop on perhaps where you may be going. You had to shelter in a metro station. You had to deal with air strikes. How was your journey thus far? And I want to emphasize thus far because obviously you are now far from home.

LITOVKA: Yes. It was -- it was long and it was also sort of a waiting game. Since the first day after -- after the fact that we understood okay, this is the long haul. There are going to be bombardments. They are not going to stop. We remember waiting for a way to get out.

In my case, I have got a big family. I have got four sisters, single mom and my girlfriend, who -- who were living in Kharkiv and Kyiv, some in Kharkiv, some in Kyiv. Both of these places are really melting pots right now and if Kyiv is kind of still holding its own, it seems that Russia is purposefully trying to make an example of Kharkiv by just bombing everything possible there.

They don't even care. The not even trying to show they are bombing strategic units. So essentially, on the second day, we were just waiting for -- for a way to get out because we were just waiting for -- for a way to get out because we had already been sitting in bomb shelters in the metro for some time.

And luckily for me and my family and some other people who are in Kharkiv, a friend of mine gave me a contact of an IT company that was to -- that was to take -- that was doing evacuation effort from Kharkiv. They sent a few buses there, and we were able to go down through a previously checked and more or less safe route. We went down south and then through a few other cities, which I would prefer not to give away right now. It could be sensitive information.

But eventually, we made our way to western Ukraine to Lviv oblast. And we are currently here with -- with -- with my family. And contemplating -- as for the girls, we are contemplating fort ladies if they will continue going on further.

One of my sisters has already gone on further and she is at this moment as we speak, on the border with Hungary if I am not mistaken. And my other two sisters could be close to follow them. Together with my mom and my youngest sister who is only 5 years old.

At this point, I would not be able to leave the country even if I wanted to because there is a mandatory conscription men between ages of 18 and 60 cannot leave. Plus, while I'm here, I do believe there is use I can bring here mainly with information and logistics.

BURNETT: Right. Well, gosh, you are in my thoughts as this -- as is everyone in your family. And your girlfriend, I know it will be so hard for you if they leave but of course indeed be the right and safest thing to do. Thank so much. I appreciate your time.

And next --

LITOVKA: This is like -- the main thing I supposed I would like to add just if I could to finish up -- any effort that -- that -- that can be done is helpful. If there are people who are just around the world who have even a free spare minute, they can reach out and they can join.

Companies around the world, we are so happy to hear many of them have taken this effort to stop business with Russia even at the expense of maybe some losses.

We are really sad to hear some companies like Coca-Cola and other respected ones that I used to really look up to are not following this effort. I really urge them to. This is a way of -- that you can actually help Ukraine directly.

And you can also help with these efforts that are being taken with the IT to some of the infrastructure there. I really appreciate being able to get that across and thank you so much for helping us share our story and giving Ukraine a voice.

BURNETT: Thank you so much. I appreciate your time.

And next, the breaking news. And deeply disturbing news, this is. We have just learned there is now a fire at that nuclear power plant I mentioned in Ukraine, one of the largest in all of Europe after an attack by Russian forces. We have a live report on this very disturbing development, next.

Plus, Russian billionaires now high tailing it out to see, scrambling to move their massive yachts to try to save them from being seized. We are talking ships with outdoor theaters and helipads.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[19:47:09]

BURNETT: Breaking news. CNN learning that there is a fire at a nuclear power plant in Ukraine, Enerhodar. It is the one that is attacked by Russian troops. It is a plant in south central Ukraine.

You just heard me talk about it with General Clapper. It is one of the largest in all of Europe. There is a fire there now. Mayor of the town there posting a message on Facebook that reads and I quote him: a threat to world security as a result of relentless shelling by the enemy of the buildings and blocks of largest nuclear power plant in Europe -- the nuclear power plant is on fire.

If you just heard, General Clapper saying that any accident at this plant would be, in his view, two times bigger than Chernobyl if it were serious, much higher radiation than Chernobyl. Again, we know nothing about what this fire actually is. But obviously, it is a very concerning situation.

Nick Paton Walsh is OUTFRONT. He is live in Odessa, Ukraine.

Nick, obviously, this is developing as -- as we are talking. And there is only so much we know.

Tell me what you understand at this time.

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR: Limited information at this point, Erin, apart from the frankly sheer shock factor that we are even having this conversation. The Ukrainian foreign minister has said that if there were a fire or an accident at this power station, at Zaporizhzhia in south-central Ukraine, it would be ten-times worse than Chernobyl.

Now, I can't speak for the science of that. We don't know precisely where the fire is, within the nuclear power station but we have seen on live stream from the power station. It does appear that shells' impact have happened inside its grounds.

The fact that I am even saying these words is utterly chilling and it speaks, I think, possibly to a lack of discipline or a lack of grasp of the consequences of their actions that Russian forces will consider this to be a target worth trying to militarily seize.

I am kind of aghast that this is something they did not within their battle plan put a big, red circle around and say go nowhere near it. And we are now looking at the possibility of some kind of nuclear accident possibly occurring, again, in Europe. And I -- I -- absolutely remarkable how each time we speak, something occurs which is way outside of the grasp we thought was our reality -- Erin.

BURNETT: I mean, it is. And nick, my thoughts are with you obviously. You know, consider the fear that you have there on the ground. I mean, it is unbelievable that we are even having this conversation.

We are going to keep following this, everyone, as we he get more information. Look, you are in a situation of the fog of war. All we know right now is it is a fire. So, we really can't contextualize it for you, anything other than this is a massive nuclear power plant.

[19:50:02]

It's really important. It's 25 percent of all the power in Ukraine. It is one of the largest nuclear power plants on the entire continent of Europe. That's what we can tell you right now as we wait for more information.

So the White House today placing new sanctions on several Russian oligarchs described as, quote, Putin's cronies along with family members. The penalties include freezing their assets in the United States and blocking property.

One target is Putin ally Alisher Usmanov, as well as his private jet and his 512-foot yacht. It comes as a satellite image obtained by CNN shows the yacht reportedly tied to Putin docked in a militarized Russian port. They tried to place it out of the reach of potential sanctions.

Drew Griffin investigates.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DREW GRIFFIN, CNN SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The 280 foot yacht Amore Vero features multiple decks, has a swimming pool that turns into a helicopter pad and boast of master and VIP suites to accommodate up to 14 guests, and it's just been seized by the French government. It's linked to Igor Sechin, CEO of Russian oil giant Rosneft. The yacht company now says he doesn't it.

European Union sanctions Sechin earlier this week, describing him as one of Russian President Vladimir Putin's most trusted and closest advisers. The seizure, part of a coordinated action from Western countries making it difficult for Russian billionaires to operate and putting pressure on Putin.

BILL BROWDER, CEO, HERMITAGE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: This is what he cares about. This is what's important to him, this helps because the oligarchs look after Putin's money. We want to punish Putin personally and directly for what he's done and this is the most direct way of doing that.

GRIFFIN: Another target of coordinated sanctions, super yacht Dilbar. It's currently being renovated in Hamburg, Germany, and owned by telephone and mining magnate. It has dozens of cabins and a crew of 96 people. Guests can swim in an 80-foot pool, once the largest ever put on a yacht.

A CNN review from MarineTraffic.com found yachts have been reported to be owned by Russian oligarchs spread out across the world. Some were already on the move towards friendlier ports in anticipation of a worldwide crackdown.

CATHERINE BELTON, AUTHOR, "PUTIN'S PEOPLE": The problem is the sanctions have been announced ahead of time so probably right now, they're all busy feverishly engineering deals in which ownership changes could be triggered the minute sanctions are handed down. So it's going to be a game of cat and mouse unfortunately.

GRIFFIN: That cat and mouse game they already begun, even with Russian billionaires not under sanction. The Galactica Super Nova, with ceiling marble, out door theater and pool, reportedly owned by a Russian oil company executive, left Barcelona on Saturday and cross the Mediterranean to Montenegro, ownership often hidden behind complicated registries, and shell companies, these are a symbol of the cash and prestige oligarchs have built under Putin, luxuries like anti-missile defense systems, bomb proof doors, mini submarine, or a beauty salon, and elevator.

One yacht now out of reach of any Western authorities, "The Graceful". German media has speculated the owner is none other than Vladimir Putin himself. Two weeks before the invasion of Ukraine, the yacht left Hamburg, Germany, and sped to Kaliningrad, Russia, where no location data has been recorded since.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

GRIFFIN (on camera): Erin, it's not just yachts. The U.S. has sanctioned five ships it says are tied to a Russian bank, oil tankers and freighters, and there is a sign some of this may have the desired effect. That author interviewed talked to some of the oligarchs today who she said were shocked that Putin went this far, just unclear if they had any kind of influence over Putin -- Erin. BURNETT: All right. Thank you very much, Drew.

And next, our breaking news continues, the disturbing news out of Ukraine at this hour. The largest nuclear power plant in the country, one of the largest in Europe has a fire. The latest developments, next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[19:55:57]

BURNETT: You're looking at live pictures of a fire broken out at a Ukrainian nuclear power plant in Enerhodar after an attack by Russian troops. Ongoing fighting we understand, firefighters unable to reach the fire at the power plant according to the mayor, this is a plant in south central Ukraine, biggest in the country. We're looking to closely follow this story and we'll bring more information when we have it.

This comes as more than a million refugees fled Ukraine since Vladimir Putin invaded, half, more than 500,000 of them are children according to the U.N. and it is distressing to see them on the ground. It comes as U.N. estimates as many as four million people could flee Ukraine in the coming weeks.

Ivan Watson is OUTFRONT at the Ukrainian-Hungarian border.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Forced to flee their homes and their country, Ukrainians on the run. Their children, making the best of it, oblivious to the fact that a week-old war just turned them into refugees.

This is one of Hungary's border crossings with Ukraine. There's a steady stream of people arriving here in vehicles and on foot. All of the Ukrainian new arrivals are women and children.

Hungarian aid workers welcome the refugees and bring them free of charge to the nearest village where the community center is now a place of refuge. Some people staying here. Others pause for food and warmth before moving on.

Among those here, Anna Teperchuk, her mother, Svetlana and 16 month old son.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: This is my son, Mark.

WATSON: They crossed the border this morning after spending a week on the road.

ANNA TEPERCHUK, UKRAINIAN REFUGEE: We are very thankful to the Hungarian people. It's very hard work that they are doing.

WATSON: The Hungarian village Barabas (h) has a population of 1,060 people. The deputy mayor tells me that village has taken in more than 100 Ukrainians, including housing families in at least l2 village homes. As we speak, another family arrives from Ukraine.

There's a little baby.

Yesterday, we took care of a five day old baby who came across the border, the deputy mayor tells me. A five day old baby.

Victoria Kurinna says when the Russians invaded, she fled her home near Kyiv for what she thought would be one night. A week later, she and her son just arrived in a foreign country.

What belongs do you have?

VICTORIA KURINNA, UKRAINIAN REFUGEE: I have just one jacket. I think Ukraine is very strong. It's a country with very strong people, strong nation. And amazing power and that's why I don't worry -- but, of course, my heart is broken.

WATSON: She said she tried to convince her friends in Russia via social media about the deadly attack their military is carrying out on her homeland.

What do your Russian friends say to you?

KURINNA: It's not sure. It's not possible.

WATSON: They don't believe you?

KURINNA: No.

WATSON: Ten-year-old Temur (ph) chimes in saying Vladimir Putin is like Adolf Hitler. He's attacking the world just like Hitler did.

There are almost no men here aside from the elderly because all Ukrainian men of fighting age have been ordered to stay behind to defend their country from the Russian invasion.

TEPERCHUK: I'm very angry for Russia people.

WATSON: I want to tell Russians that it is time to do something, it's time to change something, says Anna Teperchuk. My son doesn't deserve to be forced to run across Ukraine and across borders, she adds. He doesn't deserve to grow up like this.

(END VIEOTAPE)

WATSON: Now, Erin, all across the Hungarian border region, I can't stress enough you see again and again in stores, in guesthouses, in cafes, Ukrainian women with their children, no men around.

It is an eerie phenomenon, result of this. The deputy mayor who is taking in these families, she predicts this is just the beginning. She predicts this will get much, much worse -- Erin.

BURNETT: Ivan, thank you very much.

And thanks to all of you. "AC360" starts now.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 EBOF000020220304ei3300001


News; Domestic
Russia Makes Strategic Gains As It Squeezes Southern Ukraine; Zelensky As Russia Attacks, The End Of The World Has Arrived; Biden Sanctions Putin's Cronies And Their Family Members; Biden Sanctions "Putin's Cronies And Their Family Members;" Jury Acquits Ex-Officer On All Three Counts Of Felony Wanton Endangerment In Botched Raid That Left Breonna Taylor Dead. Aired 6-7p ET
Wolf Blitzer, Brynn Gingras, Jim Sciutto, Clarissa Ward, Phil Mattingly, Jill Dougherty, Sara Sidner, Ivan Watson, Brian Todd, Athena Jones
7169 字
2022 年 3 月 3 日
CNN: The Situation Room
CNNTSR
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[18:00:01]

BRYNN GINGRAS, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Jake?

JAKE TAPPER, CNN HOST: All right. Brynn Gingras, thank you so much.

You can follow us on Tweeter, in Facebook, in Instagram, and the TikTok. You can tweet us at the @theleadcnn. You can listen to our podcast.

Our coverage continues now with Wolf Blitzer in THE SITUATION ROOM. I'll see you tomorrow.

WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST: Happening now, breaking news. Russia expands its brutal war in Ukraine with aggressive new attacks on key cities. Kremlin forces making strategic gains at the southern coast, as Vladimir Putin vows to achieve his goals, and I am quoting him, no matter what.

Residential areas are increasingly the target of Russia's bombardment. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is making another powerful plea for help, saying, and I am quoting him, the end of the world has arrived.

As always, CNN is on the frontlines and in other key locations bringing new global coverage as Russia's war now enters its second week.

We want to welcome our viewers here in the United States and around the world. I am Wolf Blitzer and you are in The Situation Room.

This hour, as Ukrainians face another overnight assault, we are hearing desperate accounts of conditions in the south. That's where Russian forces are putting the squeeze on key port cities, and they are gaining ground.

CNN's Jim Sciutto is in Ukraine covering all the breaking news for us. Jim, there are dire new warnings about this war. The warnings being that the war is about to get worse. What can you tell us about the situation tonight? JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Indeed, you can say it's already getting worse, Wolf. Days ago, U.S. intelligence assessed that as Russia's initial rapid invasion plan with a rapid invasion plan with a rapid capitulation of Ukrainian forces did not pan out, that Russia's advance would become more brutal, more ruthless, with more powerful weapons and less regard for innocent civilian life. And that's what we are seeing pan out in a number of cities around Ukraine. And, sadly, as that has happened, Russian forces have advanced further.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SCIUTTO (voice over): Russian forces on the march, closing in on cities in Southern Ukraine. The mayor of Kherson says his city is now under Russian control. Ukrainian forces have left, though a senior U.S. defense official says there is still fighting there. Russian forces have also surrounded the city of Mariupol. The deputy mayor tells CNN it has lost water and power.

DEPUTY MAYOR SERGEI ORLOV, MARIUPO, UKRAINE: We have continuous shelling for 26 hours. 26 hours, they are destroying our city.

SCIUTTO: In the north, U.S. says Russian forces are making slower but still devastating progress. The Russian military flattened a residential area near Kyiv and houses in the town of Jakovlinka (ph). It also destroyed an oil depot near Chernihiv, just north of the capital. In Kharkiv, in the northeast, Russian barrages struck at least three schools. The U.S. says Russian forces are staging just outside the city now.

The Ukrainian military is still fighting. They claim to have hit the miles-long convoy that had stalled approaching Kyiv from the north.

DMYTRO BILOTSERKOVETS, ADVISER TO KYIV MAYOR: You need to understand we are a nation of ants, everybody knows what to do. That is why Putin could not win. We will win.

SCIUTTO: Ukraine also claims its forces have destroyed 20 Russian military vehicles near the Gostomel airbase. As the fighting rages, Ukrainian and Russian negotiators met for a second round of talks today in Belarus. As Ukrainian negotiator tweeted that Ukraine's needs are not yet achieved, President Zelensky appealed for direct talks with Putin.

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY, UKRAINE PRESIDENT: I think I have to talk with Putin. The world has to talk with Putin because there are no any other ways to stop this war. That's why I have to.

SCIUTTO: Zelensky continued with this message for Putin. I don't bite. Sit down with me and talk. What are you afraid of? Putin, however, says his invasion will go on.

VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIA PRESIDENT: The special military operation in Ukraine is going according to plan, in strict accordance with the schedule. All tasks are being successfully carried out.

JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: And the goal was to maximize impact on Putin and Russia.

SCIUTTO: Today, the Biden administration announced new sanctions on Russian oligarchs and their families, part of an effort to keep up the economic pressure on Russia. Direct U.S. military intervention remains off the table. That is not stopped Zelensky from asking for the U.S. and NATO to impose a no-fly zone.

ZELENSKY: If you can't provide a no-fly zone right now, then tell us when.

[18:05:00]

If you can't give Ukrainians a date to when, how long do you need? How many people should be blown up?

(END VIDEOTAPE)

SCIUTTO (on camera): We learned today that the U.S. and Russian militaries have established a de-confliction line, you can call it a hotline, to allow communication between the two forces if U.S. or NATO forces get close to Russian forces to prevent, well, accidental exchanges of fire.

Even though there is no-fly zone, there are no U.S. or NATO war planes flying over Ukrainian territory, there are U.S. bases very close to Ukraine, there are ships nearby, planes in the air. The concern is if they get too close, there could be an escalation. So, they are at least, Wolf, communicating one step to keep this from developing into a broader war.

BLITZER: Jim Sciutto reporting live for us from Lviv in Ukraine. Stay safe over there, Jim. We will get back to you.

I want to go to Ukrainian capital right now, where a full week of attacks by the Russians is clearly taking a toll.

Our Chief International Correspondent, Clarissa Ward is on the scene for us. Clarissa, you visited Ukraine's largest children's hospital that was forced to actually move kids into the basement as the bombing from the Russians closed in. Tell us what you saw.

CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: So, Wolf, one week ago, this was a state of the art children's hospital, the largest in the country. Now, it's a very different story. When we visited, we found ten patients, the sickest children who are in this hospital, who have now been moved into a hallway in a basement for their treatment because it simply wasn't possible to keep moving them up and down, up and down every time there were air raid sirens or explosions.

And so these children are now -- some of them sleeping on the floor. They are getting the best care that the doctors can give them but it's clearly not a sustainable situation, and it is incredibly stressful and painful and frightening for the parents of these children.

We talked to one woman's, Sonya (ph), her three-month-old daughter Milena (ph) has a brain tumor. Take a listen to what she told us. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

WARD: Is this your daughter?

On the floor in one corner, we meet Sonya (ph) and her three-month-old daughter Milena (ph). Milena (ph) has a brain tumor. It is a terrifying situation. We must stay underground and we don't know how long for, she says. I am alone here at the hospital. And my husband is at home with my other kid. For seven nights, she has been sleeping on this floor as the bombing gets closer.

She is saying that the stress of the situation has meant that her milk is dried up so she's now using formula for her daughter.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WARD: And the doctors who are taking care of them are so brave, themselves, Wolf, they have said they are not going to leave that hospital. That they will stay there in oh no matter how heavy the fighting gets. But they are also frustrated and very challenged as well. We spoke to the neurosurgeon there Dr. Dmytro Ishchenko. He is continuing to try to our offer whatever treatment he can but he's very limited in terms of what he can realistically offer at the moment, especially in those conditions. Have a listen to what he told us.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

DR. DMYTRO ISHCHENKO, NEUROSURGEON: It is really very challenging and really tough because we don't have good conditions for our patients.

WARD: Is this dangerous for them, this situation?

ISHCHENKO: Yes. And not only because we have a war, this condition is not suitable with brain surgeries.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WARD: We saw another 11-year-old boy who had part of a brain tumor removed. He had huge sutures in his head. They hadn't been taken out yet because there simply -- the fear is that the conditions are not sanitary enough and they are worried about the risk of infection.

But all of this, I think, painting a picture for you, Wolf, of the many secondary, tertiary effects that this war is happening and meanwhile the fighting is getting ever closer to the center, to the capital here. We hear it almost every night.

Tonight, we heard a large explosion just about half an hour ago. But throughout the afternoon and evening, there's been a steady stream of strikes and we have seen the images, horrifying, from just the outskirts of Kyiv, some 20 miles away, particularly in the northwestern suburb of Borodyanka, truly horrifying stuff for all the people living here and particularly for those small, vulnerable children and their desperate parents. This is a petrifying time with far-reaching consequences, Wolf. BLITZER: Yes, so heartbreaking, indeed, and for what, Ukraine represented absolutely no threat to Russia and look what the Russians are doing right now, especially to those women and children.

[18:10:04]

Clarissa Ward, be careful over there in Kyiv. We will get back to you as well.

Right now, I want to get the U.S. military's newest assessment of the Russia-Ukraine war. We are joined by the Pentagon press secretary, John Kirby. John, thanks very much for joining us.

Let me get your analysis on where things overall stand tonight. And I want to do that. But before we do that, has the first major Ukrainian city now fallen to Russia based on the U.S. assessment? Does Russia control Kherson, for example?

JOHN KIRBY, PENTAGON PRESS SECRETARY: Yes. Certainly, the indications are that they do, Wolf. I want to be careful we don't have eyes on the ground so we can't say with certainty but we have no reason to doubt the reports coming out of there, in fact, by the Ukrainians themselves that the Russians are in Kherson.

Earlier today, our assessment was that it was still being fought over. We are not in a position to confirm specifically but we certainly do see those reports and have no reason to doubt them at this point.

BLITZER: As a military man, you know there is a difference between taking ground and actually controlling ground, especially amid civilian resistance. How will the U.S. determine who actually controls what is going on?

KIRBY: Well, you know, it's really not going to be something that the U.S. will determine. It's really something that the Ukrainians will determine. And they are fighting bravely in the streets and outside their cities. They are fighting very creatively.

And I think, you know, it is a mark of their courage and their skill that here we are a week into this operation and the only city that we can even talk about remotely being controlled or being taken by the Russians is that southern town of Kherson. They still have not really made any appreciable progress towards Kyiv, although it is certainly coming under violent bombardment. Kharkiv as well, a lot of fighting there.

So, they have not made the progress that we believe they had intended to make by this point in their -- in their war.

BLITZER: What is the latest, John, that you can tell us about the stalled Russian military convoy that stretches for miles and miles and miles just outside of Kyiv, the Ukrainian capital? How much longer can the Ukrainian capital actually hold out?

KIRBY: I want to be careful here that we don't speculate about timelines. I tell you Ukrainians are fighting hard for that city and they have done a good job keeping the main advance by the Russians outside of it. As of this morning, we still assessed that advance of the Russian forces were still about 25 kilometers from the city's center. But they are trying to close in and they are still close enough as we have seen with devastating effect. They are still close enough to bombard it with missiles and rocket strikes, and that is happening.

So, they are still outside the city, but we still believe that their intent is to try to encircle Kyiv and ultimately occupy it.

BLITZER: The Russian president, Vladimir Putin, today, said the war in Ukraine, and I am quoting him now, is going according to plan. How does that line up with the setbacks that you are seeing, for example, among Russian troops?

KIRBY: Well again, we don't have perfect visibility into Mr. Putin's planning but our assessment is that the Russians have been flummoxed. They have been frustrated. They have been set back. They have been slowed by a stiff and determined Ukrainian resistance. We also believe that they have stumbled themselves, that they have conducted missteps. They are having logistical and sustainment problems, they're running out of fuel, running out of food for some of their soldiers, that they have been surprised by the manner in which and the effectiveness with which the Ukrainians have been defending their cities and their people.

BLITZER: The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky, implored President Biden and the west, for that matter, NATO allies, to establish a no-fly zone over Ukraine. Watch this.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ZELENSKY: If you can't provide a no-fly zone right now, then tell us when? If you can't give Ukrainians a date when, how long do you need? How many people should be blown up? How many arms and legs and heads? How many should be severed so you understand? I will go and I will count them and we will wait until we have a sufficient number.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BLITZER: What do you say to that plea?

KIRBY: Well, First of all, we applaud Mr. Zelensky's courage and his leadership under fire quite literally. I mean, he has been a brave and effective leader. He still has command and control over his forces. I would say, look, the thing act a no-fly zone is it has to be enforced, a key word being forced. And there is no way to do that without putting U.S. pilots right into confrontation with Russian pilots.

And that escalates this conflict to a level that President Biden is simply not willing to do, and he is right, because it could not only be bad for our national security and the security of Europe, in general, it's not going to make anything better or easier in Ukraine. It is only going to make things more bloody and more dangerous. The president is right, U.S. troops are not going to be fighting Ukraine because we don't want to see this escalate. This should not become a war between the United States and Russia.

What we are doing -- so that's what we are not doing, and I get that. What we are doing, Wolf, is continuing to look for ways to improve the security assistance and expedite the security assistance that the Ukrainians are getting so that they can better defend themselves in their country.

[18:15:10]

BLITZER: What about an iron dome system, anti-missile system like the Israelis have?

KIRBY: Look, again, we aren't going to be fight inning Ukraine. We believe that escalating this conflict only makes it more dangerous for the people of Ukraine. We are going to continue to provide them with security assistance so that they can defend themselves and we are -- we are in communication with them about what that looks like and how that goes. We are accelerating and expediting those shipments as we best we can.

And here is the thing, Wolf, it's not just the United States. Other nations are doing it as well. President Biden has really put a premium on our alliances and our partnerships, and because of or leadership and his leadership, we have been able to marshal the resources of other countries as well to get things in Ukraine as fast as possible.

BLITZER: The U.S. says they have seen Russia move banned cluster bombs, vacuum bombs into Ukraine. Can you confirm if those weapons have actually been used by Russia against civilian targets, which would be a -- which would be a crime?

KIRBY: No, we cannot confirm those reports. We have seen them but we don't have enough fidelity of information to be able to confirm that. Obviously, that would be deeply concerning and you are right, unlawful for them to use those in those environments. We know they have certain systems capable of delivering some of these weapons but we haven't been able to confirm they have actually been used or, in fact, that they are actually inside Ukraine right now.

BLITZER: All right. John Kirby from the Pentagon, thank you very much. We will continue this conversation.

And there is more breaking news we are following next. We are going live to Moscow for the latest on the thousands of Russians arrested for simply protesting the invasion of Ukraine. Is Vladimir Putin losing support for his war at home?

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:20:00]

BLITZER: There is more of our breaking news in the Russian war on Ukraine, the White House announcing today new sanctions on Russian President Putin's cronies and family members.

Let's go to Senior White House Correspondent Phil Mattingly, got details for us. Phil, the White House, what, wants to keep pressure on Putin. Give us the latest.

PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Wolf. The sweeping and coordinated sanctions have been the central, focal point of the U.S. and its allies' response to Russia's invasion up to this point and President Biden made clear today that effort is only going to continue to expand. Take a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOE BIDEN, U.S. PRESIDENT: Today, I am announcing that we are adding dozens of names to the list including one of Russia's wealthiest billionaires. And I am banning travel to America by -- by more than 50 Russian oligarchs, their families and their close associates.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MATTINGLY: Now, Wolf, this is the latest in a series of rounds that really kind of underscores the multilayered approach the U.S. and its allies are taking. They have targeted the Russian central bank, number of its largest financial institutions, state-owned enterprises but also going after key individuals, today, slapping sanctions on eight of the country's wealthiest individuals, also hitting a number of companies and information entities as well and perhaps most importantly, targeting their family members.

And this is done as part of a new strategy to try and block different pathways that oligarchs and Russian officials have used in the past to transfer their funds to try and avoid sanctions. Now, one of those individuals targeted, Alisher Usmanov, is one of the richest Russians, more than $19 billion in assets and also targeted along with his personal property is his mega yacht, which is currently docked Hamburg, as well as his plane, which is one of the largest private planes in existence.

This goes to a pathway that both the U.S., the E.U., but also the U.K., Canada, and others are taking to try and target those closest to President Putin, acknowledging that this is not necessarily going to shift his behavior entirely, but as you ramp up the pressure on those around him, those who are critical to almost the Russian economic system as a whole, that perhaps that pinch will be felt and at least start to change or at least give President Putin reasons to consider negotiations, Wolf.

BLITZER: Phil Mattingly reporting from the White House, thank you very much.

Let's go to Moscow right now. CNN Contributor for Russian Affairs Jill Dougherty is standing by. She is formerly CNN's Moscow Bureau Chief.

Jill, has Putin lost support for this war at home?

JILL DOUGHERTY, CNN CONTRIBUTOR, RUSSIAN AFFAIRS: You know, it's hard to say whether he has lost support because, obviously, he is continuing doing what he wants to do, but you can definitely say that those protests are continuing literally on a daily basis. There were more today. I think we have some video to show you from the city of Yekaterinburg. These are, you know, Moscow, St. Petersburg and some of the bigger cities.

And this -- actually, this is from St. Petersburg, kind of an older woman being taken off by the police. There have been arrests. The total so far is about 8,000 and counting that have been arrested since the beginning.

And then, also, the information wars continuing, the two independent outlets, T.V. Rain and Echo Moscow Radio, were blocked and now they both shut down today, in fact and hopefully, they say, coming back online. But tomorrow, which is Friday, the Duma, the parliament, will be considering a new law that would finish fake, as they say, using the word fake information about the military with up to 15 years in prison.

And then, finally, President Putin in a meeting with his security council, which sounded to me, Wolf, kind of Soviet. He said the war is going according to plan. That is kind of an old expression, poplano (ph). And he also called the members comrades and said his intent on de-Nazifying Ukraine.

And that goes along with another conversation between French President Macron and Mr. Putin, in which the source from the Elysee Palace came out and said that after that meeting, after that discussion, President Macron was -- the expectation is the worst is yet to come, and that President Putin is intent on taking over the entire country of Ukraine.

[18:25:21]

Wolf.

BLITZER: Very disturbing. It looks like it is getting worse and worse. Jill Dougherty in Moscow, thank you.

Coming up, we are going to have live reports from two countries accepting refugees right now from Ukraine. The crisis clearly is worsening right now after more than a million people have fled Ukraine, they fled for their lives.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:30:00]

BLITZER: As Russia intensifies its attack, Ukrainians are escaping their war-torn country in huge numbers. The United Nations now says more than a million -- 1 million -- people have fled.

CNN's Sara Sidner and CNN's Ivan Watson, they are both standing by in two different countries dealing with this enormous flood of refugees. Let's go to Sara first. She's in Poland.

Sara, many of these refugees are mothers and young children, and I know you have been talking to some of them.

SARA SIDNER, CNN SENIOR NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes. We are in Przemsyl, Poland. This is the train station where most of the refugees were coming by train will first get off the train and then try to find their way to other parts of Europe or other parts of Poland.

I do want to give you just a look at the scene because it is so incredibly busy throughout the entire day and night. These are families who have come here to try and find refuge from war. And many of them have come, as you will hear in just a few moments, with nothing but the clothes on their back.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

SIDNER (voice over): A Ukrainian family's mad rush to safety, parents' desperate attempt to shield their two children from the terror only war can bring. The family lives just outside of Kyiv. The explosions rattled their bones.

We fell to the ground. We were shielding our children with our bodies. We got so scared. This is beyond words. We ran. We just ran. But the adults will shed no tears here. They have made a pact. Smile and pretend everything is okay even when they had to take the children to a shelter as bombs exploded.

How are you still smiling?

Why am I still smiling? Because it helps us stay alive. My youngest daughter was crying all night long and she asked me why are you laughing, mom? Why are you joking? And I told her, it keeps us alive and keeps us mentally strong. We saw that strength on display by hundreds of mothers traveling alone with their children across the border into Poland. Their husbands left behind to fight.

But not everyone at the Medyka border crossing is coming into Poland. We witness men going the other way to join the fight in Ukraine.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: I am Ukrainian going to fight against Russians. They shall not pass.

SIDNER: But for a million other Ukrainians, fleeing is the best option to save themselves and their children. For this family, the husband, though, remains with them even though Ukraine's government has demanded men of his age must stay put. He has been allowed out. His duty is to his family, he says. He is the only breadwinner because his wife's duty is to the children, who struggle with disabilities.

At the train station, their youngest smiles and clutches her most prized possessions, her old fuzzy tiger and a new keepsake, a handful of gravel from who are homeland.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

SIDNER (on camera): That little girl took a handful of gravel from her homeland so that she could remember what it felt like to be in Ukraine. All of these families are hoping that they can go back home soon, but when they watch what is happening, and see the devastation, they are just here very unsure about what their future holds. Wolf?

BLITZER: Yes. More than a million people already have fled, simply to save their lives, and as you point out, mostly women and children. Sara Sidner on the border in Poland for us, thank you.

Let's go to Ivan Watson right now. He's in Hungary, also near the border with Ukraine. Ivan, so what are Ukrainian refugees finding when they arrive where you are?

IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: They're crossing at several border crossings into Hungary, which is taking about 12 percent of the refugees, whereas Poland has more than 50 percent, and it is similar. Women and children at one border crossing, I was at today, either arrive in cars or on foot, and coming in being welcomed by hung Hungarian officials and aid organizations.

And as you travel through the little border towns here and villages, it is striking. I see Ukrainian mothers and their kids at restaurants, in little hotels and guest houses, as they are trying to figure out what to do next. I spoke with one of these mothers, a lawyer, and this is what she told me.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JULIYA RUDA, UKRAINIAN LAWYER: At the first day of the war because of explosion, we take a car. I take my mother and my husband, joined us in Lviv. It was a terrible journey, more than 60 hours.

WATSON: In the car?

RUDA: In the car, yes. And we heard explosions. We stopped somewhere --

WATSON: Explosions, yes?

RUDA: Explosions, yes, we stopped somewhere for a little time.

[18:35:00]

And then two days ago we crossed in Hungary, yes.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

WATSON: And that woman actually is setting up her mother and daughter in a Hungarian capital Budapest. And then she is going to go back into Ukraine to help with the effort of her country in peril. And I have heard that from several other people I have spoken with, women bringing their kids out to safety, with grandparents, and then are going to join their husbands as part of the defense of their nation, Wolf.

BLITZER: Ivan Watson reporting from Hungary, on the border with Ukraine, thank you.

And, by the way, to our viewers, for more information about how you -- how you can help humanitarian efforts in Ukraine, go to cnn.com/impact and help impact your world.

There is more breaking news coming up next. I will speak about the U.S.' response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine and whether it is enough with the top Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:45:00]

BLITZER: The breaking news this hour, Russia expanding its brutal assault on Ukraine, targeting key cities, and purposefully hitting civilian infrastructure, that according to U.S. officials. CNN's Anderson Cooper is in Lviv, in Ukraine, he will be anchoring from there later tonight. He spoke to a man who is gathering and making supplies to distribute to Ukrainian fighters.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ANDERSON COOPER, CNN ANCHOR (voice over): A week ago, he was a construction worker but then Putin invaded and everything changed.

You have a message to Vladimir Putin, what is it?

What would I tell him, he says? I would tell him he can go (BLEEP) himself.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BLITZER: Let's discuss what is going on with the top Republican in the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Michael McCaul of Texas. Congressman, thanks so much for joining us.

Moments ago, the Pentagon press secretary, John Kirby, told me the indications are that Russia now controls the Ukrainian city of Kherson. How significant is that, that this first major city has fallen and do you fear other Ukrainian cities could be next?

REP. MICHAEL MCCAUL (R-TX): Yes, it is a very serious situation. That's in the Crimea region, just north, Kherson. Mariupol is being cut off, as we speak. That's one of the major ports, the bread basket, if you will. And there are also amphibious and I think potentially amphibious landings in Odessa, this big port in the west part of Ukraine near Moldova.

Meanwhile, you have this convoy that seems to be resupplying and waiting to go south to Kyiv, where they will basically ride a ring of steel around the capital city and bombard it.

BLITZER: The Ukrainian president, as you know, made an impassioned plea for a no-fly zone today, something that the Pentagon spokesman, John Kirby, told me would only make things, in his words, more bloody and more dangerous. Is a no-fly zone officially off the table, in your view?

MCCAUL: You know, I really think so, Wolf, because it would put us potentially -- it would put NATO aircraft in direct conflict with Russian aircraft. You can imagine the outcome of that. One of the planes will get shot down and then we are in World War III with Russia.

BLITZER: So, what more could the U.S., the Biden administration, do right now, militarily, that they are not doing?

MCCAUL: You know, we really have to get these weapons in. You know, I have been calling upon the administration since last November. I signed off on these weapons packages, to get these weapons into Ukraine, into theater, where these -- you know, these freedom fighters, resistance fighters are very resilient but they are running out of weapons. We didn't put the stinger missiles in there.

Now, they are on their way. But, you know, the Javelin anti-tank ammunition, rifles, these drones that come from Turkey could be very effective. We need to heavily arm, you know, this resistance movement. And, you know, the fact is, Wolf, it's almost too little, too late. We should have been doing this, you know, last November. The buildup started last March.

BLITZER: Yes. The U.S. apparently has delivered hundreds of stinger missiles in the last few days, but the Ukrainians clearly want more.

President Zelensky says if the world doesn't unite around Ukraine, he says countries across Eastern Europe will be next, all the way, he says, to the Berlin Wall. Do you share that fear?

MCCAUL: I do. I do think Putin is isolated as he is, understands Article 5 and what that means, an attack on one, an attack on all, and then, he would be putting himself in a world war. He does want to reclaim the glory of the old Soviet Union. That is his legacy, in his mind. I think his legacy is going to be he is a war criminal.

But I can also see Moldova, that is not a NATO country, and Georgia, quite frankly, being in the bull's-eye once he has completed taking over Ukraine which, by all assessments, will happen. And then we are going to be in a resistance war against the Russians.

BLITZER: Yes. It looks like it is getting worse by the hour. Congressman Michael McCaul, thank you very much for joining us. I know you are traveling to the region in the coming days. Just stay safe over there. We will be in touch. I appreciate it very much.

MCCAUL: Thanks so much, Wolf.

BLITZER: The breaking news continues next with details of new, brand new, just announced, U.S. sanctions targeting what the White House calls Vladimir Putin's, quote, cronies and their family members.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:49:25]

BLITZER: More now on the breaking news. President Biden squeezing what the White House calls Vladimir Putin's cronies and their family members with new sanctions just announced.

CNN's Brian Todd is working this part of the story for us.

Brian, U.S. and other countries are going after the assets of some of those incredibly wealthy Russian oligarchs. BRIAN TODD, CNN CORRESPONDENT: They really are, Wolf. Trying to hit these oligarchs where it might hurt them the most, by targeting some of their prized toys for seizure.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

TODD (voice-over): The Biden administration goes after Vladimir Putin's money men, his cronies, the oligarchs, announcing new sanctions today against some of Russia's wealthiest business elites, many of whom got their money through their connections to Putin.

[18:50:05]

JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The Department of Justice is going after the crimes of Russian oligarchs.

BILL BROWDER, FINANCIER, PUTIN CRITIC: This helps because the oligarchs look after Putin's money. We want to punish Putin personally and directly for what he has done. And this is the most direct way of doing that.

TODD: And the U.S. and its allies are going after the oligarchs' most prized possessions, like their super yachts. Last night, French officials seized the Amore Vero, about 280 feet long, with multiple VIP suites, and a pool that turns into a helipad. French officials say it is linked to Igor Sechin, an oil executive sanctioned by the E.U. this week and one of Putin's closest advisers.

But a company that manages the yacht denied that Sechin was the owner.

NATE SIBLEY, KLEPTOCRACY INITIATIVE, THE HUDSON INSTITUTE: It is sometimes hard to trace ownership and link these people. They're using shell companies. They will own them in the name of family members.

TODD: Other targets for seizure? The super yacht Dilbar being renovated in Hamburg, Germany, worth at least $600 million, according to the U.S. Treasury, with 20 cabins and one of the largest pools ever put on a yacht, 80 feet long. It is believe today be owned by sanction Russian mining magnate Alisher Usmanov, who also possesses what the U.S. Treasury calls one of Russia's largest privately owned aircraft. An Airbus A340 named Bourkhan after his father.

Analysts who track oligarchs say some of them also own some of the most exclusive land properties in the west.

SIBLEY: They own mansions. Oleg Deripaska, someone very close to Vladimir Putin who has been sanctioned in the past by the United States still owns a huge mansion in a swanky part of Washington, D.C. There was a report just recently that four or five of the biggest oligarchs own huge mansions within walking distance of each other right in the heart of New York.

TODD: And Deripaska is one of the oligarchs now seemingly scrambling to unload or move some assets. He reportedly owns the Cleo, one of several yachts connected to oligarchs that have arrived in recent weeks in the Maldives, an island nation in the Indian Ocean, where sanctions don't reach. That is according to the tracking service marine traffic.

And a yacht called the Graceful which German media has speculated is owned by Vladimir Putin, himself, hurried out of port in Hamburg two weeks before the invasion of Ukraine and has since been located in Russia.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

TODD (on camera): At least two oligarchs, including Oleg Deripaska, seem to have broken with Putin in recent days and call for an end to the war in Ukraine. But analysts say many of Russia's top oligarchs have lost their influence with Vladimir Putin in recent years and it is unlikely many of them could bring him down at this point.

None of the oligarchs mentioned in this story respond today a request from comment from CNN sent to their businesses or lawyers -- Wolf.

BLITZER: All right, Brian. Thank you very much. Brian Todd reporting. Important development indeed.

We're going to have much more on the crisis in Ukraine, just ahead.

Also, there is more breaking news we are following next. A verdict in the trial of the only police officer charged in connection with the botched raid that left Breonna Taylor dead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[18:57:27]

BLITZER: We'll have much more on the Russian invasion of Ukraine, that's coming up in a moment. But first, there is other breaking news we're following. A jury in Louisville, Kentucky, has acquitted the only police officer charged in connection with the botched raid in which Breonna Taylor was shot and killed.

CNN national correspondent Athena Jones is working the story for us.

Athena, the jury took about what three hours to reach this not-guilty verdict on three charges. Walk us through what happened.

ATHENA JONES, CNN NATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Hi, Wolf. That's right.

The trial lasted about five days. The jury heard from 26 prosecution witnesses, two defense witnesses, including Brett Hankison, himself. That's the former Louisville metro police detective who was acquitted today on all three felony charges of wanton endangerment.

Now as you mention, Hankison was the only officer charged in connection with this -- this botched March 2020 raid that killed Breonna Taylor. And it is important to note he was not charged with killing her, in fact, no officer was. Instead, prosecutors argued that he endangered three of Breonna Taylor's neighbors by blindly firing ten rounds from his gun.

Several of those rounds pierced the walls of that neighboring apartment where a man, a pregnant woman, and a 5-year-old child were all sleeping. In fact, the man, his name was Cody Etherton, when he took the stand, he said at one point he got up to investigate what was going on with the noise and commotion was and that a bullet -- another bullet came through a wall and missed him by only one or two inches.

Now today, the defense -- sorry, the -- the defense spent 25 minutes arguing that Brett Hankison acted reasonably. That he was only trying to protect his fellow officers. He only began shooting after one of the officers was struck in the leg. He was fired upon by Kenneth Walker, Breonna Taylor's boyfriend, he of course they thought they were intruders entering the apartment. They didn't realize they were police, they say.

And so, Hankison's lawyer says he only began firing to -- to help defend his own fellow officers. He also said that these officers were not well prepared for the raid that day. They didn't have a map of the apartment complex and Hankison wasn't even aware there was another apartment where he could put people in danger.

Now, the prosecution took quite some time to refute several of these points. They argue that Hankison was reckless and with all of his years of experience, knowing they were in an apartment complex, he should have known people were going to be in danger.

Bottom line here, this -- Hankison is now facing no jail time at all and his defense attorney says it's good he took the stand in his own defense -- Wolf.

BLITZER: Athena Jones reporting on that story -- Athena, thank you very much.

And to our viewers, thanks very much for watching. I'm Wolf Blitzer in THE SITUATION ROOM.

"ERIN BURNETT OUTFRONT" starts right now.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNTSR0020220304ei3300001


News; International
Fire at Ukrainian Nuclear Power Plant Extinguished; Russia Ramps Up Campaign to Take Over Southern Ukraine; John Spencer, Retired U.S. Army Major & Urban Warfare Studies Chair, Madison Policy Forum, Discusses Russian Invasion; How Europe Is Coping with the Millions Displaced; UN: 133,000-Plus Ukrainians Have Fled to Hungary; Russian Media Presents Warped View of Invasion; Russian Media Presents Warped View of Invasion; Inside a Children's Hospital in Kyiv; Sanctions Target Yacht's Linked to Russian Oligarchs; Ukrainian Jews React to Putin Rhetoric of De-Nazification. Aired 12-1a ET
Michael Holmes, Nick Paton Walsh, Ivan Watson, Nic Robertson, Clarissa Ward, Kim Brunhuber, Drew Griffin, Sam Kiley
7161 字
2022 年 3 月 4 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[00:00:02]

ANNOUNCER: This is CNN breaking news.

MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Hello. And welcome to our viewers in the United States and all around the world. I am Michael Holmes coming to you live from live from Lviv in western Ukraine.

We do begin with the breaking news. Firefighters have managed to extinguish the fire that had been raging at a power plant in Ukraine following fighting between Ukrainian and Russian forces. A nuclear power plant.

Now I'll show you the video. You see it there. This is from a little bit earlier. The bright light you see on screen is from a flare gun and not gunshots or explosives, although there was incoming fire.

A spokesman for the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant gave an update to our Anderson Cooper a little earlier. This was before the fire had been put out.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ANDRII TUZ, ZAPORIZHZHIA NPP SPOKESMAN (voice-over): Now the shooting has been contained from air attempts. At any moment, it may result in a nuclear accident. Many buildings are damaged and on fire.

Only one of six power units is in operation right now. All six power units are lower with nuclear tombs.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOLMES: The nuclear power plant -- this is in southeastern Ukraine -- it is the largest in Europe. Officials stressing that radiation levels have not been elevated at all throughout this. Ukraine's president offering his condemnation of Russia for the attack.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT: We contacted our partners. I talk to Charles, Schultz, I talked to Duda, I talked to President Biden. We have contacted President Rafael Grazi, also Prime Minister Johnson.

And we warn everyone that no other country other than Russia has ever fired on a nuclear power unit. This is the first time in our history, in the history of mankind that a terrorist state now resorted to nuclear terror.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOLMES: More on that fire in a moment.

Meanwhile, though, bring you up to date on some aspects of this conflict.

Residents of Mariupol facing a deteriorating situation as Russian forces besieged that key city from all sides. Civilians are trapped without food electricity or water.

The assault on Mariupol, of course, part of Russia's efforts to tighten its grip on the south and establish a so-called land bridge to Russian-help territories, Crimea primarily.

Fighting is also intensifying in other parts of the country, such as Kharkiv and northeastern new crane, the country's second-biggest city.

Let's talk more about that fire. Bring in a nuclear expert right now.

Now Mariana Budjeryn is a research associate with Harvard University's Project on Managing the Atom. She joins me from Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Things seem to be thankfully more under control now. More broadly, what are the risks within in certain like this?

MARIANA BUDJERYN, RESEARCH ASSOCIATE, PROJECT ON MANAGING THE ATOM, HARVARD KENNEDY SCHOOL: Well, Michael, Russian shelling of a nuclear power plant was an extremely reckless behavior.

But it actually takes several things to go wrong all at the same time to precipitate a serious nuclear accident at a nuclear power plant.

These are facilities that have very robust safety and security measures in place. Especially since the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident and the Fukushima nuclear power plant accident.

All of these protocols are getting updated constantly. But if we have several things that go wrong at the same time, then really we should be worried. These things are the breach in the confinement chamber of a nuclear power plant.

So every nuclear reactor that contains a core, a nuclear core, reactor core is protected by a very robust reinforce concrete confinement chamber that is designed to withstand an explosion internally of the reactor core that might release a radioactivity.

It is designed to contain that radioactivity inside. But it is also designed to withstand an outside impact of a certain intensity.

Of course, the staged shelling by missiles and artillery might compromise that confinement chamber.

But the breach of the confinement chamber itself may not necessarily result in a nuclear accident.

What is critical for safe operation of a nuclear reactor is the functioning of a cooling system of a reactor core.

[00:05:00]

So if you can imagine, it is a big pool into which the fuel rods are inserted. It has to have a constant supply of cold water to keep that core and that nuclear fuel at a certain temperature.

And of course, the system relies on a supply of water. That supply of water depending on the functioning of the pumps that pump that water into the core.

The pump rely on electricity. There are backup electricity systems, should the main power grid to go out. That is standard for every nuclear power plant. Those are diesel generators. And then there's also batteries for redundancy.

But in a full-scale invasion in the middle of the war, it is not inconceivable that all of the systems could be compromised. And then we really have to worry that there could be a serious accident.

HOLMES: Right.

To that point, how can a scenario like this perhaps be better mitigated? I think only one reactor of the six was running. If the reactors are not running, are they safe or safer or not?

BUDJERYN: Well, even as a controlled shutdown of the reactor it's not like you just flick a switch and it's off.

The fuel remains in the core for some time, for several weeks actually, until it is cool enough to take out and transport to a spent fuel pool that is normally outside of the reactor building.

And actually, spent fuel pools are underestimated. There are points of vulnerability in the safety and security of a nuclear power plant. The fuel here still quite radioactive active. It may not be as active as within the core but normally it is packed quite tight. There's less material to add but there's more of it.

So, again, if the -- and those spent fuel pools also need to be cooled and kept at a certain temperature.

So again, if the pooling system is compromised, then there could be trouble.

HOLMES: We are almost out of time. But, real quick, if you can, in a worst-case scenario in this sort of situation, what sort of radiation spread could there be? What kind of area is impacted? Real quick, if you can.

BUDJERYN: Well, in a worst-case scenario, I think the preview of that is the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident in 1986. Where they release much of it, it depends on the weather, it depends on the winds.

After the Chernobyl catastrophe, the radiation was carried as far out as Ireland and as England.

With the fallout, until rather recently, I think maybe early 2000s, a number of farms in the U.K. and Ireland were affected where they couldn't sell their produce.

To this day, in southern Germany, a wild boar hunted in the woods is tested for radiation to this day.

So we are not only looking at the geography. We are looking at a time scale of decades that these consequences could last.

HOLMES: Ironically, it would impact Russia itself.

Mariana Budjeryn, thank you so much. I really appreciate that.

Now a new video showing the horrifying aftermath of a Russian strike north of the capital, Kyiv. Officials say an apartment building in the city of Chernihiv was hit on Thursday, leaving at least 33 people dead, 18 wounded.

We are warning you the footage you are about to see is graphic.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

(SIREN)

(EXPLOSION)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE) (EXPLETIVE DELETED)

(SCREAMING)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

#: Now in southern Ukraine, port city after a port city is facing increased attacks from Russian forces. That is no accident. That is tactical.

[00:10:01]

Nick Paton Walsh has more on Russia's campaign to tighten its control.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR (voice-over): The town of Kherson refuses to give up it seems.

(BANGING)

PATON WALSH: Looting, crippling life here.

This Russian soldier's bid to get into a cell phone store, a sign of the lawless world they brought with them where food and medicine is lacking.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

PATON WALSH: And what life is left made more unbearable by the laying of tripwire mines, local officials said. This one posted online to warn others.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

PATON WALSH: On the other side of Russian-held Crimea, Mariupol under siege, without water or electricity. The mayor saying the Russian, quote, "scum" have found no other way to break us.

The prize in the south is this, Odessa. It's opera house fortified, its coastline a harder task. Where the tide could bring Russians in with it, yet still laps as if nothing has changed.

An Estonian ship sank Thursday east of here. Its crew rescued. With Ukrainian officials accusing Russia of shelling it to act as cover for their landing ships, any hour now, when the landing force could heave irrevocably into view.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

PATON WALSH: Odessa brims with locals, ready though, like so many here.

The civilian defenders don't want their whereabouts filmed, but are happy to speak. ZHENA, VOLUNTEER FIGHTER: The war starts or it's on back home --

PATON WALSH: Zhena is chief marketing officer for an I.T. company who's traveled Europe in Africa but joined up to fight on day one.

ZHENA: Unfortunately, I have lost two of my friends in Kherson two days ago.

WALSH (on camera): I'm sorry.

ZHENA: They've -- yes. They also have been --

PATON WALSH: They're fighting in Kherson?

ZHENA: Yes, they were fighting and they are in S.S. in volunteer troop. So they have no military background at all. Both of them are programmers.

WALSH (voice-over): We're joined by Lira (ph), age 19, a nanny who fled Russians in Crimea when she was 11.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

PATON WALSH: "We're ready to the end to defend our land," she said. "The occupiers came to my home before. My family is still there. Only I could leave because I don't want to live in Russia."

(CROSSTALK)

PATON WALSH: Across town, mothers knit camouflage netting, while, like Nelia, their daughter's fight, her staying behind to defend Kyiv.

NELIA KONONOVA, VOLUNTEER: We know the danger. We know that it will come but we didn't know, when will it come.

And I asked them, children come here, please, be safe, come to me. But they didn't want. No, mom. Please stay alive. Stay safe.

But we will defend because everybody loves our motherland. Everybody -- sorry. Sorry. Everybody wants to be independent, to be free.

They decided to stay there. And I can't influence the decision. But I pray every day, I pray every night for them to stay alive.

PATON WALSH: The defined words of Ukrainian soldiers of Snake Island, who told her Russian ship where to shove it, echo here.

(CROSSTALK)

KONONOVA: Russian ship, fuck you. Is the logo now in Ukraine.

PATON WALSH: They'll need more than high spirits in the days ahead.

Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Odessa, Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE) HOLMES: John Spencer is a retired U.S. Army major and chair of Urban Warfare Studies at the Madison Policy Forum. He joins me now from Colorado Springs in Colorado.

Thank you for doing so, sir.

Before I get to your area of expertise, I wanted to ask you, how disturbing is it that a nuclear power plant would be the site of Russian incoming fire, munitions going into a power plant like that?

MAJ. JOHN SPENCER, U.S. ARMY, RETIRED & CHAIR, URBAN WARFARE STUDIES, MADISON POLICY FORUM: It is a global disaster waiting to happen. Very scary. Especially firing anywhere near that with any type of weapon. It's just ridiculous.

HOLMES: You are an expert on urban warfare. That is the big fear in terms of what could be coming. If the Russians assault Kyiv with heavy weapons in a no-holds-barred entry, what would that look like in a kinetic sense?

SPENCER: It would look like hell on earth, to be honest. We are just seeing the very start of this, the indiscriminate bombing of civilian areas with the hope that their defenders in there.

[00:15:05]

Not following international law and ensuring that there's -- making sure there's no civilians in whatever striking. It's a Russian doctrine unfortunately. We are going to see this intensify.

Just think about the battle of Grozny. The Russians started by -- just started on day one firing up 3,000 rounds a day. When they really faced resistance, it ended up being about 30,000 rounds a day.

HOLMES: Wow. Thirty thousand a day.

I actually covered the retaking of Mosul from ISIS in Iraq. That's sort of starkly illustrated how fighting in a city can be incredibly damaging to infrastructure, obviously.

And far more likely to result in high civilian casualties. I think in Mosul, some estimates were 10,000 civilians died.

Just describe how bad it can get and why?

SPENCER: Yes. I think this will be 10 times what the battle of Mosul was just because of the resistance you're facing.

And the battle of Mosul, like 5,000, maybe estimated 10,000 untrained terrorists, and it still took 100,000 people and forces -- backed by the most powerful and law-abiding air power in the world, and it still took them nine months and destroying most of the city.

This could get in the tens of thousands of civilian casualties. And destroy every building there, if the Ukrainians put up resistance.

For me, more importantly, my hope, and I stand with Ukraine, is that they can make Russia pay a huge, huge price.

HOLMES: Right.

And to that very point, the Ukrainians are the defenders. I know you have written extensively about many of the advantages of being in that position.

What are the main advantages? What would Ukrainian forces be doing to prepare or should be doing to prepare?

SPENCER: The defense is always the strongest form of war. It has always been. And in the urban defense, it's 10 times that.

They can prepare every street. They can block every street, put guns in every window hidden. And just make it impossible for the Russians to come in without fear.

The Russians fear urban combat. That's why they will bomb it, unfortunately, a lot.

They also don't want urban warfare.

So inside of Kyiv, if I was there, building the barriers, ensuring they have protection, digging so they can go underground when the bombing starts.

Or getting -- picking out which building they will be in, picking out which building they will shoot from.

I mean, the resistance is amazing. But it's so powerful. I don't believe the stories.

I have studied this for over a decade. I can give you all kinds of historical examples. If the Ukrainians fight, Kyiv can hold.

HOLMES: Yes. That's incredible analysis.

I want to ask you this before we go. There's a lot of talk about Russia's thermobaric weapons, I mean, cluster munitions as well, which they have already used.

But the thermobaric weapons, what the potential applications in an urban or city environment?

SPENCER: So thermobaric, some people call it a vacuum bomb just because what thermobaric does when it hits the ground, it sucks all of the oxygen out of the room, out of the person's lungs and it fills it with fire.

Some people call them a flame-thrower weapon. But they're thermobarics. They're advanced technologies meant to destroy things like tanks and big vehicles in the open. They are not meant for urban terrain.

If that was fired into urban terrain, which it will be, and it wasn't in the first battle of Grozny. It just melts concrete, melts metal. It is a cruel and unusual weapon to use in an urban terrain.

HOLMES: Just horrific to contemplate. Yet, this sort of welfare could be on the horizon.

So it's great to have you in to get your expertise on this.

John Spencer, Mayor, thank you so much. We really appreciate it.

SPENCER: Thank you.

HOLMES: Coming up on CNN NEWSROOM, the Russian people are getting a warped view of the invasion thanks to state media. We will take a look at the fake news that is flooding their airways.

[00:19:19]

Plus, more than one million Ukrainians displaced. How European countries are coping with a flood of refugees pouring across their borders. We will be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

HOLMES: Now the war in Ukraine, as we have reported, is creating a flood of refugees pouring across European borders.

As the fighting enters its second week, more than one million people have fled. Half of them children, by the way.

But on Thursday, Russian and Ukraine negotiators did agree to provide humanitarian corridors for people trying to escape the fighting. We will see how that works out.

And ministers in the European Union unanimously agreed to give temporary protection to all of refugees fleeing Ukraine. That gives them protected status and rights to residency.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GERALD DARMANIN, FRENCH INTERIOR MINISTER: (through translation): Eligible persons will thus be able to benefit from a protective status. Similar to that of a refuge you in any country of the European Union for a renewable period of one year.

This unanimous decision reflects, I believe, the full commitment of the European Union to the solidarity that we owe to the Ukrainian people in the face of this unjustifiable war.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOLMES: Now Ukrainian refugees crossing international borders are dependent, of course, on the goodwill of volunteers awaiting to help and of the country itself.

Once they arrive to safety, they are grateful for every kindness. CNN's Ivan Watson's talked to refugees newly arrived on the Ukrainian/Hungarian border who are just happy to finally be safe.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

IVAN WATSON, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Forced to flee their homes and their country, Ukrainians on the run.

Their children making the best of it, oblivious to the fact that a week-old War just turned them into refugees.

[00:25:06]

(on camera): This is one of Hungary's border crossings with Ukraine. There's a steady stream of people arriving here in vehicles and on foot. All of the Ukrainian new arrivals are women and children.

(voice-over): Hungarian aid workers welcomed the refugees and bring them, free of charge, to the nearest village where the community center is now a place of refuge.

Some people stay here. Others pause for food and warmth before moving on.

Among those here, Anna Tipachuk (ph), her mother, Slavana (ph), and her 16-month-old son.

ANNA TIPACHUK (ph), UKRAINIAN REFUGEE: Yes. This is my son, Mark.

WATSON: They crossed the border to Hungary this morning after spending nearly a week on the road.

We are very thankful to the Hungarian people. It's very hard work that they are doing.

WATSON: The Hungarian village of Badabash (ph) has a population of 1,060 people. The deputy mayor tells me the village has taken in more than 100 Ukrainians, including housing families and at least 20 village homes.

As we speak another family arrives from Ukraine.

(on camera): Yes, there's a little baby.

(voice-over): Yesterday, we took care of a five-day old baby who came across the border, the deputy mayor tells me. A five-day old baby.

Victoria Kulyana (ph) says, when the Russians invaded, she fled her home near Kyiv for what she thought would be one night. A week later, she and her son just arrived in a foreign country.

(on camera): What belongings do you have?

VICTORIA KULYANA (ph), UKRAINIAN REFUGEE: I have just one jacket.

I think Ukraine is very strong. It's a country with strong people, strong nation and a major power. That's why I don't worry. Of course, my heart is broken.

WATSON (voice-over): She says she tried to convince her friends and Russia via social media about the deadly attack their military is carrying out on her homeland.

(on camera): What's your Russian friends say to you?

KULYANA (ph): It's not true, no, it's not possible.

They don't believe you?

KULYANA (ph): No.

UNIDENTIFIED BOY: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

WATSON (voice-over): And 10-year-old Timor (ph) chimes in, saying Vladimir Putin is like Adolf Hitler. He is attacking the world just like Hitler did.

There are almost no man here, aside from the elderly. Because all Ukrainian men of fighting age have been ordered to stay behind to defend their country from the Russian invasion.

TIPACHUK (ph): I'm very angry for Russia people.

WATSON: "I want to tell the Russians that it is time to do something. It's time to change something," says Anna Tipachuk (ph).

"My son doesn't deserve to be forced to run across Ukraine and across borders," she adds. "He doesn't deserve to grow up like this."

Ivan Watson, CNN, on the Ukraine/Hungarian border.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HOLMES: Now as you can imagine, Russian media coverage of the invasion is very different from what you will see on CNN and other Western news outlets.

Pro-Kremlin propaganda filling the airwaves and far too little real reporting is getting through to the Russian people.

More now from Nic Robertson in Moscow.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

UNIDENTIFIED RUSSIAN TV ANCHOR: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: On Russia's state TV, audiences are only being told what the Kremlin wants them to know about the war in Ukraine.

This new Russian army video shows troops handing out humanitarian aid. They claim Russian forces are giving civilians safe passage from the fighting.

A message reinforced in President Putin's latest state TV speech.

VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translation): Our military have provided corridors in all areas of combat action.

ROBERTSON: The terrible reality the rest of the world is seeing, shelling of civilians suffering death and destruction, never gets aired on Russian state TV.

(SIREN)

(EXPLOSION)

ROBERTSON: And many Russians believe their government that their war was forced on them by Ukraine backed by NATO.

UNIDENTIFIED RUSSIAN FEMALE (through translation): I know the truth. This was a forced measure on our side. After what Russia went through in World War II, it's madness to believe we want war.

UNIDENTIFIED RUSSIAN FEMALE (through translation): I see what's on TV when I'm getting ready for work. We try not to get too involved in it because we've got enough of our own problems.

ROBERTSON: Some do care enough to reach beyond state TV. But even then, they are not convinced by what they see.

[00:29:55]

UNIDENTIFIED RUSSIAN FEMALE (through translation): Yes, I have heard that some civilians, even children, have died. But I'm not sure I can believe it because there's fake news. They are making money.

UNIDENTIFIED RUSSIAN NEWS ANCHOR: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR (voice-over): Obedient anchors on state TV never question the Kremlin's version of facts and reinforce its tropes about de-Nazification.

No mention that President Zelensky is Jewish or Russian missiles killed civilians near a Holocaust Memorial in Kyiv.

Even so, some, mostly younger Russians, see through the government slice, getting their news from friends, independent and social media.

UNIDENTIFIED RUSSIAN FEMALE: Almost all of us are understanding these things that there's a lot of lies around. So we do not know what is happening.

UNIDENTIFIED RUSSIAN MALE (through translation): I think this is a crime. An aggression against a neighboring country. Our government invaded. Now they are killing.

UNIDENTIFIED RUSSIAN FEMALE: It's awful. What can we think about it? Normal people understand. But we can't do anything. Because we are afraid like everyone else. ROBERTSON (on camera): The government is so worried independent media could challenge their narrative, in the past few days, it shut down two outlets.

But is right now preparing a law that would criminalize what it calls fake media. It can carry a maximum 15-year jail sentence.

(voice-over): Despite the Kremlin's best efforts at controlling the narrative, many Russians have taken to the streets, angered by Putin's war. More than 7,500 people arrested so far.

(SHOUTING)

ROBERTSON: Including this elderly lady at a protest in St. Petersburg Wednesday. And no surprise this video has yet to be shown on state media.

(on camera): There's nothing more dangerous for President Putin and Russia today than the truth.

Armed with evidence of what is happening in Ukraine, many Russians may reconsider their relationship with him. And that could challenge his rule.

Nic Robertson, CNN, Moscow.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

MICHAEL HOLMES, CNN ANCHOR: Now a children's hospital in Kyiv is trying to keep operations going amid a war. After the break, we go inside of that hospital and talk to those caring for the kids.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[00:35:55]

HOLMES: Welcome back. Let's update you on the main story.

Ukrainian emergency crews saying that they have put out a fire at a nuclear power plant. This is in southeastern Ukraine.

It broke out a few hours ago after alleged Russian shelling of the plant. Regulators stress there has been no change in radiation levels.

The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky, blaming Russia for the dangerous situation.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translation): We remembered that Russian propaganda threatened to cover the world with nuclear ashes. We remember.

Now it is not a threat. Now it is a reality. And we do not know how the fire at the station will end. When there will be an explosion or when there won't be. God forbid. No one can predict it until the end.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

HOLMES: Of course, since the president spoke, that fire is now out.

Meanwhile, smoke pouring out of residential buildings in a town. This is just outside of the capital of Kyiv where Russian troops continue to advance.

And Russia appears to be gaining more ground in the south and in the east as fighting enters a second week. The Ukrainian president is pleading for more help from Western nations.

Ukraine's largest children's hospital in Kyiv has had to take special precautions as the bombings get closer, including moving the children to the basement.

CNN's Clarissa Ward talks to the families and health professionals who are doing their best to take care of the kids.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Outside the Okhmatdyt Hospital, the sound of heavy fighting pierces the night air.

(GUNFIRE)

UNIDENTIFIED NURSE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

WARD: "The shelling has started," this nurse says. "We're in the surgical department for newborn babies. It's so loud."

Exhausted staff hover nervously in the hallway.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE).

WARD: This is Ukraine's largest children's hospital. Shutting down is not an option.

DMYTRO ISHCHENKO, NEUROSURGEON: Yes, we decided to open your surgical department here.

WARD: Neurosurgeon Dmytro Ishchenko shows us the impact of just one week of war.

(on-camera): So the children who are too sick to be moved have to stay here in the basement in case the bombardment starts again.

(voice-over): There are 10 patients currently being treated in this underground hallway. And they are very sick, indeed.

(CRYING)

WARD (on-camera): Is this your daughter?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

WARD (voice-over): On the floor, in one corner, we meet Sonia (ph) and her three-month-old daughter, Milena (ph). Milena (ph) has a brain tumor.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

WARD: "It's a terrifying situation, we must stay underground. And we don't know how long for," she says.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

WARD: "I'm alone here at the hospital. And my husband is at home with my other kid."

For seven nights, she has been sleeping on this floor as the bombing gets closer.

(on-camera): She's saying that the stress of the situation has meant that her milk has dried up, so she's now using formula for her daughter.

(voice-over): With resources being diverted to deal with trauma injuries, parents are stepping in to help where they can.

At one bed, Valentin (ph) is feeding an unconscious child.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

WARD (on-camera): So he's saying that little baby there is his little boy, but he's helping with this child because their mother can't be here.

(voice-over): I tell him he's strong.

"There's no other way," he says. "God gives us strength."

In this environment, Dr. Ishchenko offers his patients and their families whatever he can, but there are limits.

ISHCHENKO: It's really very challenging and really tough because we don't have good conditions for our patients.

WARD (on-camera): Is this dangerous for them, this situation?

[00:40:01]

ISHCHENKO: Yes. And not only because we have a war. These conditions is not suitable with brain surgeries.

WARD (voice-over): For now, non-essential procedures are on hold.

Eleven-year-old Jaroslav's (ph) sutures should have been removed but the risk of infection is too high.

His mother, Ludmilla (ph) tries to comfort him. "I will massage you and everything will be OK," she says.

But no one knows how long this war will last. And these children cannot wait forever.

Clarissa Ward, CNN, Kyiv.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HOLMES: And I will be back with more from Lviv later this hour.

But first, let's bring in Kim Brunhuber at CNN's world headquarters in Atlanta.

Over to you, my friend.

KIM BRUNHUBER, CNN ANCHOR: Thank you so much, Michael.

It may soon be the lifestyles of the "rich and seized" for Russian oligarchs and their mega yachts. Coming up, we take an inside look at the Russian ships and how they avoid seizure.

Coming up. Stay with us

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

SUSAN, COPPEDGE, LAWYER, KREVOLIN & HORST: We are all consumers in this world so it's important to know where the product to purchase and were made or came from.

My name is Susan Coppedge and I presently practice law in Atlanta, Georgia, at the law firm of Krevolin & Horst.

Prior to that, I was President Obama's ambassador-at-large for the Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons at the U.S. State Department.

I believe the next focus for fighting human trafficking or what businesses can do to ferret out labor trafficking in their supply chain.

We've got much better about being aware of the signs of human trafficking. And individuals can look for these when they go to a nail salon or a restaurant.

If they see indicators where people do not feel free to move about or are not making eye contact or cannot communicate without someone standing over them, then they should call law enforcement.

It's very important to not be a hero right there in the moment yourself but to reach out to the appropriate authorities to do that.

I would like to brag on two hometown companies to do this which is Delta Airlines, which is trained flight attendants to be aware of the signs of human trafficking, and also UPS, which has trained they're drivers.

It is also very important to look at what the vulnerabilities are for trafficking survivors. And to go upstream of the problem and try to solve some of these vulnerabilities so the trafficking survivors do not fall prey in the first place.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER: As Russia's assault on Ukraine continues to escalate, America's top diplomat is planning to visit U.S. allies to talk about how to handle the ongoing crisis.

U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken touched down in Brussels a short time ago. In a few hours, we will need our headquarters with foreign ministers from the alliance.

After that, they will meet with NATO allies from Poland to Latvia to talk about what the State Department calls Russia's unjustified war against Ukraine.

The White House is piling on the pressure on Russian President Vladimir Putin but going after his inner circle.

On Thursday, President Joe Biden slapped new sanctions on a group of oligarchs close to Russian leader. They'll be cut off from the U.S. financial system, while their assets and property will be frozen and blocked.

[00:45:05]

Britain later followed suit, slapping their own sanctions on two oligarchs worth $19 billion dollars combined.

Biden says the sanctions imposed on Putin's country earlier are already getting traction.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: The severe economic sanctions on Putin and all those folks around them. Choking off access to technology as well cutting off access to the global financial system. This had a profound impact already.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

BRUNHUBER: Some of those targets to be seized include massive yachts owned by some of Russia's richest oligarchs.

CNN's Drew Griffin looks at the floating mansions now in the financial crosshairs.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DREW GRIFFIN, CNN SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The 280-foot yacht "Amore Vero" features multiple decks, has a swimming pool that turns into a helicopter pad, and boasts of master and VIP suites to accommodate up to 14 guests.

And it's just been seized by the French government.

It's linked to Igor Sechin, the CEO of Russian oil giant, Rosneft. Though the yacht company now says he doesn't own it.

The European Union sanctioned Sechin earlier this week, describing him as one of Russian President Vladimir Putin's most trusted and closest advisers.

The seizure, part of a coordinated action from Western countries, making it difficult for Russian billionaires to operate and putting pressure on Putin.

BILL BROWDER, CEO, HERMITAGE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: This is what he cares about. This is what's important to him.

This helps because the oligarchs look after Putin's money. We want to punish Putin personally indirectly, for what he's done. And this is the most direct way of doing that.

GRIFFIN: Another target of coordinated sanctions, the super yacht "Dilbar." It's currently being renovated in Hamburg, Germany, and owned by a telephone and mining magnate.

It has dozens of cabins and a crew of 96 people. Guests can swim in an 80-foot pool, once the largest ever put on a yacht.

A CNN review from marinetraffic.com found yachts have been reported to be owned by Russian oligarchs spread out across the world. Some were already on the move towards friendlier ports in anticipation of a worldwide crackdown.

CATHERINE BELTON, AUTHOR, "PUTIN'S PEOPLE": The problem is, is that the sanctions have been announced ahead of time.

So probably right now, they're all busy, feverishly, engineering deals in which ownership changes could be triggered the minute sanctions are handed down. So it's going to be a game of cat and mouse, unfortunately.

GRIFFIN: That cat-and-mouse game may have already begun, even with Russian billionaires who are not under sanction.

The "Galactica Super Nova," with floor-to-ceiling marble and outdoor theater and a waterfall pool, reportedly owned by a Russian oil company executive, left Barcelona on Saturday and crossed the Mediterranean to Montenegro.

The ownership is often hidden behind complicated registries and shell companies.

These yachts are a symbol of the cash and prestige oligarchs have built under Putin.

Luxuries like anti-missile defense systems, bomb-proof doors and a mini-submarine or a beauty salon and an elevator.

One yacht now out of reach of any Western authorities, the "Graceful." German media has speculated the owner is none other than Vladimir Putin himself.

Two weeks before the invasion of Ukraine, the yacht left Hamburg, Germany, and sped to Kaliningrad, Russia, where no location data has been recorded since.

(on camera): And it is not just yachts. The U.S. government has sanctioned five ships it says are connected to a Russian bank, oil tankers and freighters.

In a sign that it may be having its desired effect, that author, Catherine Belton, talked to some these oligarchs. She says they are shocked by what Putin has done, and never thought he would go this far.

Drew Griffin, CNN, Atlanta.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

HOLMES: Vladimir Putin says his invasion of Ukraine is intended to de- Nazify the country and protect Jewish people living inside its borders. But that claim doesn't carry much weight with much of Ukraine's Jewish population. We'll hear what's some think of Putin's rhetoric, next.

[00:49:07]

Stay with us.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

HOLMES: Welcome back, everyone. I'm Michael Holmes reporting from Lviv in Ukraine.

Ukrainian officials say that they have put out a fire at the nation's largest nuclear power plant, Europe's largest, in fact.

They say flames broke out earlier after relentless Russian shelling. This is at the Zaporizhzhia plant on Thursday.

But White House officials say there's been no indication of any increase in radiation. The International Atomic Energy Agency says the facilities essential equipment was affected.

Some good news there but worrying, nonetheless.

Russia's president he says he is fighting Nazis while conducting this brutal incursion into a country led by a Jewish president.

Sam Kiley looks at the cruel irony of Putin's rationale with a visit to one Ukrainian Jewish community.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) (SIREN)

SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Air raid sirens in Uman. Civilians seeking shelter from Russian bombs in what Vladimir Putin says is partly a campaign to rid Ukraine of a Nazi leadership.

The absurdity of this claim lost on no one here heading to the basement of a synagogue.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

KILEY (on camera): The Jewish population of Ukraine has suffered terribly over the last few hundred years. It's had pogroms that have been inflicted on it by this Czarist regime.

It's suffered miserably under Staling. And of course, the Jews here were murdered on mass by Hitler.

(voice-over): The tomb of Rabbi Nachman of Breslov is a pilgrimage site for thousands of Hasidic Jews and has flourished under Ukraine's recent governments.

Now the streets of its Jewish community are almost deserted, the result of Putin so called de-Nazification program.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

KILEY: "Military sites and the town was bombed on day one of the Russian campaign against Ukraine."

[00:55:01]

(on camera): Do you think Ukraine has a government of National Socialists, of Nazis? That is what Putin says.

YEHUDA TURGIMAN, WORSHIPPER IN UMAN: No, I think, in Ukraine, you see that Ukraine in the last year, they give us to come to Rabbi Nachman. They don't make us problem.

AVIRAM DIAMOND, JEWISH WORSHIPPER FROM NEW YORK: I have been living here for seven months and it's been amazing, very loving, and very caring for the Jewish people.

VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT: (SPEAKING FOREIGN LANGUAGE)

KILEY (voice-over): Putin has called on Ukraine's military to rise against the government, which he says is a gang of drug addicts and Neo-Nazis who settled in Kyiv and took the entire Ukrainian people hostage.

On Tuesday, Russian bombing of Kyiv's radio tower also damaged the Holocaust Memorial at the Babin Yar where more than 30,000 people were murdered in 1941. Many tens of thousands were murdered later.

Now, Ukraine's Jewish President suggested that Putin is following Hitler's lead.

ZELENSKY (through translation): He said, this kind of a missile strike demonstrates that, for many people in Russia, our Kyiv is absolutely alien.

They don't know anything about our capital, about our history. But they have an order to erase our history, to erase our country, to erase all of us.

In Uman, the synagogues underground to meek the bathing complex is a bunk of a Jew and Gentile alike.

DASHA BORSCHT, UMAN RESIDENT: I know that Uman is Jewish, but exactly this place where we are, I just know that it's bunker. It's safe to be here. That's why I am here.

KILEY: Like many people in this town, Dasha and her family are joining an exodus out of Ukraine.

For those left behind, there's little but the promise of a long hard winter.

Sam Kiley, CNN, Uman.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

HOLMES: And that is all the time we have this hour. I am Michael Holmes. Thanks for being with us. I will have much more though from Lviv in just a moment.

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220304ei340005l


Letters
Opinion
Debating Past and Present in the Ukraine Crisis; Should the young nation have held on to its nukes in 1994? Should the West sanction Russia today?
557 字
2022 年 3 月 7 日 15:57 GMT
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
英文
Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
I don't know where John Ullyot and Thomas Grant were in 1994 when the Budapest Memorandum was signed ("The Lesson of Budapest? Hold On to Your Nukes[https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-lesson-of-budapest-hold-on-to-your-nukes-ukraine-russia-invasion-nuclear-weapons-proliferation-11646257487]," op-ed, March 3), but I was in diplomat school. The topic of getting former Soviet republics to give up their nuclear arms was hotly discussed. Their national leaders at the time were largely kleptocrats—everything was for sale. One of my professors said to me, "What should we do? Let them keep their nuclear arms?" It was a rhetorical question, and we all knew the answer.

I performed diplomatic functions in Ukraine about five years later. I was shocked at the level of corruption and greed among Ukrainian politicians at the time. Ukraine's nukes were going to end up in the hands of the highest bidder, which very easily could have been al Qaeda, Iran or other bad actors. Luckily, the U.S. outbid them—but not with security guarantees. The security guarantees in the Budapest Memorandum were nothing more than window dressing. Everyone knew that what Ukrainian politicians were really receiving was a blind eye turned toward their profiteering.

Seen through the prism of today's events, it is easy to argue that actions taken nearly 30 years ago were a mistake. They were not.

Douglas Lapin

Port au Prince, Haiti

I was reminded by David Satter's "Weakness at Home Drives Putin to Invade Ukraine[https://www.wsj.com/articles/weak-approval-putin-force-ukraine-russia-invasion-crimea-greatness-corruption-kremlin-oligarch-civil-unrest-apartment-bombing-dissent-11645541932]" (Feb. 23) that this bad idea of Russian imperial rule over Ukraine is hardly original to Mr. Putin. In his 2011 book "It Was a Long Time Ago, and It Never Happened Anyway," Mr. Satter writes, for example, that Alexander Solzhenitsyn had an "openly imperialistic attitude" toward certain former Soviet republics. In 1990 Solzhenitsyn proposed that Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, which he described as the "three branches" of "our people," become a "Russian Union." He considered Ukraine a key part of such a "Russian Union."

Williamson M. Evers

Independent Institute

Oakland, Calif.

Imposing economic sanctions on Russia is little more than a feel-good policy ("The Economic Price of Putin's Invasion[https://www.wsj.com/articles/the-economic-price-of-putins-invasion-russia-ukraine-sanctions-markets-11646082302]," Review & Outlook, March 1). Vladimir Putin will not be standing in long lines at an ATM to try to withdraw cash. He will not wonder if there will be food on the table each night. He will not worry about heating his home. Instead, these are the concerns that working-class Russians will face. Are we to believe that making the lives of working-class Russian citizens harder will impel Mr. Putin, a man who has ignored and indeed caused the suffering of his own people for decades, to change his tune?

Assoc. Prof. David Hebert

Aquinas College

Grand Rapids, Mich.

Regarding your editorial "Russia's Assault on Ukraine's Cities[https://www.wsj.com/articles/russias-assault-on-ukraines-cities-vladimir-putin-nato-united-states-kharkiv-kyiv-11646260993]" (March 3): While the U.S. has announced powerful sanctions against Russia, we are still purchasing substantial amounts of Russian oil at inflated prices. America is capable of energy independence. In pursuit of questionable policies and regulations to address climate change, ostensibly to save lives in the future, we are underwriting the slaughter of thousands today.

Bill Emerson

West Palm Beach, Fla.

Debating Past and Present in the Ukraine Crisis[https://www.wsj.com/articles/russia-ukraine-putin-nuclear-weapons-budapest-economic-sanctions-11646667794]

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 WSJO000020220307ei370030d


Toxic issue at heart of EU laid bare by Ukraine war - Poland hit with major sanction
Jon King
880 字
2022 年 3 月 10 日 21:19 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
THE EUROPEAN UNION has been criticised after MEPs voted to sanction Poland and Hungary where more than one million refugees have found sanctuary from the war in Ukraine.

More than two million people have fled Ukraine after Russia's invasion, with 1.4 million welcomed by Poland and 214,000 by Hungary up to March 9, according to the United Nations. But that did not stop 478 MEPs voting on Thursday in favour of punishing both countries.

Related articles

A total of 155 MEPs voted against adopting an EU resolution calling on the European Commission to take action against both countries. There were 29 abstentions, according to the European Parliament.

Claire Fox, who was elected to serve in the European Parliament in 2019, described the vote as "grotesque" in a tweet.

Austin Williams, director of the Future Cities Project, tweeted: "One for the Remainers: The European Commission said: 'EU law has primacy over national law, including constitutional provisions.'

"EU fines Poland for refusing to accept it. Did Poland ask for permission to take in all those refugees? How dare they."

It comes after the EU's top court dismissed in February a Polish and Hungarian challenge to a new law which would allow the bloc to cut funds to member countries found to have violated democratic rights and freedoms.

In its final ruling, the European Court of Justice's dismissal marked a milestone in the EU's feud with Poland and Hungary's populist rulers over the undermining of the rule of law.

Hungary and Poland have been criticised for curbing the rights of women, LGBTQ+ people and migrants as well as stifling the freedom of courts, media, academics and NGOs.

The ECJ's February ruling sealed approval for the bloc's strongest tool yet to prevent shared spending from benefiting those found bending liberal democratic laws.

The so-called "conditionality mechanism" could affect any part of the EU budget, which amounts to 1.8 trillion euros over 2021-27.

READ MORE ABOUT FIGHTER JETS FORCED TO MAKE A SUDDEN LANDING IN NORFOLK

Related articles

Thursday's resolution demands the European Commission take urgent action and immediately trigger the mechanism by notifying Poland and Hungary in writing.

A statement on the European Parliament's website says: "Parliament stresses that it is 'high time' for the Commission to fulfil its duties as the guardian of the EU Treaties and react to the ongoing violations of the principles of the rule of law in some EU member states, which pose a danger to the European Union’s financial interests."

It adds that the resolution text states: "Inaction towards oligarchic structures weakens the entire European Union... taxpayers’ money needs to be protected against those who undermine the EU’s values."

The statement continues: "MEPs consider the Commission’s response to the ECJ rulings of February 16, 2022 'inadequate' and underline that the Commission has a duty to implement EU legislation 'regardless of electoral timetables in the member states'."

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban faces a tight election on April 3. His Fidesz party has been campaigning on a platform of anti-immigrant nationalism and economic populism. It polled just two points ahead of the opposition in January.

DON'T MISS:

Have your say: Should Britain open door to ALL Ukrainians fleeing war? [POLL]

Royal Family LIVE: Kate will 'hide feelings' but won't forget [LATEST]

'Putin has lost touch!' 1.2m Russians sign anti-war petition [REVEALED]

Hungary's track record on democratic rights has already cost it access to seven billion euros in EU pandemic funds - about five percent of GDP.

Overall, it is eligible for at least 22.5 billion euros from the EU by 2027, while Poland is eligible for 75 billion euros.

The conditionality mechanism came into force on January 1, 2021, but the Commission has not applied it yet.

Poland and Hungary challenged the measure in the ECJ on March 11 last year but the Court dismissed both appeals on February 16.

Today's resolution comes as eastern Europe braces for a surge of refugees from shelled towns and cities in Ukraine as fighting intensifies.

Authorities and NGOs in Poland have voiced concerns that vulnerable refugees could fall victim to crime, including passport theft, attempts to force them into begging, stealing or prostitution.

Related articles

Meanwhile, a top Polish court ruled on Thursday that the European Court of Human Rights could not question the appointment of Polish judges in a verdict which could further strain Warsaw's relations with the EU.

Poland's conservative Law and Justice party is now calling for European solidarity and EU funds to help deal with the influx of refugees.

The country's Constitutional Tribunal said the Strasbourg-based ECHR had no right to question the appointment of Polish judges.

Judge Mariusz Muszynski, who was considered illegally appointed by the ECHR, said: "The ECHR does not have the right to modify the authentic text according to the judges' own vision."

Related articles All Creatures Great and Small: Helen Alderson radiant in wedding snaps Emmerdale heartache as history repeats itself in tragic romance twist? Elvis Presley Ann-Margret affair 'had to end' - 'Had to commit'

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220310ei3a00e4e


CE Noticias Financieras English
Amid war in Ukraine, European Parliament votes to sanction Poland and Hungary for being "right-wing"
582 字
2022 年 3 月 10 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The European Parliament voted Thursday morning to impose sanctions on Hungary and Poland, its two member states that have been helping Ukraine the most in the face of the Russian invasion and have received the most Ukrainian refugees since February 24.

The reason? The European Commission, which would come to be the Executive Power of the community bloc, claims that the Hungarian and Polish governments have passed "right-wing" laws that go against the Organic Charter of the European Union. These are laws against gender indoctrination in schools, laws to combat fake news and controls on illegal immigration.

This is why Ursula Von der Leyen, the President of the Commission, asked the legislative body to impose sanctions against these two countries, hindering their access to the Union's emergency budget, to which they have contributed for years but now will not be able to use to alleviate the recession caused by the pandemic.

Hungary had asked for the vote to be postponed for the time being, especially as the humanitarian crisis of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict spilled over into Hungarian and Polish territory. As of March 8, Poland had received a staggering 1,412,503 refugees, while Hungary ranked second with 214,160.

However, Parliament authorities said that Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán wanted it postponed so as not to give him a bad image ahead of the April 3 elections, and proceeded to vote anyway. The vote resulted in 478 yes votes against 155 no votes.

In a press release issued shortly after the vote, the European Parliament insisted that "it was high time for the European Commission to start taking action to protect the Union's budget from member states that ignore the rule of law," a dangerous assertion since the same argument has been used against Russia.

Lawmakers who voted in favor insisted that taxpayers' money must be protected "against those who undermine EU values."

In January 2021, the Parliament introduced the rule of law conditionality mechanism, which provides a tool by which the Commission could refuse to release Union funds to national governments that it considered to be in breach of the "rule of EU law."

In essence, it means that if conservative countries dissent from the progressive European mainstream on how to govern , the offending country could be denied access to funds to which they are entitled by virtue of their membership.

Both Hungary and Poland, under their respective conservative-led governments, challenged the regulation in the European Court of Justice (ECJ), an appeal that was dismissed by the European Union's highest court on February 16.

The parliamentary vote means that the European Union has diverted its attention and resources to sanctioning two of its own members at a time when the European continent in general is under attack, while Russia is trying to flex its muscles and assert its dominance in Ukraine.

It also means that the Hungarian and Polish governments must devote their own time and resources to dealing with Brussels' hostility, while containing the humanitarian crisis unfolding on the European Union's external border and taking in hundreds of thousands of refugees.

What the EU legislature has done is nothing less than a travesty against two countries that have done more than anyone else for the political-economic bloc, not only from African and Arab immigration in previous years but also from the Russian threat.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220310ei3a009oy


Gulyas: Govt to maintain fuels cap (Part 2, adds Hernadi)
654 字
2022 年 3 月 11 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Gergely Gulyas, the prime minister's chief of staff, said late on

Thursday that sanctions should not be introduced against Russian

energy.

In response to a question, he said such sanctions would harm

many European countries as badly or even more so than Russia. The

Hungarian and Dutch prime ministers and the German chancellor share

the view that "it is not Europe that we want to sanction".

He added that they trusted "common sense would prevail" at the

extraordinary summit in Paris because a significant number of

member states, or possibly the majority, shared the same position.

Hungarian oil and gas company MOL's president-CEO Zsolt Hernadi

said that the company was able to fulfil all fuel demands in

Hungary, refineries were working without interruption, and crude

oil supplies to Hungary were undisturbed.

"Abuses" of the cap must stop, he said. Petrol stations

experienced a drastic increase in demand in recent times, partly as

a result of the price cap but also because of consumers abusing the

system as wholesale buyers migrate to retail petrol stations, he

said. On an average day, petrol stations sell around 5 million

litres of fuel, while in recent days this has tripled to around 15

million litres, he added.

The refinery of Szazhalombatta is operating at full capacity

and MOL's reserves are sufficient, he said.

At the same time, he said triple demand "cannot be managed by

conventional means", not because there is not enough fuel but

because they are not logistically prepared. Moltrans and the

subcontractors operating fuel tank lorries are operating 24 hours a

day, with 280 drivers and 120 fuel tank lorries.

Still, Hungary's fuel supplies system has not been designed for

such high demand, he said. As a result, intervention is needed and

consumers must be directed back to the locations where they had

previously received fuel, Hernadi said. If this is not done, the

situation cannot be handled using conventional methods, he added.

The newly introduced measures are needed to guarantee

undisturbed fuel supply, he said. The primary task is to ensure

that vehicles exceeding 7.5 tonnes return to wholesale depots. At

regular petrol stations, they will only be allowed to buy fuel from

high-pressure filling points with 80 litres per minute filling

capacity, he added. The market price will be in effect at such

filling points, he said.

Filling stations will not be allowed to serve foreign vehicles

above 3.5 tonnes and Hungarian vehicles above 7.5 tonnes at regular

serving points, Hernadi said.

The government has decided to reduce excise tax by 20 forints,

greatly helping to restore imports and even out logistics burdens,

he said.

Hernadi added that while supply and demand in the fuel market

are uneven, "filling stations will apply minor restrictions for

various lengths of time". He added that this would be only a

temporary measure, and once all filling stations and reserve

capacities are restored, "everything will be back to normal".

At the same time, while "abuses" continue to grow or if there

is any other disturbance in European supplies, it is possible that

further measures will be needed to ensure that Hungarian private

individuals and businesses get undisturbed fuel supplies.

In response to a question, Gulyas said that vehicles will be

differentiated not only on the basis of nationality but also based

on the location of the owning company's registration. If an

Austrian business also has a Hungarian address, then it has

vehicles with a Hungarian licence plate, he added.

Hernadi said the problem was not that there was some "petrol

tourism" caused by private cars but that lorries were being

directed to Hungary to fill up. This must be prevented, he added.

The aim is to ensure that vehicles that formerly purchased fuel at

large depots should not pose a burden now on petrol stations, he

said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220311ei3b000b5


EU summit chaos: Five furious nations tear up VDL's Putin plan: 'We won't pay the price!'
Jacob Paul
744 字
2022 年 3 月 11 日 09:32 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
EU leaders are locked in a furious bust-up over energy as five members, including Germany, Austria and Hungary, tore up Ursula von der Leyen's plan to cut energy ties with Russia.

Finland and Bulgaria also opposed measures put forward by the European Commission. At a summit in Versailles, the bloc acknowledged the “tectonic shift in European history” caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine and vowed to “strengthen our bonds and deepen our partnership” with Kyiv. But they could not see eye-to-eye on a new energy strategy that was published on Tuesday.

Related articles

It detailed how the bloc can slash its dependence on gas by up to two-thirds in 2022, and completely rid itself of Russian supplies by the end of the decade.

But the bloc currently relies on Russia for 40 percent of its gas, some nations fear they will not be able to cope without Russian imports.

More than 25 percent of the EU's oil imports and 46 percent of its coal imports are also supplied by Russia.

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz appeared to hold one of the strongest stances against the plan, given that Germany received 55 percent of its gas from Russia, roughly 140 billion cubic meters in 2021.

Germany also imports 35 percent of its crude oil and 50 percent of its coal from Russia.

Even before the new energy strategy was published, Mr Scholz admitted that Germany would not be able to cope without Russian gas.

The country is still staunchly opposing any sanctions on Russian energy.

Vice-chancellor Robert Habeck warned this would pose a threat to “social peace” in the country and create a “real danger of energy undersupply in certain sectors”.

Instead, Mr Scholz made the case for more specifically targeted sanctions to pressure Russia and to avoid the impact it would have on EU citizens.

But Germany is not the only country that is unwilling to part ways with Russia.

READ MORE: Putin's nuclear threat to UK: Nine locations that could be obliterated

Hungary was unconvinced by the EU plot, with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán saying would oppose energy sanctions at the EU level.

Mr Orbán said on Tuesday after the strategy was published: "While we condemn Russia’s armed offensive and we also condemn the war, we will not allow Hungarian families to be made to pay the price.”

Austria was also staunchly opposed to the plan to sanction Russian energy, perhaps unsurprisingly as 80 percent of its gas is supplied by Russia.

Bulgaria, which gets 70 percent of its from Russia, is also worried about the impacts of energy sanctions on Russia, while Finland too appears unprepared to slash ties.

DON'T MISS

Xi Jinping on path to conflict with Putin as China could STARVE [REVEAL]

Chernobyl crisis: Lukashenko turns on Putin to secure nuclear plant [REPORT]

Brexit Britain goes ’full steam ahead’ with £6bn Five Eyes plan [INSIGHT]

Related articles

But internal division within the bloc was laid bare as other countries like Lativa, Poland and Lithuania urged that harsh sanctions on Russian energy should be slapped down immediately.

Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karin said: "I am convinced that we should make a decision to stop energy imports from Russia to get Putin to the negotiating table and end this war."

Poland has also appeared to be one of the biggest advocates of the strategy, arguing that the urgent need to stop Putin is worth the potential economic damage it may cause to the bloc.

A Polish diplomat said: "Billions are flowing to Russia via Nord Stream 1.

“These are billions for which today Ukrainians are paying with their own blood.”

Nord Stream 1 is a major pipeline linking Russia to Germany.

France has also said it is ready to impose energy sanctions on Russia.

Trade minister Franck Riester said: “France is ready to take additional decisions to put pressure on Russia if necessary”.

“We are not closing any doors, we simply have to look at what is effective in putting pressure on Russia and also taking into account the consequences that this may have on the EU and its various members.”

Related articles Germany RULES OUT Gas sanctions and Russian energy deemed 'essential' How to live longer: Scientists REVERSE ageing in elderly mice EU masterplan to CUT Russia's gas tipped to 'backfire'

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220311ei3b0048v


Hungary pleased that Russian gas and oil remain exempt from EU sanction list
463 字
2022 年 3 月 13 日 14:40 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2022. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban supported the EU’s plans to reduce dependency on Russian energy by 2027 at the two-day informal meeting in Brussels. EU leaders have abandoned plans to levy sanctions on Russian gas and oil, a relief for Hungary, which is dependent on Russian energy.

Before the meeting, Hungary's premier made it clear it would not support sanctions extended to the energy sector.

European Commission President has set a new target date for the EU to scale back the use of Russian energy. Speaking at the informal summit of heads of state and government in Versailles, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that by 2027 the EU is ready to provide energy security without Russian oil and gas.

To ensure that the EU is ready for the next winter season, gas storage facilities will be filled to 90% capacity by October.

The agreement in Versailles was good news for Hungary, which gets 85% of its gas needs from Russia, and nine out of 10 households use gas for cooking or heating.

"The most important issue for us has been settled favourably. There will be no sanctions covering oil and gas, which means that Hungary's energy supplies will be guaranteed in the coming period, Orban posted on Facebook after the marathon meeting.

Last September, Hungary struck two long-term contract deals with Russia’s major gas company Gazprom, which provides for the deliveries of 4.5 bcm meters of gas via pipelines in Serbia and Austria, bypassing Ukraine.

The agreement is for 15 years and may be reviewed after 10 years. In addition, Budapest wants to increase gas deliveries through Serbia by 1 bcm per year, and this issue was brought up by Orban during his visit to Moscow in early February but no agreement was reached.

The government’s position is that Hungary condemns Russia’s actions in Ukraine and provides assistance to refugees, but does not want to pay the price of the conflict in higher energy prices.

Keeping energy prices is low is a key promise in Viktor Orban's re-election campaign. He froze utility prices for retail uses in 2013, which has helped him win two supermajority victories since. Nevertheless, taxpayers pay the price of state intervention.

State-utility giant MVM is expected to incur a €1.6bn deficit for selling gas and electricity below market prices this year, Julia Kiraly, chief economic advisor o the opposition alliance, told bne IntelliNews.

"EU leaders listened to the French president and German chancellor who had talks with Putin. It cannot be ruled out that the conflict will drag on. We have decided that Europe will also join ceasefire talks", Orban said.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020220313ei3d000m9


HUNGARY: THE GOVERNMENT IMPOSES NEW MEASURES ON FUEL STATIONS
655 字
2022 年 3 月 14 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2022. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
Gergely Gulyas, the prime minister's chief of staff, said that sanctions should not be introduced against Russian energy. In response to a question, he said such sanctions would harm many European countries as badly or even more so than Russia.

The Hungarian and Dutch prime ministers and the German chancellor share the view that "it is not Europe that we want to sanction". He added that they trusted "common sense would prevail" at the extraordinary summit in Paris, because a significant number of member states, or possibly the majority, shared the same position.

Hungarian oil and gas company MOL's president-CEO Zsolt Hernadi said that the company was able to fulfill all fuel demands in Hungary, refineries were working without interruption and crude oil supplies to Hungary were undisturbed. "Abuses" of the cap must stop, he said. Petrol stations experienced a drastic increase in demand in recent times, partly as a result of the price cap, but also because of consumers abusing the system, as wholesale buyers migrated to retail petrol stations, he said. On an average day, petrol stations sell around 5 million liters of fuel, while in recent days this has tripled to around 15 million liters, he added. The refinery of Szazhalombatta is operating at full capacity and MOL's reserves are sufficient, he said. At the same time, he said triple demand "cannot be managed by conventional means", not because there was not enough fuel but because they were not logistically prepared.

Moltrans and the subcontractors operating fuel tank lorries are operating 24 hours a day, with 280 drivers and 120 fuel tank lorries.

Still, Hungary's fuel supplies system has not been designed for such a high demand, he said. As a result, intervention is needed and consumers must be directed back to the locations where they had previously received fuel, Hernadi said. If this is not done, the situation cannot be handled using conventional methods, he added. The newly introduced measures are needed to guarantee undisturbed fuel supply, he said. The primary task is to ensure that vehicles exceeding 7.5 tons return to wholesale depots. At regular petrol stations, they will only be allowed to buy fuel from high-pressure filling points with 80 liters per minute filling capacity, he added. The market price will be in effect at such filling points. Filling stations will not be allowed to service foreign vehicles above 3.5 tons and Hungarian vehicles above 7.5 tons at regular serving points, Hernadi said.

The government has decided to reduce excise tax by 20 forints, greatly helping to restore imports and even out logistics burdens, he said. Hernadi added that while supply and demand in the fuel market were uneven, "filling stations will apply minor restrictions for various lengths of time". He added that this would be only a temporary measure, and once all filling stations and reserve capacities were restored, "everything will be back to normal". At the same time, while "abuses" continue to grow or if there is any other disturbance in European supplies, it is possible that further measures will be needed to ensure that Hungarian private individuals and businesses get undisturbed fuel supplies. In response to a question, Gulyas said that vehicles would be differentiated not only on the basis of nationality but also based on the location of the owning company's registration. If an Austrian business also has a Hungarian address, then it has vehicles with a Hungarian license plate, he added. Hernadi said the problem was not that there was some "petrol tourism" caused by private cars, but that lorries were being directed to Hungary to fill up. This must be prevented, he added. The aim is to ensure that vehicles that formerly purchased fuel at large depots should not pose a burden now on petrol stations, he said. (Daily News Hungary/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020220314ei3e0001y


Russian invasion muddles Hungarian elections]]
Vlagyiszlav Makszimov
1029 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日 13:47 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Thousands of Hungarians were set to join various public events in Budapest on Tuesday (15 March) to mark the start of the 1848 uprising. This year’s celebration of the event – which ended with a brutal Tsarist putdown – takes on particular significance as Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine looms large over April’s general polls.

However, whether one attends the pro-government ‘Peace March’ or the opposition’s rally, reflects the deeply seated divisions in a society split by its opinion on Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, in power since 2010.

Almost two hundred years after Russian Tsar Nicholas I answered the call for help of emperor Franz Joseph and put down Hungarian revolutionaries demanding self-determination and political freedoms, Russia’s role is again set to be crucial for Budapest’s political future, albeit indirectly.

Orbán has come under scrutiny for his close ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin, as he went on a ‘peace mission’ to Moscow at the beginning of February.

In Moscow, Orbán offers 'Hungarian model', blasts idea of sanctions[https://www.euractiv.com/section/defence-and-security/news/in-moscow-orban-offers-hungarian-model-blasts-idea-of-sanctions/]

Amid simmering tensions between the West and Russia, the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán blasted the ineffectiveness of the EU’s punitive sanctions on Moscow and hailed his successful relations with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

In a sign of ever-growing links between Budapest and Moscow in the run-up to the war, Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó received[https://444.hu/2021/12/30/baratsagert-kituntetest-kapott-szijjarto-peter-az-orosz-kulugyminisztertol] the Russian Order of Friendship from Sergei Lavrov, his Russian counterpart last December.

“Hungary is the only country where from the very first hours of the war the pro-government media was totally spreading pro-Russian, pro-Kremlin propaganda and trying to antagonise people against Ukraine,” said Marius Dragomir, the director at the Centre for Media, Data and Society (CMDS) at the Central European University (CEU).

Even though Hungary has backed Western sanctions and has promised to let NATO troops[https://www.euractiv.com/section/defence-and-security/news/budapest-allows-nato-troop-deployment-in-hungary/] into the Western part of the country, it refused to let weapons shipments to Ukraine through its territory and blamed Brussels for sanctions’ fallout.

Hungarian foreign minister: Sberbank "first victim of the Brussels' sanctions"[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/hungarian-foreign-minister-sberbank-first-victim-of-the-brussels-sanctions/]

Hungarian foreign minister Péter Szijjártó called Sberbank a ‘victim’ of the EU’s sanction policy after the Russian bank said it was leaving Europe after bloc regulators announced their license would be revoked.

Pundits on government-tied networks are not the only ones expressing sympathetic statements towards Russia.

“It is not right to invade another country, it is not right for them to decide whether Ukraine can be a member of the EU or NATO, but is it serving peace or conflict to push the NATO front line into what was once Russia’s sphere of interest?”, Fidesz’s parliamentary speaker László Kövér told[https://telex.hu/valasztas-2022/2022/03/07/kover-laszlo-az-orosz-ukran-haborurol-mindegy-mi-lesz-a-vege-mi-mar-most-a-vesztesei-vagyunk] participants at a campaign event recently.

Orbán “is trying to play in both camps, he’s trying to play with the EU, where a lot of the money is still coming from and secondly, he doesn’t want to Putin”, Dragomir told EURACTIV.

“They bring the minimum when it comes to sanctions, pro-EU and NATO positions,” Péter Krekó, head of the Political Capital think-tank, said.

“The narrative in Hungary is something totally different, then they just would like to satisfy this anti-Western sentiment that they have helped to create.”

According to Krekó, the government’s main message now is that “the government wants peace, the opposition wants war”.

“In a country that is close to the crisis this kind of peace narrative approach into the election can be rather attractive,” he said.

Another issue for Krekó are “huge pro-Kremlin troll infrastructure” on Hungarian-language social media, the tool remaining in the hands of the Kremlin even as Moscow’s media like Russia Today and Sputnik was banned in the EU.

EU rolls out new sanctions banning RT and Sputnik[https://www.euractiv.com/section/digital/news/eu-rolls-out-new-sanctions-banning-rt-and-sputnik/]

The EU has imposed economic sanctions on Russian state media outlets RT and Sputnik for what officials describe as their “essential and instrumental” role in bringing aggression towards Ukraine and destabilising neighbouring countries. 

These trolls then punish those condemning Moscow’s actions but give positive feedback for pro-Russian content, which “creates the false perception that the majority of the Hungarian society is rallying around, not just the flag, but the Russian flag as well,” Krekó said.

The approach seems to be working, at least according to government-leaning Nézőpont[https://telex.hu/belfold/2022/03/15/nezopont-az-ellenzeki-szavazok-tobbsege-is-fidesz-gyozelemre-tippel], which recently found seven out of ten active voters expect Fidesz-KDNP to win the 3 April parliamentary elections.

Experts, however, point out it is too early to tell whether and how the government will manage to manoeuvre through the new geopolitical realities.

Krekó also pointed out that these narratives are reaching a population whose opinion on the Russia invasion is split.

According to a recent poll[https://hu.euronews.com/2022/03/02/mit-gondolnak-a-magyarok-tul-kozel-kerult-e-magyarorszag-oroszorszaghoz] commissioned by Euronews, Hungarians are divided on whether the conflict is a dispute between the two countries (51%), or amounts to Russian aggression against a sovereign state (49%). The majority, however, makes Russia responsible for starting the military conflict (58%) and thinks Hungary has become too close to Moscow (60%).

Consequently, Krekó said the government is now “sending every message possible, from the most hawkish, pro-Atlanticist messages to the most dovish, soft pro-Russian and ‘blame the West’ type of narratives and everyone can cherry pick what they want.”

For Krekó, while the united opposition[https://www.euractiv.com/section/elections/news/hungarian-opposition-forces-unite-to-beat-orban-in-2022/] running on a single platform is right to focus on blaming Fidesz for getting too close to Russia, it “missed the opportunity to build this whole election up as this big choice between the West and East, between autocracy and democracy.”

However, the opposition, which is running on a single platform led by joint prime ministerial candidate independent conservative small town mayor Péter Márki-Zay[https://www.euractiv.com/section/elections/interview/marki-zay-my-government-would-be-grand-prize-for-the-eu/], seems to have been catching on as posters[https://twitter.com/floragaramvolgy/status/1503672275622629377?s=24] asking Hungarians to choose between ‘Putin or Europe’ have appeared in the Hungarian capital.

In a homage to the dozen demands written by the leaders of the Hungarian Revolution of 1848, the opposition, joined by Donald Tusk, the Polish president of the European People’s Party, said[https://telex.hu/belfold/2022/03/15/haromkor-kezdodik-az-ellenzeki-nagygyules-donald-tusk-is-beszedet-mond] it will present its own 12 points at a rally on Tuesday afternoon.

[Edited by Benjamin Fox]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220315ei3f0005m


Swiss to boycott swim worlds if Russians and Belarusians attend
171 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日 19:21 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Berlin (dpa) - The Swiss swimming federation will boycott the world aquatics championships in Budapest this summer if athletes from Russia and Belarus are allowed to compete, it said Tuesday.

Currently world governing body FINA has said Russians and Belarusians will be allowed to swim only as neutrals as a sanction following the invasion of Ukraine.

But the Swiss have said they will only attend the June 18-July 3 worlds in the Hungarian capital if they are excluded altogether.

A statement said Swiss Aquatics was committed to "safe, fair and doping-free sport" and that in its view "under the current conditions neither the safety or fairness can be guaranteed for the participating athletes when athletes from Russia or Belarus take part."

FINA is one of the few sporting organizations not to have banned Russians and Belarusians entirely with tennis also rejecting the International Olympic Committee's recommendation of complete exclusion.

# Notebook

## Internet links - [Swiss aquatics statement](http://dpaq.de/iAgLL[http://dpaq.de/iAgLL])

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220315ei3f00bq9


Car-makers buckle as Kremlin’s war hits European industry]]
Aneta Zachová, Bogdan Neagu, Davide Basso, Fernando Heller, Krassen Nikolov, Michal Hudec, Sean Goulding Carroll, Simona Zecchi, Vlagyiszlav Makszimov
1158 字
2022 年 3 月 17 日 06:35 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Kremlin’s war on Ukraine is dealing another blow to Europe’s car manufacturers, already reeling from the pandemic and the global chip shortage.

Wire harnesses, about 5km of an organised set of wires, terminals and connectors that run throughout the entire vehicle and relay information and electric power are the main components coming from Ukraine.

With Ukraine representing the source country for 7%-11% of all imported wire harnesses into the EU, European car manufacturers already started looking for alternative sourcing before the war.

Yet, it is likely to take between three and six months before alternative sourcing coming from Northern Africa (Morocco and Tunisia) as well as the Western Balkans (Serbia and North Macedonia) is fully scaled up, the European Association of Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA) told EURACTIV.

There are seven European suppliers in Ukraine, and more than 30 European suppliers have facilities in Russia.

Amid the ongoing chip shortage which CLEPA say will get worse, other concerns are just exacerbating the situation.

“If the conflict is not resolved in the near future, we can expect the chip shortage to only get worse. Supply of critical raw materials and rising energy prices will also have a huge impact”, CLEPA representatives said.

Central Eastern Europe

In Hungary, local media reports[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/audi-in-hungary-braces-for-fallout-of-russian-war/] the Audi’s factory in Győr is expecting significant problems with the supply of spare parts.

Company representatives told EURACTIV they plan to hold a press conference on Thursday where “directors will provide further details on the current situation” but could not comment beforehand.

Suzuki’s plant in Esztergom has suspended car exports to Russia, a volume which accounts for roughly a tenth of its annual exports.

“We are trying to shift the affected orders to other markets to maintain our planned production volumes,” a spokesperson told EURACTIV.

They also said that while “still the global chip shortage is causing the main concerns”, whether Suzuki Hungary will be able to meet its shipping or other obligations will depend “on future parts supply situation” and it ”may be forced to reduce our production output” if they cannot get enough parts.

Meanwhile, Mercedes-Benz, which has a plant in Kecskemét, central Hungary, told EURACTIV that as a partial solution to safeguarding supply-chains, it said it would be “transferring production to other locations within the supplier network”.

It also said it was “adjusting” shift plans in Hungary but hoped the “high flexibility of the plants will also be used to avoid downtime as much as possible” and said the situation “is being reassessed on a daily basis.”

When asked if the brand, which recently launched[https://hiros.hu/hirek/bemutattak-a-kecskemeti-mercedes-gyarban-az-orszag-elso-tisztan-elektromos-autojat--videoval] its first electric automobile made fully in Hungary, was weary of lithium shortages important for batteries, afraid of failure on obligations and the industry’s resilience, a Mercedes-Benz spokesperson said: “please understand that we do not participate in speculation.”

In contrast, BMW, which hopes to finish its new e-car plant in Debrecen, Hungary, by 2025, said the conflict “[has] no consequences for the supply of this location.”

EURACTIV was not able to reach Opel Hungary.

The situation is not much better in neighbouring Slovakia.

Patrik Križanský from the Slovak electric vehicle association said, “Currently, basically all critical materials we need for the production of batteries are breaking records in terms of price. Lithium is up 100% in comparison with January, same with cobalt or nickel. Nickel is mostly imported from Russia, it holds 10% of world reserves, and we must accept that any sanction will affect the imports and the price.”

Russia is also a key supplier of palladium needed for gasoline engine catalytic converters.

In his view, however, this will not be enough to affect the long-term trends of vehicle electrification.

This website could not reach KIA or Stellantis, both with manufacturing plants in the country, but Volkswagen spokeswoman Lucia Kovarič Makayová said its plant in Slovakia might face “adjustment of production” as the brand has suppliers in Western Ukraine.

Peter Kremský, head of the Economy Committee of the National Council of the Slovak Republic said the war in Ukraine is bound to become a “big game-changer for the automotive industry”.

According to him, the combined effect of an increase in the price of commodities, decrease in investment and inflation could see some planned investments relocate elsewhere.

“Today, Europe has a problem to make any more sophisticated product without waiting for the supplies from outside of the union. It is a problem, and this is just another example,” said Pavol Prepiak, executive director of Slovak carmaker’s association.

“Europe must be able to be independent in this regard. We must relocate suppliers to more stable countries or to the union itself,” he added.

“It may take months to secure replacement supplies, till the companies find new importers or increase production capacity with other suppliers,” Bohuslav Čížek from the Confederation of Industry of the Czech Republic said.

In Czechia, where the automotive sector accounts for around 9% GDP, this is a serious risk for growth.

Roughly half of the Czech companies are directly affected by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, according to a survey organised by the Czech Association of the Automotive Industry (AutoSAP) among its members.

Further, more than a third of them are already experiencing shortages of raw materials, materials, or parts needed for production. More than a fifth has to deal with the logistical problems caused by the conflict.

Even Romania, which in 2002 exported more wiring harnesses than Ukraine, is experiencing problems elsewhere.

Dacia’s Powertrain and Chassis Plant in the country stopped production for several days as of Monday following a reduction in orders for gearboxes from Renault factories in Russia.

Rest of Europe under threat

However, the malaise has spread further West on the continent. The Renault factory in Cléon, France, went into short-time working due to a lack of components announced on Tuesday, which the unions attribute directly to the war in Ukraine.

As this factory produces motors, they expect to impact other factories in the country.

In Italy, Stellantis’s plant in Melfi (Potenza) announced on Tuesday (15 March) the production increase planned by the company is no longer possible after a meeting between the management and the unions. Work shifts will drop from 17 to 15 from 4 April, resulting in a provisional daily redundancy of 1,500 units.

Moreover, nearly 90% of all Spanish car industry “clusters” are already suffering a significant impact from the Ukraine war, according to a survey[https://avia.com.es/los-clusteres-de-automocion-espanoles-forman-un-grupo-de-trabajo-para-asesorar-a-las-empresas-ubicadas-en-la-zona-de-guerra/] carried out among 137 Spanish companies in the automobile sector published last Wednesday (9 March), EURACTIV’s partner EFE reported.

Some have expressed great concerns that workers from Eastern European countries in Spanish car factories have decided to leave their jobs and join the fight to repel the Russian invasion.

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220317ei3h0002y


Hungary This Week - March 18, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 3 月 18 日, 18840 字, (英文)
War in Ukraine casts shadow on recovery of Hungary’s tourism sectorGuest nights at commercial accommodations in Hungary jumped 4.5-fold to 951,000 in January, albeit from a low base impacted by travel restrictions in the base period, the ...

CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungary opens a crack in the EU and will block any sanction that would turn off the tap of Russian energy
370 字
2022 年 3 月 21 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The Hungarian government said Monday that it will block any European sanctions against Russia that include an energy embargo, claiming that this measure is a red line for Budapest.

This has been expressed by Foreign Minister Peter Szijjártó, in statements to the Hungarian press in Brussels before participating in the EU Foreign Affairs Council. "We will not support sanctions that endanger the security of Hungary's energy supply," he said, according to the Hungarian public broadcaster MTVA.

After the option of applying an embargo on Russian energy supplies to Europe has gained weight in recent hours, coinciding with the upcoming visit of U.S. President Joe Biden for the NATO leaders' meeting and his participation in the European Council on Thursday, Szijjártó has advanced that Hungary will oppose this option, which requires the unanimity of the EU-27.

"European unity will certainly not be possible," the minister has assured, on any measure that would mean restricting or ceasing energy supplies to Russia. This clashes with the position of several member states that are betting on going a step further in the response to Moscow and cutting off the financing channels of the Russian military offensive against Ukraine.

This very Monday, the EU High Representative for Foreign Policy, Josep Borrell, has opened the door to redouble sanctions against Moscow, including an embargo on Russian oil, an option that countries such as Lithuania, Ireland or Slovakia have publicly seconded. "We will continue to see what kind of sanctions we can think of, what else can be done, especially energy-related measures," Borrell stressed before the meeting.

The EU-27 are already working on a fifth package of sanctions that would close the loopholes of previous rounds and extend restrictions already in place, such as disconnecting more Russian banks from the SWIFT transfer connection system.

However, given the brutality of the Russian army against cities such as Mariupol and the fear that it may use chemical weapons, the option of an embargo on Russian oil, a measure already adopted by the United States, is still in the air.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220321ei3l006zg


CE Noticias Financieras English
Russia-Ukraine war: Germany, Italy and Hungary resist Europe to stop buying Russian hydrocarbons
719 字
2022 年 3 月 21 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Europe pays Russia every day, for gas and oil imports, more than 800 million euros

, almost 300 billion euros a year. Enough to finance a few wars.The European sanctions against Moscow, especially the economic ones, such as the freezing of more than 300 billion euros of assets of its Central Bank, are damaging the Russian economy, but it does not seem that the damage is enough

to make President Vladimir Putin change his attitude.The Europeans are left with a sanction that would bring Russia to its knees economically: to apply a practically total trade blockade

that would include a ban on importing Russian gas, oil and coal into Europe.The economic blow to Moscow would be enormous, but it would also be a considerable blow to some European countries

, especially those further east and those most dependent on Russian gas to run their industry.The meeting of European foreign ministers on Monday in Brussels, preparatory to the summit of heads of state and government on Thursday and Friday (which will be attended by the American Joe Biden, visiting the Belgian capital for the NATO summit on the same Thursday), focused basically on the next round of sanctions,

already the fifth, and on whether the veto on Russian hydrocarbons will be included in it.TheEuropean Chancellor, the Spanish-Argentinean Josep Borrell, asked the chancellors to impose sanctions on the energy sector. The Czech, Slovak, Slovenian and Irish chancellors joined the request that the Polish, Estonian, Latvian and Lithuanian have been making for days: we must stop buying Russian gas and oil

because if we do not do so Europe is financing Putin's war.The foreign ministers did not reach an agreement. While eight countries are pushing for this veto to be activated and a majority of governments would follow this plan without much fuss, the German, Italian and Hungarian executives are refusing

. German Minister Annalena Baerbock said at the start of the meeting that Berlin will eliminate its dependence on Russian hydrocarbons "gradually and at full speed".If that means anything. Germany is refusing because of the impact it would have on its industry, something Ukrainian President Volodimir Zelenski chided the Bundestag for in his speech to German MPs last week.

Italy is more discreet but is also against this trade ban

on Russian hydrocarbons. The Italian industry is one of the most well-connected with Moscow in Europe. The Hungarian veto is more political, because of the good relations between Prime Minister Viktor Orban and the Russian president.Hungary will not support sanctioning Russian hydrocarbon exports because it considers that it would jeopardize its energy security

. Peter Szijjártó, Hungarian Chancellor, said Monday in Brussels, "We do not support sanctions that would endanger Hungary's energy security." Hungary depends on its neighbors.The problemsIfUkraine, Poland, Slovakia, Bulgaria...decide to turn off the taps, Russian oil and gas will not reach it

.Economic institutes and think tanks in Brussels and other capitals have already calculated the economic cost to Europe if it were to make such a decision. They believe that turning off the oil tap will make it more expensive but can be replaced by imports from other suppliers. Stopping buying Russian gas immediately would be more difficult. Nearly 40% of the natural gas consumed in Europe is purchased from Russia.

A part could be replaced by more imports from Algeria (through Spain and Italy) and from Norway. Another part could come by increasing the number of LNG tankers bringing liquefied gas to European ports, mainly from the United States, Qatar and Nigeria, for regasification in Europe.

That idea has limitations until more regasification plants are built

because right now more than a third of the total number of such plants in Europe are in Spain and there are not enough gas pipelines to France to greatly increase gas transport. The final solution would be to reduce demand for natural gas by 10% to 15%.The meeting of chancellors also served for the 27 to approve the doubling, from 500 to 1,000 million, of the Community budget to pay for arms and send them to Ukraine. Germany on its own will put in another 1 billion.

PBAlso see

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220321ei3l00930


News
NATO deploys more troops to eastern European allies and vows to protect Ukraine 'against chemical and nuclear threats' - and says China is providing political support to Russia with 'blatant lies'
Rachael Bunyan For Mailonline
1546 字
2022 年 3 月 23 日 15:52 GMT
Mail Online
DAMONL
英文
Copyright 2022
* NATO leaders will agree at Thursday's summit in Brussels on deploying troops to Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia

* NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg also vowed to provide extra support for Ukraine to deal with chemical and nuclear threats as it battles Russia's invading forces

* Vladimir Putin has been accused of using banned white phosphorus weapons in Ukraine amid fears he may be on the verge of resorting to chemical warfare

NATO leaders are set to agree on deploying four new battle groups to the alliance's eastern flank to bolster their defence in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Leaders will agree at Thursday's summit in Brussels on deploying troops to Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, NATO's secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said.

'I expect leaders will agree to strengthen NATO's posture in all domains, with major increases in the eastern part of the alliance on land, in the air and at sea,' Stoltenberg said ahead of the urgent NATO summit on the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The NATO chief also vowed to provide extra support for Ukraine to deal with chemical and nuclear threats as it battles Russia's invading forces.

'Tomorrow, I expect allies will agree to provide additional support, including cybersecurity assistance as well as equipment to help Ukraine protect against chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats,' Stoltenberg said.

Vladimir Putin has been accused of using banned white phosphorus weapons in Ukraine amid fears he may be on the verge of resorting to chemical warfare.

Stoltenberg also accused China of giving political backing to Russia with 'blatant lies' as it attacks Ukraine, and warned Beijing against providing material support to Moscow's war effort.

'China has provided Russia with political support, including by spreading blatant lies and misinformation, and allies are concerned that China could provide material support for the Russian invasion,' the NATO chief said.

'I expect leaders will call on China to live up to its responsibilities as a member of the UN Security Council, refrain from supporting Russia's war effort, and join the rest of the world in calling for an immediate, peaceful end to this war.'

China, which has not condemned Russia's invasion and criticised Western sanctions, defended Moscow on Wednesday, calling Russia an 'important member' of the G20 after Washington raised the prospect of excluding Moscow from the group.

US President Joe Biden last week warned his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping there would be 'consequences' if Beijing provides support to Russia during its invasion of Ukraine.

Jinping and Putin earlier this year declared a relationship of 'no limits' following a visit by the Russian President to Beijing for the Winter Olympics.

Stoltenberg meanwhile said that the new NATO battle groups being deployed to Bulgaria, Slovakia, Romania and Hungary, as well as the existing forces in the Baltic countries and Poland, means NATO will have eight multinational groups along the alliance's eastern flank.

Stoltenberg said that the Ukraine crisis has shown that NATO must reset its deterrence and defence posture for the longer term.

Russia meanwhile refuses to rule out using nuclear weapons if it faces an 'existential threat', Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told CNN.

Pentagon spokesman John Kirby slammed Moscow's 'dangerous' rhetoric, and Biden warned en route to Europe that Russia may also use chemical weapons in Ukraine as its ground offensive stalls.

'Our armed forces and citizens are holding out with superhuman courage,' Andriy Yermak, a top advisor to Zelensky, said as Biden travelled to the summits of NATO, the G7 and European Union in Brussels.

'But we cannot win a war without offensive weapons, without medium-range missiles that can be a means of deterrence,' Yermak said.

NATO warned on Wednesday against Russia's war in Ukraine sliding into a nuclear confrontation between Moscow and the West.

'Russia should stop this dangerous irresponsible nuclear rhetoric,' Stoltenberg said. 'But let there be no doubt about our readiness to protect and defend allies against any threat anytime.'

'Russia must understand that it can never win a nuclear war,' he said on the eve of a summit of the Western military alliance's national leaders in Brussels. 'NATO is not part of the conflict... it provides support to Ukraine but isn't part of the conflict.'

'NATO will not send the troops into Ukraine... It is extremely important to provide support to Ukraine and we are stepping up. But at the same time it is also extremely important to prevent this conflict becoming a full-fledged war between NATO and Russia.

The Ukrainian authorities have accused Putin of using white phosphorus munitions on the city of Kramatorsk.

While strictly not considered a chemical weapon, the substance burns fiercely and can cause horrendous injuries, and its use on civilians constitutes a war crime.

Human Rights Watch says the incendiary weapons are 'among the cruellest' in modern warfare as they cause 'lifelong human suffering'.

The deputy head of Kyiv police, Oleksiy Biloshytskiy, said on Facebook: 'Another use of phosphorus ammunitions in Kramatorsk.'

He shared a video of a substance burning like the chemical which Russian troops have already been accused of using in the cities of Lutsk and Popasna.

'What we're seeing is a near desperate attempt by the Russians to gain some momentum and try to turn the course of this in their favour,' a defence official said.

Stoltenberg also today said Belarus has been 'complicit' in Russia's invasion of Ukraine even before it was launched, allowing its territory to be used for massing troops, and it continues to enable the invasion.

He told a news conference on the eve of a NATO summit in Brussels that Belarus has also allowed its military airfields to be used by Russian forces to launch attacks on Ukrainian cities and civilians.

Meanwhile, Ukraine appealed for more Western military help ahead of a NATO summit, as it warned that almost 100,000 people are trapped by Russian bombardment and facing starvation in the ruins of the besieged port of Mariupol.

Tens of thousands of residents have already fled the southern city, bringing harrowing testimony of a 'freezing hellscape riddled with dead bodies and destroyed buildings', according to Human Rights Watch.

As the UN demanded Russia end its 'unwinnable' war, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told the Japanese parliament that the UN Security Council was dysfunctional and in need of reform, after Russia wielded its veto to nix condemnation of its invasion.

Nearly a month on, peace talks have agreed on daily humanitarian corridors for refugees, and Ukraine says it is willing to countenance some Russian demands subject to a national referendum.

But it has refused to bow to Russian pressure to disarm and renounce all Western alliances, and Zelensky was also due Thursday to address a NATO meeting in Brussels joined by US President Joe Biden.

Ukraine's lead negotiator Mykhaylo Podolyak said the peace talks were encountering 'significant difficulties', after Moscow accused the United States of undermining the process.

Western leaders have grown increasingly concerned that Russian President Vladimir Putin will use chemical weapons or otherwise escalate tactics four weeks into an invasion where his troops have failed to capture a single major Ukrainian city.

Leaving the White House on Wednesday, Biden said Russia's use of chemical weapons in Ukraine is a risk.

'I think it's a real threat,' he said.

Biden and his team have been developing plans to impose sanctions on members of the Duma, Russia's parliament, in retaliation for Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to two sources familiar with the situation. The sanctions are expected to be announced on Thursday.

A White House spokesperson said 'no final decisions have been made about who we will sanction and how many we will sanction.'

'We will have additional sanctions measures to announce that will rolled out in conjunction with our allies on Thursday when the president has the opportunity to speak with them,' the official said.

On Thursday, Biden will attend an emergency NATO summit, meet with G7 leaders and address the 27 leaders of the European Union at a session of the European Council, White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan told reporters on Tuesday.

He said Biden will coordinate on the next phase of military assistance to Ukraine.

In addition to imposing fresh sanctions on Russia, Biden will work with U.S. allies to tighten existing sanctions to 'crack down on evasion and to ensure robust enforcement,' Sullivan said.

In recent days, Russia and Western governments have traded accusations over the possibility of a chemical weapons attack in Ukraine without producing evidence to back their concerns.

Biden has vowed not to engage in direct conflict with Russia but has pledged the United States will defend all NATO territory. He has ordered more U.S. troops to NATO's eastern flank to reassure edgy allies.

During his visit to Poland, a NATO member, Biden will visit U.S. troops and meet with experts involved in the humanitarian response to helping hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who have fled their country and those who remain

DMG Media Limited

文件 DAMONL0020220323ei3n006et


Magyarország Miniszterelnoke - Prime Minister Viktor Orbán: Hungary will continue to receive gas and oil
Magyarország Miniszterelnoke published this content on 25 Mar 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 25 Mar 2022 10:31:12 UTC.
373 字
2022 年 3 月 25 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/FE44308800EEAED495FE606E591EAC69F3BA9051]

Prime Minister Viktor Orbán: Hungary will continue to receive gas and oil

In Brussels, common sense prevailed, Hungary will continue to receive gas and oil, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in a video posted on his Facebook account on Friday.

The Prime Minister highlighted that in Brussels, late Thursday night after the NATO summit, they continued work with the meeting of the European Union's heads of state and government; "here, too, the Ukraine-Russia war was on the agenda".

He said a few countries again raised the issue that the sanctions should be extended to the energy sector, to coal, gas and oil; "in fact, the Ukrainian President himself - who attended the meeting via a video link - asked this of us".

He stressed that "we considered his request, and then rejected it," given the fact that 85 per cent of gas and more than 60 per cent of oil comes to Hungary from Russia. This sanction would mean that "the Hungarian economy would within seconds slow down, and then come to a halt," he explained.

The Prime Minister pointed out that "this is unacceptable, this is contrary to the Hungarian people's best interests," and would in fact mean that we would be made to pay the price of the war. "Luckily, we're not the only ones in these shoes, some other countries argued similarly, and so common sense prevailed, and Hungary will continue to receive gas and oil," he stated.

Mr Orbán said on Friday morning they will continue the work, they will discuss the issue of extra high energy prices, and will discuss what should be done in Brussels in order for energy prices to decrease.

* Original Link[https://miniszterelnok.hu/prime-minister-viktor-orban-hungary-will-continue-to-receive-gas-and-oil/]

Disclaimer

Prime Minister of Hungary published this content on 25 March 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 25 March 2022 10:33:46 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020220325ei3p0073l


Polish president snubs Orban over Russian ties
490 字
2022 年 3 月 28 日 05:56 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Polish President Andrzej Duda criticised the Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban for his pro-Russia policy in an interview aired on March 26 shortly after the end of the visit by US President Joe Biden to Poland.

The snub came as the European Union leaders are struggling to agree on further, harsher, sanctions on Russia for its attack on Ukraine, now in its fifth week. The main flashpoint remains energy, with Hungary one of the countries opposing a swift cut-off of Russian energy imports. Poland declares it is ready to do so.

“In the face of Russian aggression in Ukraine, in the face of the death of thousands of people in Ukraine … in the face of the bombing of housing estates …and criminal activities in the sense of international law, I find [Hungary’s] attitude difficult to understand,” Duda told the US-owned broadcaster TVN24 in a 30-minute long interview.

“I find it difficult to understand also because this policy will turn out costly for Hungary. Very costly,” Duda said.

One of the costs might be an opening of a huge rift between Warsaw and Budapest, so far strong allies in their quest against what they describe as the EU’s usurping too much power over member states. Both Poland and Hungary are closely watched by Brussels for cracking down on civil liberties and rule of law.

But while the war in Ukraine has made Poland turn to the EU for closer cooperation, Hungary has been isolated. Hungary, alongside Germany, is the EU member state most adamantly against using Russia’s energy exports to the bloc as a decisive weapon to damage the Russian economy and finances.

Russia is Hungary’s key supplier of gas, while the Russian nuclear power agency Rosatom is behind the multi-billion dollar deal to expand Hungary’s Paks power plant.

Cheap energy helped Orban win the 2014 and 2018 elections. The PM is now looking to secure a third term in office in the vote this week on April 3.

Duda acknowledged the factual basis of Hungary’s dependence on Russia for energy.

“Orban is in a difficult situation,” Duda said. “It wasn’t him who made Hungary nearly totally dependent on Russia.”

But the Polish president swiped at Orban for his blocking of arms supplies to Ukraine or not supplying anything directly – which some other countries relying on Russian energy imports, like Germany, have done.

Orban has said a number of times that agreeing to sanction Russian energy imports and allowing arms shipments to Ukraine is against Hungary’s interests.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky asked Orban directly in his recent speech to the EU leaders to pick sides.

“You hesitate whether to impose sanctions or not? And you hesitate whether to let weapons through or not? And you hesitate whether to trade with Russia or not? It’s time to decide already,” Zelensky said.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220328ei3s0012y


Russia ties spark fury in TWO EU states as Hungary chooses 'cheap oil over Ukraine blood'
Antony Ashkenaz
591 字
2022 年 3 月 29 日 07:40 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
THE EUROPEAN Union is in chaos as member nations have expressed their fury at Hungary's inaction against Russia.

The Defence Ministers of Poland and Slovakia have pulled out of an EU meeting over Hungary’s lukewarm response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The upcoming Visegrad 4 meeting, which was scheduled to take place on March 30 and 31, appears to be cancelled, according to preliminary information from the Slovak defence ministry.

Related articles

The Visegrad 4 is an alliance consisting of Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, all of whom are EU and NATO members.

According to Gazeta Wyborcza, a leading local newspaper in Poland, Polish Defence Minister Mariusz Błaszczak decided to skip the meeting over Budapest’s reluctance to stand against Moscow.

Meanwhile, Czech Defence Minister Jana Černochová also suspended her participation on Friday as EU leaders meet in Brussels to discuss the sanctions on Russia.

Ms Černochová wrote on her Twitter: “I have always supported the V4 and I am very sorry that cheap Russian oil is now more important to Hungarian politicians than Ukrainian blood.”

With half the member states skipping the Visegrad 4, the Slovak Defence Ministry told Euractiv that the summit will likely be cancelled.

Hungary’s Prime Minister is widely considered to be an ally of Vladimir Putin and is the only one of Ukraine’s neighbours to not provide military support.

Hungary is heavily reliant on Russian gas, with AP reporting Mr Orban saying that 85 percent of Hungary’s gas and more than 60 percent of its oil comes from Russia.

It is important to note that Hungary has voted in favour of every sanction the EU has imposed against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.

However, its heavy energy dependency on Russia means that it refused to ban Russian oil imports.

READ MORE: ‘We won’t destroy ourselves’ Hungary’s Orban hits back at Zelensky

On Sunday, Mr Orbán told public radio that energy sanctions on Russia would lead to “a complete shutdown of the Hungarian economy”.

Just before the invasion of Ukraine, he also called for an expansion of natural gas shipments from Russia.

With the energy crisis biting hard, Mr Orban asked Putin for an extension of Hungary’s 15-year gas contract with Russian energy company Gazprom to ensure larger-volume deliveries.

Last week, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto warned that his country would reject proposals to impose a no-fly zone, citing a risk to energy supplies.

DON'T MISS:

Morocco offers UK 'abundant resources' to slash Russian ties [SPOTLIGHT]

Solar storm warning: NASA predicts direct Earth hit from 'fast' impact [REVEAL]

Macron humiliated by Germany for being ‘dishonest’ over Russia crisis [INSIGHT]

He said: “We have entered a new dimension of risk of war in Ukraine, which is why we need to take tougher and clearer steps to ensure peace and security in Hungary, which is in our national interest.

“An agreement regarding possible EU sanctions against Russian energy supplies or their interruption will most likely not be reached.

"We will not support sanctions that could pose a risk to energy supplies for Hungary.

"Energy supply is not a philosophical or ideological issue, but a physical, mathematical one."

Related articles Putin humiliated as China deal 'won't make up' for EU loss India to step in and BACK Russia after Biden's Putin comment Russia to be 'big losers' after threatening UK project – NASA steps in

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220329ei3t001pb


CE Noticias Financieras English
Naka-Report califican al Candidatos
634 字
2022 年 3 月 29 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Hikaru Nakamura of the United States and Richard Rapport of Hungary qualify for the Candidates Tournament for the world chess crown. The triumph of Naka, with the black pieces, and the defeat of his compatriot Levon Aronian against the Russian Grigory Oparin, who played the white pieces, broke the tension and froze the competition of the Grand Prix 3, FIDE, which takes place in Berlin. None of the participating grandmasters can arithmetically reach the scores that Naka (13, plus a minimum of 7 if he were to lose in the semifinals) and Rapport (20), achieved in their two opportunities; the latter in Berlin and Belgrade; and the former in his two appearances in Berlin.

The American and Hungarian join the octagonal Candidates Tournament, under the double round robin system, which will be held in the elegant and historic Palacio de Santoña, built in 1730, in the center of Madrid. They will face Ian Nepomniachtchi, Russia; Fabiano Caruana, USA; Alireza Firouzja, France; Jan-Krzysztof Duda, Poland; and Teimour Radjábov, from Azerbaijan. There is a vacant place, after the FIDE sanction to the Russian-Ukrainian Serguey Karjakin. There are two prospects: the entry of the Chinese Liren Ding -who did not receive authorization from the European Union to enter Belgrade-, due to higher rating, or the winner or second place (in case Nakamura wins) of the Grand Prix 3 final.

Liren Ding is ranked third in the world with 2,799. In the last three days she has just won three masterful games at the Hangzhou Grandmaster Tournament, with remarkable technique, board vision and fascinating depth of calculation.

German prodigy Vincent Keymer defeated Leinier Dominguez and will face Azerbaijan's Shakhriyar Mamedyanrov for a place in the semifinals. The winner will face Nakamura. An uninvited player joins the semifinals, the 21-year-old Iranian Amin Tabatabaei, who yesterday with Black swept Anish Giri with a powerful offensive on the kingside, while with the sequence of draws in group C, the Americans Sam Shankland and Wesley So, will play in a two-game match of rapid chess for a place in the semifinals. Iranian Tabatabaei is a strong competitor who in the last World Cup in Sochi in July 2021 defeated Yu, Yangyi, Pentala Harikrishna and Haik Martyrosian.

Results R-6: Group A) Oparin 1-0 Aronian and Esipenko 0-1 Nakamura.

Group B) Mamedyarov ½ Dúbov and Keymer 1-0 Leinier.

Group C) Wesley So ½ Predke and Shankland ½ Vachier.

Group D) Yu, Yangyi ½ Vitiugov and Giri 0-1 Tatatabaei.

Qualification: G-A: 1. Nakamura 4; 2. Oparin 3 ½; 3. Aronian 3; 4. Esipenko 1 ½.

Group B) 1. Keymer 3 ½; 2. Shaky 3 ½; 3. Leinier 3; 4. Dúbov 2.

Group C) 1. Shankland 3 ½; 2. Wesley So 3 ½; 3. Predke 2 ½; 4. Vachier-Lagrave 2 ½;

Group D) 1. Tabatabaei 3 ½; 2. Vitiugov 3; 3. Yu, Yangyi 3; 4. Anish Giri, 2 ½.

White: Anish Giri, Netherlands, 2,771. Black: Amin Tabatyabaei, Iran, 2,623. Giuoco Piano Opening, C50. R-6, Grand Prix 3 FIDE, Berlin, 28-03-2022.

1.e4 e5 2.Nf3 Nc6 3.Bc4 Nf6 4.d3 Bc5 5.0-0 0-0 6.Nbd2 d6 7.c3 a6 8.b4 Aa7 9.a4 Ce7 10.Te1 Ng6 11.d4 Te8 12.h3 h6 13.Ad3 c6 14.Ta3 Dc7 15.Bb2 Ad7 16.Dc2 Tad8 17.Taa1 Ch5 18.Bf1 Chf4 19.h4 d5 20.g3 Ch3+ 21.Rg2 exd4 22.cxd4 Cgf4+ 23.gxf4 Dxf4 24.e5 Bf5 25.Dc3 Te6 26.De3 Tg6+ 27.Rh1 Dg4 28.Ta3 f6 29.exf6 gxf6 30.h5 Tg7 0-1.

Copyright law strictly prohibits the complete or partial copying of Excélsior materials without prior written permission and without including a link to the original text.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220329ei3t003xp


European Elections
Alignment or isolation: Hungary’s foreign policy after its parliamentary election
Zsuzsanna Végh
971 字
2022 年 3 月 31 日
European Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR) - Reports
ECFRR
英文
© Copy of this publication is held by the European Council on Foreign Relations
Hungary’s parliamentary election could be a turning point in its foreign policy. An opposition win could mean realignment with the EU, but polls suggest that it might be a tight race.

Cover image: European Parliament[https://ecfr.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/17677974919_d05e41c743_o-1024x684.jpg]

On 3 April, Hungary will hold a parliamentary election. International affairs are rarely a matter of public debate in the country, let alone a hot campaign topic. But Russian President Vladimir Putin’s war on Ukraine has pushed Hungary’s foreign policy orientation to the top of its domestic agenda.

Prime Minister Viktor Orban responded to Putin’s invasion by attempting to balance[https://ecfr.eu/article/mixmaster-orban-why-hungarys-prime-minister-keeps-changing-his-tune/] Hungary’s relations with Russia and the West. Opposition candidate Peter Marki-Zay’s six-party coalition rejects this strategy – as well as the Fidesz-led government’s broader foreign policy. In turn, the opposition has framed the upcoming election as a choice for Hungarians between Russia and the West.

Internationally, the Orban government’s half-hearted support for EU sanctions on Russia has exacerbated concerns about Budapest’s reliability, further diminishing trust in the country among Western states. Therefore, the election will have significant international implications. Recent polls[https://telex.hu/valasztas-2022/2022/03/29/zavecz-kozvelemenykutatas-utolso-meres] suggest that it might be a tight race. A coalition of left-wing, centrist, and green parties has its best chance of winning since 2010.

An opposition victory would mean a break with the foreign policy of the past decade – and the end of the Orban government’s flagship project, the ‘eastern opening’ policy. Through this initiative, Hungary built close and uncritical relationships with authoritarian states such as China and Russia, in the hope of economic returns. But these new partnerships have discomfited Hungary’s Western allies. The opposition has promised that, if it wins the election, it will repair Hungary’s international image and play a constructive role in the European Union and the transatlantic community.

There is indeed room for improvement. Due to Orban’s strong ties with Moscow, many Europeans view his government as the Kremlin’s Trojan horse in the EU. In 2014, for example, the Orban government granted Russia’s state atomic energy corporation, Rosatom, a contract without tender to expand the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The government recently invited the Russian-led International Investment Bank (IIB) to set up its headquarters in Budapest, providing diplomatic immunity to its staff.

In an abandonment of values-based foreign policy, the Orban government regularly blocks or waters down common EU positions that condemn violations of human rights and international norms – especially those regarding China. The opposition has pledged to break with this practice. It aims to readjust Budapest’s relations with both Beijing and Moscow in a way that promotes mutually beneficial economic cooperation without indulging in political gestures towards China and Russia at the expense of EU unity.

In doing so, the coalition would drop controversial plans for a Budapest campus of China’s Fudan University. It would also review Chinese contracts for the Budapest-Belgrade railway project. However, the opposition has not yet scrutinised Huawei’s strong presence in Hungary, which includes a major role in the country’s 5G rollout and other projects. On Russia, a Marki-Zay government would leave the IIB and expel it from Hungary, revise the Paks deal, cease cooperation with Rosatom, and support Ukraine’s Euro-Atlantic orientation – including the country’s cooperation with NATO.

A Marki-Zay government would maintain Hungary’s traditional support for EU enlargement in the Western Balkans. But it would require candidate states to meet the union’s democratic standards. In other words, the opposition plans to uphold the Copenhagen criteria. This seems especially important given Hungary’s experience of democratic backsliding under Orban.

Additionally, the opposition has signalled its intention to break with the Orban government by supporting a more assertive EU foreign and security policy. For example, the coalition’s manifesto indicates that it supports qualified majority voting in this area. Similarly, the manifesto expresses general support for the development of a European army with a joint command – even if this is not an urgent priority.

However, a Marki-Zay government would take a quicker step to recommit to the EU by joining the European Public Prosecutor’s Office. This would be part of the first stage of an effort to reverse the democratic backsliding and sanction the corruption that have made Hungary more vulnerable to Russian and Chinese influence, and that have prompted the country’s clashes with EU institutions over the rule of law.

Although the opposition’s prospects are better than they have been for some time, there is a good chance that Orban’s Fidesz will retain power for a fourth consecutive term. In this case, there is unlikely to be an overhaul of Hungary’s foreign policy – even in light of Russia’s aggression against Ukraine. The Orban government sees such an overhaul as politically costly and at odds with its economic interests and regime security.

Instead, Orban would likely continue his balancing act. This would involve offering the bare minimum to Hungary’s Western allies – which would be insufficient to regain their trust. Given the effects of the war in Ukraine, Orban’s equivocation would continue to damage Hungary’s relationships with regional partners such as Poland. Indeed, signs of tension between Warsaw and Budapest are already apparent. At the same time, intensifying EU sanctions on Russia would make it increasingly difficult for a Fidesz-led government to maintain friendly ties with Moscow – as shown by the Kremlin’s recent inclusion of Hungary on its list of “unfriendly” countries, in retaliation for EU sanctions. All in all, a continuation of Fidesz’s current foreign policy would leave Hungary ever more isolated.

Zsuzsanna Vegh is an associate researcher at the European Council on Foreign Relations.

ECFR (European Council on Foreign Relations)

文件 ECFRR00020220331ei3v00001


Hungary This Week - April 1, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 4 月 1 日, 14416 字, (英文)
Hungarian factory gate prices soar 22.4% y/yIndustrial producer prices rose 22.4% y/y in February, edging up from a 22.3% increase in the previous month, data released by the Central Statistics Office (KSH) on March 31 show.

Hungary's Orban claims he can keep nation out of Ukraine war
By JUSTIN SPIKE
Associated Press
551 字
2022 年 4 月 1 日 16:31 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
SZEKESFEHERVAR, Hungary (AP) — Hungary's nationalist prime minister on Friday portrayed his country's upcoming election as an existential turning point and a choice between war and peace as he made a final appeal to voters at a campaign rally in a rural stronghold.

Viktor Orban, who is seeking a fourth consecutive term as the head of Hungary's government, has campaigned on the promise that if re-elected in Hungary's parliamentary election Sunday[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-hungary-budapest-viktor-orban-f7d3aa8a10039c89b512d281efa177d3], he will protect the country's peace and security and maintain Russian energy imports as war rages in neighboring Ukraine.

Orban’s right-wing Fidesz party is facing what polls suggest will be the closest election in more than a decade.

“This isn’t our war, we have to stay out of it," Orban said Friday to hundreds of supporters in the central Hungarian city of Szekesfehervar. "We can stay out by not sending soldiers or weapons, and not allowing arms shipments through Hungary’s territory, because then we’ll immediately become a military target.”

Alone among Ukraine’s neighbors in the European Union, Hungary has refused to supply Ukraine with weapons and has forbid their transit across the Hungarian-Ukrainian border, arguing that doing so would draw the country into the conflict.

While Orban has condemned Russia's war against Ukraine, he has been careful not to place responsibility for the conflict on Russian President Vladimir Putin, with whom he has forged close relations since taking office in 2010. He has also fought vehemently against sanctioning Russian fossil fuels, upon which Hungary is very dependent. Last week, Orban noted that 85% of Hungary’s gas and more than 60% of its oil comes from Russia.

At the rally in Szekesfehervar, Orban repeated an unsubstantiated claim[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-zelenskyy-business-europe-peter-szijjarto-3fb4684dc028688c3cd544ee661d7e43] that a six-party coalition that united to run against him Sunday had made a secret pact with the Ukrainian government, and that his opponents would cut off Russian oil and gas if elected — something the coalition has denied.

The opposition coalition, United For Hungary, has coordinated its candidates in each of Hungary's 106 voting districts, and nominated independent conservative Peter Marki-Zay to face Orban as its candidate for prime minister.

The opposition parties, which previously campaigned on a promise to do away with what they call widespread corruption and democratic backsliding under Orban, have asked voters to punish the autocratic prime minister for his close relations with Putin. The war in Ukraine has sent hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing into Hungary[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-europe-kharkiv-james-elder-1e6dad5edbd594d20334273d2f936f63] seeking safety.

The opposition has portrayed Sunday's election as a referendum on whether Hungary will belong to a league of Western democracies or return to its historical past as a repressive, Russian-dominated autocracy.

For his part, Orban painted a dark picture Friday of the possible dire economic repercussions that could occur if Hungary's ties with Russia were cut.

“If we sanction energy imports and they shut down the pipelines, then Hungary won't be just colder, the temperature won't go down one or two degrees, but the country will shut down," he said. “We'll have to close the factories and many people — including you — will lose their jobs.”

Eds: UPDATES: With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220401ei4100hft


Transitions Online-Politics-What Could Happen After the Elections A leading Hungarian analyst lays out five scenarios based on different...
Transitions Online, 2022 年 4 月 1 日, 4661 字, (英文)
The outcome of Hungary’s elections on 3 April will determine the country’s short-term stability and long-term political direction, toward either more autocratization or re-democratization. The elections will also be of strategic importance ...

Twelve years of Orban: How the EU has failed to rein in Hungary's democratic backsliding
1586 字
2022 年 4 月 2 日
Euronews
EURONEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Euronews All Rights Reserved
Viktor Orban, the ultra-conservative Hungarian Prime Minister on the cusp of securing a fifth consecutive term, has built his career on bashing the European Union and has mostly gotten away with it.

Yet, his influence on the bloc and its institutions is chequered at best.

Orban, 58, now the EU's longest-serving leader could on Sunday renew his time at the helm of the eastern country for another four years. His nationalist-populist party, Fidesz, currently has a slight lead over the opposition, which banded together to present a single candidate for the top job and in most constituencies.

His campaign was, as is now usual, filled with attacks against Brussels — its "imperialist tantrums"and "pro-immigrant bureaucrats"— and thin allusions to a possible Huxit.

For years now, Orban has implemented reforms of the judiciary, media and civil society he knew would put him on a collision course with Brussels all while pocketing EU money. Through it all, he cast himself as the protector of traditional — read Christian — European values and promoted an "illiberal democracy"agenda, which once garnered him the moniker "the dictator"by former Commission Chief Jean-Claude Juncker.

What this has revealed is that EU institutions are largely unable — or unwilling — to sanction such authoritarian backsliding.

"This anti-Brussels rhetoric is around almost since he took over power and it became more violent after each election,"Zsolt Enyedi, a professor and senior researcher at the Central European University's Democracy Institute, told Euronews.

"European Union institutions responded to this barrage of attacks after a while, but they let Orban get away with them for many, many years. Orban was shielded by (former German Chancellor Angela) Merkel and by the European People's Party,"he added.

All EU institutions, however, shouldn't be painted with the same brush.

Fidesz isolated in European Parliament

"The European parliament has emerged as a sort of conscience of the EU,"Daniel Hegedus, a visiting fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States, a think tank, said.

MEPs triggered Article 7 proceedings -- calling for the suspension of certain rights -- against Hungary and Poland in September 2018 over rule of law concerns. They have also pushed for the creation of a rule of law mechanism to financially sanction member states seen as backsliding.

Fidesz is now also out of the European People's Party (EPP) group in the parliament, having chosen to leave in March 2021 right before it could get expelled — the party had been suspended from the EPP in 2019. The centre-right EPP was sharply criticised for how long it took them to condemn Orban and Fidesz's domestic policies and to proceed with a possible expulsion course.

"There were different opinions on whether we get them straight inside with internal discussions or should we just kick them out. More or less everybody agreed that the policy line of Fidesz was not right but how to correct this was very much a thing,"an EPP insider told Euronews.

"The question before Orban was expelled from the EPP was would Fidesz strengthen the populist side? Would he form a separatist group in the parliament?"the source added.

If that was indeed the plan for Orban, then it backfired.

"The populists are split. They are even more split than they were at the beginning of this term. So there is no such voice as a big united anti-European front,"the insider added. "Also as Fidesz is not included in any other group, they are independent, they don't have much to say inside of Parliament, their voice is now practically not heard."

Parliament now more united

Additionally, the constant attacks on the EU and the reforms it undertook seemed to have boosted MEPs' resolve to protect the bloc as a liberal beacon.

"In my view, the Hungarian Fidesz delegation in the European Parliament, and Fidesz when it was in the EPP, strengthened the topics of rule of law, democracy, human rights and women's rights in the EP as a whole and also in the EPP group. This was precisely because Fidesz challenged all of these values so strongly,"Sirpa Pietikainen, a Finnish EPP MEP, told Euronews.

"Without the challenging from Fidesz of these values, it could even be that we would now have a less defined and less united position on rule of law, human rights violations or gender equality issues. Sometimes the paradox is that by challenging something you end up strengthening the principle you challenge. A bit like Putin's actions in Ukraine right now,"she argued.

But while MEPs have triggered Article 7 and have now pushed for the use of the new rule of law mechanism against Hungary, nothing much has happened. Action is out of their hands.

Commission 'failed tests'

The Commission, which acts as the guardian of the treaties and defender of EU legislation, has launched and won multiple court cases against Budapest over changes in the Hungarian Constitution, the lowering of the retirement age for judges, the crackdown on NGOs and the treatment of migrants and refugees.

Yet, not much has changed.

"This was far too little, so it didn't make much difference on the ground. These court decisions almost always go against Hungary and some of the other violators of fundamental norms of liberal democracy but they are not respected, and the Commission doesn't do much about that,"Enyedi said.

For Hegedus, "the Commission failed these tests"launched by the parliament and court decisions, and with "the rule of law issue practically off the table"due to the Russian aggression on Ukraine, Orban knows he "doesn't need to fear the Commission or sanctions".

Council's need for compromise

The European Council, i.e. leaders of member states, have been equally weak in their ability to rein in Orban and Fidesz, the two experts said.

"The EU has many other challenges and you do need the support of Hungary's prime minister for tackling these challenges, so they have to make various compromises. The rule of law mechanism keeps being postponed and it has been watered down anyway and only applies to some very, very specific violations of rule of law and not a general drift towards authoritarian rule,"Enyedi explained.

Yet even though the Council — especially Poland which has similarly drawn the ire of Brussels — largely protects Orban from MEPs' wrath, leaders are still not fooled.

Orban's veiled references to a Huxit are not seen as credible by his fellow heads of state who are still reeling from the consequences of the UK's departure from the union.

"The whole operation of the Orban regime -- which is built on the strategic corruption and abuse of EU funds --, this political system is not operational outside of the European Union,"Hegedus explained.

"The Hungarian government did a lot on its multilateral foreign policy and close ties with Russia and China to demonstrate for the EU institutions that it has other strategic options but these strategic options are not genuine. Neither Russia, nor China, would be ready to provide that sort of financial transfer for Hungary which amounts to 3-4% of its annual GDP. So no, I think leaving the European Union is not an option,"he added.

'Enlargement fatigue'

Orban's shift toward a semi-authoritarian regime may have also impacted the bloc's enlargement — unchanged since the accession of Croatia in 2013. The Hungarian leader has been developing closer ties with leaders in the Western Balkans, where many countries hope one day to become member states, but where democratic and rule of law standards are spotty.

"I think the democratic demise in Central Europe, and especially in Hungary and Poland, significantly contributed to enlargement fatigue in some member states,"Hegedus said.

For Enyedi, "Hungary is an example of how accession of a new country can go wrong."

"The very strong ties between (Serbian President Aleksandar) Vučić and Orban mean that if Serbia was accepted, you know, the Orban bloc will get stronger and nobody wants that. So in that sense, I think Serbia's accession prospects are directly hurt by this strong cooperation between the leaders of the two countries,"he added.

As for Orban's hope of exporting its "illiberal democracy"model to other member states, this too has largely stalled, mostly because, as is the case in the European Parliament, right-wing populist parties across the bloc do not actually align on many issues.

Even the Visegroup group, comprising the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and Hungary, has many cracks and these are widening because of the Russian invasion of Ukraine with Warsaw resolutely anti-Russia while Orban has been much more conciliatory.

"He put a lot of energy into supporting forces that could undermine liberal democracy in Europe,"Enyedi stressed, including "directly interfering with domestic politics"in non-EU neighbouring countries or in fellow member states — a Hungarian bank with close ties to him provided a €10.7 million loan to French far-right presidential candidate Marine Le Pen to fund her campaign.

"He has been trying to build an authoritarian right-wing alliance for a long time, which was not successful, and actually now, the prospects are not very good,"he concluded.

Viktor Orban, Hungary's nationalist Prime Minister delivers his annual state of the nation speech at the Varkert Bazaar conference hall, in Budapest, Hungary, Feb 12, 2022. (AP Photo/Anna Szilagyi)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/58/34/62/800x450_cmsv2_6ab9a1b8-87c9-58b0-b19b-41694bb9630f-6583462.jpg]

Euronews

文件 EURONEN020220402ei4200004


EU 'shooting itself in foot' Hungary blasts bloc over economic crisis as Putin hits back
Alessandra Scotto di Santolo
909 字
2022 年 4 月 2 日 10:00 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
THE EU is "shooting itself in the foot" by sparking Russian counter-sanctions against the bloc which will cause another major economic crisis, claimed the Hungarian Government.

EU leaders agreed to four packages of sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin in response to Russia's attack on Ukraine. But as the Russian leader prepares to hit the West back with counter-sanctions, Hungary, which has called for less strict measures from Brussels, is warning of another upcoming economic crisis for the bloc.

Related articles

Speaking to Express.co.uk, Hungarian Secretary of State for international communication Zoltan Kovacs claimed Brussels' relentlessly slow and ineffective approach to crises will once again plunge the bloc into economic abyss.

Mr Kovacs argued that his country has always had a faster and better response to crises jeopardising the existence of the EU compared to the EU Commission itself.

Calling for his EU counterparts to stay out of the war by refusing to provide Ukraine with military support, Mr Kovacs said: "You have to think about, first of all the 2008/2009 fiscal and economic crisis, which still is in some respect not over.

"There was a lot of criticism going against the Commission, the European Union, that it was not responding and answering well to the challenges posed by that.

"Then we've seen mass migration in 2015 and Covid coming two years ago.

"I can tell you that the Hungarian response to all of these challenges was more immediate and more effective than what we've seen on behalf of Europe.

"And we see that even today, when we talk about the sanctions against Russia because of the war, Russia has also started with sanction policies that are going to have most possibly a very negative economic effect

"They will probably cause another major economic crisis.

"So that's why we maintain that, especially when the war is raging in our neighbourhood, that it is not our war.

"You have very careful about that, think about your own interests, and that is the national interests.

"Hungary is also representing the European interest all together because any misstep, any bad idea can result in something more serious than you intend.

"And that is how you shoot yourself in the foot."

READ MORE:

Putin humiliated as ‘exhausted’ troops retreat from strategic airport

European governments and companies were working on Friday on a common approach to President Vladimir Putin's demand that they pay for Russian gas in rubles as the threat of an imminent halt in supplies eased.

European capitals have been on alert for a disruption to gas imports for weeks as Putin seeks retaliation over the West sanctioning Russia for invading Ukraine.

A crunch point appeared to be in the offing when Moscow issued a decree on Thursday requiring foreign buyers of Russian gas to open ruble accounts in state-run Gazprombank from Friday or else risk being cut-off.

The Kremlin said on Friday it would not immediately turn off gas exports to Europe as payments on deliveries due after April 1 come in the second half of this month and May.

With weeks left before bills are due, governments in Europe, which relies on Russia for more than a third of its gas supply, were talking to their energy companies about how to pay them.

"Working closely with Member States and operators. EU coordination today to establish a common approach on currency payments for gas contracts with Russia," Ditte Juul Jorgenesen, director general of the European Commission's energy division tweeted.

DON'T MISS:

Putin humiliated as 300 troops 'hitchhike home'

[INSIGHT]

Former spy warns Ukraine conflict may end with Putin’s assassinat

ion [ANALYSIS]

UK poised to follow US and unleash oil reserves

[DATA]

Related articles

Energy exports are Putin's most powerful lever as he tries to hit back against sweeping Western sanctions but his room for manoeuvre is also limited because Moscow does not have alternative markets for its gas, which is piped to Europe.

"If Putin turns off the gas it might only be for a relatively short period of time, he needs our money and cannot reroute all the natural gas," said one European gas trader, who declined to be named.

Analysts said the plan, which cements Gazprom's position at the heart of Russian gas trading, was more about shielding the oil and gas company from future sanctions than depriving Europe of much needed fuel.

"It is of course a game to dodge sanctions, adding to uncertainty, propping up gas prices and filling Putin's pockets," a second trader said.

Germany said it was examining Putin's decree, with an economy ministry spokesperson saying private contracts were valid and that the country was paying in euros for Russian gas.

Germany, which depends on Russia for 40 percent of its gas needs, has already activated an emergency plan that could lead to gas rationing if supplies drop too low.

Gazprom said on Friday it was exiting its business in Germany. It was not immediately clear how the move would affect the supply of Russian gas into Europe's largest economy.

Related articles ‘We won’t destroy ourselves’ Hungary’s Orban hits back at Zelensky Russia fury sees two states PULL out of summit over Russia ties Hungary’s response to Russia’s invasion sparks furious EU row

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220402ei42002mi


'It is a red line' Orban to be thorn in EU's side in pledge to veto key Putin decision
Alessandra Scotto di Santolo
806 字
2022 年 4 月 2 日 13:00 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
HUNGARY will never accept an EU embargo on Russian energy supplies, the Government's official spokesperson has said in a staunch warning to Brussels.

Some EU leaders are mulling the idea of including energy sanctions or even a full embargo on Russian oil and gas as the next package of measures to punish Vladimir Putin for his attack on Ukraine. But Hungary, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Austria, which heavily rely on Russian energy, are so far opposing the idea.

Related articles

Some analysts have suggested though that, should Germany and Italy be convinced on the implementation of the policy, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban would also follow suit.

Eurointelligence director Wolfgang Munchau wrote: "Orban has a reputation for being intransigent, but his bark is worse than his bite.

"The really important opponents to an energy import ban are Germany, and to a lesser extent Italy and the Netherlands.

"We think that Hungary could be bought off in some way, shape or form if push came to shove."

But speaking to Express.co.uk, Secretary of State for international communication Zoltan Kovacs denied his government could ever agree to such policy.

He said: "This is a red line for us.

"As a matter of fact, we see so many words and claims out there, which try to suggest that this is possible

"But everybody knows that what they are suggesting by embargo and sanction policies regarding energy cannot be done.

"In the case of Hungary, that would mean an immediate collapse of the Hungarian economy, basically, and certainly would endanger the Hungarian population.

"So we have no choice, no alternative in terms of physical infrastructure, nor in terms of available gas elsewhere.

"Not to speak about the possibility, how it's going to be transferred to Hungary.

"So there's no alternative, full stop.

"It cannot be changed, not for the upcoming two, three years, but maybe in five years, reality on the ground is very stubborn.

READ MORE:

Putin humiliated as ‘exhausted’ troops retreat from strategic airport

"And I believe it's not only the case for Hungary, but for many other European states.

"To tell you one number on that, Europe is using around 400 billion cubic meters of natural gas, 300 billion is coming from abroad. Most of it is coming from Russia.

"So you have to think twice actually, how that can be substituted?

"Obviously the 50 billion that has been offered by the US so far is less than insufficient.

"It cannot be accepted by Hungary."

After his third consecutive landslide victory in 2018, Hungary's Viktor Orban said his strong new mandate allowed him to plan for 12 years ahead, aiming for an unbroken two-decade spell in power in the former communist Central European country.

On Sunday, Orban's plan will be put to a stern test in a national election where polls suggest six opposition parties united against him for the first time are within a striking distance from unseating his nationalist Fidesz party.

DON'T MISS:

Putin humiliated as 300 troops 'hitchhike home'

[INSIGHT]

Former spy warns Ukraine conflict may end with Putin’s assassinat

ion [ANALYSIS]

UK poised to follow US and unleash oil reserves

[DATA]

Related articles

Fidesz swept elections in 2018 on a fierce anti-immigration campaign that earned him praise from former US President Donald Trump and Europe's far right and set him on a collision course with Brussels.

Now, the 58-year-old leader, who has transformed Hungary into a self-styled "illiberal democracy" with a firm grip over media and loyalists in charge of top institutions, acknowledges this election will not be a walkover.

"The stakes of this election are, even for an old warhorse such as myself, much higher than I could have ever imagined," Orban, who has evenly split the time in opposition and in power since post-communist Hungary's first election in 1990, told pro-government channel HirTV on Monday.

Opinion polls give Orban's party a narrow lead, but with about one-fifth of Hungary's eight million voters still declaring to be undecided, the April 3 vote could still go either way.

Russia's invasion of Ukraine upset Orban's script, casting his close relations with Moscow in a new light.

He responded by tapping into Hungarians wish for security, posing on campaign billboards as their protector and accusing opposition politicians of trying to drag Hungary into the war, a charge they have denied.

Related articles ‘We won’t destroy ourselves’ Hungary’s Orban hits back at Zelensky Russia fury sees two states PULL out of summit over Russia ties Hungary’s response to Russia’s invasion sparks furious EU row

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220402ei42003ju


Splitting up Europe’s authoritarian alliance]]
Jakub Jaraczewski, Tom Theuns
1082 字
2022 年 4 月 4 日 05:56 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The reelection of Viktor Orbán to a fifth term as Prime Minister of Hungary should push the European Commission to isolate his autocratic government and break up Europe’s authoritarian alliance between Hungary and Poland.

Tom Theuns is Assistant Professor of Political Theory and European Politics at the Institute of Political Science in Leiden and Associate Researcher at the Centre for European Studies and Comparative Politics at Sciences Po Paris.

Jakub Jaraczewski is the Research Coordinator at Democracy Reporting International, a Berlin-based NGO. He conducts research and analysis on the rule of law and human rights in Europe, working on the re:constitution programme.

Yesterday, Hungary re-elected Viktor Orbán, the public enemy number one of democracy in the EU. His party, Fidesz, and their satellite party, the Christian Democratic People’s Party, have secured a supermajority in the Hungarian National Assembly.

The united opposition, led by Péter Márki-Zay failed despite a ‘forced marriage[https://www.politico.eu/article/hungary-campaign-viktor-orban-parliamentary-elections/]’ of all six main opposition parties, from the socialists to the greens and the formerly far-right conservative party Jobbik.

But this wasn’t a democratic election because Hungary is no longer a democracy. Under Orbán’s leadership, Fidesz has dismantled judicial independence[https://www.reuters.com/article/hungary-court-idINL8N2HA2VU], captured the Hungarian media[https://www.euractiv.com/section/digital/news/orbans-influence-on-the-media-is-without-rival-in-hungary/], vilified refugees and LGBT people, and installed a corrupt kleptocracy[https://www.economist.com/europe/2018/04/05/the-eu-is-tolerating-and-enabling-authoritarian-kleptocracy-in-hungary]. All the while it was being enabled by massive subsidies from the EU funds.

While political freedoms remain largely unscathed, the democratic playing field in Hungary is heavily skewed. These elections were free but not fair.

Fidesz gerrymandered electoral districts in its favour. In addition, it has used its overwhelming dominance in the Hungarian media landscape to promote[https://ipi.media/mission-report-media-freedom-in-hungary-ahead-of-2022-election/] Orbán and vilify (or ignore) the opposition. As if that wasn’t enough, Fidesz has also significantly surpassed[https://transparency.hu/hirek/valasztasi-kampany-2022-torvenyt-serthetett-a-fidesz-nyolcszoros-tuleroben-a-kormanyoldal-plakatkampanya-az-ellenzekkel-szemben/] the legal limit for campaign financing.

The war in Ukraine also played into the hands of the government. Orbán presented Fidesz as the only force keeping Hungary away from war and cast the opposition as dangerous warmongers hell-bent on a bloody confrontation with Russia. The very same Russia that has increasingly warmed up to Hungary in the recent decade, seeing an opportunity for swaying an EU Member State toward Moscow’s foreign policy goals.

Voting has been made easier[https://www.rferl.org/a/hungary-election-diaspora-orban-marki-zay/31712662.html] for a conservative diaspora in neighbouring countries – over 1m of which were fast-tracked for citizenship under the Fidesz government – but not for (generally more liberal) Hungarian ex-pats. While no opposition parties or politicians were barred from running, the odds were stacked high in favour of the ruling party.

The united opposition was fighting an uphill battle. It is noteworthy that they lost, but how serious a challenge they could still mount to Orbán’s electoral autocracy. How close they came.

For years, Hungary and Poland have formed an authoritarian alliance in their attacks on democracy and the rule of law. Where unanimity was required – as in the EU’s most serious sanction mechanism under Article 7[https://www.politico.eu/article/hungary-eu-news-article-7-vote-poland-rule-of-law/] of the Treaty on European Union – Hungary and Poland protected[https://www.reuters.com/article/us-poland-hungary-sanctions-idUSKBN0UM0L220160108] one another.

But cracks in this relationship have started to show. Poland has been one of the most vital voices favouring heavy sanctions on Russia and proactive support of Ukraine. Hungary has been much more reticent. Until it became politically impossible, Orbán was a vocal supporter of Putin.

The Hungarian government’s ambivalence towards Russia is causing their relationship with the Polish government to cool. Polish President Duda spoke against Orbán’s unwillingness to impose stronger sanctions on Russia, saying[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-26/poland-s-duda-slams-hungary-for-its-policy-toward-russia] this policy would be “very costly”.

Another strain on the Polish-Hungarian friendship was inflicted when Orbán has called[https://www.irishtimes.com/news/world/europe/russian-war-widens-cracks-in-visegr%C3%A1d-group-1.4840389] out the OSCE election monitoring mission for “systematic political bias” before inviting ultra-conservative Polish-Catholic think-tank Ordo Iuris for a rival observation mission. Poland chairs the OSCE currently, and such a move by Orbán was a slap in the face of Polish diplomacy.

These tensions present an opportunity to break up Europe’s authoritarian alliance. Many see Fidesz and Orbán as becoming toxic, even radioactive, for Poland’s conservative ruling coalition. Maintaining the image of tough defenders of Poland and Ukraine against Russian aggression will be hard for PiS when they were shaking hands with borderline pro-Russian Hungarian politicos just a few weeks ago.

The European Commission should use the occasion of Orbán’s reelection to move forward with the Rule of Law conditionality mechanism against Hungary. European Union money cannot continue to finance Hungarian kleptocracy. At the same time, the Commission should publicly state that they do not intend to use the conditionality regulation against Poland, thus hopefully driving a wedge between the two allies on the rule of law.

There’s a solid substantive case for doing so. The EU funds are at risk in Hungary disproportionately higher than in Poland. Fidesz and Orban are using EU money to fill their pockets, while PiS and Kaczyński are keeping away from that. Poland has a very good track record of spending EU funds, with little corruption or graft.

This means that using the rule of law conditionality against Poland would, in any case, be a tall order. Building a credible link between the attack on the independence of the judiciary and the risk to EU funds would be possible but not bulletproof.

For sure, pressure against Poland on the rule of law should not be let up entirely. The recovery funds should not be released until Poland has implemented the rulings of the Court of Justice of the European Union on judicial independence. But for strategic, political and legal reasons, the Commission should stop treating Poland and Hungary as similar cases.

Going after Hungary and giving Poland more slack would signal that Poland’s unity with the rest of the EU and its risk-taking vis-á-vis Russia warrant a reward. At the same time, the Hungarian government’s cowardice and disunity deserve it to be further isolated.

Breaking up the EU’s authoritarian alliance will not be easy. However toxic their relationship might become, Hungary and Poland still depend on each other in voting in the Council. But as the 2023 parliamentary elections in Poland are approaching, continued pressure on the Hungarian-Polish link might be just enough to break it.

After next year’s vote, Poland might be able to return to respecting EU values, and Hungary will most likely continue on its autocratic path. Therefore, the EU should start working towards isolating Hungary now to minimise the damage.

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220404ei4400003


CE Noticias Financieras English
Elections in Hungary and Serbia consolidate Putin's allies in Europe despite the war
1393 字
2022 年 4 月 4 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Viktor Orbán's first message after his victory this Sunday for the fourth consecutive time, and fifth in his career, was transparent: the European Union can prepare for new attacks from Budapest to the European founding values. They will come with force, moreover, after achieving a new supermajority that surpasses even the previous one and gives legitimacy through the votes to the Hungarian Prime Minister, an ally of the Kremlin in the EU, who for the first time faced the opposition united in a coalition. In Serbia, outside the community bloc, the also populist Aleksandar Vucic was reelected head of state with a comfortable absolute majority. These are the first elections held in a Europe at war. In both, Vladimir Putin's allies have achieved great successes.

"We have had a great victory. So big that it can be seen from the moon, and certainly from Brussels," proclaimed the ultra-conservative Orbán, 58. In the same message to his supporters he gave a review of those he considers his opponents at the moment: "We will remember this victory until the end of our lives because we had to fight against a lot of opponents: the local left, the international left, the Brussels bureaucrats, all the money and institutions of the Soros empire, the main international media and the Ukrainian president as well."

Read moreWar in Ukraine, liveInthe weeks of campaigning leading up to the elections, the two leaders and candidates tried to keep some distance from their ally in Moscow, but without attacking him directly. Vucic declared his support for the "territorial integrity of Ukraine and supported the condemnation resolution at the UN, but refused to join the sanctions of the EU, the club he aspires to join, arguing that Russia did not impose such punishments on the country during the Balkan war in the 1990s.

Orbán went hand in hand with Brussels in all the sanctions approved so far, albeit with buts. In the last days of the campaign he also accused the Ukrainian president, Volodymir Zelenski, of having reached an agreement with the opposition to intervene in the elections. Having won the elections, Orbán made it clear that the Ukrainian president has joined the list of his opponents, with Brussels at the top of the list.

Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday congratulated the Hungarian leader on his victory in the general elections and expressed the desire to strengthen ties between Moscow and Budapest. "The Russian head of state said he was convinced that despite a difficult international situation, the future development of bilateral ties and cooperation (between Moscow and Budapest) will correspond to the interests of the peoples of Russia and Hungary," the Russian presidency said in a statement.

Budapest's loyalties have in recent years been much closer to Moscow than to Kiev, with whom it had since 2017 a dispute at the expense of language policy affecting the ethnic Hungarian minority residing in Ukrainian Transcarpathia. With Moscow, Orbán has strong economic ties, but in addition, Putin's regime is a model for which the ultra-conservative leader has built in Hungary.

In 2014, the prime minister, as he premiered his second consecutive term in office, bet on "breaking with the dogmas and ideologies adopted by the West" and following the model of "non-liberal systems, non-liberal democracies and perhaps not even democracies," among which he mentioned China, India, Turkey and, of course, Russia. Orbán, who has met with Putin 11 times in the last 12 years in power, according to the think tank Political Capital, has been inspired by some elements of the Russian regime based on the ultra defense of the nation, the family and Christianity.

Orbán belongs to the "Putin school" in the EU without a doubt for Camino Mortera, head of the Brussels office of the Centre for European Reform. "Both use the same game: disinformation, corruption, the systems of oligarchs who are inside the government, and the national conservative identitarian touch."

Without reaching Moscow's authoritarianism, but moving away from democratic standards, according to organizations such as Freedom House, Orbán has been surrounding himself with a group of oligarchs close to the power, pointed out for corruption, which allow him to control economic sectors. In parallel, he has been closing in on NGOs financed by foreign capital and has singled out people from civil society that he considers "mercenaries of [philanthropist George] Soros". Without the need for direct censorship or media closures, he has distorted the market to allow the concentration of favorable media that form a robust pro-government propaganda machine.

Its latest attack has been on the LGTBI collective. In the summer of 2021 it passed a law that prohibits speaking about gender and homosexuality in schools and places limits on the media, under the pretext of protecting children. Again, it is reminiscent of the rule known as anti-LGBTBI propaganda that Russia passed in 2003. This Sunday, Orbán intended to legitimize his law before the infringement procedure opened by Brussels, but the referendum he called together with the elections failed when he did not manage to overcome 50% of valid votes.

Warning toBrusselsOrbán

's first words after revalidating his victory were addressed to Brussels. "More than his speech, I am concerned about the majority with which he won the elections", says Mortera, who describes Sunday's elections as "free, but not fair", since it must be taken into account, among many other attacks on the rule of law, how his regime has been tinkering with the electoral system to benefit him.

This analyst, until recently, believed that the Hungarian leader's bet would be to raise the tone of the anti-Brussels rhetoric in the electoral campaign, as he has done in previous elections, to lower it immediately afterwards. He has incentives to do so, especially economic ones: Hungary is one of the few countries, together with Poland, that has not yet obtained the approval of the European Commission for its recovery fund. This change of attitude seemed foreseeable. But now Mortera is no longer so sure that this will be the case: "The challenge to the EU may go up. And, if that is the way, then maybe we will see the break with the rest of the Visegrad group [Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic]," she predicts. "The next steps are going to be very important for EU dynamics and for the EU as an actor in response to Putin's war."

Hungary, which since Russia's illegal 2014 annexation of Crimea has taken a position reluctant to retaliate against the Kremlin, did align itself with the EU-27 bloc for the four rounds of EU sanctions passed since the Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine; it has also become one of the countries receiving the most Ukrainian refugees, although most only pass through Hungary on their way to other destinations. But it has opposed arms shipments to Ukraine from EU countries passing through its territory. And it could resist a fifth round of sanctions, which is already on the table in capitals - especially since the terrible images of civilian killings from Bucharest have surfaced - thus dynamiting a process that requires unanimity. "What if they manage to get everyone to agree to sanction banks that make transactions to pay for Russian energy [which would imply a de facto embargo against fuel imports from Russia], but he opposes it?" asks Mortera.

It is possible that this will mark his relationship with Poland, a traditional ally in his confrontation with Brussels, and with the rest of the Visegrad countries, with which the war in Ukraine has already caused a rift. Budapest, which currently holds the presidency of the group, cancelled a meeting of the defense ministers last week. In the background are the different worldviews on Putin's Russia: "I very much regret that cheap Russian oil is more important for Hungarian politicians than Ukrainian blood," Czech Defense Minister Jana ?ernochova reproached Orbán. "Losing those allies in his fight with Brussels seems to me to be playing with fire," Mortera concludes. "Orbán has won with a comfortable majority, but he is running out of support at the European level."

Follow all the international information on Facebook and Twitter, or in our weekly newsletter.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220404ei4400545


Poland unleashes fury as Germany 'main roadblock' to pulling plug on Kremlin war machine
Jacob Paul
876 字
2022 年 4 月 4 日 13:25 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
POLAND is furious at Germany, blaming it for preventing tough sanctions from being slapped down on Russia's energy sector amid the Ukraine war.

Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said during a news conference on Monday that Berlin was causing a major roadblock to his country's ability to punish Vladimir Putin for his invasion of Ukraine. Mr Morawiecki noted that even Hungary, which shares a border with Ukraine but has refused to send weapons, has not blocked sanctions. Morawiecki said: "We have to see that, regardless of how we approach Hungary, this is the fourth such win and we have to respect democratic elections ... it's Germany that is the main roadblock on sanctions.

Related articles

"Hungary is for the sanctions."

It comes after Prime Minister Viktor Orban, leader of the Fidesz party, won a fourth term in office in the national election on Sunday.

Mr Oban had previously come under for not taking a tough enough stance on Putin for his brutal attack on Ukraine.

Earlier this month, Mr Orban had said that the EU would not sanction oil and natural gas flows from Russia, and was not supportive of sanctioning Russian energy due to Hungary's huge reliance on Russian imports.

But according to Mr Morawiecki, that has changed.

The Polish Prime Minister has instead called out Germany for its continued opposition to the tough sanctions being slapped down on Putin's energy empire.

Germany, which gets 40 percent of its gas from Russia, has been arguing that it is still too reliant to ditch Russia's fossil fuels.

Chancellor Olaf Scholz said last week that if Russia’s gas was cut overnight, ”entire branches of industry would have to stop working”, triggering a "considerable economic crisis”.

It was also not so supportive of the EU's new energy strategy, REPowerEU.

The plan lays out how it would cope with plummeting Russian supplies after cutting Russian oil and gas imports by two thirds by the end of the year.

READ MORE: World War 2 breakthrough: Washed-up debris 'match' lost RAF bomber

But Germany argued that its economy was too reliant on Russian supplies to follow through with these sanctions.

Meanwhile, Poland has demonstrated a far tougher stance in response to Russia's aggression in Ukraine.

Mr Morawiecki last week unveiled what he called the "most radical" plan made by any country in an attempt to ditch Russian fossil fuels.

He said: “Today we present the most radical plan in Europe to move away from Russian hydrocarbons - Russian oil, Russian gas and Russian coal.

“When others in Europe looked at Russia as a business partner, we knew that Russia was primarily using gas as an instrument of blackmail.

DON'T MISS

Putin humiliated as Britain refuses Russia's plan to boost economy [REPORT]

Lithuania humiliates Germany by standing up to Putin [REVEAL]

Germany to cut legs from under Russia with tough new sanctions [INSIGHT]

Related articles

“That is why we have been persuading for years to take the tools of blackmail from Putin and Russia.”

Despite Poland's anger at Germany, Berlin does appear finally appear to be stepping up and appears more willing to punish Russia with energy sanctions.

German Defence Minister Christine Lambrecht said during a TV interview on Sunday: "There has to be a reaction.

"Energy sanctions are among the things that will be discussed."

And earlier that day, Mr Scholz said Germany is set to “adopt new measures during the coming days".

But this only came after it was alleged that Russian troops had been committing horrific atrocities in Ukraine, reportedly exposed through photographs and eyewitness accounts.

German Vice-Chancellor Robert Habeck has also claimed that Germany can cut its imports of Russian oil in half by midsummer.

Mr Habeck added that the country could almost entirely put an end to the imports by end of the year, and claimed coal could be halved in “the coming weeks”.

But Poland never appeared as reluctant as Germany to take these decisions, despite also being somewhat dependent on Russia's energy imports.

According to Forum Energii, a think tank, Warsaw gets 46 percent of its gas, 64 percent of its oil and 15 percent of its coal from Russia.

Related articles

But Poland is still lagging behind Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, which have rid themselves of Russian gas from April 1.

While Poland has argued that it will be able to scupper its energy ties with Putin, starting with banning Russian coal, Germany has appeared far more concerned.

In fact, after Putin threatened to cut the EU's gas if "unfriendly" countries refused to pay in Russian rubles, Berlin erupted into a state of panic.

Mr Habeck's stuck up an energy rationing plan to "increase precautionary measures to be prepared for an escalation on the part of Russia."

He added: “With the declaration of the early warning level, a crisis team has convened.”

Related articles UK signs historic deal to secure critical metal supply for new gigafac Putin panics as Nigeria offers to plug EU’s Russian supply gap Price of goods set to soar up to 75% as EU unleashes new green tax

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220404ei44003ph


EU can expect Orbán 'on steroids'
Eszter Zalan
731 字
2022 年 4 月 4 日
EUobserver.com
EUSERCOM
英文
© 2022, EUobserver.com, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Emboldened by a landslide election win, Hungary's prime minister Viktor Orbán is now expected to toughen his nationalist and populist stance, harden his pro-Putin position, entrench his conservative views and further erode democracy at home.

Orbán on Sunday (3 April) won a two-thirds majority[https://euobserver.com/democracy/154644] in parliament for a fourth time, and crushed the opposition despite efforts to unite against him.

"We have scored a victory so big that it can be seen even from the moon, but definitely from Brussels," Orbán said in his victory speech.

He then singled out Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky as among those in an "overwhelming force" his Fidesz party campaign had to face, along with leftwing parties and home and abroad, the "Brussels bureaucrats", the "empire" of US billionaire George Soros, and the international mainstream media.

Dániel Hegedüs[https://euobserver.com/opinion/154459], a fellow at the German Marshall Fund in Berlin said the EU can expect Orbán's balancing act between east and west — what Orbán himself calls a "peacock dance" — to be "on steroids".

"Orbán's Ukraine and Russia policy has received massive domestic legitimacy," Hegedüs said.

"A much more self-confident Orbán will ask a much higher price from the EU and Nato for his cooperation," Hegedüs added, saying Orbán will continue to rule out energy sanctions on Russia and will be much more resilient against criticism coming from fellow central European governments, such as the one in Warsaw.

Hegedüs expects a transactional relationship between Orbán and his western partners, forced by the emboldened Hungarian premier.

"He will say if you don't sanction me, I won't block you'", Hegedüs said, adding that the EU will need to do a careful balancing act, because it cannot afford to lose EU unity in the face of Russian aggression.

Hegedüs expects that the EU Commission will let Poland off the hook in terms of rule of law concerns as Warsaw plays a central role in the EU's united stance against Russia. However, it will not do the same with Hungary, Hegedüs said.

The commission has not yet approved the EU Covid pandemic recovery funds for Poland and Hungary. Those funds are expected to become crucial once the pre-election spending spree, coupled with steep inflation and high energy prices, hit ordinary Hungarians and the budget.

Orbán could attempt again to squeeze out foreign companies in some sectors like retail, where Hungarian ownership is still not dominant, in order to close budget gaps and broaden his circle of loyalists.

Orbán has already used what he called "unorthodox" economic measures after his 2010 election win, which earned his government several EU commission legal challenges.

The nationalist Hungarian premier can also be expected to try to breathe new life into a right wing populist coalition at EU level after his massive victory. It may also stir nationalism at home.

A smaller far-right party, Our Country (Mi Hazánk), which made it to the parliament for the first time, could set some of the most racial agenda for Fidesz, Hegedüs added.

No level playing field

Orbán's landslide victory is due to multiple factors, including massive media dominance. With its media operation, Fidesz managed to dominate the narrative on the war in Ukraine, on energy price hikes and all other issues.

While Orbán has been scolded internationally for his alliance with Russian president Vladimir Putin, it has not hurt him domestically. Kremlin-inspired propaganda has been pushed by pro-government media onto the Hungarian public.

"It is the propaganda that has won the election for Fidesz," opposition prime minister candidate Péter Márki-Zay said at the night of the election.

There have been persistent concerns over the fairness of the election, and curbing independent checks and balances.

The elections observers from the Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) in their preliminary report[https://www.osce.org/files/f/documents/4/6/515111.pdf] published on Monday said that there has been a "pervasive overlap between the ruling coalition and the government."

"The lack of transparency and insufficient oversight of campaign finances further benefited the governing coalition," they said, adding that "the bias and lack of balance" in news coverage, the absence of debates between major candidates "significantly limited the voters' opportunity to make an informed choice".

"The manner in which many election disputes were handled by election commissions and courts fell short of providing effective legal remedy," the observers added.

EUobserver.com ASBL

文件 EUSERCOM20220404ei440005m


Business
Viktor Orban’s victory is a disaster for Brussels – and helps Vladimir Putin
By Louis Ashworth and Tim Wallace
1109 字
2022 年 4 月 5 日 09:00 GMT
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
英文
The Telegraph Online © 2022. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Hungarian prime minister’s fourth election win threatens to shatter Europe’s united front against the Russian leader

As he celebrated winning his fourth consecutive term as Hungary’s prime minister [https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/03/hungary-election-viktor-orban-nato-kremlin-eu-fidesz-wins-fourth/]on Sunday night, Viktor Orban crowed over those he had defeated.

“We never had so many opponents,” he told supporters of his right-wing Fidesz party in central Budapest. “Brussels bureaucrats ... the international mainstream media, and the Ukrainian president.”

That Orban singled out Volodymyr Zelensky speaks to how much the conflict on Europe’s eastern border has already reshaped the continent’s geopolitical dynamics.

Orban’s close ties to Russian president Vladimir Putin and demi-authoritarian ruling style have long made him a thorn in the bloc’s flank. But the war has left him a near pariah, while Zelensky garners war hero status.

The 58-year-old strongman is unafraid to ruffle tensions with Europe’s ruling powers. “We won so big you can see it from the moon, but certainly from Brussels as well,” he said.

Europe’s biggest powers may have hoped the election would mean the end for Orban. Hungary’s opposition parties, after being repeatedly routed since 2010, formed an electoral alliance called United for Hungary with the conservative mayor of Hódmezővásárhely, Peter Marki-Zay, at its helm.

Despite some polling leads, they fell short. It was a good opportunity in some ways, not least because of Hungary’s disastrous handling of Covid: it has the fourth-highest number of deaths per capita of any country after losing more than 45,000 people to the pandemic. Fidesz has launched a tough austerity programme as a consequence.

But the odds were stacked against the challengers[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2021/06/30/meet-europes-mini-trump-tweet-happy-populist-taking-eu-presidency/]. Over the past 12 years, Orban has placed his thumb on the scale to bring about the system he calls “illiberal democracy”: stuffing courts with sympathetic appointees, changing the constitution, gerrymandering electoral districts and eroding the free press.

According to Hungary Today, joint opposition leader Marki-Zay received just five minutes to speak on state-owned TV channel M1 during the entire campaign.

“These are not democratic elections, but they are competitive,” says Daniel Hegedus, a fellow at the German Marshall Fund in Berlin.

Now, the EU faces years more with a member that is, if not actively hostile, determined to foil its plans, and more confident than ever.

“This election victory will be interpreted in Fidesz as very broad social support for the party’s policies,” Hegedus adds, pointing to crackdowns on LGBT+ people and minorities[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2021/06/24/eu-leaders-vow-fight-discrimination-bitter-row-hungary-anti/]. “Orban will be especially self-confident to ask the price of his cooperation at the EU level, for example for not blocking sanction decisions in the Council.”

Despite his strong hand in talks, Orban faces a difficult balancing act to maintain relations with Moscow while not leaving Hungary cut off from the lucrative benefits of EU membership.

Economically, Hungary has close ties to Russia in key markets. Last year it imported 92,000 barrels of oil a day from Russia, accounting for 43pc of its imports, according to the International Energy Agency.

Orban has pushed back against demands to cut the supply, insisting “there won’t be sanctions that would apply to gas or oil, so Hungary’s energy supply is secure in the upcoming period”.

But it also has small but important roles in Europe’s oil supply and manufacturing industries. Erik Nielsen, global chief economist at UniCredit, says this may be why former German chancellor Angela Merkel was so willing to tolerate Hungary’s behaviour: “I am more than suspicious that a number of the major German corporates had lobbied her pretty heavily.”

The closeness between Orban and Putin[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/vladimir-putin/11418959/Vladimir-Putin-receives-a-warm-welcome-from-Hungarian-PM-Viktor-Orban.html], combined with Hungary’s authoritarian stance on issues including media freedom and law and order, mean the nation is increasingly shunned by its EU partners.

Economist Mike O’Sullivan, author of The Levelling: What’s next after globalisation, says the war has brought this contrast with European norms into focus. “Ukraine is forcing people to take sides, even more so given the atrocities that are going on. Across the EU there is now a sense we need to have even greater solidarity and vision and purpose,” he says.

“Hungary is an embarrassment in many respects, and there are increasingly people who would be open to the whole debate on removing Hungary as a member, which would be quite an extreme measure.”

“The EU will up the ante in terms of fines. He will now face increased pressure from other East European countries, most notably Poland. He has relied on an awkward squad of other eastern nations, but that relationship is now breaking down.”

Poland is particularly important, often aligning with Budapest against Brussels. But the invasion of Ukraine has sharply changed attitudes in Warsaw. “Orban has lost a fellow EU sceptic,” says Nielsen.

Camino Mortera-Martinez at the Centre for European Reform says that the refusal of countries such as Germany to consider an oil embargo is shielding Orban.

“But if, or rather when, public pressure becomes unsustainable for the German Government in particular and there is a move towards a partial embargo of some sort … Orban will have to stick his neck out,” she says.

“The Poles are 100pc invested in stopping the war and imposing sanctions and doing everything they can to put pressure on Putin. That is their main goal right now, so they are unlikely to be patient or understanding with Orban.”

Other countries beyond the EU will also join in, he predicts, with financial consequences for a regime which is already cut off from some European funds due to disputes over Budapest’s treatment of the rule of law.

Still, there is no clear legal path for removing an EU member, which means Brussels may have to live with Hungary in its midst for some time[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/04/viktor-orban-accused-using-eu-funds-rig-elections-hungary/].

Hegedus says the EU now has the option of “acknowledging the fact that the existence of older practising member states is the new reality in the European Union”.

“To some extent, that will be a kind of realpolitik. To some extent, that would be a fatal disaster,” he says. “Because that could mean practically the end of the European integration is an automatic project, normative project based on democratic values and fundamental rights.”

Even in full swagger, however, Orban is unlikely to want to pick a big fight with Brussels.

“I don't think there's any real evidence of any small country being able to derail or stand up against something that major powers in the EU want to do,” says Nielsen.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

文件 TELUK00020220405ei450015p


News; International
Growing Horror Over Scenes of Brutality in Kyiv Suburb; CNN Crew's Close Call with Artillery Fire Near Mykolaiv; Kyiv Teen Forced to Flee Home, Leave Parents Behind; World Leaders Condemn Bucha Civilian Killings; Colorado Steel Mill Linked to Russian Oligarch Faces Uncertainly. War Adds New Urgency to Push for Renewable Energy. Aired 1-2a ET
John Vause, Dan Rivers, Ben Wedeman, Matt Rivers, Phil Mattingly, Drew Griffin, Rosemary Church, Rene Marsh, Andy Scholes
6768 字
2022 年 4 月 5 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
JOHN VAUSE, CNN ANCHOR: Horrific scenes coming from the town of Bucha, just outside the capitol Kyiv. Ukraine's president says there's evidence that more than 300 people were killed and tortured while Russian troops occupied that town. The White House warning Bucha will not be the last.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JAKE SULLIVAN, NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISER: We should be under no illusions that Russia will adjust its tactics, which have included and will likely continue to include wanton and brazen attacks on civilian targets.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: A warning now that the images you're about to see are graphic and some viewers will find them hard to watch. CNN's team on the ground of Bucha captured these images. Several bodies, hands tied behind their back shot and killed, then left in a basement.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy visited Bucha on Monday to see the death and destruction firsthand. While there, he admitted that continuing negotiations with Russia will be hard after seeing the atrocities in Bucha.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE: Every day when our troops are liberating occupied territories, you can see what is happening here. It's very difficult to negotiate when you see what they have done here. Every day we find people in barrels strangled, tortured in the basement.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: And in the coming hours, President Zelenskyy is expected to address the U.N. Security Council meeting that is set to focus on the atrocities committed in Bucha. Ukraine also expected to make the case against Russia's claims that the images from Bucha are fake. Satellite images though suggests otherwise take a look at this, on the left side, stills from a video taken on Friday, showing bodies in the street, that was just Friday. On the right, satellite images taken more than two weeks ago, showing what appears to be those same bodies lying in the same spot.

Town of Bucha is the site of some of the worst atrocities we've seen in Ukraine so far. ITN News Correspondent Dan Rivers went to Bucha to see the devastation for himself. And again a warning, his report contains those disturbing graphic images, but they do show the brutality and sheer cruelty of what happened in Bucha under Russian occupation.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DAN RIVERS, ITN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): The gateway to Bucha and Hostamil (ph), there are the mangled remains of Russian vehicles, and the blown bridge which marks the extent of their advance. And nearby the burnt bodies of soldiers killed here by a Ukrainian counter offensive, gruesome sentinels to a battlefield, in which dated Russian machinery was pitted against the latest Western supplied anti-tank weapons.

And this was the result, a rewriting of the orthodoxy about Russia's perceived military strength. Some of the Russians who sought to occupy this commuter town near Kyiv will probably never leave, thanks to one man's war. The remains may never be repatriated, or possibly even identified.

(On camera): This is the most potent symbol of the Russian defeat here in Bucha, a street choked with the charred remains of their tanks and armored vehicles. Now, they've gone, we're beginning to get a fuller picture of the terrible toll inflicted on the civilian population here.

(Voice-over): War in all its grotesque brutality, is turn the streets into a hell from which there is no triumph. Massacres of Ukrainian men has been uncovered by the army here. The war crimes committed here mark a bleak new low in this conflict described by Ukraine as the most outrageous atrocity of the 21st century. There isn't just one site where massacres occurred, the true picture here is only just emerging.

This man in Hostamil (ph) tells me about the rape and dismemberment of a young woman at the hands of two Chechen soldiers. He says they just slaughtered her like a lamb, but as he took his revenge with other local men killing them both.

For the civilians like Maxim Skripnik, caught between the two sides, there was little to do but pray for deliverance.

(On camera): Describe what it was like the bombardment, I mean, describe how it felt to you.

MAXIM SKRIPNIK, BUCHA RESIDENT: Terrible. It was completely terrible, you know, near my car, was exploded free minds.

RIVERS: Some of the dead were buried by their neighbors close to the shattered remains of their homes. This is where eternalize hit by a shell, a grave adorned with food and drink her relatives would have traditionally shared at her funeral, her son has been unable to reach the town to grieve for his mother. But many more were hastily entered without headstones or even identification. Here it's believed 280 people were buried in mass graves, one row for Ukrainians, one for Russian.

[01:05:01]

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translation): This is horrible. We survived this. They were shelling us. I cannot find words to describe what we lived through.

RIVERS: This family appear to have escaped unscathed after days in a bunker. Until, you know, Deema's father was detained by the Russians and never seen again. As he swings, he says if the bad man come back, I'll stamp on them. There seems little chance now of the Russians fighting their way back into these towns, but the legacy of their brief reign of terror will never be forgotten.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: Let's go to Malcolm Davis now. He's a Senior Analyst of the Defense Strategy and Capability at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute. He is in Darwin this hour.

Malcolm, thank you for being with us. I want to start with now there are these revelations of how what the Russian occupying forces have done in those villages and towns, the atrocities which have been committed, and the outrage it has sparked around the world. Is that likely to be any kind of moderating influence as this conflict moves forward? Are they likely to change their behavior in any way?

MALCOLM DAVIS, MILITARY ANALYST: Look, I think firstly, it makes the negotiate a settlement just almost impossible. I do not see how President Zelenskyy can now ask the Ukrainian people to make significant concessions to the Russians, including territorial concessions, that would leave Ukrainian people under Russian control, after Bucha and other massacres, particularly as more come to light. So the first point is territory. First point is negotiate the term I think is dead in the water. Second point, I think, is it really does place a lot of pressure now on NATO, and the West to do a lot more than what they've done.

And frankly, I am staggered, that the Biden administration and NATO and E.U. have not already moved much more quickly and much more extensively to respond to these massacres. As for the Russians, they're going to continue to do what they've done in Bucha and elsewhere. This is the way they are. These are not soldiers. These are animals. And I do think that we need to recognize that there will be many more Bucha's in the days weeks ahead.

VAUSE: You say you're disappointed, excuse me, in the actions taken by NATO and the United States in wake of these images and the atrocities which have been committed, but what can they do?

DAVIS: Well, for starters, I think Germany could be much more willing to cut off oil and natural gas to the Russians from the Russians now, rather than in five years, or 10 years' time. So we need to inflict a lot more economic pain on Russia immediately, rather than down the track.

Secondly, I would imagine that there needs to be a much more assertive move and a much more visible move by NATO to provide heavy armor, artillery. And indeed, let's move again on supplying quite a jets to Ukraine give the Ukrainians what they need in order to win this war, because the only way this war ends in a justifiable manner is if is with a Russian comprehensive defeat, rather than some sort of face saving off ramp where concessions are made to the Putin regime. I think that is untenable at this point.

VAUSE: I want you to listen to the spokesperson for Ukraine's Ministry of Defense and what he now believes the Ukrainians now believe of Russian goals to the east, at least in the short term. Here he is.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

COL. OLEKSANDR MOTUZYANYK, UKRAINIAN DEFENSE MINISTRY SPOKESPERSON (through translation): The main focus of the enemy is on preparations for the resumption of offensive operations to surround the joint forces and captured the city of Kharkiv.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: So when he says joint forces, he's talking joint forces operations, which is based in Donbass. And it's more than just Ukrainian soldiers and highly trained Ukrainian soldiers. But why is there so much concern here, if the joint operation forces operations for because that changed the balance in the favor of the Russians?

DAVIS: If the Russians can regroup and re-equip and rebuild their logistics, then they could launch offensive operations against joint forces in that area, cut them off from Ukrainian supplies, and ultimately surround them and destroy them. And it's not just the military forces there, it's also the civilian population that is still trapped in cities like Mariupol and Kharkiv.

So, I do think there is real concern what was seen in Bucha could be replicated 100 fold or 1000 fold in a major Ukrainian city captured by the Russians. And I think that that's why we do need to start assisting the Ukrainians with the types of weapon systems, the heavy weapon systems, the maneuver capabilities that they need, in order to go on the offensive on a major scale, and actually decisively defeat the Russians rather than pinprick attacks.

VAUSE: There's still the question of Russian losses last week, the Centers for Strategic and International Studies published, the report saying, Russia may have lost 25% of its initial attacking force these casualties are not on the scale of World War II but a large compared with the relatively small size of the Russian military today, although reinforcements and replacements can offset some of these casualties, the loss of trained troops will impair military operations and eventually have a political affect. That 25% includes dead wounded soldiers. Do you agree with that assessment? And what are the implications?

[01:10:25]

DAVIS: Yeah, I do agree with the SS assessment. I think that it's accurate. And I do think that those are significant losses. But they're not the sort of losses that would prevent the Russians from regrouping and rebuilding over the long term. So the Russians are in this prolonged battle now. They're bringing in reserves and fresh forces. I do think that there is a risk that we prematurely assume that the Russians are defeated. They have taken a heavy blow after the initial phase of this conflict, but they're now calling back into the East. They're regrouping rebuilding their logistics, and they could easily impose defeat on Ukrainian forces. So I do think that we do need to maximize our opportunities whilst we have them in terms of inflicting damage and cost on the Russian forces whilst they're regrouping because that's when they're vulnerable.

VAUSE: Malcolm David, thank you for being with us sir, we appreciate it.

Well, for weeks, the southern city of Mykolaiv has endured relentless Russian bombardment. The latest strikes in a residential neighborhood. Many says at least 10 civilians were killed on Sunday and Monday, well, nearly 50 others were wounded. We're told some victims are in very serious condition, and the death toll is likely to rise. The mayor added that Russian targets so far include hospitals, kindergartens, schools.

Not too far from Mykolaiv, CNN's Ben Wedeman and his team were a few 100 feet from incoming artillery fire. They stopped to speak with Ukrainian soldiers out in the open with little cover. To be sure this was a close call. One crew car was so badly damaged it was undriveable the other also damaged was still able to reach safety. Here's Ben report.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

BEN WEDEMAN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: This is an area where there's been a fair amount of outgoing as well as incoming artillery down the road is a town that has been fought over for several days by Russian and Ukrainian forces.

In these vast open spaces, the Russians seem far away. They're not.

(On camera): OK. Down here John, down here. Keep on rolling. You see it over there?

(Voice-over): We hug the earth. Two more artillery rounds. Oh shit. Camera man John Torigue (ph) keeps rolling.

(On camera): Alrighty, so we had two incoming rounds responding to artillery that's been firing in the Russian directions. The shells came pretty close to us.

(Voice-over): No one has been injured. The officer tells translator Vladier Dubrovsky (ph) we need to go now. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He said go away, hide and run.

WEDEMAN: OK, OK. I think it's safe. OK, I hope the care is OK.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ready to move?

WEDEMAN: Yeah, let's go.

(Voice-over): And so we run with full body armor to the cars. One car can't move peppered with shrapnel.

(On camera): We're losing petrol.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I can't.

WEDEMAN (voice-over): No time to lose.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Throw it in the back.

WEDEMAN: Driver Igor Tiago (ph) razor focused on getting us to safety his car also hit.

WEDEMAN (on camera): All right. Righty now we're trying to get out of this area as quickly as possible. Our other car completely destroyed.

[01:15:03]

(Voice-over): Crammed into this small car we approach safer ground.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We're going to go into the Old Covenant village and then we'll take a breather.

WEDEMAN (voice-over): Producer Karim Hader (ph) checks the damage to the car. The soldiers we left behind are still out there. We could leave. They can't. Ben Wedeman, CNN outside Mykolaiv, Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: Still to come, signs and the horrors of Bucha will be replicated elsewhere. There's new evidence that's merging from the outskirts of Kyiv as Ukrainian forces retake territory once held by Russian soldiers. We'll have all the details in a moment.

Also a teenager from Kyiv forced to flee her home and leave her parents behind for a safer life in Hungary, her incredible story, a middle war, that's next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[01:20:04]

VAUSE: Right now, you're looking at drone footage of the destruction in Mariupol, Ukraine, a city under siege for weeks by Russian forces. The mayor says Mariupol is on the brink of a humanitarian catastrophe, with more than 100,000 people in need of evacuation. He says the city has not had food, water or medicine in more than a month. Says the situation is, "very difficult," which seems to be an incredible understatement.

The Red Cross says another attempt to reach Mariupol failed on Monday, again because of security issues. Red cross team has been trying to enter the city since Saturday actually since Friday, to provide humanitarian aid and help with civilian evacuations.

Among the millions of Ukrainians who fled their country his 17 year old Alla Renska who lived in Kyiv. When the Russians invaded her parents sent her Hungary for her own safety. Alla is now studying and the School of Budapest but this is bittersweet. She is now separated. She's on her own. No family, stuck in Ukraine. Here's CNN Matt Rivers.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

MATT RIVERS, CNN CORRESPONDENT: She's got a pink backpack, a warm smile, and she's already made friends. Even though 17 year old Alla Renska, a Ukrainian has only been here in Budapest, Hungary for a month.

(On camera): Six months?

ALLA RENSKA, UKRAINIAN REFUGEE: Yeah.

RIVERS (voice-over): In an empty classroom of her new school, we sit and talk about how she never thought she'd end up here.

RENSKA: No, no war. It's --

RIVERS: You didn't believe it?

RENSKA: Yes, 21st century. It's Ukraine, it's Europe. Why?

RIVERS: Before the war if she was just a normal teenager making goofy videos with her friends, taking selfies. But then the war reached where she lived in Kyiv.

RIVERS: When did your family decide that you -- it wasn't safe for you to be in Ukraine anymore?

RENSKA: When we heard explosions, and our houses just like --

RIVERS: Your house was shaken?

RENSKA: Yes.

RIVERS (voice-over): Her parents made the agonizing decision to send her to stay with friends in Budapest. Alla's dad took her to the train station on March 4, but in the crush of people also trying to leave they were separated.

(On camera): Could you see your dad when you were -- when the train was leaving?

RENSKA: No.

RIVERS: Was that hard?

RENSKA: Yeah. I cried. Maybe all nights.

RIVERS (voice-over): She took only these pictures from the train a bleak landscape she says matched how she felt. But then an idea. She wrote an email to Korosi Baptist High School, one of the best in Hungary talking about the war and what happened to her. I really want to go to school and continue studying, she wrote. I kindly asked you to help me.

And help they did. The school converted these old containers into dorms where Alla now lives and studies. Her days are spent in classes and at night, she chats with a few other Ukrainian girls just like her who also fled now living there too. Even though she does still miss her family.

RENSKA: I tried to not crying and I tried to be strong because my parents I know that when I cry and they also feel not very good.

RIVERS: That strength on full display when Alla video calls with her parents later that day, it's all smiles and updates on school and work. We say hello and ask an obvious question.

(On camera): How difficult is it right now to not have Alla with you.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: I cannot explain because it's too hard for me. I'm happy that my daughter I love her very much, that she is safe now is the main for me.

RIVERS: A few minutes later though the call is over how and Alla's stoic (inaudible) falters.

(On camera): How was that for you?

RENSKA: I try to not cry.

RIVERS: They love you very much.

RENSKA: Me too.

RIVERS: What are you thinking?

RENSKA: It's unfair, it's so unfair that I should be here. My friends are there.

RIVERS: This is what war does to a happy 17 year old. But she is determined to stay optimistic. This is a photo she wanted us to show. Her parents sent it to her right after she left. The first spring flower to push through the snow near her house. Aside they said of brighter times to come. Matt Rivers, Budapest Hungary.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

[01:25:11]

VAUSE: Yeah, it's unfair indeed. Well, if you would like to help people in Ukraine, that who need a shelter, food, water, medical supplies pretty much everything right now, please go to cnn.com/impact. There you'll find a number of ways that you can help out.

When we come back, world leaders planning more sanctions on Russia, as horrifying images of brutality emerged from the Ukrainian town of Bucha and others. There's more evidence piling up on that.

Plus, Kremlin connections with the owner of a Colorado steel mill, and the factory workers who feared they could have ties to Putin's war on Ukraine. A CNN investigation still to come.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[01:30:00]

VAUSE: Welcome back everyone. There are new images continuing to emerge of Russia's brutal occupation across parts of Ukraine including in town on the outskirts of the capital.

And again, a warning: these images are disturbing. And they appear to show the bodies of the town's mayor, her husband, son. The Ukrainian deputy prime minister told CNN earlier that they were brutally murdered by Russian forces. Some were showing signs of torture. All of them, shot in their head.

Ukraine's president is warning civilian casualties may be high in areas that have now been liberated from the Russians by Ukrainian forces.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): There is already information that the number of victims of the occupiers maybe even higher in the Borodyanka and some other liberated. In many villages of the liberated districts of the Kyiv, Chernihiv and Sumy regions, the occupiers that think that the locals are not seen even during the Nazi occupation 80 years ago. The occupiers will definitely bear responsibility for this.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: Strong words from the Ukrainian president who visited the town of Bucha. That's where the shocking images began to emerge on Friday. We ought to warn you now, there are more images coming, and they too are graphic.

Horrific scene out of Bucha where bodies of civilians can be seen lying in the street. That prompted a swift global response. Some nations are now expelling Russian diplomats where others are vowing further sanctions.

The British foreign secretary says Russia must be suspended from the U.N. Human Rights Council, following what which she called war crimes and says the U.K. is looking to step up sanctions as well.

We also heard from the president of the European parliament.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ROBERTA METSOLA, EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT PRESIDENT: We need to step up our strategy of making this illegal invasion the costliest mistake that the Kremlin has ever made. And the hit to Russia's economy must be proportionate to the unprecedented atrocities that we are seeing.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

VAUSE: The White House says more sanctions against Russia are coming this week. President Joe Biden calling for war crime charges against Russian President Vladimir Putin.

CNN's Phil Mattingly has details.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

PHIL MATTINGLY, CNN SENIOR WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT: President Biden, long before many of his closest advisors were willing to call Russian President Vladimir Putin a war criminal, did so himself. And as the horrors of the images of what took place in Bucha is beamed around the world, he wanted to underscore that point and make clear everything he has seen since has certainly proven that to be the case.

Take a listen.

JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: He is a war criminal. We have to gather all the details so this could be an actually have a war crime trial. This guy is brutal. And what is happening in Bucha is outrageous.

MATTINGLY: Biden's comments underscore a reality here, one in which U.S. officials are not willing to call what they've seen up to this point a genocide. This is a process. A lengthy one, a multilateral one, one in which the U.S. has engaged with the international community to collect, to process, to analyze information and intelligence for an eventual legal case.

When that case would actually come to pass, when anybody would actually go on trial, still very much an open question. Particularly, given the fact that the conflict is still very much ongoing.

It was something national security adviser Jake Sullivan laid out to the media that while Russia may be retreating from the suburbs of Kyiv. They are very much refocusing their efforts on the eastern part of the country. And it is not going to be a short process ahead.

In fact, Jake Sullivan said it could take months, and that, in his perspective underscored the reality of the moment. A reality where complacency simply, according to him, cannot be something that takes over with the west, with the U.S. and its key allies.

More sanctions, they will be deployed in the days ahead. More lethal assistance to Ukraine, humanitarian aid -- that will be coming as well. Jake Sullivan's point, the president's point, the U.S. perspective at this point in time, is that this is going to take a long time. And, while the Ukrainian military has certainly performed far above expectations better than anybody could've hoped for, this isn't ending anytime soon and with support from allies, the U.S., the E.U. and others is an absolute necessity at this point as Russia prepares to reengage in a major way in just a different part of the country.

Phil Mattingly, CNN -- the White House.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

VAUSE: American steel workers in Colorado are grappling with the fact that their company is linked to a powerful Russian oligarch, accused of supplying material for Putin's military.

CNN's Drew Griffin has our report.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DREW GRIFFIN, CNN, SENIOR INVESTIGATIVE CORRESPONDENT: It is an impressive sight, American steel being forged by 1,200 proud U.S. workers in a steel mill that's operated in Pueblo, Colorado for nearly 150 years.

Evraz Steel could not be a better symbol of American industrial resurgence except for one now gut-wrenching problem, it's Russian.

[01:34:56]

CHUCK PERKO, PRESIDENT, STEELWORKERS LOCAL 3267: We have that stigma of being a Russian owned company.

GRIFFIN: Two-thirds of all shares of this mill's parent company are owned by Kremlin-connected Russians. And its biggest shareholder is the oligarch, Roman Abramovich, who is closely allied with Vladimir Putin and has been sanctioned by the U.K., E.U. and Canada.

The British claimed the Abramovich is or has been involved in destabilizing Ukraine, via Evraz PLC, including potentially supplying steel to the Russian military which may have been used in the production of tanks. The company denies it.

But when Russia invaded Ukraine, U.S. Steel workers here in Pueblo woke up to a distasteful possibility that somehow, they are supporting Vladimir Putin in this.

DANIEL DURAN, STEELWORKERS LOCAL 3267: Hearing all this stuff, it's heartbreaking. And you know, (INAUDIBLE). I have my own kids and it makes it tough to sit there and see all the stuff going on.

GRIFFIN: Steel workers Daniel Duran, Rique Lucero and Chuck Perko (ph) are afraid of what might happen if Abramovich is sanctioned by the U.S.

RIQUE LUCERO, STEELWORKERS LOCAL 3267: It's just, the uncertainty, it's scary. It's a little scary. GRIFFIN: Uncertainly for your jobs.

LUCERO: For the jobs, yes

PERKO: I disdain what's going on over there but my company is not Abramovich's company in my eyes.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have to go through this door here.

GRIFFIN: David Ferryman is senior vice president of Evraz North America.

Do you consider this a Russian owned company?

DAVID FERRYMAN, SVP, EVRAZ NORTH AMERICA: I don't. We're headquartered, independent operation in Chicago. We have our own CEO. We have our own board of directors. We are based in London. Yes, the parent company has a large footprint in Russia.

GRIFFIN: That footprint includes a massive Russian business. Evraz 2021 report shows revenue of $14 billion and that 16 percent of the parent company's revenue is derived from the North American plants. Abramovich himself made $522 million from Evraz dividends last year.

Ferryman insists the revenues generated in Evraz Steel Mills across North America are reinvested in the company in North America.

So your position is that these are completely separate entities?

FERRYMAN: I'm not saying they're completely separate. Those earnings stay here in North America. They are invested into these facilities.

GRIFFIN: Technically, that may make sense to you.

But when we watch what's happening, there is a lot of people wondering how a Russian oligarch can invest in a U.S. steel mill and be making some money here while also playing footsie with Vladimir Putin?

FERRYMAN: I can't speak for that. What I can tell you is that we are about as American a company as it gets here in Pueblo. We have been here long hair that Colorado's been a state. We are really critical to our nation's infrastructure.

CASEY MICHEL, AUTHOR, "AMERICAN KLEPTOCRACY": The thing to remember is this is all connected.

GRIFFIN: Oligarch expert and author Casey Michel says there is no doubt Abramovich's money helps Putin. The E.U. said Abramovich is providing a substantial source of revenue to the government of the Russian Federation.

MICHEL: There is no such thing as an independent or apolitical oligarch. These parasitic figures that extracted wealth in Russia are now extracting wealth in the United States of America, all on behalf of a dictatorship in the Kremlin.

GRIFFIN: Exactly, says Ukrainians for Colorado president, Marina Dubrova.

MARINA DUBROVA, PRESIDENT, UKRAINIANS FOR COLORADO: It doesn't matter how many, what's the stakes he owns in that company. Any stakes, half percent, even one tenth of a percent, that portion has to be sold.

GRIFFIN: Union president, Chuck Perko agrees Abramovich should cell. To him, it's personal.

PERKO: I am the grandson of war refugees. The Russians came into my grandparents' farm in 1945 and told them you have one hour to leave.

It hurts a little bit, but there is enough of a disconnect for me that I can go to work and know that we are not funding that war effort. We are completely separate.

GRIFFIN: Despite U.K., EU, and Canadian sanctions against him so far, the United States has not touched Roman Abramovich.

DUBROVA: The United States is still ignoring the fact that civilians are being killed. Look at Mariupol, I mean how much more evidence does United States has to have to make a decision?

GRIFFIN: As for why the Biden administration has not yet sanctioned Abramovich, sources telling CNN's Phil Mattingly at the White House that treasury is looking at sanctions. But also trying to spare Evraz's U.S. plan so it doesn't damage anybody in the U.S. Economy particularly, those U.S. steel worker jobs.

Drew Griffin, CNN -- Chicago.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

[01:39:55]

VAUSE: I'll have a lot more from Ukraine at the top of the hour. But first I would like to bring in Rosemary Church. She is standing by at CNN World Headquarters in Atlanta.

It is a complicated world out there when you look at all the connections around the world with business, Russia and all this sort of stuff.

ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN ANCHOR: Yes, everyone play some sort of part in all of this.

Thank you so much, John, joining us from Lviv. We'll get back to you at the top of the hour.

Well, authorities in Spain have seized the yacht of a Russian oligarch at the request of the United States. On Monday, Spanish and American officials raided the vessel which belongs to Viktor Vekselberg. He is a close ally of Vladimir Putin and had been sanctioned by the U.S. over Russia's war on Ukraine.

The seizure of this yacht was the first one conducted by a U.S. task force which cracks down on sanction violators. And coming up, the war in Ukraine has given new urgency to Europe's transition to renewable energy as the continent tries to end it's reliance on Russian fossil fuels.

[01:41:01]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CHURCH: The southeastern U.S. is bracing for more severe weather. Storms are unfolding across the Southern Plains. Tornado watches have been issued for parts of Texas with dangerous weather threatening some 35 million people across the Gulf Coast.

Now, this will be the third straight week of severe storms for the region. And you are looking at the aftermath of a tornado that hit Arkansas last week.

A new U.N. report on climate change calls for the rapid phasing out of fossil fuels. But the report also showed there is a lack of political will to scale up the use of renewable energy. The U.N. secretary general is warning of the risks of doing nothing.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ANTONIO GUTERRES, UNITED NATIONS SECRETARY GENERAL: We are on a pathway to global warming of more than double 1.5 degree limit agreed in Paris. Some government and business leaders are saying one thing but doing another. Simply put, they are lying.

And, the result will be catastrophic. This is a climate emergency. Climate scientists warn that we are already perilously close to tipping points that could lead to cascading and irreversible climate impact.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHURCH: Meanwhile, the war in Ukraine has jump-started renewable energy efforts in the European Union as part of an effort to wean itself from Russian oil and natural gas. But experts say the United States is missing the opportunity to step up its own transition to renewable energy.

CNN's Rene Marsh has the story now from Washington.

RENE MARSH, CNN CORRESPONDENT: When Russia invaded Ukraine, it triggered what climate change warnings did not. It expedited Europe's plans for transitioning to renewable energy.

Since the invasion, Germany announced its speeding up wind and solar energy projects, France ended its gas heater subsidies, Italy is moving to build a six new wind farms, and the Netherlands is also ramping up offshore winds. All in an effort to end reliance on Russian oil and gas. The war giving an urgent push to Europe's clean energy transition. NIKOS TSAFOS, CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES: When there's a national security imperative, it's far easier to get consensus to spend money to push forward more dramatic changes.

MARSH: The Russian invasion, high gas prices, advancements in the renewable energy sector, and a climate crisis have all converged to create a moment for the green energy movement like never before.

Yet scientists and energy experts say the United States is in danger of missing this moment.

TSAFOS: Right now, Europe is leading and it's working faster than others. But obviously this is a global problem that we all need to be on the same page.

RACHEL CLEETUS, UNION OF CONCERNED SCIENTISTS: The United States is one of the leading contributors to heat tracking (ph) emissions and its actions are critical to meet global climate goals.

MARSH: The E.U. has adopted a climate law setting 2050 as the target date for zero emission. No such legislation has passed in the U.S. Biden's climate push in Build Back Better remains stymied by politics.

JENNIFER GRANHOLM, U.S. ENERGY SECRETARY: We are playing catch-up. There's no doubt about it. All of the infrastructure laws that were in the bipartisan infrastructure law, that are in hopefully the next version of what Congress will pass, these tax credits for clean energy and renewable energy, that has to be part of our strategy.

MARSH: An urgent new U.N.-backed climate change report released Monday calls for an immediate transition to renewable energy to avoid climate catastrophe.

TSAFOS: I'm really worried that the United States is going to miss this moment because there is no real consensus. And because there is no political consensus, we cannot have a big piece of legislation, which is what you really need if you are going to supercharge the transition.

MARSH: On Capitol Hill last week, lawmakers raised concern the U.S. also lacks in producing the critical minerals that power things like batteries for electric vehicles, a space China dominates.

SENATOR JOE MANCHIN (D-WV): What we have seen Russia do by weaponizing energy, I guarantee you China will do the same thing weaponizing critical minerals.

MARSH: Russia's aggression has set off the race for renewables in Europe. But the question remains, will the U.S. catch up?

Well, President Biden has taken what actions he can without Congress including last week when he invoked the Defense Production Act intended to jump-start the production of minerals needed to power renewables right here in the United States.

[01:49:45] MARSH: But that move alone can't spur the aggressive transition that this climate report is urgently calling for. So it comes down to a choice between political consensus for strong climate legislation or climate disaster.

Rene Marsh, CNN -- Washington.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CHURCH: Time for a short break now.

When we come back, college basketball has a new champion. The record- breaking come back and the exciting finish.

Stay with us.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CHURCH: Jayhawks fans are celebrating into the early morning in Lawrence, Kansas. The men's basketball team defeated the North Carolina Tarheels to claim their fourth college championship.

CNN's Andy Scholes is in New Orleans.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ANDY SCHOLES, CNN WORLD SPORT CORRESPONDENT: Well, the Final Four are coming to an end with yet another amazing emotional game, just full of the run (ph) and for the fourth time in their history, the Kansas Jayhawk's are national champions.

[01:54:51]

SCHOLES: But it certainly wasn't easy, North Carolina catching fire in their first half. Brady Manek (ph) making 3 threes. The Tarheels went on a 16-0 run, led by 15 at halftime.

But Kansas came storming back in the second half thanks to a 31 to 10 run. Then, they were down 1 with under 90 seconds left. And the Jayhawk's big man, David McCormack coming up huge with back to back buckets to give Kansas a three-point lead.

Tarheels had one last chance but they're three no good. Kansas celebrates an amazing comeback winning 72 to 69. It was the largest comeback in championship game history.

BILL SELF, KANSAS JAYHAWKS COACH: It is great for us. We played a terrific team. They played their butts off in the first half. We had no answer and then somehow the switch flipped to the second half and our guys were unbelievable.

SCHOLES: How happy are you, coming with that kind of a come back.

SELF: It would be unbelievable to win at all, but to win in that way, that would be one that not so many people forget very soon. SCHOLES: This is the first championship for Kansas since 2008. The second for head coach Bill Self. And he told me, he has coached a lot of talented teams over the years. But what set this group of players apart is how much they love and wanted to win for each other.

In New Orleans -- Andy Scholes, CNN.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

CHURCH: And thanks for spending part of your day with us.

I will be back later next hour. And our breaking news coverage continues with John Vause live in Lviv, Ukraine. that's next.

[01:56:25]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[02:00:00]

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220405ei45000b5


World news
European Commission launches rule-of-law disciplinary procedure against Hungary
Jon Henley Europe correspondent
629 字
2022 年 4 月 5 日 16:19 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2022. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
Viktor Orbán’s government faces sanction over rollback of democratic values and allegations of fraud

The European Commission has launched the bloc’s new rule-of-law disciplinary procedure for the first time against Hungary, two days after nationalist prime minister, Viktor Orbán, won a fourth landslide victory[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/03/viktor-orban-expected-to-win-big-majority-in-hungarian-general-election] in parliamentary elections.

Ursula von der Leyen, the commission president, told the European parliament[https://twitter.com/europressos/status/1511341025406722059] on Tuesday that Budapest had been informed of the decision and “we will now send the letter of formal notification to start the conditionality mechanism”.

The untested mechanism, designed to prevent EU funds from being misused by countries backsliding on the rule of law, was agreed by all 27 EU leaders in late 2020 and could ultimately deprive Budapest of more than €40bn of EU payments.

“It’s happening. Finally!” tweeted the German Green MEP[https://twitter.com/daniel_freund/status/1511341151151865876] Daniel Freund, a vocal critic of Orbán and of the commission’s reluctance to act on his democratic backsliding. Von de Leyen in particular had been accused of dragging her feet on the issue.

The move followed shock in Brussels after Orbán hit out at “opponents” – including “Brussels bureaucrats” but also Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy – in his victory speech, hours after horrific images emerged of atrocities in Bucha[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/03/eu-leaders-condemn-killing-of-unarmed-civilians-in-bucha-and-kyiv], near Kyiv.

Few in the EU offered their congratulations after the Hungarian prime minister’s win, which followed years of criticism he was undercutting liberal democratic rights and values, and accusations that he was using funds from the bloc to enrich his associates.

The Russian leader, Vladimir Putin, however, offered his congratulations to Orbán, a long-term Kremlin ally, on Monday, saying the “further development of a bilateral partnership fully accords to the interests of the peoples of Russia and Hungary”.

Prominent anti-EU politicians including Britain’s Nigel Farage, France’s Marine Le Pen and Italy’s Matteo Salvini were also quick to congratulate Orbán. “When the people vote, the people win,” tweeted Le Pen.

Even if it takes time to finalise internal work on the sanction, critics of the Orbán regime have said the commission’s decision alone could have a rapid impact, making it harder for Budapest to borrow money, for example.

Orbán, in power since 2010, has tightened the noose around academics, NGOs and the media, as well as restricting the freedoms of migrants and gay people. There have also been multiple allegations of EU funds being diverted to Orbán’s friends and family.

The European court of justice last month dismissed[https://www.theguardian.com/law/2022/feb/16/ecj-dismisses-hungary-poland-complaints-eu-rule-of-law-measure] complaints about the mechanism from Hungary and Poland, whose ruling Law and Justice party is in a long-running battle with Brussels over judicial independence, increasing pressure on the commission to act.

In a milestone in the battle for the rule of law in the EU, the bloc’s highest court rejected the countries’ cases [https://www.theguardian.com/law/2021/dec/02/ecj-adviser-backs-rule-of-law-measure-in-blow-to-poland-and-hungary] “in their entirety”, confirming that EU member states can be deprived of EU funds when they fail to meet democratic standards.

The EU’s values, such as the rule of law, “define the very identity of the European Union[https://www.theguardian.com/world/eu] as a legal order”, the court said. “Compliance with those values cannot be reduced to an obligation which a candidate state must meet in order to accede to the European Union and which it may disregard after accession.”

The law is intended to protect from fraud against the EU budget, rather than all rule-of-law violations. It won strong backing from governments in western Europe that are net payers into the EU budget.

But it was criticised by Hungary and Poland, both net recipients of EU funds, who have received billions of euros since joining the bloc in 2004 to improve public infrastructure, fund universities and support farmers.

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020220405ei450028p


Business
Orban's election victory is a disaster for Brussels
Tim Wallace; Louis Ashworth
1140 字
2022 年 4 月 6 日
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
8
英文
The Daily Telegraph © 2022. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Hungarian PM's win threatens to shatter Europe's united front against Vladimir Putin, write Tim Wallace and Louis Ashworth

As he celebrated winning his fourth consecutive term as Hungary's prime minister on Sunday night, Viktor Orbán crowed over those he had defeated.

"We never had so many opponents," he told supporters of his Right-wing Fidesz party in central Budapest. "Brussels bureaucrats, the international mainstream media and the Ukrainian president."

That Orbán singled out Volodymyr Zelensky speaks to how much the conflict on Europe's eastern border has already reshaped the Continent's geopolitical dynamics.

Orbán's close ties to Russian president Vladimir Putin and demiauthoritarian ruling style have long made him a thorn in the bloc's flank. But the war has left him a near pariah, while Zelensky garners hero status.

The 58-year-old strongman is unafraid to ruffle tensions with Europe's ruling powers. "We won so big you can see it from the moon, but certainly from Brussels as well," he said.

Europe's biggest powers may have hoped the election would mean the end for Orbán. Hungary's opposition parties, after being repeatedly routed since 2010, formed an electoral alliance called United for Hungary with the conservative mayor of Hodmezovasarhely, Péter Márki-Zay, at its helm.

Despite some polling leads, they fell short. It was a good opportunity in some ways, not least because of Hungary's disastrous handling of Covid: it has the fourth highest number of deaths per capita of any country after losing more than 45,000 people to the pandemic. Fidesz has launched a tough austerity programme as a consequence.

But the odds were stacked against the challengers. Over the past 12 years, Orbán has placed his thumb on the scale to bring about the system he calls "illiberal democracy": stuffing courts with sympathetic appointees, changing the constitution, gerrymandering electoral districts and eroding the free press.

According to Hungary Today, joint opposition leader Márki-Zay received just five minutes to speak on state-owned TV channel M1 during the entire campaign.

"These are not democratic elections, but they are competitive," says Daniel Hegedus, a fellow at the German Marshall Fund in Berlin.

Now, the EU faces years more with a member that is, if not actively hostile, determined to foil its plans, and more confident than ever.

"This election victory will be interpreted in Fidesz as very broad social support for the party's policies," Hegedus adds, pointing to crackdowns on LGBT+ people and minorities.

"Orbán will be especially selfconfident to ask the price of his co-operation at the EU level, for example for not blocking sanction decisions in the council."

Despite his strong hand in talks,

Orbán faces a difficult balancing act to maintain relations with Moscow while not leaving Hungary cut off from the lucrative benefits of EU membership.

Economically, Hungary has close ties to Russia in key markets. Last year it imported 92,000 barrels of oil a day from Russia, accounting for 43pc of its imports, according to the International Energy Agency.

Orbán has pushed back against demands to cut the supply, insisting "there won't be sanctions that would apply to gas or oil, so Hungary's energy supply is secure in the upcoming period".

But it also has small but important roles in Europe's oil supply and manufacturing industries. Erik Nielsen, global chief economist at UniCredit, says this may be why Angela Merkel, the former German chancellor, was so willing to tolerate Hungary's behaviour: "I am more than suspicious that a number of the major German corporates had lobbied her pretty heavily."

The closeness between Orbán and Putin, combined with Hungary's authoritarian stance on issues including media freedom and law and order, mean the nation is increasingly shunned by its EU partners.

Economist Mike O'Sullivan, author of The Levelling: What's Next After Globalisation, says the war has brought this contrast with European norms into focus. "Ukraine is forcing people to take sides, even more so given the atrocities that are going on. Across the EU there is now a sense we need to have even greater solidarity and vision and purpose," he says.

"Hungary is an embarrassment in many respects, and there are increasingly people who would be open to the whole debate on removing Hungary as a member, which would be quite an extreme measure."

"The EU will up the ante in terms of fines. He will now face increased pressure from other east European countries, most notably Poland. He has relied on an awkward squad of other eastern nations, but that relationship is now breaking down."

Poland is particularly important, often aligning with Budapest against Brussels. But the invasion of Ukraine has sharply changed attitudes in Warsaw. "Orbán has lost a fellow EU sceptic," says Nielsen.

Camino Mortera-Martinez, at the Centre for European Reform, says that the refusal of countries such as Germany to consider an oil embargo is shielding Orbán.

"But if, or rather when, public pressure becomes unsustainable for the German government in particular and there is a move towards a partial embargo of some sort, Orbán will have to stick his neck out," she says.

"The Poles are 100pc invested in stopping the war and imposing sanctions and doing everything they can to put pressure on Putin. That is their main goal right now, so they are unlikely to be patient or understanding with Orbán."

Other countries beyond the EU will also join in, he predicts, with financial consequences for a regime that is already cut off from some European funds due to disputes over Budapest's treatment of the rule of law.

Still, there is no clear legal path for removing an EU member, which means Brussels may have to live with Hungary in its midst for some time.

Hegedus says the EU now has the option of "acknowledging the fact that the existence of older practising member states is the new reality in the European Union".

He adds: "To some extent that will be a kind of realpolitik. To some extent, that would be a fatal disaster.

"Because that could mean practically the end of the European integration as an automatic, normative project based on democratic values and fundamental rights."

Even in full swagger, however, Orbán is unlikely to want to pick a big fight with Brussels.

"I don't think there's any real evidence of any small country being able to derail or stand up against something that major powers in the EU want to do," says Nielsen.

'There are people who would be open to the debate on removing Hungary as a member' 'We won so big you can see it from the moon, but certainly from Brussels as well'

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

文件 DT00000020220406ei460000j


Hungary for gas: Orban ready to pay in roubles
Nicholas Earl
267 字
2022 年 4 月 6 日 13:12 GMT
City AM Online
CITONL
英文
Copyright 2022. CITY AM.
Hungary is prepared to pay in roubles for Russian gas, confirmed Prime Minister Viktor Orban, despite the West's opposition to the move. The post Hungary for gas: Orban ready to pay in roubles appeared first on CityAM.

Hungary is prepared to pay in roubles for Russian gas, confirmed Prime Minister Viktor Orban.

The country has broken ranks with its Western allies, which have presented a united front against the Kremlin’s demand for rouble transactions.

Russian President Vladimir Putin has warned Europe it risks having gas supplies cut unless it pays in roubles.

The measure, which was signed into law last week, is considered to be a retaliatory move following Western sanctions.

It is also considered a way of sanction-proofing Gazprombank and boosting the value of the rouble.

Overseas buyers will now be required to open accounts at Gazprombank, which will convert payments from euros or dollars into roubles – before signing off on the transaction.

With weeks go to before bills are due, the European Commission has said contracts requiring payment in euros or dollars should stick.

The EU is also set to push through a ban on coal imports from Russia – a bold move considering half its imports come from the country.

It relies on Russia for around 40 per cent of its natural gas and around a third of its crude oil imports.

Read more

EU plans to seize Russian energy revenues as conflict escalates in Ukraine[https://www.cityam.com/eu-plans-to-seize-russian-energy-revenues-as-conflict-escalates-in-ukraine/]

The post Hungary for gas: Orban ready to pay in roubles[https://www.cityam.com/hungary-for-gas-orban-ready-to-pay-in-roubles/] appeared first on CityAM[https://www.cityam.com].

City AM Ltd

文件 CITONL0020220406ei46002mj


CE Noticias Financieras English
Orbán says he will not accept further energy sanctions against Russia and will pay for gas in rubles if Moscow asks for it
559 字
2022 年 4 月 6 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, has attacked the European Union on Wednesday for high energy prices and has been defiant and opposed to extending energy sanctions against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine. For the Hungarian Prime Minister, Brussels should suspend the mechanisms of payment for carbon dioxide emissions, a tool to fight climate change and global warming. At a press conference in Budapest, the far-right leader revealed that he has asked Russian President Vladimir Putin for a cease-fire in Ukraine and has offered Hungary as a scenario for peace negotiations.

Satisfied after his resounding electoral victory last Sunday, Orbán has claimed this Wednesday his ultra-right and national-populist ideology, a day after the European Commission announced its intention to activate the so-called conditionality mechanism to sanction Budapest for violating the basic values of the EU. "A party that believes in nation states has emerged strengthened from the elections," he said. "We believe that this idea is going to have a renaissance across Europe," he has assured. However, the populist leader has also indicated that he continues to see Hungary's future within the European Union and NATO.

The Hungarian Prime Minister, Putin's traditional ally within the European Union, explained that Hungary would have no problem paying for Russian gas in rubles, as the Russian leader has demanded and as both the G-7 and the vast majority of European countries have rejected. In any case, he has shown himself to be against establishing new economic sanctions against Russian gas or oil. Instead, he has advocated eliminating taxes on carbon dioxide emissions. "If the EU cannot control energy price rises, we may need a wind tax," the populist has ironized.

The ultra-nationalist leader has pointed out that he has spoken this Wednesday with Putin - in a call made by the Russian leader himself - and has asked him for an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine. He has also offered his country as a venue for direct talks between Putin, Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky, French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz.

According to Orbán, Putin has reacted "positively" to the invitation. "The response was positive, but the Russian president has said that he has his conditions. I cannot negotiate to meet those conditions, it must be him and the Ukrainian president who agree on them," he noted.

Last Sunday, Orbán won his fifth election in Hungary - the fourth in a row - and, in the aftermath, he launched messages against European institutions and their founding values. "We have had a big victory. So big that it can be seen from the moon, and certainly from Brussels," the 58-year-old ultra-conservative proclaimed. In the same message to his supporters he gave a review of those he considers his opponents at the moment: "We will remember this victory until the end of our lives because we had to fight against a lot of opponents: the local left, the international left, the Brussels bureaucrats, all the money and institutions of the Soros empire, the main international media and the Ukrainian president as well."

Follow all the international information on Facebook and Twitter, or in our weekly newsletter.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220406ei46007i5


MEPs urge EU states, commission to act now on Hungary
Eszter Zalan
754 字
2022 年 4 月 6 日
EUobserver.com
EUSERCOM
英文
© 2022, EUobserver.com, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
MEPs on Wednesday (6 April) called on the EU Commission and the governments to do more to sanction Hungary for democratic backsliding amid concerns over prime minister Viktor Orbán's pro-Russian stance.

European lawmakers discussed Hungary and Poland — both under an EU sanctions probe, the so-called Article 7 procedure.

The MEPs called on member states to move forward with the procedure, which could result in suspending voting rights of the two member countries. The procedure has been stuck for years[https://euobserver.com/law/152211] in the council of member states.

MEPs were calling for more action on Hungary, where Orbán — the closest EU ally of Russian president Vladimir Putin — had won a fourth consecutive two-thirds parliamentary majority last Sunday.

"At the moment when Ukrainians are fighting and dying for democracy, freedom and rule of law, it would be cynical to turn a blind eye to the attack on the very same values at home," Dutch MEP Jeroen Lenaers from the centre-right European People's Party (EPP) said, referring to concerns over democratic backsliding in Hungary.

"Putin's Russia should be a stark warning to all of us, about the dangers of a system, where checks and balances, democracy and rule of law have ceased to exist," he argued.

The debate came a day after EU Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said that the executive will launch the probe[https://euobserver.com/law/154672] against Hungary that could result in suspending EU funds for the country because of concerns of fraud and corruption. It is a separate procedure to the Article 7 investigation.

Slovak liberal MEP Michal Šimečka said the commission took 459 days to trigger the so-called conditionality mechanism, arguing that the delay was never about procedural issues.

"It is about the massive, toxic influence of one non-democratic leader on the entire EU political system poisoning everything from values to energy policy to foreign policy choices," he said.

"Orban's Hungary is not a local problem," Šimečka said, and called for "robust EU action", blocking funds, moving forward with the Article 7 procedure and suspending voting rights in the council of member states.

'Dithering must end now'

"Dithering over EU values is what has brought us here, and it must end now," he said.

French Green MEP Gwendoline Delbos-Corfield criticised member states for dragging their feet on the Article 7 procedure.

She said the EU countries need to move onto the next stage in the procedure, and need to move towards unprecedented sanctions.

"Inaction to the EU has given legitimacy to this autocracy, and provided it with funds," she said.

Member states will be holding a hearing on Hungary on 30 May.

Hungarian MEP Balázs Hidvéghi from Orbán's Fidesz party called on MEPs to stop what he described as their "ideological jihad" against the Orbán government and respect the vote on Hungarians.

The commission will be sending a letter to notify the Orbán government of the conditionality procedure, but the college of commissioners still needs to greenlight the decision to send that letter.

Asked why the commission decided to launch the mechanism two days after Orbán had won the general election even though the corruption concerns had been persistent before the Sunday vote, the commission pointed to procedural reasons.

"We have always said we would move forward with the process, when we had finished our internal work," commission spokesperson Eric Mamer said.

Orbán said on Wednesday he had not yet received the letter from the commission, and claimed the commission cannot suspend funds.

"The famous procedure is about the recovery fund, if anybody spends money from that illegally it can be taken back. We never got any money from it, there was no way we could misuse the funds from the recovery fund," he said.

Orban: No weapons for Ukraine

However, contrary to Orbán's statement, the rules on the conditionality mechanism cover the EU budget itself as well.[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ALL/?uri=CELEX%3A32020R2092]

The commission has not approved the recovery fund for Hungary and Poland over concerns of judicial independence and democratic backsliding. But that is a different, parallel procedure.

"Whatever is written in that letter, Hungary is not going to be delivering weapons to the Ukraine," Orbán said, adding that Hungary "will not succumb to any pressure" neither to expand sanctions on energy, nor on conceding on the gender issues.

Orbán's government has been claiming that the commission does not approve the recovery fund because Budapest had approved several laws that discriminate[https://euobserver.com/law/152253] against LGBTI people.

EUobserver.com ASBL

文件 EUSERCOM20220406ei46000jh


Magyarország Miniszterelnoke - Best result of all time scored
Magyarország Miniszterelnoke published this content on 07 Apr 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 07 Apr 2022 06:18:22 UTC.
4513 字
2022 年 4 月 7 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/FF05197ECFEAC7BB97754EE59C041DE2C01D0008]

Best result of all time scored

On Wednesday, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán described the Sunday election result as the best of all time, stressing that the government parties continue to believe in the nation state, and envisage the future of Hungary within the EU and NATO. At an international press conference held at the Carmelite Monastery, the Prime Minister also told members of the press in connection with the war between Russia and Ukraine that he had proposed an immediate ceasefire to Russian President Vladimir Putin.

The Prime Minister-President of Fidesz began his press conference lasting for almost two hours by stating that never before since the fall of communism had a single party received this many votes. The number of votes cast for Fidesz-KDNP amounted to 54 per cent of the total number of votes cast, and with this Fidesz-KDNP obtained more than two thirds of the mandates in Parliament.

He took the view that this result was owing to three facts: the first that the Hungarian people wanted peace, and as there is a war under way in a neighbouring country, they voted for the parties that offered the greatest guarantee of peace.

He recalled that "we already began our peace mission before the elections and before the war," he paid a visit to Moscow at the beginning of February. Three leaders tried to keep peace, in addition to him, the leaders of Germany and France, but "regrettably, none of us succeeded," he reiterated. He observed that he said for the first time in his state of the nation address that Hungary must insist on peace.

He said the second circumstance that may have contributed to the election success was that Hungary is a successful country, today Europe's two most successful countries are Poland and Hungary. It is in these two countries that economic growth is the highest, unemployment is the lowest and the percentage of family support is the highest, and in the past twelve years, Hungary has implemented the greatest tax reductions, he listed.

According to Mr Orbán, the third circumstance is that the opponent was a coalition forged only for power which is fundamentally disrespectful towards members of the electorate. It was disrespectful to announce in advance that "we're not concerned with our past, we're not concerned with our programme, we're not concerned with ideologies, whether they're compatible or not; we're only concerned with one thing: how to win the elections," he said.

He took the view that by contrast they represented a programme of the heart and passion in the campaign.

He stated that the worst example of disdain and insult hurled at electors was "when they even announced that in the struggle for power, it is even OK for Fascists and communists to find their place within this coalition forged for power alone, that in fact it's even OK for them to preserve their own ideological inclinations".

He said the vision of the parties that won the elections and the government of Europe and the future is unchanged as they believe in the nation state, and envisage the future of Hungary within the European Union and NATO.

With some simplification, our view of the world goes like this: calamities are of a global nature. These include mass migration, pandemics and also wars, and the effective and swift responses are always national and local. Therefore, we continue to believe in the nation states, he said, adding that they also believe that this notion will have a renaissance in the whole of Europe as well.

The other pillar of the vision is for Hungary to strengthen its alliances. We continue to envisage the future of Hungary within the European Union and want to take an active part in the shaping of the European Union of the future, he indicated, adding that we are a Member State of NATO, we will remain a Member State of NATO, and want to build an army that is much stronger than it is at present. With this, we also strengthen NATO.

Among the urgent tasks in hand, the Prime Minister mentioned the brokering of peace as the number one priority. He added that the first step on the way that leads to peace is a ceasefire, to be followed by a European peace conference. In his view, this must take place as soon as possible because the war is becoming "ever more brutal," and he is concerned that unless we manage to urgently broker a ceasefire, there will be much more suffering in that part of the world, and additionally, all the suffering and trouble will move ever closer to the interior of Europe.

He also stated that we need immediate action on the part of Brussels due to the issue of high energy prices. He highlighted that the Hungarian party had already made proposals regarding this. He recommended that while the war lasts - and due to this, energy prices are higher as a matter of course - all administrative rules resulting in an increase in prices should be suspended, "it doesn't matter for what reason we introduced them".

He mentioned the complex rules relating to the taxation of fossil energy sources, and the regulation that connects the price of electricity to the price of gas. The regulation that requires fuel to be mixed with biofuel should also be suspended.

He is of the opinion that a serious economic crisis is unfolding, and there are multiple reasons for this, but in his view the most important one is the set of sanctions imposed on Russia. "We will pay the price for that," he said.

We must prepare for the management of this European economic crisis, he stressed, adding that "we are capable of that, we will do everything we can to protect Hungarian families".

Mr Orbán further told members of the press that on Wednesday he had spoken to Russian President Vladimir Putin to whom he had suggested an immediate ceasefire in the war between Russia and Ukraine. He also suggested to the Russian President that he, the Ukrainian and French Presidents and the German Chancellor should come to Budapest - the sooner the better - and hold a meeting. Reaching an agreement on an immediate ceasefire would be the sole purpose of this meeting, he said.

He added that the Russian President's response was positive, but he said there are conditions on which he must agree with the Ukrainian President.

Mr Orbán, who by his account spoke to Vladimir Putin at length, took the view that Hungary is a country in a special situation, it is situated at the Eastern border of the Western world, this is "a border region".

He added that the country has its own experience from 1956, we know full well what wars are like, in this part of the world occupation is not a rare occurrence.

In his view, Hungary is in a tie with the Poles in this race, but may well overtake them in the competition of who was occupied longest in the last one thousand years.

"We understand this thing that's going on here, and we know that wars never end the way they started; they become ever more brutal with the passsage of time," he said, indicating that this is why he suggested to President Putin that they agree on an immediate ceasefire.

The Prime Minister said Hungary is so "immovable" on the issue of peace because more than 200,000 Hungarians live in Transcarpathia, and Hungary has primary responsibility for their lives.

In answer to a question, he confirmed that among others, Russian President Putin, former US President Trump and Turkish President Erdogan phoned him up to congratulate him.

In answer to the question as to which party he would describe as the aggressor in the Ukraine-Russia war and what his thoughts are on the atrocities that took place in Ukraine, the Prime Minister said this is a war that was started by the Russians, they attacked Ukraine, this is an act of aggression. He added that this is the European Union's common position, and Hungary is a part of that. In connection with the atrocities he urged an independent and impartial investigation. He indicated that on Tuesday he spoke about this at length to the Turkish President who also urged this. He stressed that civilians must be protected under any circumstances, any atrocities committed against them must be firmly condemned.

Answering another question, he warned at the same time that "we should have no illusions" as Russia and the United States of America never recognised the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice in the Hague.

Regarding his conversation with the Russian President and whether Putin asked Hungary to veto EU sanctions related to gas and oil, the Prime Minister said the Russians are aware of the present situation, the fact that Hungary as a member of NATO and EU is in opposition to Russia. This is how we speak to each other, they know that full well, he stressed, adding that this is why the Russians will never ask anything of him. He said they had built a well-functioning system of relations with the Russians which was now falling apart. They are now making attempts to salvage this, but it may well be that the sanctions and "the pressure of the West" will be so ferocious that it will come to nothing.

In answer to another question, he described Hungarian-Russian relations as fair, stating that in the past 12 years "the Russians have never once cheated us and we have never once cheated the Russians".

He said if requested by the Russians, having to pay Russia in roubles for the gas imported will not cause Hungary any particular difficulty.

He said 2008 was an important dividing line in Russia policy, that was when the West decided that they did not want to admit either Georgia or Ukraine to NATO. This created a new borderline between Russia and NATO. Now, they are on the verge of abandoning the old Russia policy, but there is no new policy yet, there is no way of knowing what the new European security system will be like, he explained, adding that we must monitor and analyse the situation, and must adapt to the new situation; until then, they will try to salvage whatever they can.

He also highlighted that Hungary is not planning to expel any Russian diplomats, and believes that planning in this regard is not wise. When we have a reason, we will, he stated. In his view, Hungary is defending its interests well not only against Russia, but also against everyone else as well. Hungary will not expel anyone as part of political campaigns, he said. Regarding the expulsions announced in other European states, he said each to his own.

He observed that the Russians are in the minority in the International Investment Bank, but regardless of this, they would like to keep the institution in Budapest.

He said at present in the case of gas the question is not how much it costs, but whether there is any. The essence of a long-term agreement is not to gain a profit, but to secure supply, he explained.

In answer to the question as to whether in a protracted war in Ukraine, in the event of the collapse of the Ukrainian State, Hungary would protect the Hungarian minority living in the territory of Ukraine, the Prime Minister said Hungary is a member of NATO, "without a NATO decision we're not leaving the territory of NATO".

Mr Orbán was asked about whether he believed in the renaissance of the Ukrainian nation state. He said Ukraine exists, we know them, they are Hungary's neighbour. They are defending their country, fighting hard. He does not find this surprising, he observed, as he always thought that the Ukrainians were good soldiers.

In response to a question about his "battle of words" with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy, he said while in a war it is not topical to talk about this at length, in the past few years the Hungarians had been attacked many times in Ukraine, and this was something that had overshadowed relations between the two countries. However, an intelligent Christian country does not bring this up at a time like this as they are in trouble.

It is indeed a threat that the maltreatment of Hungarians before the war and the war itself will have pushed many Hungarians from their ancient land to Hungary. "This is a great loss for us Hungarians, a great loss for Ukraine and a great loss for European culture as a whole. We'll see what we can do," he said.

He was asked about whether what he said about Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Sunday night he would approve of in hindsight, Mr Orbán said the Ukrainain President has a bad habit, the habit of wanting to tell everyone what to do. "I think one would do well to give up this habit, especially if one is asking for help," he added.

Regarding the Paks project, Mr Orbán said Hungary does not agree with the sanctions in general, but as the EU's unity is important, they accept the sanctions as long as they do not violate Hungary's existential interests. For the time being, not a single element of the issue of nuclear energy is featured in any EU sanction proposals, and so the project can continue on the basis of the agreements concluded earlier, he pointed out.

He observed that the project had been attacked many times, and these attacks had caused a lot of damage. Without these, the power station could have been commissioned as early as in 2023, and the present energy crisis would have been received much more lightly.

In his view, there are a few issues such as the no-fly zone and the extension of the sanctions to energy carriers which are causing difficulties in Polish-Hungarian relations, but these are not important because the Polish-Hungarian and the Visegrád cooperation is not a geopolitical alliance, it was not formed in order to have a common foreign policy, but in order for the countries of Central Europe to represent their interests more effectively within the EU. Regarding the latter, cooperation is intact, he said.

Mr Orbán was also asked about the institution of the rule of law procedure. In this regard, he pointed out that the number one priority is to reinforce alliance with Poland. "You can't stay on your feet in such a storm on your own, or maybe you can, who knows? Either way it's best not to try," he said.

He stated that with the Poles they are in a mutual defence alliance, they will not allow either of them to be shut out of the European decision-making system. He observed that even if their views on foreign policy are different on a number of issues, the Polish-Hungarian alliance must be operated in the area where it can be the most successful, and that is the issue of self-defence within the EU.

He indicated that he had not yet seen the letter about the institution of the procedure, and he did not quite understand the whole situation. He said Hungary has not yet received "a penny" of the recovery fund, and so we have not even had a chance to spend it irregularly.

He stated at the same time that whatever the letter says, Hungary will not send weapons to Ukraine, and will not yield to any pressure that would seek to extend the sanctions against Russia to gas and oil. Neither will they accept any compromise "on the gender issue".

He also highlighted that the decisions of the European Commission and the European Parliament are regularly driven by left-wing political motivations. These are not fair, lawful and neutral, but politically motivated decisions, he added.

According to the Prime Minister, Hungary belongs to the minority within the EU which believes in the nation states, is conservative and Christian democratic, and so left-wing formations are trying to help "their Hungarian comrades," the Hungarian Left in every institution of the EU. The EU is facing momentous decisions, these cannot be adopted without Hungary, and "we won't be humble losers," he said.

In answer to a question, Mr Orbán said whether he will form a new alliance in the European Parliament will depend on the outcome of the elections in France.

The Prime Minister was asked several questions about internal political affairs. Commenting on the fact that the opposition's plan to unite failed, he said he himself had lost elections plenty of times, and so he understood what was going on on the other side. "I was in opposition for 16 years, and have been in government 16 years, […] I have worked for thirty-two years to tip the balance to the positive," he remarked.

He advised the opposition to evaluate their defeat, to stand back upon their feet and "to pull themselves together" because Hungary needs a Parliament in which there are voices other than the voice of the government. He added that in politics he had learnt that without competition there was no performance; therefore, "it would be in all our best interests" if there were high-quality, meaningful debates about serious issues in Hungarian politics in the future. "For this, you also need an opposition, and I wish them all the very best; I'm not saying may they win the next elections, but they should somehow pull themselves together," he said.

Regarding the fact that the opposition's candidate for prime minister delivered a speech after the defeat in front of his family, Mr Orbán said "success has many mothers, while failure is always an orphan, and if you're an orphan, then you have to stand there on your own. That's the way it is." As for Jobbik, he was of the opinion that from the viewpoint of the electorate, it was disrespectful of Jobbik to combine forces with "Gyurcsány's party".

In answer to a question about DK President Ferenc Gyurcsány's role in the Left's election defeat, he said "a lack of honesty never leads to anything good". "If you are the strongest man, you can't hide that, you can't cover that up with cunning," he said, adding in continuation that people must not be looked down on because they know full well who is the boss.

Concerning Fidesz's results in Budapest, he took the view that based on the numbers they had consolidated their positions, in 2018 their level of support had been significantly lower, and so in his mind these results were positive. Regarding the fact that the party Mi Hazánk has been elected into Parliament, he said "something has grown out" of the place where Jobbik once used to be, but it is certain that in Hungary there is zero tolerance as regards anti-Semitism.

In the context of Hungary's division, he said "after the elections, the victor owes responsibility for what is called 'the reunification of the nation'". In his view, this can be achieved with topics that cross party boundaries. He regards the gender issue as an issue that is capable of reuniting the nation, he said, as in the referendum more people said no to the questions asked than people who voted for Fidesz, but the issue of family support is another such question as well.

He added that in order to create an agreement moving towards national unity, we should also acquire the culture of peaceful disagreement.

Quoting Churchill in answer to a question about what message he has for those who did not vote for him, he said "success is not final; failure is not fatal".

In answer to a question about the congratulations he received after the election results, Mr Orbán said "we have our friends," and it is a ridiculous assumption that an EU and NATO Member State could be isolated.

Answering a question about future government measures, among the most important tasks Mr Orbán mentioned the preservation of financial stability because, he said, "if there is no success, you won't survive". At the same time, a continued goal is for the growth of the Hungarian economy to exceed the average of the EU. Meanwhile, the government would also like to take steps in order to achieve a demographic turnaround, he said, summarising the goals for the future, stressing that they will continue on the same path that they have followed to date.

The plan is to extend the family support system, but as to when this could take place in the present European economic situation requires some analysis, Mr Orbán said in answer to a question. Another question was about the continuation of the projects in Városliget. The Prime Minister said this question had been decided by the elections, meaning that the developments will be implemented as originally decided.

In answer to a question about the formation of the next government, he said after every election there were major reshuffles, and the reason for this is that we must understand which questions Hungary will face in the next four years. From these, they must draw conclusions regarding the structure of government and the types of leaders that will be required.

He recalled that the new parliament will have to be formed by 3 May; it is there that the Prime Minister will be asked to form a government. "The law doesn't require that the president of the winning party is to be asked to form a government, but I have high hopes," he said.

He added that the formation of a new government could not be concluded any earlier than before the end of May.

He said it was not out of the question that János Lázár, the winner of the Hódmezővásárhely constituency could return to the government, and that he could be tasked with raising Hungarian ownership in retail chains to above fifty per cent. In answer to the question as to whether Péter Szijjártó will remain Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Prime Minister said he would like him to stay, it all depends on Mr Szijjártó's decision.

In answer to the question as to whether the government will maintain the cap on fuel prices and interest rates, the Prime Minister said the cabinet will do everything it can to protect people and families from price rises. These measures will remain in effect until the end of the set time limits, but the goal is to maintain them as long as possible, he stated. They are already conducting negotiations about this, and will continue talks with fuel traders, banks, food producers and retailers. He believes there is also scope for maintaining the reduction of household energy bills, he replied.

He rendered the maintenance of the reduction of household energy bills dependent on the rate of the country's economic growth. He added that in the EU they would like to achieve the suspension of the ETS system, the elimination of the requirement of mixing biofuel with fuel, and the separation of the price of electricity from the price of gas; then "we will be able to defend the reduction of household energy bills".

According to Mr Orbán, if Hungary is able to implement its project in Paks and the use of solar energy increases as planned, then by 2030 the Hungarian economy's gas requirement will fall to around 10 per cent.

He also confirmed that the government regards the country's financial stability as a key priority, and that they will always preserve it. He recalled that the government reduced the deficit of the budget and the sovereign debt even during the period of the election campaign. He took the view that the situation of the Hungarian economy will depend on the extent of the European crisis.

In answer to a question, he ruled out the introduction of austerity measures by the government, and also stated that they will not raise the taxes members of the public are required to pay. At the same time, in his view, as to whether the need will emerge for the levying of special taxes on multinational companies or others, similar to 2010, depends on whether the EU will be able to curb the increase of energy prices. These could raise funds for an economic policy that protects families, he underlined.

Regarding EU funds, Mr Orbán said Hungary has funds other than the funds from the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) at its disposal because the country is in a good economic state, is able to raise funds in large quantities from the money markets, and so we can rule out a scenario in which Hungary is left without money.

In the context of the pay rise of teachers, he said, they will be able to implement the 10 per cent rises promised for this year, next year and the year after. According to the Prime Minister, teachers are right finding this insufficient, but whether the government will be able to raise salaries above that rate will depend on the performance of the economy.

He added that as a matter of principle he does not agree with solutions in economics which tie the wages in any state sector to the minimum wage because they only have partial control over the development of the minimum wage, and they do not want to expose state finances.

He said while in a legal sense the child protection referendum did not bring about a binding result, Hungarians had never before been as united on any one issue as they were on this one. There is a clear political obligation concerning the referendum, he pointed out.

Regarding the hacking of the servers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, he said all Hungarian ministries are under continual attack, from multiple directions. We are defending ourselves on an ongoing basis, he stressed, observing at the same time that he sees nothing extraordinary about this.

In answer to a question about campaign spending, he highlighted that the Hungarian laws lay down how much can be spent and how, those rules must be observed, the State Audit Office will compile a report which will be debated by Parliament, and after that members of the public will have access to the numbers.

* Original Link[https://miniszterelnok.hu/best-result-of-all-time-scored/]

Disclaimer

Prime Minister of Hungary published this content on 07 April 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 07 April 2022 06:19:10 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020220407ei47003jt


'It will kill us' Orban leads EU revolt as FIVE states furious over new Russia sanctions
Jacob Paul
736 字
2022 年 4 月 7 日 15:00 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
HUNGARIAN President Viktor Orban has broken EU ranks and is leading a revolt against EU sanctions as the bloc eyes tougher punishments against Russia's brutal Ukraine invasion.

Mr Orban, who has just been re-elected to serve a fourth presidential term, has stressed that blocking Russia’s oil and gas imports are a “red line” as it would “kill Hungary”. Part of his presidential campaign, which took him to victory on Sunday, was based on a pledge to maintain the security of gas supply for households. Orban has also kept up close business relations with Moscow for over a decade.

Related articles

But Hungary is not the only one pushing back on EU calls to sanction Russia’s oil and gas.

Also not too keen on banning Russian imports are Austria, Italy and the Netherlands, who all fear that the move would cause chaos to their economies and energy security.

Germany, while changing its tone in recent weeks, has raised the alarm over slashing ties with Putin as 40 percent of its gas comes from Russia.

The bloc has been slower than its Western counterparts to target Russia’s energy sector with sanctions, likely due to its huge dependence on the country’s fossil fuels.

Up to a third of its gas is supplied by Russia, and it also handed Putin a staggering €48.5billion for crude oil imports in 2021, and €22.5billion of petroleum oils other than crude.

Who could replace Vladimir Putin? The four potential successors to Russian presidentVladimir Putin has incensed international and Russian communities since February, with his bloody invasion of Ukraine having killed thousands and courted extensive western sanctions.

Express.co.uk takes a look at the four key candidates who could step up to replace Putin if needed.

But after Russia was accused of committing war crimes in Bucha, on the outskirts of Kyiv, the EU looks poised to come down much tougher on Russia’s energy sector.

It is still facing pushback from rebel members though.

On Tuesday, Germany, Austria and Hungary managed to exempt oil from a sanction package after arguing including it would ramp up inflation.

But European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has now promised that Brussels is “working on additional sanctions, including on oil imports".

Hungary's Secretary of State for international communication Zoltan Kovacs told Express.co.uk: "This is a red line for us.

READ MORE: Putin's plot to hold Germany to ransom could end in disaster

"As a matter of fact, we see so many words and claims out there, which try to suggest that this is possible.

"But everybody knows that what they are suggesting by embargo and sanction policies regarding energy cannot be done.

"In the case of Hungary, that would mean an immediate collapse of the Hungarian economy, basically, and certainly would endanger the Hungarian population.”

The Hungarian President also said on Wednesday that he is willing to pay for Russia’s gas in rubles after Putin demanded that “unfriendly” countries purchase supplies in the Russian currency.

This is despite a number of EU members, including France and Germany, rejecting Putin’s demand and called out the Russian leader for using “blackmail”.

DON'T MISS

US reveals hypersonic missile test, risks escalating Russia tension [REVEAL]

Putin threatens to STARVE Germany in horror retaliation to measures [INSIGHT]

EU unleashes legal fury – Portugal sued over radiation failure [REPORT]

Related articles

Germany even said it was ready to ration gas instead of giving into the request.

But Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said gas contracts were between his country and Russia, warning the bloc to keep out of the deal that it has “no role” in.

It comes after Putin warned that he would cut off gas from countries that refused his request.

After setting an April 1 deadline, Putin said last week: “If such payments aren’t made, we will consider this a failure by the client to comply with its obligations.”

But he has allowed European buyers to continue purchasing gas in euros and dollars, downplaying the threat to cut off supplies.

Related articles UK's energy industry 'is booming' as £300m 'mammoth' factory unveiled The deadly weapons UK could send to Ukraine to end Putin's invasion 'What a legacy for Merkel' Germany humiliated as Russia sanctions fail

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220407ei47002k5


The Ukraine Crisis: EU Keeps Russian Oil, Gas Flowing --- Germany resists key energy boycott as allegations grow of Ukraine civilian killings
By Laurence Norman and Bojan Pancevski
844 字
2022 年 4 月 7 日
The Wall Street Journal
J
A7
英文
Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Six weeks after Russia invaded Ukraine, the European Union is taking its first steps to reduce Russian energy imports, depriving Moscow of some of the revenue that covers much of its budget and helps fund its military campaign.

But the EU can't agree to sanction the bloc's biggest business dealings with Russia: the purchase of oil and natural gas. The EU, which imports about 60% of its energy needs, is making large payments to Russia, boosted by higher oil-and-gas prices during the war.

The EU's foreign-policy chief, Josep Borrell, said Wednesday that since the invasion, the bloc's 27 member states had made energy payments worth roughly 35 billion euros, equivalent to about $38 billion, to Russia.

EU member states Wednesday backed Brussels's latest proposal for banning Russian coal imports; formal approval is expected by Friday. Before this year, such sales amounted to around 4 billion euros annually.

EU officials and some member countries also are urging steps to slash oil imports from Russia, but those proposals continue to face resistance from Germany and some other countries, diplomats say.

Meanwhile, the U.S. and U.K. on Wednesday unveiled more sanctions. White House officials said the U.S. is implementing full blocking sanctions on Russia's largest financial institution, Sberbank, and its biggest private bank, Alfa Bank, as well as expanding other economic sanctions.

The U.S. actions include sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin's two adult daughters, Maria Putina and Katerina Tikhonova, as well as the wife and daughter of Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and members of Russia's security council, including former President and Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev and Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin. The actions cut them off from the U.S. financial system and freeze assets they hold in the U.S., the White House said. Most of these individuals also have been sanctioned by the EU.

The U.S. and European sanctions are crippling Russia's economy but need time to take fuller effect, White House National Economic Council director Brian Deese said Wednesday. "We need to have patience and perspective when it comes to the impacts on Russia," he said.

The U.K., which isn't an EU member, said that it also is freezing Sberbank's assets and banning outward investment in Russia, among other measures.

Berlin says sanctioning oil or gas would harm the EU's economy more than Mr. Putin's ability to wage war, according to officials. The EU imports about three million barrels of Russian oil daily, says the International Energy Agency. Russian gas accounted for 40% of the bloc's gas imports last year, the European Commission says.

Pressure on the EU to reduce its Russian energy imports has intensified following accusations by Ukraine and independent observers that Russian troops have killed hundreds of civilians in occupied parts of Ukraine. Moscow has denied responsibility.

Calls from Poland, the Baltic countries and others for the EU to stop buying Russian gas have encountered opposition from Germany, Hungary and Austria. Berlin has publicly warned of mass unemployment and poverty in Europe's biggest economy if its industries and households must forgo Russian gas.

The German government has set out plans to end its need for Russian oil imports by the end of this year and to stop Russian gas imports by 2024. It aims to expand the use of renewable energy and replace the entire Russian supply of gas with deliveries from elsewhere, including liquefied natural-gas shipments from the U.S., Qatar and other exporters.

That hasn't satisfied other EU governments or Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who has called on Germany to act faster.

On Wednesday, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said he would be willing to pay for Russian natural gas in rubles, a move that would help Moscow sustain its currency's trading value.

British Foreign Minister Liz Truss said the U.K. wants to at least agree to a timetable for ending Russian energy imports among the Group of Seven major economies North Atlantic Treaty Organization members. The U.K. says it would end imports of Russian coal and oil by the end of 2022.

Some EU countries have proposed reducing oil purchases without a full embargo. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said Tuesday that the EU's executive arm is working on proposals regarding oil.

One idea is to place a large tariff on Russian oil imports to curb EU demand. However, the proposal could prove politically difficult among European governments facing pressure from consumers and businesses over already high energy prices.

Ms. von der Leyen said the EU is considering a way of making at least some of its energy payments into an escrow account, effectively freezing some of Russia's energy revenues abroad. However, Russia has warned it would stop supplying energy if it can't access payments for it.

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 J000000020220407ei4700013


EXPLAINER-What will the EU do about Hungary's Orban?
826 字
2022 年 4 月 8 日 10:59 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS, April 8 (Reuters) - Emboldened by his landslide electoral victory, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has raised the stakes in his many fights with the European Union - ranging from liberal democratic rights to ties with Russia as it wages war on Ukraine.

Breaking ranks with the EU, which seeks a unified front in opposing Moscow's demand for rouble gas payments, the 58-year old nationalist said Budapest could pay in Russian currency.

Here is what is at stake in the battles between the 27-nation EU and Orban, what the bloc is going to do next, and how long it will take.

WHAT'S THE PROBLEM?

In presenting plans for his new term, Orban said Budapest would not change its stance on gender issues despite EU criticism that he has restricted the rights of gays.

In 12 years in power, Orban has also tightened restrictions around media, academics, political opposition, NGOs and migrants - such policies flying into the face of the liberal democratic tenets of the EU.

The U.S. rights advocacy Freedom House classifies Hungary as "partly free", the only EU country failing below the "free" score but polling at par with Ukraine, Tunisia and India.

Transparency International ranks Hungary 73rd out of 180 countries globally on its Corruption Perceptions Index, with Bulgaria being the only EU country falling behind.

The Organization of Security and Cooperation in Europe said the Apr.3 vote was free but not fair, "marred by the absence of a level playing field" and undue advantages for Orban's Fidesz.

WHAT HAS THE EU DONE SO FAR?

Citing corruption, the EU's executive European Commission - tasked with upholding the law across member states - has blocked access to 7.2 billion euros earmarked for Hungary to help lift economies from the COVID slump.

"That will not be paid for the foreseeable future," an EU diplomat said this week of funds worth about 5% of Hungary's economic output.

The EU's most prominent tool so far for protecting the rule of law more broadly is known as "Article 7" and envisages maximum punishment of stripping a country of its right to vote on matters affecting the entire bloc.

But it has proven ineffective as Orban's nationalist allies in Poland have barred the required unanimity of all other member states apart from the one in the dock.

As Warsaw and Budapest dug in their heels, the EU's battles with nationalist rulers damaging its cohesion from within emerged as an existential challenge at par with the COVID pandemic, climate change and fraught ties with China and Russia.

WHAT MORE WILL THE EU DO?

"There is little hope there will be any appetite from the government to start reestablishing democracy," said a French green EU lawmaker, Gwendoline Delbos-Corfield, adding the EU should escalate its response.

The bloc will now be stepping up efforts to cut funds to Hungary.

The Brussels-based Commission announced the launching of a new sanction tool that could block Hungary's access to any and all money from its 2021-27 budget worth a total of 1.1 trillion euros.

Some EU countries also want to press on with Article 7, with the next discussion - but no decisions - about Hungary due on May 13 among ministers of the 27 countries.

BUT?

Beyond keeping up pressure on Hungary, there is little hope that Warsaw would unlock the Article 7 punishment even though Budapest's dovish stance vis-à-vis Russia has now strained Orban's alliance with the Polish government.

The new, so-called "conditionality mechanism" to block access to EU cash for those violating laws has yet to be tested. It is unclear how exactly it would work since it has been prescribed vaguely enough to get Orban and Warsaw on board.

European Budget Commissioner Johannes Hahn said it would take Brussels 6-9 months before it would propose that EU countries authorise cutting money for Hungary. He declined to say how much Hungary could lose exactly and other officials said it would only happen in gradual steps.

Member states would have up to three months to adopt the recommendation by qualified majority rather than unanimity.

That means meting out punishment would be easier this time and countries including Germany and France would fall under pressure to show their true colours rather than hide behind Warsaw blocking sanctions on Budapest.

As the EU launches a new campaign against Orban, a senior EU diplomat expressed concern Budapest might block the bloc's climate policies in retaliation.

"There is a degree of nervousness about what he might do now," said the person, who spoke under condition of anonymity. "We are potentially heading into a very difficult period with Hungary. How far does Orban want to take it?"

(Additional reporting by Jan Strupczewski, John Chalmers, Writing by Gabriela Baczynska, Editing by Angus MacSwan)

Released: 2022-4-8T11:59:42.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220408ei4801tid


Europe's week: Fresh Russia sanctions, human trafficking and Hungary's latest rule of law woes
738 字
2022 年 4 月 8 日
Euronews
EURONEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Euronews All Rights Reserved
It was another week of meetings and gatherings in an attempt to stop the war in Ukraine.

New York-based Human Rights Watch reported war crimes carried out by Russian forces in Ukraine, and the atrocities in the small town of Bucha dominated the European Parliament's plenary session in Strasbourg.

The president of the European Parliament, Roberta Metsola, who visited Kyiv last week, updated MEPs on her trip.

"In Kyiv, I was clear. These are war crimes that were perpetrated by war criminals,"Metsola said on Monday. "And these coordinated acts cannot remain unanswered and we will hold all those responsible to account."

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, who followed in Metsola's footsteps in travelling to Kyiv on Friday, announced the fifth package of sanctions targeting Moscow, which included a proposal for an EU wide-ban on Russian coal.

"This fifth package has six pillars,"von der Leyen said. "First we will impose an import ban on coal from Russia worth four billion euros per years."

But for Ukraine's foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, the EU and NATO allies are still not doing enough. On Thursday, he was in Brussels to tell the military alliance's foreign ministers that his country needs "weapons and weapons".

"Either you help us now -- and I'm speaking about days, not weeks, or your help will come too late, and many people will die, many civilians will lose their homes, many villages will be destroyed exactly because this help came too late,"Kuleba told reporters on Thursday.

Traffickers paradise

Meanwhile, another ugly consequence of the war in Ukraine is the fact that thousands of women are travelling across the continent alone at risk of exploitation from people smugglers and traffickers.

On Tuesday, MEPs voted on a resolution this week calling on EU MS to sanction and stop smugglers and traffickers, with Green MEP Alice Bah Kuhnke stating it is Europe's job to prevent it.

"The EU has to eradicate men buying sex, men buying women and children. How ridiculous is that? How sick is that? Who is kidnapping children? Who has sex with children? Who buys women who are fleeing, who have lost everything? It is those men who have a special place in hell,"the Swede said in Strasbourg.

Klaus Vanhoutte, Director of Payoke, told Euronews that the increase in human trafficking since the beginning of the war in Ukraine is deeply disturbing.

"We're obviously very concerned, right,"Vanhoutte said.

"it's quite obvious coming from the situation of a war zone, basically having very little financial means, actually not knowing where to go or where they're going to end up."

"Those are, in fact, the perfect potential victims for human traffickers, be it for sexual exploitation or economic exploitation,"he concluded.

Brussels triggers rule of law mechanism on Hungary

In Strasbourg on Wednesday, von der Leyen said the European Commission had triggered a process in Hungary that threatens to link the payment of EU cash to respect for rule of law.

It came two days after Viktor Orban secured a fifth -- and fourth -- consecutive term as Hungary's prime minister.

Orban has clashed frequently with the European Commission over respect for fundamental EU values, such as LGBT rights, the rule of law and attacks on independent media.

Now, Brussels has notified Budapest it is triggering the so-called "conditionality mechanism"over rule of law breaches, opening the door to financial sanctions.

"The Commission has today spoken to the Hungarian authorities that we will now send a formal letter to start the conditionality mechanism,"von der Leyen said.

Earlier in her address to the European Parliament, she said that the European Commission required Budapest to implement reforms to tackle corruption.

However, she noted that the two sides have "not been able to find common ground".

She added that the European Commission has followed the procedure as laid out by treaties by addressing a letter of formal notice and later referring the case to the European Court of Justice and that upon receiving Hungary's answers, they drew the "conclusion we have to move on to the next step".

Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba speaks with the media as he arrives for a meeting of NATO foreign ministers at NATO headquarters in Brussels, (Olivier Matthys/The Associated Press)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/60/11/58/800x450_cmsv2_bde956fb-c2f4-56a3-b07f-8d3d6d114b46-6601158.jpg]

Euronews

文件 EURONEN020220408ei480005r


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungary differs with EU on Ukraine issue
695 字
2022 年 4 月 9 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Viktor Orban, at the head of his Fidesz party, was elected for the fourth time as Hungarian Prime Minister last Sunday. During his term in office, his disagreements with the European Union (EU), of which he is a member, have been growing. The democratic quality required of EU members has been undermined in the Hungarian case to the point that the European Commission has just announced its intention to activate the so-called conditionality mechanism to sanction Budapest for violating the basic values of the EU. Such a sanction would mean the suspension of the granting of European funds on the grounds of an evident fragility in the enforcement of the rule of law in Hungary.

Orban has been a fierce opponent of immigration, the LGBTQ+ movement and "Brussels bureaucrats", presenting himself as a defender of European Christianity against Muslim migrants. Having eroded many of his country's functioning democratic institutions, he has won the admiration of various right-wing nationalist forces with frankly autocratic overtones, both in Europe and the United States.

In fact, Hungary has long been spoken of as an illiberal democracy, with significant levels of corruption, reluctant to submit to the regulations that govern within the EU, as clearly observed with its refusal to share responsibility for the reception of war refugees from the Middle East in the 2016-2020 period.

The position of Orban and his government in relation to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, officially presented as one of neutrality, has shown sharp contrasts with that taken by the other 26 EU members. Even though Orban condemned the invasion and has expressed his willingness to be a mediator between the two contenders, his position is more one of closeness and sympathy for Putin, rather than solidarity with Ukraine.

In his victory speech after his election victory last Sunday, Orban boasted that he was able to defeat the "overwhelming forces" that fought against him - "the national left, the international left around us, the Brussels bureaucrats, the Soros empire with all its money, the international media, and finally the Ukrainian president." George Soros, an American Jewish philanthropist of Hungarian origin, founder, among other institutions, of the Central European University and promoter of open society and critical thinking, has been Viktor Orban's favorite scapegoat for years.

It is not surprising then that Putin, who has always been very close to Orban, immediately congratulated him on his victory, nor that Hungary is the only EU country that has distanced itself from the unified stance of its members in order to remain allegedly neutral. Zelensky defined Orban as a leader alien to the rest of Europe, a continent where a consensus of absolute condemnation of Putin, the willingness to send arms in support of Ukraine, and an unrestricted agreement on the policy of tough sanctions against Russia prevails. Zelensky's critical comments towards the Hungarian government provoked an angry response from the Hungarian Foreign Minister, Péter Szijjjártó, in which he described them as insulting.

In recent days, the Hungarian president has also stated that he has no problem in accepting the Russian demand to pay for gas purchases in rubles, in contradiction with the position of the European Commission, which considers this demand unacceptable.

It is undoubtedly interesting to note how the rulers who support Putin at the present juncture have many affinities among themselves. They share with the Russian leader -as is the case with Al Assad, Maduro, Diaz-Canel and Orban himself- the autocratic nature of their regimes, their obsession for absolute and vertical control, their capacity and disposition for repression, and the use of populist and ultra-nationalist terminology to summon their followers and keep them attached to their peculiar political project.

It has been much repeated that the Russian-Ukrainian crisis will engender a new world order, in which many things will be different. One of them will be the change in the conditions for Hungary's continued membership in the European Union. Current events have accentuated the polarization between the two sides, whose respective values and forms of organization and governance are becoming more and more dissimilar.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220409ei49004jj


Central Europe torn on severing Russian energy supplies
418 字
2022 年 4 月 12 日 15:24 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Former communist countries in Central Europe were split Tuesday on whether to sever vital Russian energy supplies as their foreign ministers met near Prague.

The diversification of energy imports has become a hot issue across the European Union since oil- and gas-rich Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.

In 2021, Russia supplied 45 percent of the EU 's coal imports, 25 percent of its oil imports and around 45 percent of its gas imports.

Hydrocarbons are Russia's most important exports, and the EU is its biggest customer.

On the bloc's eastern flank, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have vowed to minimise their energy dependence, a legacy of four decades of communist rule in the region during the Soviet era.

But Hungary, whose Prime Minister Viktor Orban won a fourth straight term this month, has taken a more cautious approach.

"We have one clear red line which is the energy security of Hungary," Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said after meeting his Austrian, Czech, Slovak and Slovenian counterparts at a castle.

Szijjarto, from Orban's Fidesz party, said Hungary had backed all of the EU 's sanction packages since the invasion but added that "we cannot sign up to" oil or gas sanctions.

"We have been working a lot on diversification in the past, we are going to work on diversification in the future as well, but we will always guarantee the safe supply of energy of Hungary," he told reporters.

Slovak Foreign Minister Ivan Korcok said his country was ready to forego Russian oil and gas but underscored it would take time.

"We want to decouple from that... Nevertheless, the reality is we cannot do it overnight."

Czech Foreign Minister Jan Lipavsky vowed to speed up the debate as his country takes over the rotating EU presidency in July as "Russian income from the trade with the EU must be minimised".

The Czech state-run power group CEZ said Tuesday it would replace a Russian nuclear fuel supplier for its two plants with US and French suppliers as of 2024.

CEZ chose US-based Westinghouse and France's Framatome in a tender and snubbed its current supplier TVEL , a unit of the Russian state-run Rosatom group, to "minimise the risk of a potential supply failure".

Regional economic powerhouse Poland, which did not take part in the meeting Tuesday, hopes to free itself from Russian gas by next year, and eventually from Russian oil as well.

frj/amj

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220412ei4c00c45


Hungary will not support sanctions against Russian oil, gas, says foreign minister
231 字
2022 年 4 月 19 日 12:14 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
Hungary does not plan to support sanctions against oil and gas supplies from Russia, Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Peter Szijjarto told a press conference following the talks with his Turkish counterpart Mevlut Cavusoglu in Ankara on Tuesday.

"We will not support sanctions against Russian oil and gas. Russian gas is supplied to Hungary without interruption," he was quoted as saying by the TRT TV channel.

Szijjarto said earlier this month that Hungary opposed an embargo on energy supplies from Russia.

The fifth sanction package of the European Union effective since April 8 expanded the ban for the European business on supplies of oil refining and liquefied natural gas (LNG) production technologies to Russia, according to the Resolution of the EU Council on the new package of sanctions and annexes to the decision. The EU does not authorize its companies to supply gas cooling and liquefaction equipment, equipment for hydrocarbons fractionation in LNG production and oil refining process and the broad range of chemical equipment for different oil refining phases to Russia, according to the annex to the resolution.

The EU introduced restrictions for deliveries of equipment and technologies for oil and gas production to Russia in July 2014 for the first time and has expanded wordings and the list of equipment banned for supplies since then.

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020220419ei4j000s1


Ukraine crisis - Official: Hungary helping refugees but won't send arms, troops
511 字
2022 年 4 月 19 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, April 19 (MTI) - Hungary has so far sent 1,300 tonnes of

aid to Ukraine and has helped hundreds of thousands of refugees

fleeing the war in the country, but stands by its decision not to

send weapons or troops to its north-eastern neighbour, a government

official said on Tuesday.

Hungary can be of far greater help if it remains "an island of

peace" together with Transcarpathia, Miklos Soltesz, the state

secretary for church and state relations and head of the National

Humanitarian Coordination Council, said after visiting the

humanitarian transit point set up at Budapest's BOK sports and

events centre in the company of Lyubov Nepop, Ukraine's ambassador

to Hungary.

Hungary does not agree with imposing an embargo on Russian oil

and natural gas imports, Soltesz said, arguing that such a sanction

would hit the Hungarian and the European economies so hard that it

would "destroy us to such an extent that we would not be unable to

provide any further help."

Nepop, who visited the transit point for the first time,

thanked the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people for their

support and asked for their continued help to refugees coming from

Ukraine.

The ambassador said she respected and understood the Hungarian

government's position not to send weapons to Ukraine, voicing

however disagreement with that position.

"It is impossible to defend [our country] without weapons," she

said.

She said Ukraine was not asking Hungary to send troops or to

get involved in the war, adding that her country understood and

respected the Hungarian position which is to maintain peace. But

Ukraine is asking Hungary, as it has asked other countries, to

consider what form of supplies it could provide to aid Ukraine's

defence, she said.

"We will not be able to stop the Russian army unless we build

up our defences ... and if your country helps us in that effort it

will allow for maintaining peace," the ambassador said.

Nepop in addition asked for the Hungarian authorities to ban a

pro-Russia demonstration planned for April 30 in Budapest.

Answering a question, she told MTI that Ukraine had submitted a

diplomatic note asking the Hungarian foreign ministry to ban the

planned event. "When it is about supporting a murderer then it is

not about the issue of democracy," the ambassador said.

Soltesz told public media after the visit that the 1,300 tonnes

of aid comprised food, medicines, medical equipment and clothing,

adding that Hungary had also supplied 100,000 litres of fuel to

Ukraine immediately after the war broke out.

He noted that Hungary has so far taken in 620,000 refugees from

Ukraine, 300,000 of whom have received some form of help from

charity organisations. So far, 16,400 refugees have submitted their

application for asylum while Hungarian authorities have issued

101,000 temporary residency permits, Soltesz said. The Bridge for

Transcarpathia aid programme has already raised donations worth

over 1 billion forints (EUR 2.6m), he said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220419ei4j0012x


EU strategic culture
Law or less: Why Orban’s rule threatens the European project
Andreas Bock
1018 字
2022 年 4 月 19 日
European Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR) - Reports
ECFRR
英文
© Copy of this publication is held by the European Council on Foreign Relations
The goal of preserving European unity could hinder the EU’s fight against democratic backsliding in Hungary. To remain a community of values, the union needs to keep up the pressure on the country’s leader.

Cover image: AP Photo/Anna Szilagyi[https://ecfr.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/281436142-1024x683.jpg]

The rule of law is fundamental to the European Union’s constitutional identity. If breaches of the rule of law occur within a member state, the European Commission may censure that country by launching its conditionality mechanism. It can withhold EU funding if rule of law violations, such as ineffective prosecution of corruption, affect the EU’s financial interests or the management of the EU budget – a right that the Court of Justice of the EU upheld[https://www.theguardian.com/law/2022/feb/16/ecj-dismisses-hungary-poland-complaints-eu-rule-of-law-measure] on 16 February.

Earlier this month, Hungary became the first EU member state against which the Commission had triggered its mechanism. The EU’s move came just two days after Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s Fidesz party won a fourth consecutive parliamentary election, roundly defeating an opposition that had run on a platform[https://ecfr.eu/article/the-road-back-to-democracy-in-central-europe/] of ending more than a decade of democratic backsliding and corruption. By activating its rule of law conditionality mechanism, the EU has put the fight against authoritarianism back on the agenda – and not before time.

In fact, the proceedings may have come too late. In November 2021, the Commission accused[https://www.politico.eu/article/eu-commission-questions-hungary-on-corruption-judiciary/] the Hungarian government of failing to prosecute corruption cases effectively, undermining the independence of the judiciary, and overseeing huge deficiencies in public procurement – a serious risk to the protection of the financial interests of the EU. Now, Orban’s parliamentary majority is fuelling concerns that EU leaders could accept the existence of authoritarian countries in the union as a long-term reality, which would endanger the EU’s status as a normative project. How credible is the EU if its member states disregard human rights, freedom, democracy, equality, and the rule of law as set out in Article 2 of the Treaty of the EU?

The union’s rule of law proceedings against Hungary are primarily aimed at rampant state corruption, since around 4 per cent[https://www.handelsblatt.com/politik/deutschland/korruption-was-das-eu-rechtsstaatsverfahren-gegen-ungarn-bedeutet/28231802.html] of EU funding for the country reportedly finds its way into the pockets of Orban’s cronies. As the Commission showed in November 2021, the EU could have implemented the rule of law mechanism before the Hungarian election, but it controversially held off – probably because it did not want to interfere (or be seen to interfere) in the election campaign. Furthermore, in light of Russia’s war on Ukraine, the EU did not want to risk a Hungarian veto of sanctions on Russia. All this meant that the dispute over the rule of law issue has taken a back seat. In that sense, the goal of preserving European unity could hinder the EU’s fight against democratic backsliding in Hungary.

Even though the rule of law issue now seems to be more of a priority, it will take up to nine months of political wrangling before the European Council decides by qualified majority whether to cut EU funding to Hungary. Therefore, it is imperative that the EU continues to block the €7.2 billion in grants and €9.6 billion in loans earmarked for Hungary in its covid recovery fund.

Moreover, tensions between Budapest and Warsaw over the war could further isolate Hungary. This became apparent recently, when Poland and the Czech Republic pulled out of a meeting of Visegrad defence ministers in Budapest over Hungary’s half-hearted support for sanctions on Russia – causing the event to be cancelled[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/v4-meeting-cancelled-over-hungarys-ukraine-policy/].

If Hungary does become more isolated, the EU’s Article 7 procedure could be another way of pressuring Orban. This procedure could suspend Hungary’s voting rights in the European Council for having undermined the bloc’s democratic values and rule of law proceedings. The next discussion on Hungary in the European Council is scheduled for May. But launching the Article 7 procedure requires a unanimous decision – and Poland remains likely to use its veto. Nevertheless, if the EU did censure Hungary in this way, it would be in line with public opinion: an ECFR survey conducted in January 2022[https://ecfr.eu/publication/a-certain-idea-of-europe-how-the-next-french-president-can-lead/#what-european-agenda-should-the-next-french-president-pursue] found that as many as 52 per cent of respondents in Hungary supported a suspension of voting rights in response to violations of the rule of law.

Given Fidesz’s electoral success, the sparring between Budapest and Brussels will continue. “A victory so big you can see it from the moon – and from Brussels”, said[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/04/04/a-victory-so-big-you-can-see-it-from-the-moon-and-brussels-says-hungary-s-viktor-orban] Orban in his election night speech, setting the tone for yet more confrontation. Therefore, Hungary will likely continue to veto EU decisions on these issues that require unanimity. Indeed, Orban already stressed that he would block any EU attempt[https://www.politico.eu/article/hungary-emerges-as-main-roadblock-in-future-oil-sanctions-against-russia/?utm_source=POLITICO.EU&utm_campaign=e1e1096ab6-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2022_04_08_03_36&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_10959edeb5-e1e1096ab6-190744200] to sanction Russian oil and gas. Hungary also broke ranks with the rest of the EU when Orban announced that the country would pay for Russian gas in roubles.

While the Hungarian government will probably aim to prevent further EU integration, ‘Huxit’ – a Hungarian exit from the EU – is off the cards. Hungary’s ruler is heavily dependent on funding from Brussels. And he knows that most Hungarians support EU membership. For example, in the ECFR poll[https://ecfr.eu/publication/a-certain-idea-of-europe-how-the-next-french-president-can-lead/#what-european-agenda-should-the-next-french-president-pursue] from January, 67 per cent of respondents agreed that it was good for Hungary to be a member of the EU.

Strengthened by his latest victory, Orban is likely to continue building an authoritarian and illiberal Hungary, and to tighten his grip on power. His government feels encouraged by the election result, as demonstrated by the Hungarian representative’s defiance on the rule of law at the meeting of the General Affairs Council[https://www.politico.eu/newsletter/brussels-playbook/finland-mulls-nato-bid-ukraine-counts-the-dead-bulgaria-focus/] last week. There may be slight readjustments in Budapest’s attitude towards Brussels, but a real turnaround and a re-democratisation of Hungary seems impossible under Fidesz. European institutions would be well-advised to maintain the pressure on Hungary. This is the only way to prevent more EU funding from being siphoned off to Orban’s allies – and for the EU to maintain its credibility as a community of values.

ECFR (European Council on Foreign Relations)

文件 ECFRR00020220419ei4j0002t


As Ukraine Bleeds, Putin's Puppets in Europe Are Getting Stronger
Harun Karcic
1850 字
2022 年 4 月 20 日
Haaretz
HRETZ
英文
© Haaretz Daily Newspaper Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Europe’s most Kremlin-friendly leaders have just won an extension of their rule. In recent elections in Hungary and Serbia, Prime Minister Viktor Orban and Serbia’s President Aleksandar Vučic secured another term in office – and amidst the destruction and atrocities his war on Ukraine are perpetrating, their reelections, both marred by irregularities, a largely captive media and a deteriorating democratic environment, must have put a broad smile on the face of Russia’s President Vladimir Putin.

"We have won a great victory[https://www.france24.com/en/europe/20220403-hungary-pm-orban-wins-fourth-term-in-vote-overshadowed-by-ukraine-war] – a victory so great you can perhaps see it from the moon and certainly from Brussels," said Orban. Helped by sophisticated gerrymandering and a divided opposition, the 58-year old Hungarian leader won a fourth term by a landslide victory in the country's general election.

In his victory speech, he promptly singled out[https://twitter.com/jspikebudapest/status/1510746754429378563] Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy as a key part of the "overwhelming force" he’d defeated, along with the left, the EU, the international media and "the Soros empire with all its money."

Over the past 12 years, Hungary has drifted a long way from rule of law and human rights that the EU so much insists on. Orban has managed to rewrite the constitution[https://www.journalofdemocracy.org/articles/explaining-eastern-europe-orbans-laboratory-of-illiberalism/] and revamp the electoral system to his advantage, but he has also preemptively insulated himself from possible prosecution by filling top judicial posts with loyalists. Hungary has gone largely unpunished not least because meaningful action would require the impossible feat of all EU member states to act in unison.

Playing by the same handbook, another European fiefdom – Serbia – saw its incumbent strongman Aleksandar Vučic secure his grip on power for the next five years. President Vučic expressed his pleasure[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/04/serbia-president-aleksandar-vucic-claims-election-victory-to-secure-second-term] that "a huge number of people voted and showed the democratic nature of Serbian society" and immediately confirmed Serbia would maintain friendly relations[https://twitter.com/ivanastradner/status/1510738734207090689] with Russia.

His victory was no surprise. Critics have long accused him of preventing[https://www.smh.com.au/world/europe/claims-of-widespread-irregularities-in-serbia-s-national-elections-20220404-p5aaj2.html] free and fair elections, curbing civil liberties, doing his utmost to convert public broadcasters into his party’s propaganda bullhorns[https://europeanwesternbalkans.com/2020/11/20/serbian-ruling-parties-four-times-more-present-on-media-portals-than-the-opposition/].

Both countries have been termed "electoral autocracies[https://twitter.com/BcatMonitoring/status/1510915790333173761]." And Hungary and Serbia have a lot more in common than meets the eye.

Vucic and Orban are allies and their countries share vital economic and political interests. Trade ties and investments are well developed. But corruption and nepotism is rife too, and so is democratic backsliding.

In both countries, their leaders are shielded by a cabal of oligarchs who have enriched themselves obscenely over the years by knitting together an intricate, impermeable network that includes politicians, businessmen[https://www.occrp.org/en/openlux/serbian-presidents-best-man-linked-to-businessman-with-organized-crime-ties] and even members of the criminal underground[https://balkaninsight.com/2021/02/16/in-serbia-states-ties-to-crime-become-hard-to-miss/]. A recent Balkan Investigative Reporting Network investigation revealed[https://balkaninsight.com/2021/07/08/eu-needs-serbia-key-to-western-balkans-orban-says/] that a group of companies involving close associates of Orban and Vucic have come to dominate the obscure but lucrative business of Serbian street lighting.

Hungary’s strategic political interest in Serbia has a lot to do with the sizeable ethnic Hungarian minority[https://balkaninsight.com/2021/09/08/serbia-hungary-will-rebuild-protect-central-europe-orban-says/] in northern Serbia, which has become a catalyst for improved relations[https://balkaninsight.com/2021/07/06/hungarys-orban-urges-germans-to-back-eu-membership-for-serbia/] between the two countries. Orban is also a vocal supporter of Serbia joining the European Union, both to cement his country’s influence in Serbia, but also to improve Hungary’s tarnished image in Brussels. He has repeatedly stated that Serbia is the key[https://www.aa.com.tr/en/europe/without-serbia-there-is-no-integration-of-balkans-into-eu-hungarian-premier/2298870] to the region’s stability, and until it is integrated into the European Union, the Western Balkans will not be integrated.

Yet there are key differences. Orban governs a country that has for many years viewed Russia with great distrust. It is worth recalling that it was Moscow that sent tanks back in 1956 to brutally crush an anti-communist uprising in Budapest. In the late 1980s, Orban himself was a student dissident who made a spotlight for himself by demanding the withdrawal of Soviet troops in a fiery 1989 speech[https://www.dw.com/en/vladimir-putin-and-viktor-orbans-special-relationship/a-45512712]. He is once again a dissident, this time refusing instructions from Brussels to sanction Russia.

On the other hand, Vučic – an information minister under rump Yugoslavia’s infamous President Slobodan Miloševic – now runs a country that has reinvigorated its Slavic and Orthodox Christian identity and increasingly sees Moscow as its trusted ally and innate protector. A refined version of Miloševic, Vučic tells the West what they want to hear, while cementing his political ground at home and remaining a faithful Serbian nationalist.

Since the invasion of Ukraine began, Vučic has been markedly treading a fine line[https://www.politico.eu/article/vladimir-putin-russia-serbia-aleksandar-vucic/], playing a delicate balancing act between Russia, China, the EU and the U.S.

Serbia did vote[https://rs.n1info.com/english/news/serbia-votes-to-adopt-new-un-general-assembly-resolution/] at the UN General Assembly for a non-binding resolution which called Russia to end its war in Ukraine. But despite voicing his support for Ukraine’s territorial integrity, he has fallen short of closing Serbia’s airspace to Russian airlines or slapping sanctions on Moscow.

In fact, after every other European state closed their airspace to Russian airlines, Air Serbia actually increased its flights[https://balkaninsight.com/2022/03/02/air-serbia-increases-flights-to-moscow-as-eu-bars-russian-planes/] from Belgrade to Moscow up to three a day. Russians are now using Serbia as a loophole, or escape hatch, to avoid the EU-wide flights ban.

More sinister was Orban’s messaging following the invasion of Ukraine. While publicly claiming neutrality, media outlets close to him have been parroting[https://twitter.com/katka_cseh/status/1500551656362160130] Putin’s justification for the invasion. He has refused[https://www.politico.eu/article/hungary-foreign-minister-peter-szijjarto-weapon-transit-ukraine/] to allow NATO weapons to be transported through his territory to Ukraine. Orban’s bullish refusal to side with the West has even annoyed Poland, another major rule of law violator in the EU.

The reelection of Orban and Vucic has nonetheless gratified Putin immensely. The war in Ukraine played an outsized role in the pre-election campaigns in both countries and helped in mobilizing support for the incumbents. Both are close allies of Moscow and both countries are almost entirely dependent on Russian gas.

Serbia’s army additionally maintains very close relations with Russia’s military and the Russian defense ministry even has a liaison office inside Serbia’s defense ministry. Vucic has boasted of his close personal ties[https://www.pbs.org/newshour/world/serbia-holds-tense-vote-that-could-sway-populist-governments-ties-with-russia] with Putin, and consistently attempts to portray himself as a guarantor of peace and stability in the Balkans. Interior Minister Aleksandar Vulin even passed on to the Kremlin transcripts[https://balkaninsight.com/2022/01/13/serbian-minister-denies-briefing-kremlin-on-russian-opposition-meeting/] from wiretapped meetings in Belgrade of Russian opposition leaders, leading to the arrest[https://www.gisreportsonline.com/r/russia-ukraine-balkans/] of Andrei Pivovarov, former director of the Open Russia organization.

The years of Vucic’s Putin worship have filtered down to the Serbian grassroots, ably aided by Moscow-funded localized media platforms such as the Sputnik Srbija[https://www.ceeol.com/search/book-detail?id=855831] news portal and radio station which depicts an image of world affairs that is ardently anti-Western.

According to a 2021 survey, 83 percent of Serbian respondents see Moscow as a "friend[https://www.france24.com/en/live-news/20220309-brothers-forever-many-in-serbia-back-russia-amid-global-outcry]." Putin has been awarded honorary citizenship by at least a dozen Serbian cities. Thousands of Serbs waving Russian flags and carrying pictures of Putin marched through Belgrade at the beginning of Russia’s invasion in a show of public support, with pro-government tabloids boasting upside-down, propaganda headlines such as "Ukraine attacked Russia![https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/pro-russia-serbs-march-belgrade-country-treads-ever-finer-line-between-east-west-2022-03-04/]"

Meanwhile in Hungary, the Kremlin has focused exclusively on the Hungarian political elites and its business oligarchy, for whom government-backed business deals with Moscow serve as a lucrative source of income[https://www.wilsoncenter.org/blog-post/authoritarian-ties-case-russia-and-hungary]. While these elites see Russia’s illiberal model worth emulating, they do not necessarily agree that Moscow should serve as their geopolitical reorientation point.

Regarding Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, a survey conducted in March 2022 revealed 72 percent of Hungarians saying their country should keep an equal distance[https://www.statista.com/statistics/1294044/hungary-poll-on-the-country-s-approach-towards-the-russia-ukraine-war/] from both Ukraine and Russia, while only 26 percent believe their country should have provided Ukraine with more support.

Orban and Vucic’s re-elections will also have ripple effects of the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Both leaders have thrown their full support behind Milorad Dodik, the ultranationalist Bosnian Serb leader who has for years been actively working to dismantle Bosnia and declare his own Luhansk or Donetsk-like statelet.

Dodik and Orban have been cozying up to each other for years now, exchanging a number of high profile visits. Back in 2021, Orbán invited Dodik[https://balkaninsight.com/2021/09/23/summit-hears-demography-not-climate-policy-is-key-question-for-europes-survival/] to attend the fourth Demographic Summit in Budapest, an annual get-together[https://www.haaretz.com/world-news/.premium-europe-s-far-right-joins-russia-and-china-backing-bosnia-s-serb-secessionists-1.10524854] of far right leaders and activists. It was at that summit that Dodik infamously said, "We are Christians[https://newlinesmag.com/argument/in-bosnia-the-eastern-question-is-rising-again/] …and from experience I can say that Muslims do not abandon their values" (not intended as a compliment) – and called upon Europe to defend itself. Orban reciporocated a few months later when he queried[https://www.haaretz.com/world-news/.premium-orban-s-sinister-anti-muslim-hatemongering-now-threatens-lives-in-bosnia-1.10504479] how Europe would ever be safe coexisting with a state (Bosnia) in which two million Muslims live.

Politically and economically, it’s a useful friendship to Dodik. When the EU pondered imposing sanctions on Dodik because of his secessionist policies, Orban promised he would veto any such sanctions. Instead, he offered Dodik €100 million[https://balkaninsight.com/2021/12/21/orban-hungary-gives-e100-million-support-to-bosnian-serbs/] in assistance.

On the other hand, Vučic and Dodik meet very frequently and hold joint government sessions, with Belgrade strongly backing Dodik and, through him, interfering in Bosnia’s state affairs. Another key player is Aleksandar Vulin, the former defense minister of Serbia and incumbent interior minister who has been the ideological mastermind behind the ‘ Serbian world[https://emerging-europe.com/news/serbian-world-a-dangerous-idea/] ’ concept, a copy-paste of the ‘ Russian world[https://www.haaretz.com/world-news/.premium.HIGHLIGHT-putin-war-invasion-ukraine-russia-never-stop-1.10627591] ’ concept.

Serbia today views the Republika Srpska entity in Bosnia as its most valuable war-booty[https://www.dw.com/bs/rs-kao-ratni-plijen-od-kojeg-srbija-ne-odustaje/a-55897756] and has no intensions whatsoever of relinquishing its vested interests in the neighboring country. Russia has explicitly warned Bosnia that any decision to join NATO would result in "Ukraine-style[http://twitter.com/trtworld/status/1504616070568628227]" retribution from Moscow.

For Hungary and Serbia, any quick change of course regarding sanctions on Russia seems highly unlikely. Both Orban and Vucic have long tried to juggle several geopolitical balls, and while maintaining close relations with Russia and China, they have both enjoyed the warmth of former Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Germany. Such a policy will most likely continue with Chancellor Olaf Scholz. Both Orban and Vucic are likely to cement their relations with like-minded leaders in the UAE, Azerbaijan and Turkey.

Western leaders have long struck Faustian bargains with Balkan and East European autocrats, propping up what’s termed a "stabilocracy[https://newlinesmag.com/argument/in-the-balkans-stability-may-not-be-the-answer/]": semi-authoritarian regimes legitimized by the U.S. and EU because they offer a (false) promise of stability. The Ukraine war has exposed how flawed, illusory and unsustainable this reasoning always was.

With transatlantic solidarity at an all-time high and popular opinion firmly critical of Russia, the time is ripe for the West to pressure Putin’s puppets in the Balkans and in Budapest to sever their relations with the Kremlin. What has become a residual U.S. diplomatic engagement with the Balkans must be amplified and augmented with a potent military force.

This is nowhere more pressing than in Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose Lebanese-styled ethnic based system is most prone to Russia’s malign influence and destabilization, a vulnerability about which Putin and his local allies are all too aware and willing[https://www.haaretz.com/world-news/.premium-not-only-ukraine-putin-s-allies-are-plotting-another-war-in-europe-1.10665843], and capable, of exploiting.

Harun Karcic is a journalist and political analyst based in Sarajevo covering foreign influences in the Balkans, with a particular focus on Middle Eastern influence in the region. Twitter: @HarunKarcic[https://twitter.com/HarunKarcic]

Click the alert icon to follow topics:

Haaretz Daily Newspaper Ltd.

文件 HRETZ00020220420ei4k000m9


News; International
Final Stand in Mariupol; Russia`s Relentless Offensive; Unmasking Uncertainty; Fake Agents Indicted; Emergency Wildfire Evacuations; Drought Relief in the West; Fake Agents Indicted; Fleeing Russia`s Crackdown; Johnny Depp Takes the Stand; The Great Green North; Forests and Climate Change; The Art of the Interview; Death on Safari; Jordan Klepper Live; The Right Work-Life Balance, CBS
Gayle King, Tony Dokoupil, Vladimir Duthiers, Charlie D`Agata, Errol Barnett, Lilia Luciano, Carter Evans, Ben Tracy, Debra Patta
13948 字
2022 年 4 月 20 日
CBS News: CBS This Morning
CBST
英文
Content and programming Copyright 2022 CBS Broadcasting Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
GAYLE KING: Welcome, welcome to CBS MORNINGS on this hump day. I`m Gayle King.

TONY DOKOUPIL: I`m Tony Dokoupil.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: And I`m Vladimir Duthiers.

GAYLE KING: Nate is off, but we`re in good hands. Let`s go to today`s "Eye Opener." It`s your world in 90 seconds.

Russia pounds Ukraine overnight as holdouts refuse to surrender in Mariupol, the latest developments in the fierce battles for territory.

REAR ADMIRAL JOHN KIRBY (RET.) (Pentagon Press Secretary): Our assessment is that the Mariupol still remains contested, that the Russians have not taken it, that the Ukrainians are still fighting for it.

TONY DOKOUPIL: The White House weighs in amid uncertainty following the end of the travel mask mandate.

NANCY CORDES: Should people continue to wear masks on planes.

JOE BIDEN (D) (United States President): That`s up to them.

MAN: Hundreds of homes have been evacuated in Arizona as fire crews work to contain a fast moving wildfire.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Johnny Depp takes the stand saying he never hit e- wife Amber Heard.

JOHNNY DEPP (Actor): Nor have I ever struck anyone in my life.

MAN: Netflix reported its first loss of worldwide subscribers sending in stock plunging below pre-pandemic levels.

WOMAN: Kyrie Irving was fined $50,000.00 by the NBA for flipping off Boston Celtics fans.

MAN: President Biden reportedly told former President Obama he plans to seek re-election in 2024 when he is 81 years old.

JIMMY KIMMEL ("Jimmy Kimmel Live" host): It`s like when a woman tells her friends she is planning to get bangs. It`s the kind of the friend`s job to say, "Are you sure about that?"

TREVOR NOAH ("The Daily Show" host): When it comes to wearing masks, not everyone is having the same experience that you are. My hope is that we can get to a point where we`re not villainizing each other over a tiny piece of cloth. We should be saving our anger for the real enemy, all those people who think that a tuna sandwich is appropriate to eat on a plane.

That`s who we fight, together. N95 ain`t going to save you from that.

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

TONY DOKOUPIL: Oh, boy.

GAYLE KING: Trevor Noah once again making a very good point.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Yes, he`s very right about that. The air circulation is great on a plane, but not that great.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Yes, I was going to say, you think you wouldn`t smell it?

TONY DOKOUPIL: You wouldn`t smell it, I will say.

We`ve got a great show for you today. Lots of talk about including another fascinating installment of our climate series, it is called "Earth 365." We`re going to be looking at how the world`s forests are critical, absolutely critical to cooling the planet, and may even predict rising temperatures.

Ben Tracy takes us on a trip to the world`s largest forest system right here in the U.S. where scientists think they may be able to see the future of our planet.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: And "The Daily Show`s" Jordan Klepper is here to discuss his latest special, it`s about an unusual fascination shared by some supporters of former President Trump.

Jordan`s journey takes him all the way to Europe in the authoritarian government in Hungary. You won`t want to miss this.

GAYLE KING: No. He has got an interesting spin on this, but we`re going to begin with the last Ukrainian holdouts against a Russian offensive in a crucial city in Southern Ukraine.

Russia has shared this video of smoke rising from a steelworks in Mariupol, where it`s estimated thousands of Ukrainians troops and civilians are under siege.

Russia bombed the facility overnight, but it is vast and strongly fortified. The rest of Mariupol has more or less been destroyed. Most Russian forces are now pivoting to a new phase of this war in Ukraine when all-out offensive in the east of the country.

Charlie D`Agata is in Ukraine with more on this story.

Charlie, good morning to you.

CHARLIE D`AGATA: Good morning to you, Gayle.

Another ultimatum, another deadline for Ukrainian forces to surrender in Mariupol has just come and gone, both sides have agreed on a humanitarian corridor to allow civilians to leave. But fighting rages on in cities in the south and the east.

(Begin VT)

CHARLIE D`AGATA: Drone footage shows a city torn apart after weeks of bombardment. Residential neighborhoods flattened.

Beneath the Azovstal Iron and Steel Works Plant, women and children huddle together in bomb shelters too terrified to attempt an escape.

(MAN speaking in foreign language.)

CHARLIE D`AGATA: A Ukrainian Marine makes a desperate plea, "We`re facing our last days, if not last hours. The enemy outnumbers us 10 to one." And the enemy is closing in fast. Russian soldiers surrounding the steel plant hunting down remaining fighters.

Russia has intensified attacks along a -00 mile frontline advancing forward and reinforcing regions all already under occupation including the hard fought Zaporizhzhia nuclear facility, Europe`s largest.

The nuclear power plant remains under Russian control in Russian-held territory on that side of the river. This is Ukrainian-held territory. Nearby, they`ve been counting the cost of the war.

A Russian anti-tank mine took the life of 29-year-old paratrooper Vyacheslav Dimov (sp?) on Saturday.

How important was it for your son to fight for his country?

(ALA speaking in foreign language.)

CHARLIE D`AGATA: "It was very important. He dreamed like crazy of becoming a soldier," his mother, Ala (sp?) said.

(ALA speaking in foreign language.)

CHARLIE D`AGATA: "But I didn`t bring him into this world for war, but for a peaceful life, so he could live with his beloved wife, Ivana.

His beloved wife, Ivana, and he had only been married for 18 months. They were planning to start a family when the war broke out. The 23-year-old widow told us about their last video call, saying she knew that every call might be the last one.

(IVANA speaking in foreign language.)

CHARLIE D`AGATA: "Every time we spoke, I told him, `I love you` look after yourself," she said. "Now I say, I love you, look after me."

(End VT)

CHARLIE D`AGATA: Ivana told us when she first heard the news, she didn`t want to believe it was true, but when it sunk in, her world shattered like a jigsaw puzzle -- Vlad.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Unimaginable and heartbreaking. Charlie D`Agata in Ukraine for us. Thank you, Charlie.

In this country, the Biden administration says it will wait for the C.D.C.`s guidance on whether to appeal a judge`s ruling that struck down mass mandates on airplanes and public transit. So far, the C.D.C. hasn`t given any guidance on that. The judge`s decision has caused uncertainty especially among the most vulnerable to COVID.

Errol Barnett is at Reagan National Airport outside of Washington.

Errol, good morning.

ERROL BARNETT: Hey there, Vlad. Good morning.

One thing to keep in mind here is that the original mask mandate was set to expire in 13 days anyway. So even if the C.D.C. made a new determination and the Department of Justice appealed the Florida Federal Judge`s decision, it would only extend the rule by a matter of days.

And while yes, certainly many are excited to see the end of this rule, CBS News is also finding others and now having to make difficult decision and are upset to see the end of the mask mandate.

(Begin VT)

ERROL BARNETT: In public transportation hubs across the country, travelers now have the option to go massless. Uber and Lyft joined all U.S. airlines and Amtrak saying masks are now optional.

All cities like Philadelphia and New York say the mandate will remain in place.

WOMAN: I think it should be up to what the person wants. I will probably wear it until I get on the plane and then when I sit in my seat, I will take it off.

ERROL BARNETT: President Biden carefully weighed in Tuesday.

NANCY CORDES: Mr. President, should people continue to wear masks on planes?

PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN: That`s up to them.

ERROL BARNETT: Genet Abate is an Uber driver in the D.C. area thrilled to learn the rideshare service dropped its requirements.

GENET ABATE (Uber driver): I just want to feel free and breathe freely. I very safe to not wear a mask.

ERROL BARNETT: Still the 47 percent spike in COVID cases and just the last 14 days has some high risk travelers on edge.

GRETCHEN MUSA (Immunocompromised individual): I`m concerned. I`m especially concerned about who else sit next to and if they`ll be willing to wear a mask.

ERROL BARNETT: Gretchen Musa is one of seven million Americans who are immunocompromised, but despite the risks, Musa is going to stick with her plans to visit her grandparents who are both in their 90s in California,

GRETCHEN MUSA: I needed to weigh whether if I didn`t go see them, which might be the safer choice for my physical health, how much regret I would have later in life if I go through my life knowing that I wasn`t able to be there for them.

(End VT)

ERROL BARNETT: It`s a tough choice, and we should note the C.D.C. still recommends mask use while traveling on aircraft, but now, all the major airlines have to decide what to do about all of those passengers banned for failure to comply with this Federal rule. For United Airlines, that`s about a thousand people. It tells CBS News, it will decide if those folks can get back on board, Gayle, on a case by case basis.

GAYLE KING: Yes, there is an interesting question, Errol. Thank you very much.

Joining us now is Dr. Tom Frieden. He is former Director of the C.D.C., he is currently President and CEO of Resolve to Save Lives whose mission is to save 100 million lives by preventing heart disease and epidemics.

Dr. Frieden, we`re really glad you`re here at the table. Listen, we are all COVID exhausted, we`re over it. The COVID is not over us. Does it make sense to you this ruling? And should we leave it up to people to make their own decisions to mask or not mask?

DR. TOM FRIEDEN (Former Director, U.S. Centers for Disease Control): Well, I`m a doctor, not a lawyer, so I can`t comment on the legal case. But we rely on the society to make sure that our kid doesn`t get hit by a drunk driver, that the food that we eat in a restaurant doesn`t make us terribly sick, that the rest -- that the medicines we pick up at the pharmacy are not contaminated. In the same way, we need the government and society need to be able to protect us if more dangerous variant comes or another health threat comes.

TONY DOKOUPIL: So how much does this really matter? We heard from the immunocompromised person in Errol`s piece, if you`re wearing a mask yourself, one way masking as it is called, and everyone else is not, how much of a difference does that make?

DR. TOM L. FRIEDEN: You`re a lot safer if everyone is masking, that`s why we are all connected, and that connection means that my health depends on what you do. But if other people around aren`t masks and if you`re immunocompromised, older, then up your mask game to an N95. It`s not perfect, but it`s more protective than a cloth mask or a surgical mask.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: How concerned are you about immunocompromised people traveling on planes? My father, for example, we`ve talked about bringing our families to South Africa. It`s a 12 to -hour flight. No one is masked, but he is masked, what would you recommend?

DR. TOM L. FRIEDEN: Unfortunately, if you`re immunosuppressed or otherwise medically vulnerable, flying just got less safe for you. Now, it`s really hard to wear a mask for 10 to 12 to 14 hours, but that`s what you might have to do if you want to reduce your risk for yourself personally. If all of us were masked up, all of us would be safer.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: So it sounds like you`re saying he probably shouldn`t get on a plane for that long.

DR. TOM L. FRIEDEN: You know, it`s a risk benefit calculation. How important is that trip to you? How important is that meeting or that meal? And if it`s important, then you do it staying as safe as possible meaning, an N95 mask for the whole way.

GAYLE KING: Cases are already going up now. Don`t you think this will mean cases will continue to go up?

Here`s what I struggle with and I struggle with people making the decision, I`m not going to mask. If you could not wear a mask and it only affects you, good on you, but it affects so many other people.

DR. TOM L. FRIEDEN: With cases going up, the idea of masks coming down doesn`t make a lot of sense. But we don`t know what`s going to happen yet, either with the severity of this particular wave in terms of hospitalization, but we have great vaccines, great treatments. We need more people to get them.

But the biggest concern is what is going to happen in the coming months? What if we have a more dangerous variant, deadly, that gets away from our vaccine induced immunity? We really need these kinds of tools to protect people not just to save lives, but also to keep our economy growing.

GAYLE KING: What about kids that can`t be vaccinated? Can`t get the vaccine and aren`t wearing the masks.

DR. TOM L. FRIEDEN: We`ve seen just yesterday new data out from the C.D.C., very severe illness in hundreds of kids almost all of them unvaccinated between the ages of six and 11. So very important to get vaccinated, boosted up-to-date and to mask up, recommended at least, and when disease is spreading a lot to require it.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Important to let parents know, the vast majority of children do absolutely fine if they are healthy, and they have no underlying issues.

DR. TOM L. FRIEDEN: Absolutely.

TONY DOKOUPIL: We`re still waiting to hear from the C.D.C. Meantime, Dr. Tom Frieden, thank you very much for being here. We appreciate it.

All right, to a disturbing story out of Washington, D.C. Two men accused of posing as Homeland Security agents now face new weapons charges. Remember this story, prosecutors have laid out more evidence now against the suspects who they say gave gifts to Secret Service agents and those agents are now sidelined as this investigation is ongoing.

Senior investigative correspondent Catherine Herridge is following this alarming case. We don`t really know the motive here yet, Catherine. Good morning.

CATHERINE HERRIDGE: That`s right. Good morning, Tony.

We`re about two weeks into this case and there are so many unknowns, the motive where the money came from, and now a grand jury has brought new charges. The 27-page indictment shows the two defendants Arian Taherzadeh and Haider Ali faced multiple counts including the false impersonation of an officer or employee of the United States, and the unlawful possession of a large capacity ammunition feeding device, in this case, one Glock magazine and five six-hour magazines.

The government alleges the defendants sought to ingratiate themselves with their D.C. neighbors in law enforcement by posing as Homeland Security agents. Prosecutors allege the men had five apartments in a luxury building and gifted agents electronics and rent free units, including a penthouse valued at over $40,000.00 a year.

Earlier this month, the government went even further alleging they compromised U.S. Secret Service personnel with access to the White House. Now suspended, Secret Service personnel assigned to the First Lady, the White House and the Vice President`s residence.

Before the new charges, both defendants were released to home confinement pending trial. One defendant had visas for travel to Iran and Pakistan. One of the lingering questions, Vlad, is whether the scheme was designed to collect information for the benefit of a Foreign Intelligence Service.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Catherine, still a lot of questions. Thank you so much. We appreciate it.

What`s being called a wall of fire has forced hundreds of people out of their homes in Northern Arizona. The tunnel fire now covers nine square miles north of Flagstaff fueled by strong winds of up to 15 miles an hour. Firefighters say the flames reach higher than 100 feet in the air. Highway 89, the main North-South Road in that area has been shut down.

Fire has burned more than two dozen buildings and forced the evacuation of more than 760 homes.

Forecasters say today`s winds will not be quite as strong, but the fire threat will continue until Friday.

GAYLE KING: And other parts of the West are getting much needed rain this morning from a late season storm. Snow was falling in the mountains in California, and believe it or not, that`s good news for areas that did not get enough snowfall during the winter.

Let`s bring in meteorologist, Stephanie Abrams with our partners at The Weather Channel. Stephanie, always good to see you, but I always think snow in April is not a good thing. But you`d say in this case, it actually is welcome news in that area. How come?

STEPHANIE ABRAMS (The Weather Channel meteorologist): Very welcome news because it is very dry. That`s why, Gayle, and because we`re starting to get out of our rainy season here on the West, so we`ll take all that we can get.

Let`s go back to July and show you how we started out. We started with a pretty bad, bad drought for us here, and then as we got into our rainy and snowy season here, November, December, January, we got a little help. But notice right now, it`s not looking so good. The drought is popping up again. And really things are going to start to dry out for us. This is really when we wrap up that rainy season.

We do get a little help over the next several days. So we`ve got rain, we`ve got snow for us here, coming in through the day today. It lasts into our Thursday and into our Friday. This is really good news. We`ll take all that we can get. But this is not really going to put a huge dent in that drought.

But you know, we can`t complain about getting it, and great news for the skiers, too, as well.

Look at the rain coming in two to three inches and we need it. Wait until see how dry it is in some places, we are 10, 12, 14 inches below average. Sacramento almost nine inches below average. We went 66 straight days without rain, the longest winter season dry streak on record.

How about the snow? Well, we could pick up another one to two feet here into the Sierra, and we need it badly, too. Think about when you take a test. If you`ve got to 27 percent, a 30 percent, a 24 percent on a test that would be failing. So we need a lot more here when it comes to snow and rain.

Gayle, you can catch all day coverage on The Weather Channel Television Network, including the latest on climate and sustainability as we explore our planet, our future on "Pattern" weekdays at noon.

And of course, Gayle, even if you don`t live in the West, think of all the farming that gets affected out there and then that hits our wallets.

GAYLE KING: Yes, I hadn`t thought of it that way. But you`re right, nobody wants to 27 percent on a test, Miss Stephanie, thank you very much.

Always good to see you.

Ahead, why some Russian families are now camping out at the Southern border seeking asylum in this country from Vladimir Putin`s regime.

But first, it is 7:17, time to check your local weather.

(LOCAL WEATHER)

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

TONY DOKOUPIL: Coming up, Florida`s governor threatens Disney`s privileged position in that state after the company protests the so-called Don`t Say Gay Law.

Plus, Johnny Depp gives testimony in his high-profile defamation trial against his ex-wife, Amber Heard. What we`re learning about their troubled relationship.

You`re watching CBS MORNINGS.

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

TONY DOKOUPIL: That is marijuana being grown and today is April 20th, aka 4/20, historically a day of celebration for cannabis enthusiast, also protest against marijuana prohibition.

So we are sharing our latest polling on that subject. Here it is. Two- thirds of those surveyed in a new CBS poll say they want recreational aka just for fun marijuana to be legal both in their home states and nationwide. The vast majority in the poll across all age groups support legalization at the Federal level; however, people over the age of 65 notably less on board.

Those who are on board in the big way are between 30 and 44. They`re the most supportive. Recreational marijuana currently legal in 18 states and Washington, D.C., and it is legal for medicinal use. Some say, it is all medicinal, in 37 states and the nation`s capital.

The House of Representatives recently passed a bill to end the Federal prohibition on pot, but the Senate has yet to weigh in and we inch ever closer, folks.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: I mean, it`s got to happen. Look, if you look at the polling, it`s got to happen.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: There`s a lot of support. I do think if our Representatives represent the people, clearly, the polling is on the side of legalization.

All right --

GAYLE KING: Smiles in the room.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Smiles in the room.

Ahead, a big announcement from Netflix, why the streaming giant is not smiling, saying it is losing subscribers and could change its lineup as a result.

Also, Ben Tracy takes us to a forest in Minnesota to talk climate change. Stay with us.

(Begin VT)

BEN TRACY: Here inside this chamber in Northern Minnesota, scientists are simulating different levels of global warming to see how the forest reacts.

We`ll tell you what they found and what it means for the health of our planet.

Coming up on CBS MORNINGS.

(End VT)

(LOCAL NEWS)

(LOCAL WEATHER)

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

*************************************************************************** ** (07:30 AM, EDT)

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: You`re looking at Moscow, where the Russian government has been cracking down on protests against the war in Ukraine.

Welcome back to CBS MORNINGS.

This footage shows one protests being broken up earlier in the war, but anti-war demonstrations are now rare as the punishment for telling the truth has become far more severe.

To escape the crackdown, hundreds of thousands of Russians have left their country. Lilia Luciano shows us the painful struggle of one Russian family to get out.

(Begin VT)

LILIA LUCIANO: Yulia (sp?), her two children, and the few things she carries with her are now tucked into small spaces at her sister Olga`s home near San Francisco.

When did you start suspecting that you didn`t really have a future in Russia?

YULIA (Left Russia with two children): I think the strangest thing is I could even now have a future in Russia, building my career, raising my kids, but I don`t want to be scared for them to be persecuted for something.

LILIA LUCIANO: In the largest country in the world, there is little space for dissent.

(Clip of Russian protest.)

LILIA LUCIANO: Protest against the invasion had met harsh crackdowns, news outlets are being silenced, and new laws threaten jail time for spreading so called misinformation about the Russian military.

YULIA: I`m actually very angry that I had to go, but what did it for me was another of Putin`s speeches when he said, okay, when he mentioned atomic weapons and things I was like, "Now, I`m scared."

LILIA LUCIANO: Yulia, her sister Olga and her brother Yakov are all U.S. citizens. Their parents fled the Soviet Union in the 80s as political refugees, but after college, Yulia returned.

YULIA: Russia was very exciting. It was new. There was so much happening and it just seemed very free, cut 20 years later, I`m a refugee again.

LILIA LUCIANO: Retracing the steps of her parents.

YULIA: I`m trying to fight the feeling of being a failure because like my parents did so much to get us out, and here I am again.

LILIA LUCIANO: Yulia and her two children are dual citizens. That American passport makes them the exception, giving them an easier way out.

But she left behind her 93-year-old grandmother who didn`t have a visa. Her brother Yakov visiting Moscow from his home in Massachusetts, took over to try to get her out, but he soon realized what he was up against.

YAKOV KRONROD (American citizen in Russia): We talked to almost every U.S. Embassy in Europe.

LILIA LUCIANO: Seeking freedom or fleeing the crushing consequences of sanctions, many Russians are trying to escape, but where Europe is opening doors to Ukrainian refugees, Russians are finding a dead end.

MAN: It`s really tough for Russians.

LILIA LUCIANO: Anaida Zadykyan is an immigration lawyer in Los Angeles helping Russians file asylum claims

ANAIDA ZADYKYAN (Immigration lawyer): All the sanction that Western countries took against Russia that is basically no flights, it`s really hard to get out right now.

LILIA LUCIANO: Out of options, more Russians are heading to Mexico where it is easier to get a tourist visa. They then make their way to the U.S. border where many are now camping out along with Ukrainians and Central American refugees seeking asylum.

More than 7,000 Russians have entered the U.S. through the Southern border this year. That`s almost double the number from last year.

Who are the people fleeing?

ANAIDA ZADYKYAN: Most people that I see are supporters of the opposition, bright individuals, educated some people are members of LGBT community. It`s like younger crowds in their 20s.

YAKOV KRONROD: They think it`s going to be really bad for Russia, not just in an economic sense, like in a cultural sense.

LILIA LUCIANO: But hope isn`t out of the question, even for an elderly Russian grandma.

YAKOV KRONROD: We are coming.

LILIA LUCIANO: During a Zoom call, Yakov shared with us the news they were all waiting for.

YAKOV KRONROD: The embassy in Yerevan approved visas for my grandmother, and sister and brother-in-law. We got visas and tickets.

LILIA LUCIANO: Yakov was able to fast track an emergency visa appointment in Armenia because of his grandmother`s medical issues, and after a month and a half, the family finally welcomed their matriarch to the U.S.

YAKOV KRONROD: Mission accomplished.

LILIA LUCIANO: But one thing remains clear for them, they are the exception.

YAKOV KRONROD: I have this like guilt kind of complex about the fact that we were able to find connections that helped us expedite it. For people who don`t have that, who are trying to get out, I mean, it`s near impossible.

LILIA LUCIANO: For CBS MORNINGS, Lilia Luciano, San Francisco.

(End VT)

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: As Lilia says, hope isn`t out of the question.

Coming up, Johnny Depp takes the stand to reject abuse allegations by his ex-wife, Amber Heard, why he is calling her claims heinous.

And a reminder, you can always get this morning`s news by subscribing to our CBS MORNINGS on-the-go podcast, today`s top stories in less than 20 minutes.

Coming right back.

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

GAYLE KING: Johnny Depp is testifying in his defamation lawsuit against his ex-wife, that`s Amber Heard, telling a court in Virginia that he never abused her. He says, she abused him.

Now, this dispute has been going on for years and he is suing her for $50 million. Heard wrote in "The Washington Post" back in 2018 that she is a survivor of domestic abuse.

Her op-ed did not mention debt by name, but he claims that that had damaged his reputation and his acting career. And now Heard is countersuing him for $100 million.

Carter Evans has the story.

(Begin VT)

WOMAN: Good afternoon, Mr. Depp.

JOHNNY DEPP (Actor): Good afternoon.

CARTER EVANS: Johnny Depp was one of the world`s highest paid actors. On Tuesday, he took the witness stand to respond to allegations of abuse from his ex-wife, Amber Heard.

JOHNNY DEPP: I never did I myself reach to the point of striking Miss Heard in any way, nor have I ever struck any woman.

CARTER EVANS: Depp says Heard`s allegations are lies and accused her of physically abusing him.

JOHNNY DEPP: Within a year, a year and a half, she had become this -- another person almost.

CARTER EVANS: The actress married Depp in 2015, filed for divorce 15 months later and sought a restraining order. In a 2018 "Washington Post" opinion piece, she recounted her experience with violence and referred to herself as a public figure representing domestic abuse.

On the stand, Depp said the allegations ruined his career.

JOHNNY DEPP: Her accusations had sort of permeated the industry and then made its way through media and social media. It just kept getting bigger and bigger.

CARTER EVANS: The trial comes almost two years after a British Court dismissed Depp`s libel case against an English tabloid that called him a wife beater. That Judge ruled Depp repeatedly assaulted her and caused her to fear for her life.

Attorney mediator, Winter Wheeler.

WINTER WHEELER (Attorney mediator): I understand wanting people to know that you`ve been falsely accused, if that is in fact the truth. But even if he wins, I don`t necessarily believe that changes his career path, good or bad.

CARTER EVANS: Amber Heard has not yet testified.

If he thought "The Washington Post" essay was bad, what is he going to think of her testimony?

WINTER WHEELER: Oh, exactly. All the dirty laundry is being aired and it is only going to get nastier as things go on.

CARTER EVANS: Before the trial, Heard said in a statement: "I wrote about the price women pay for speaking out against men in power. I continue to pay that price."

Today, Depp is expected to take the stand again, this time for cross examination.

For CBS MORNINGS, I am Carter Evans.

(End VT)

GAYLE KING: Boy, oh, boy. It`s very messy. I`m watching and I have to say, it`s tough to watch, I think for both of them.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Yes.

GAYLE KING: Both of them are accusing the other. Both have pictures of the abuse that they claim happened by their spouse, and it is just so tough to see all your personal business spilled out that way.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Yes. It`s tough, but also I feel like they`re looking forward in some sense. I mean, everyone`s had a relationship where there`s some kind of problem and these people have very deep pockets to air at all and I hope the Judge says you`re right and you`re wrong. It`s kind of a fantasy everyone has.

I don`t know if they`re going to get there or not in the end.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Well, she still hasn`t testified. So we`ll see.

GAYLE KING: And she is going to take the stand -- you know, people close to them both say that they each know how to push each other`s business. Push each other`s buttons, not business. Might know how do that, too. But I meant to say buttons.

TONY DOKOUPIL: That was that was a different stage of the relationship.

GAYLE KING: Exactly.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Things have taken a turn since then.

All right, Gayle. Up next, Vlad, across the table from me will have the stories we`ll be talking about today.

But first, it is 7:43, time to check your local weather.

(LOCAL WEATHER)

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

TONY DOKOUPIL: Time now for "What to Watch" where Vlad just admitted, he ate the ice cream while working at a supermarket.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: This is when I was in high school.

GAYLE KING: What?

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: I was, you know, working like a teenager, you know and then you don`t have time to go to lunch.

TONY DOKOUPIL: There is a cart.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: So me and the other like stock boys, we would just like grab some ice cream, eat it, and then say damaged.

TONY DOKOUPIL: That`s an important detail. There are like people coming home and be like, "Why?"

GAYLE KING: I was just going to say Tony, anybody can do this.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: No. No. You write damage on and stick it back in the stockroom. That`s what we were doing.

TONY DOKOUPIL: All right.

GAYLE KING: Law-abiding citizen. That`s good.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Yes. All right. Let`s begin here, with the escalating feud between Florida`s governor and Disney. It began when the company came out against a new state law that limits discussion of sexual identity in schools.

Yesterday, Republican Governor Ron DeSantis asked lawmakers to take up bills that that would end Walt Disney World`s special self-governing privileges.

The Special District was created in 1967. Florida has hundreds of districts like it. Critics say DeSantis is risking thousands of jobs and punishing Disney for speaking out against the Parental Rights and Education Law. That`s the name of the law.

Opponents as the of the bill states they use it, the so-called Don`t Say Gay Law that`s the name that it`s colloquially known as. The controversial legislation has led to protests in the Sunshine State. It prohibits school staff from instructing children in kindergarten through third grade about gender identity or sexual orientation.

A special legislative session will consider the bills to end Disney`s special status this week.

This is very complicated that`s why I had a lot to say.

GAYLE KING: It is complicated and you really have to get -- you really have to go in the weeds almost understand it, but it seems both Disney and Florida have both said to each other, "Game on."

TONY DOKOUPIL: Yes.

GAYLE KING: Nobody is biking down here.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Tough time to be a corporate CEO these days because of all of these controversial bills and in the past, if you didn`t take a stand, that was okay. Now, it`s like everyone encourages you to take a side.

GAYLE KING: Yes.

TONY DOKOUPIL: And it immediately becomes politicized.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Yes, and even from the Disney perspective, the employees have pressured management who make a stand, which they then did, which then led to the Governor of Florida taking the actions that he is taking.

TONY DOKOUPIL: He seems more than happy to have this fight. It`s more attention for him.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: A lot of people who are watching politics in that state and national politics also agree with that.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Yes.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: All right, are changes coming to your Netflix?

The streaming service says it is thinking of giving users a lower price version of Netflix with ads, if they want it. The company also says it wants to crack down on password sharing. That`s how the discussion around my time at ShopRite came about.

GAYLE KING: Stealing from ShopRite. Because we`ve all done that at Netflix. We`ve all borrowed somebody`s passcode.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Yes, everybody. A lot of people do that.

GAYLE KING: We all know it is not right.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: We know it`s not right, but people have done it. Yes.

Netflix says it has lost 200,000 subscribers in the first three months of this year, its first subscriber loss in a decade. It expects to lose two million more subscribers this quarter out of around 220 million total subscribers worldwide.

During an earnings call yesterday, Netflix co-CEO Reed Hastings said it makes sense to offer a less expensive option to users who don`t mind that.

GAYLE KING: Well, the beauty of Netflix is you don`t have the ads. I hope they don`t do that. I want to watch, but I don`t want the ads.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Well, you will be able to able to watch it. You`ll just have to pay a little bit more to watch it ad-free.

GAYLE KING: Well, I don`t want to pay a little bit more. I don`t want to pay a little bit more, Vlad.

TONY DOKOUPIL: I mean, Vlad, 220 million worldwide subscribers is a huge number.

GAYLE KING: Yes.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Yes, but you know, when Wall Street sees a loss of subscribers, that`s a flag.

TONY DOKOUPIL: But eventually they`re going to run out of people. I mean, there`s just going to be at their --

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: The whole world is Netflix and chilling.

All right, let`s end with Michelle Obama on "The Ellen DeGeneres Show." The former First Lady talked about spending time with her grown up daughter, Sasha and Malia during the pandemic. Watch this.

(Begin VT)

ELLEN DEGENERES (Talk show host): Your daughters were home and now they`re gone. So it`s an empty house.

MICHELLE OBAMA (Former First Lady of the United States): Bye.

Being with them as adults, is -- it is fun. I mean, I love them at every age.

ELLEN DEGENERES: Before your husband was President even, you came here with them. They were eight and 10.

MICHELLE OBAMA: They were --

ELLEN DEGENERES: And just to see the Jonas Brothers.

MICHELLE OBAMA: They love the Jonas Brothers.

ELLEN DEGENERES: You brought them to see the Jonas Brothers.

MICHELLE OBAMA: Now they`re bringing grown men home. Before, it was just like a pop band. Now, they have boyfriends and real lives and all that stuff.

(End VT)

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Sasha and Malia are 20 and 23. Can you imagine you`re coming to visit to pick up one of them to take them out on a date?

GAYLE KING: And Barack Obama answers the door?

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: And Barack Obama is there answering the door.

GAYLE KING: It was so great to see Michelle and Ellen together. Michelle has been going on that show since 2008, so they have a lot of history. It was such a good show.

TONY DOKOUPIL: The fatherly intimidation. "Have a seat. Don`t mind the Secret Service."

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Yes.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Talk about, when are you going to be home.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Shining a bright light in your face. "Where are you going tonight?"

TONY DOKOUPIL: Still ahead, our "Earth 365" series and Ben Tracy in Minnesota.

Stay with us.

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

(LOCAL NEWS)

(LOCAL WEATHER)

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

**********************************(08:00AM, EDT)**********************************

GAYLE KING: Welcome back to CBS MORNINGS. I`m Gayle King.

Coming up in this hour, "The Daily Show`s" Jordan Klepper is here. He will tell us why he went to one particular country in Europe to learn about American politics.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: I`m Vladimir Duthiers. Did you know some trees can help us predict the future? Ben Tracy visits a forest that could tell us what`s in store with climate change.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: And I`m Tony Dokoupil. If you`ve ever felt a little awkward, maybe in a job interview, we`ve got you covered with a guest who says she can help you get that dream job. I already have mine, of course.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: We all do.

GAYLE KING: Brown-noser.

But first here`s today`s "Eye Opener at Eight."

As Russia`s offensive in Eastern Ukraine intensifies, the U.N. calls for a ceasefire to allow civilians to escape and get humanitarian aid.

ANTONIO GUTERRES (United Nations Secretary General): People do not have food, water, supplies to treat the sick or wounded or simply to live day to day.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Moscow`s crackdown on any Russian who criticizes the war is causing many to flee to other countries.

YULIA: I could even now have a future in Russia raising their kids, but I don`t want to be scared for them to be persecuted.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: The White House says it will wait for the C.D.C.`s advice before deciding whether to appeal a ruling to end the mask mandate on planes and public transit.

MAN: I`m happy that the mandate has been lifted and is optional.

GAYLE KING: It`s messy. Actor, Johnny Depp, gives testimony. His defamation case against his ex-wife, Amber Heard.

JOHNNY DEPP: I never did I myself reach the point of striking Miss Heard in any way.

TONY DOKOUPIL: And the presidential race in France is heating up, but one photo of President Emmanuel Macron is lighting up the internet.

JAMES CORDEN ("The Late, Late Show with James Corden" host): Look at the hair on that chest. Imagine trying to pick a bunch of cake crumbs out of that.

STEPHEN COLBERT ("The Late Show with Stephen Colbert" host): In the picture, he has two cell phones. Well, that`s just how they do it in France. You`ve got your main phone and you`ve got your mistress phone, which is on France`s top cellular network, Menage-A-T&T.

GAYLE KING: Well, I don`t know about that. I want to know when that picture was taken.

TONY DOKOUPIL: That`s a lot of chest hair. I am pro chest hair. Hot. I mean, wow, and thick and he trimmed it back even and it was a carpet.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: But also the style. It`s like the Naval shirt like it is like 1977 at the 2001 Space Odyssey.

GAYLE KING: I still wonder when that picture was taken.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Probably recently.

GAYLE KING: Yes.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Post puberty, I`d say.

GAYLE KING: All right, President Macron. Tony, would you like the year?

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: That`s pretty good.

GAYLE KING: Okay, we`re going to begin with this as we count down to Earth Day. It`s this Friday, our "Earth 365" series is focusing on issues affecting the health of our planet year-round.

Now scientists have long known the value of trees as vital warriors in this fight against climate change. The new research shows that world`s forests help cool the planet by about two degrees, which is a lot in global terms for historic planet warming carbon dioxide and cool the air helping to prevent the droughts.

Senior national and environmental correspondent, that`s Ben Tracy, visited a unique research site in Northern Minnesota. Scientists there are learning more about these potentially planet saving ecosystems, which could help predict rise in temperatures.

(Begin VT)

BEN TRACY: In the forests of Northern Minnesota, where winter often overstays its welcome, hidden among the trees is something rather unusual. This is the Marcell Experimental Forest, or you could just as easily call it a Climate Change Time Machine.

I mean, this is such a unique place to come to work.

DAVID WESTON (Oak Ridge National Laboratory senior scientist): It`s incredible. Each one of these is giving you a manipulation of what the future may be hold.

BEN TRACY: David Weston is a senior scientist at Oak Ridge National Laboratory. He and more than 100 other researchers come here to study how different degrees of global warming might impact the world`s northern forests.

I noticed above the door on the way in here it says "Welcome to a warmer future." That seems kind of ominous.

DAVID WESTON: It is giving us some idea of how far we can push the system and how resilient this system may be. It`s absolutely amazing to have a future scenario that you can measure right now today.

BEN TRACY: They pump heat and carbon dioxide into these chambers. The temperature simulations range from no warming all the way up to a frightening nine degrees Celsius or more than 16 degrees Fahrenheit.

That`s pretty extreme.

DAVID WESTON: It is extreme and so this is the upper end of what we`re trying to simulate.

BEN TRACY: And so at this level of warming, clearly, this doesn`t react very well.

DAVID WESTON: No, we`re not doing very well here.

BEN TRACY: These hexagon-shaped chambers here at the experimental forest are open to the sky. Each one is more than 30 feet tall, 40 feet wide. And there are 10 of them here on this massive seven-acre site, each one providing a different glimpse into the future.

And it`s not just any forest they`re studying. It`s what`s known as the boreal forest, the world`s largest forest system. It wraps around the upper third of the earth, from North America, through Scandinavia and much of Russia, like some sort of planetary headband.

STEPHEN SEBESTYEN (Marcell Experimental Forest): The hair or the bald spot exposed on the top, and then you have this band that extends around the forehead or the more curved places on the globe.

BEN TRACY: Stephen Sebestyen is a researcher with the National Forest Service. He says the boreal includes several species of trees and crucial mossy peatland that play an outsized role in regulating the Earth`s temperature by sequestering planet warming carbon dioxide.

STEPHEN SEBESTYEN: The peatlands are only three percent of the land surface area of the planet, but they hold up to a third to a half of the global soil carbon pool.

BEN TRACY: Unfortunately, what they`re discovering here inside these chambers, is that the hotter the planet gets, the boreal forest ecosystem dries out. The critical peat moss is eaten up by bacteria and replaced by shrubs. That carbon once captured in the ground is released into the atmosphere accelerating the devastating impacts of climate change.

STEPHEN SEBESTYEN: Every single year has led to loss of carbon from these ecosystems. That`s the crisis that we face. Taking carbon from the solid form and a stable form stored in these peatlands to be in a gas in the atmosphere. That`s a greenhouse gas.

BEN TRACY: And the real world impacts are already painfully clear. These drier northern forests are now more prone to wildfires. Record breaking blazes tore through the boreal forests of Siberia in the past two years, charring millions of acres and spewing record amounts of carbon dioxide into the sky.

Scientists say we need to quickly reduce our planet warming emissions before these forest systems reach a tipping point, switching from accumulating carbon to emitting it, potentially even rapidly in a so-called carbon bomb.

And in some ways, this place is kind of a giant warning to humans about the future.

DAVID WESTON: Maybe it gives us a reason to act. Right? I`m a bit of an optimist. But why roll the dice. Let`s solve the problem now.

BEN TRACY: Because the dire future foretold here in this forest is one we can still change.

For CBS MORNINGS, I`m Ben Tracy, in Northern Minnesota.

(End VT)

GAYLE KING: I like how he is thinking, why roll the dice. I don`t like rolling the dice on anything, especially when he says why don`t we solve the problem now?

TONY DOKOUPIL: Yes, I know.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: It`s the butterfly effect that Ben describes, right? The fossil fuels make the planet hotter, which in turn dries out the forest, which in turn, you know, creates a hotter planet.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Yes.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: And that`s where we are right now, and if we can just reduce those emissions, maybe we can save the planet.

TONY DOKOUPIL: We need those forests. It`s not just climate change, it is air pollution now.

GAYLE KING: That`s right. That`s right.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: All right, ahead, tips and strategies for nailing that job interview. We will speak with a human behavior expert about how to look and sound confident.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Doing great, Vlad. You`re doing great.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: I need a lot of her help. I can`t wait to talk to her. But first, it is 8:08, time to check your local weather.

(LOCAL WEATHER)

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

TONY DOKOUPIL: Jordan Klepper of "The Daily Show" is known for his interviews at political rallies and protests in the U.S., but for a new special, he traveled all the way to Hungary to find out why so many American conservatives looks at that Central European country for inspiration.

(Begin VT)

JORDAN KLEPPER ("The Today Show" contributor): Today is the Revolution Day. It celebrates 1848 when they pushed back against the Hapsburgs and I should have bought a guidebook instead of trying to watch "Tenet" on the plane.

(End VT)

TONY DOKOUPIL: Ahead, Jordan will share what he eventually learned about Hungary`s brand of authoritarian politics and what it says about us.

You`re watching CBS MORNINGS.

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

(Clip from "The Internship.")

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Of course that is a scene from "The Internship." And it`s an example of what not to do if you want to nail a job interview.

Millions of people have been rethinking their careers during this so-called Great Resignation. If you are one of them, researcher Vanessa Van Edwards has some tips for you. She`s the author of "Cues: Master the Secret Language of Charismatic Communication." And she is here with us now.

Good morning.

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS (Bestselling author and researcher): Good morning. Thanks for having me.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: So you say, Vanessa, that making a good first impression begins with how you say "hello"?

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: Yes. So, most people don`t realize what you say is not important, it is how you say it. And the very first thing we`re doing in our first impression is we`re looking for confidence.

We like to be around confident people. We like to hire confident people. And this is a weird measurement, but the space between your ear and your shoulder is the fastest way we indicate confidence. Why? When we`re nervous, we bring our shoulders, we tilt our chin down.

So I see people on video, they`ll go, "Hey, good morning," or they hunch over their computer or they start an interview and they have their shoulders up. The first thing I want you to do is maximize this distance. It is a really weird measurement, but it actually signals confidence and it also helps you speak more confidently.

How you say "hello" can give away all your vocal confidence.

GAYLE KING: There`s many ways to say hello, like what?

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: Yes, okay, so here`s what happens. We get nervous. We`re hearing the phone ring, we`re waiting for the video to pop up. We`re walking around we, "Hello," all the way up here, all the way up into our high octave and we say "hi" at the top of our breath.

The problem is that gives away all your confidence. What I want you to do instead is say "hello" on the outbreath. Listen to the difference. This is me at the top of anxiety. "Hey, nice to see you." Versus "Hey, good to see you."

So when you speak on the outbreath, it forces your vocal cords to relax. You lower your shoulders and it signals such nice confidence.

GAYLE KING: You know, before you sat down, you said, we`re going to help people get jobs today. So people out there are saying, "Thank you, Vanessa Van Edwards."

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: We`re going to help you get a job.

GAYLE KING: But one of the things you said was colors. Much to my chagrin, you said yellow, which is my favorite color, by the way, feel no pressure. I said yellow is not a good color to wear on an interview. Why is it? Why is it not and what is a good color?

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: Okay, so with colors, what you want to think about is what it triggers for most humans. So yellow is a very bright color. It`s high energy, but it`s your signature color.

So here`s a weird way to think about colors. You can create a signature color or you can wear the color of the brand. So if you`re interviewing at Coke, wear red. It looks like you fit in. If you`re interviewing at Pepsi, wear blue. Sprite, wear green.

My favorite color though is blue.

GAYLE KING: Why?

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: This is my favorite color today.

GAYLE KING: Tony got the job.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Tony is hired.

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: I was so happy when I saw your suit today.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Someone is wearing blue. Pretty good chance on a given day. But isn`t it a little bit boring? Blue?

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: No. No. So blue. So blue. What does it remind humans of? Clear blue skies, clear blue water. It makes us feel calm, it makes us feel relaxed. So that`s a great color to wear.

Red. Now, I chose red today. This is a high energy color. Intensity, passion. You only want to wear red if you are bringing energy. Do not let the red wear you.

So, today, I`m trying to bring it, so it`s a high energy color. Black is actually the most boring color. No one is in black.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: But I do wear black outside of like my suits. I`m pretty much all black all the time.

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: So black is the most formal color, and if you have answers that can speak for themselves, you want to focus on your content, black is a great color to wear because it can make you blend in, your answers can stand out.

The last color I want you to consider is green. Green, human we think of spring, we think of fresh, we think of new. If you`re looking for --

GAYLE KING: We think of money.

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: We think of money. I mean, that`s good, too. Right?

GAYLE KING: I think of growth and new beginnings.

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: Growth and new beginnings. Yes. And so if you`re looking for a role with transition or change, green can be a very refreshing color to wear.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: So this is all good, what to wear, how to say it, but what to say. Words of connection in virtual interviews. What are those?

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: So we`ve actually found, we wondered if you could make up for the lack of a handshake in a virtual interview. Could you actually say the word that is that touchy feely word? And what they found was if you say, "Oh, I`m sending a handshake from here," or "I`m sending a virtual high five" or "It`s so good to see you," saying those words actually creates more of a physiological response.

We actually measure that using smartwatch technology, and so saying positive words especially not saying, "Can you see me?" "Can you hear me?"

GAYLE KING: Yes, I know.

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: The first 10 words you say in an interview can you set you up for success. So think about those first 10 words to make them slightly positive.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: So let me ask you, we were talking backstage, I had a mentor who used to work at CBS News who constantly told me to advocate for myself, which I`m not very good at doing, believe it or not.

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: It`s so hard.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: And I know that there are people who go into interviews and they say, "I`m the next greatest thing you`re hiring, you`ve got to hire me. If you don`t, you`re doing the wrong thing," but I could never do that.

But he said --

GAYLE KING: That can come off as obnoxious.

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: Obnoxious.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Right.

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: Braggy, okay, so, I want you to advocate for yourself, but not in terms of labeling yourself. So I don`t wait to say, I`m successful, I`m going to be the next best thing for this role. I want you to do it with stories.

So instead of saying you`re successful or productive, and say, you know, in my last role, I was able to create a system. I was productive, and it was super successful at that company.

So using stories to advocate for yourself, is a way of talking about yourself, but it also feels comfortable, not like you`re bragging.

GAYLE KING: It`s such good advice. Your book is so good, Vanessa, because there is a way you have to sell yourself. But that braggy word is never good.

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: And soft. Yes, can I give one more kind of subtle tip.

GAYLE KING: Jon Towers says hurry up.

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: Okay, M.I.T. found that if you subtly mirror your interviewer, you`re going to earn 20 to 30 percent more in your salary.

So if they`re leaning forward, you lean forward. If they`re nodding, I`m going to nod with you.

GAYLE KING: Okay, I`ve had mirroring in marital counseling, didn`t go so well.

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: This is a job interview.

GAYLE KING: I have to think about that. Okay --

VANESSA VAN EDWARDS: This is a job interview.

GAYLE KING: Okay. Thanks Vanessa Van Edwards, always good to see you.

We`ll be right back.

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

TONY DOKOUPIL: "48 Hours" is investigating the mysterious death of an American woman in Africa. Bianca Rudolph suffered a deadly gunshot wound while she was visiting Zambia with her husband, Lawrence.

The case centers on the crucial question: Did Bianca accidentally shoot herself?

That`s what Zambian Police say, but as "48 Hours" contributor Debora Patta reports, American investigators believe Lawrence Rudolph murdered his wife.

(Begin VT)

DEBORA PATTA: In 2016, Lawrence Rudolph and his wife, Bianca, were preparing to return home from a hunting trip in Zambia. Lawrence says he was in the cabin`s bathroom when he heard a gunshot and his wife`s scream, finding her dead shot in the chest, he would tell authorities, Bianca, must have shot herself while packing up their gun in its case.

JAMES GAGLIANO: Gun safety rules and regulations stipulate, once the hunting trip was ended, the weapons should have been rendered safe.

DEBORA PATTA: James Gagliano, a retired F.B.I. special agent and CBS News consultant has questions over why the gun would have even been loaded.

JAMES GAGLIANO: To think that they would have left the weapon off safe, loaded, and then a finger could have gotten in there trigger, it just does not make sense.

DEBORA PATTA: It is especially puzzling, says Gagliano, because of the Rudolph`s background

JAMES GAGLIANO: Lawrence Rudolph and his wife, Bianca, were avid hunters. These were not rookies and they understand gun safety rules and precautions.

(End VT)

TONY DOKOUPIL: Lawrence Rudolph for his part, has maintained innocence throughout this investigation. You can watch Debora`s full report tonight at eight Eastern, seven Central on the CBS News streaming network.

GAYLE KING: And still ahead, "The Daily Show`s" Jordan Klepper there he is in our progressive greenroom. Hey, Jordan.

JORDAN KLEPPER: Hello.

GAYLE KING: Here for his new special. We`re good. Hope you`re good, too.

Local news coming up next.

(LOCAL NEWS)

(LOCAL WEATHER)

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

*************************************************************************** ** (08:30 AM, EDT)

TONY DOKOUPIL: Welcome back to CBS MORNINGS. Time how to bring you some stories that are talk of our low coffee table this morning. Mr. Duthiers.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: I`m in pole position. So my "Talk of the Table" is a new survey showing two out of three people are not afraid of what happens after death.

The survey commissioned by Spirit Shack, which is a British company that sells ghost hunting gear.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Yes, okay.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Okay, so there`s that, but they did find out that half of the 1,000 people surveyed believe in an afterlife, 55 percent of those who believe say they will go to heaven, while 58 percent worry about going to hell.

Two out of five people believe they will be reunited with their pets in the afterlife, and the majority of people believe that their pets will be reincarnated.

I found this study really, really fascinating because it`s always been interesting to me the psychology of how we exist on this Earth. When we think about our daily existence, which is painful, everybody`s existence is painful. So we create this notion for us -- for ourselves that the pain ends once we go.

TONY DOKOUPIL: I like the idea that most people think they`re going to heaven. It`s like most people think they`re a good driver.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Right.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Better than --

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: No one is saying, "I think I`m going to hell." No, everybody is like, "I`m going to heaven" but also my pets are going to heaven. I like that. I like that.

GAYLE KING: I`m not ready for it, but I`m not afraid of it. But I`m certainly not looking forward to it anytime soon.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Yes, I think the survey -- the key, I think is that the majority of people are not scared of what happens in the afterlife.

GAYLE KING: Yes. Yes, yes.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: I like that. All right, Gayle, what have you got?

GAYLE KING: My "Talk of the Table" is a fond farewell to TV`s Johnson family.

(Clip from "Blackish.")

GAYLE KING: I know. The series "Blackish" ended its network run last night. Did you see it after eight seasons and 176 episodes?

Star, Anthony Anderson called, "Blackish" one of his proudest moments of his life. He wrote on Instagram: "What this show has done, and has shown for the culture and Black families, really all-American families overall, will never be forgotten." A lot of fans say that "Blackish" gave them a family, they could finally see themselves in.

I know that`s true for certainly at my house. We all love "Blackish." But the thing about the show that made it so good, regardless of what your ethnicity was, the problems were so relatable.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Yes.

GAYLE KING: The highs and the lows are so relatable, and I think that that`s -- I think that`s a very good thing.

Tracee Ellis Ross said, "We really changed the landscape of modern primetime TV, more reflective of who we are as human beings." So bravo to the team of "Blackish." The show is going to be next --

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: Bravo. It is one of the most incredible shows. One of the greatest shows of television. The acting was impeccable.

GAYLE KING: Yes, I think so, too.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: I`m going to miss it.

GAYLE KING: Me, too.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: I am going to miss it.

GAYLE KING: But they all say they`re ready to go on to their next chapter. So good for them, too.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Good for them. I haven`t seen it. I`m going to look forward to it.

GAYLE KING: Yes, yes, yes.

TONY DOKOUPIL: All right, my "Talk of the Table" looking forward to right now is "The Daily Show`s" Jordan Klepper, best known for interviewing Trump supporters at rallies all across America. His new special takes things much, much further.

Last month, after speaking with people at the conservative political convention, CPAC, Klepper went to the European country of Hungary.

At CPAC, he had asked U.S. conservatives why so many seem to look to Hungary and its authoritarian leader as a model for America`s future.

(Begin VT)

JORDAN KLEPPER: What do you think about Donald Trump when he called Vladimir Putin a genius? Was that him being tough?

WOMAN: I think he has a way of playing with words.

JORDAN KLEPPER: Yes, definitely like saying the opposite of what a Patriot would say?

WOMAN: Yes, and then he gets the media riled up.

JORDAN KLEPPER: He disregards his own Intelligence Community, and instead he kisses [bleep] Vladimir Putin. But that`s him just being smart.

WOMAN: Being a wise guy.

JORDAN KLEPPER: He is being a wise guy.

The MAGA crowd`s obsessions were predictable.

Is this a little much?

But there was a new infatuation I was surprised to hear because for the first time at CPAC, people were applauding another country.

WOMAN: Hungary is on the forefront.

MAN: When you see people like leaders in Hungary, talking and speaking the way that Donald Trump did when he was in office, it inspires me.

(End VT)

TONY DOKOUPIL: The special is called "Jordan Klepper Fingers the Globe: Hungary for Democracy," later on Comedy Central. Why do I we feel like a practical joke has been played on that title.

GAYLE KING: I know.

JORDAN KLEPPER: You shouldn`t have comedians on your show. It is more respectable.

TONY DOKOUPIL: I do enjoy it. And the lawyers required me to say that CBS is a division of the Paramount Global Company. "Daily Show" is part of that and you`ve convinced our fine corporate leaders to send you on a European vacation where you also did some work.

JORDAN KLEPPER: Exactly. I think that`s the little trick I pulled there. It`s been a long couple of years, send me to Eastern Europe and it turns out, democracy is crumbling there, too.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Which had a serious point, exactly. So why did you do it?

JORDAN KLEPPER: Well --

GAYLE KING: And why Hungary? That is what I think is so interesting.

JORDAN KLEPPER: You know, Hungary has suddenly been a part of the cultural conversation here. Tucker Carlson has done a special over there. We went to CPAC, where a lot of conservatives get their marching orders for what`s next. And they`re literally holding a CPAC in Budapest.

So, we were curious, what is it about Hungary that conservatives see as a potential American future? So we went.

GAYLE KING: Were you surprised to see that people there say that Joe Biden is fake? That his presidency is not legit? Somebody even brought up Hunter Biden`s laptop. I was so -- I was blown away by that.

JORDAN KLEPPER: Yes.

GAYLE KING: That was a topic of conversation in Hungary.

JORDAN KLEPPER: I thought I was escaping those conversations for a mere 10 days. But when we landed in their March 15th, they have a giant event, and I was shocked, I thought we`re going to talk about what was happening in Ukraine, which is literally next door to Hungary, Hunter Biden`s laptop came out of their mouths, so it felt like I hadn`t gotten very far.

TONY DOKOUPIL: So the other really amazing thing is how Hungary has declined from a near democracy to what has been qualified as an authoritarian state by many observers.

In your piece, I learned that the opposition leader, the guy trying to replace the current leader got five minutes of state television over a four-year period.

GAYLE KING: Yes.

TONY DOKOUPIL: That`s astounding.

JORDAN KLEPPER: Yes, you go --

GAYLE KING: Early in the morning early.

JORDAN KLEPPER: Yes, it was early in the morning.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Actually, same time slot you`re having right now.

JORDAN KLEPPER: Which is a great time.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Wonderful.

JORDAN KLEPPER: You`ve got to utilize that timestamp, but you look at it, essentially, the amount of time that I`m going to be on this program is too little. I`ve been telling you producers this, but the Hungarians have been talking about that as well.

Like, if you go to Hungary, they`re having an election. It is a democracy. But what you see is, there`s only one candidate that anybody is hearing from us and that`s affecting the outcome.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: And that`s my question, which is it is a democracy. It`s part of the E.U. These things don`t happen overnight. It`s not that all of a sudden Hungary woke up and it`s in the situation that you`re seeing on the ground now. How did it happen? And how do you see the antecedents here in the U.S.?

JORDAN KLEPPER: Well, it`s a slide from democracy towards autocracy to go from free to partly free. And basically what happens is they affect -- make voting harder. There`s a lot of gerrymandering, they control the media. Most of the media there is owned by wealthy oligarchs who have connections to the ruling party, and they vilify certain minority groups, the LGBTQ community is being vilified right now to rev up voters.

And you look at what`s happening in Florida right now, and you start to see that thing happening here. And so when you see this democracy slide, in a European country, it`s that frog boiling in water. Democracy is fragile. And so when you`re back here in America, look, it might look a lot like what`s happening there.

GAYLE KING: Before you realize -- the frog realizes, hey, I`m dying in here.

JORDAN KLEPPER: Yes.

GAYLE KING: Getting really hot. I mean, you said in this special that you wanted to go to get some sense of where America is heading. You briefly touched on that. What conclusions did you draw?

JORDAN KLEPPER: Democracy is fragile, and you have to stay vigilant. When people talk about the downfall of American democracy, it can be very hyperbolic and hard to imagine. And you look at Hungary, it`s beautiful. Travel to Budapest, people are wonderful.

And they do vote. They do have a media system that looks on the outside, like it`s an open free democracy. But underneath, people who are in power are making it harder and harder for things to change. I think America needs to look very closely at that.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: How about misinformation? What role does that play? We know what it plays here in the United States. What role does it play in countries like Hungary?

JORDAN KLEPPER: Well, when I`m talking to people on the streets, and I`m talking to folks about George Soros being the boogeyman who controls things, talking about Joe Biden being a fake President, and they`re getting some of our misinformation. They are in bubbles, like we`re in bubbles over there.

And again, if all you`re exposed to day in and day out is one party`s view of the world and the destruction that is happening, literally in the world, literally next door, you`re going to be caught up in kind of this echo chamber.

GAYLE KING: You also talked about Ukraine with a spokesperson from the government, from President Orban. It was very interesting to see their reaction to Putin. Could you talk about that for a minute?

JORDAN KLEPPER: Well, like Orban --

GAYLE KING: They did not want to call Putin out.

JORDAN KLEPPER: Yes. Their leader, Viktor Orban, is very cozy with Vladimir Putin.

GAYLE KING: He said, it`s too early to tell.

JORDAN KLEPPER: Too early to tell, exactly.

GAYLE KING: Who is responsible here?

JORDAN KLEPPER: Well, I think, you know, you start to see a lot of this rhetoric echoed in the conversation here. They make no -- Viktor Orban was very cozy with Vladimir Putin and to his supporters. That`s a tough time to be cozy with Vladimir Putin. So when you address, is that an issue now? They point fingers somewhere else.

TONY DOKOUPIL: You`ve got to be getting recognized in a lot of these conferences, right? Like when you`re on the street, people still talk to you?

JORDAN KLEPPER: Yes. Occasionally. I will say this though --

GAYLE KING: That`s a good question, Tony.

VLADIMIR DUTHIERS: The people who go to those rallies, watch your show and watch "The Daily Show."

JORDAN KLEPPER: They watch it.

I went to CPAC, full of conservatives and I kind of expected to be a public enemy number one, and I took selfies the entire time, and I pulled --

GAYLE KING: They turned into dartboards.

JORDAN KLEPPER: They turn the dartboards really quick, but I think for many people, even if you`re the heel in this world, they view it as entertainment so they want to be a part of the world, even if you`re not supposedly on the side of the person they support.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Great. Amusing ourselves to death. I love it.

Jordan Klepper, thank you very much.

Jordan`s special premieres tomorrow on Comedy Central.

Up next, we`re going to talk with another author, Chloe Benjamin, she was riding a wave of success after her book hit "The New York Times" bestseller list, but it came with a physical cost.

Chloe will share her story and offer advice on how to redefine success.

But first, time for a check of your local weather.

(LOCAL WEATHER)

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

GAYLE KING: Here`s a question for all you Type A people out there. Have you ever worked so hard for a dream job or a promotion that you pushed yourself beyond your limits and you sacrificed your health? Chloe Benjamin knows what that`s like.

She went from being an assistant to a "New York Times" bestselling author with her book, "The Immortalists." It was a moment she dreamed of, but behind the scenes though, she was grappling with stress and chronic migraines. She ended up in the ER.

In a recent article for "The Cut," she wrote this about her physical breakdown saying: "I had put my writing, my ambition, and my success over not just my health, but my experience of life."

Wow. She joins us now with her story and some advice for a less stressful life. Chloe, I`m so glad to see you, because I so related to this story because I`m a big believer I`m pushing through, plowing through. You said that you did that almost to the expense, not almost -- to the expense of your health.

When did you realize, okay, I have a real problem here, and then I can`t push through?

CHLOE BENJAMIN ("The Immortalists" author): Well, I think it`s interesting because it was a slow realization. And in fact, it was -- you know, it was hearing these cues from my body, the body speaks through pain.

GAYLE KING: Yes.

CHLOE BENJAMIN: When you`re not listening, you know, to anything else. And slowly, I started to realize I could no longer ignore those signals, but I did for a very long time.

GAYLE KING: But what were the signals specifically that were speaking to you?

CHLOE BENJAMIN: Really pain. Pain, yes, just increasing migraines. You know, I was so grateful to go on a book tour that was quite extensive. I was so honored that this book found a wide audience. But every time I did an event, I would get a migraine and I didn`t listen to that until it was too late.

GAYLE KING: And what just listen to your body really mean?

CHLOE BENJAMIN: Well, we hear this phrase "listen to your body."

GAYLE KING: Yes. Listen to the body. Yes.

CHLOE BENJAMIN: And for me, you know, it became very granular. It was, how am I holding my tension? How am I breathing? I realized that I held so much tension in my shoulders, I think a lot of us do. And so I actually put stickers around my house. And when I saw the sticker, that was my cue to relax my shoulders.

I almost have this detective quality of what makes my body feel good, what makes my body feel bad. And I`m really getting to know myself in that way so that my body could trust my mind, and my mind could trust my body.

TONY DOKOUPIL: There`s so much pressure on people, and people put it on themselves to push through that kind of pain. So on the one hand, there is listen to your body. But on the other hand, there`s -- we get this cultural message or maybe you can tell me where you think it comes from, to push through. Could you trace that back to some origin?

GAYLE KING: Because Tony, sometimes I think, is it really that bad? Is pain really that bad? That I wonder about this, too?

CHLOE BENJAMIN: Well, I think we live in a world in which productivity is prized over almost anything else. And you know, there is this idea of grind culture right now, you know, no days off, push.

And I think that can be so harmful, because it means that again, we`re privileging our work over our experience of life. And why are we doing that? And how can we change it?

TONY DOKOUPIL: Yes.

GAYLE KING: So you said you`ve changed. You`ve changed your life.

CHLOE BENJAMIN: I have, yes.

GAYLE KING: How you live.

CHLOE BENJAMIN: It`s taken a few years to make those changes, and honestly, I never thought I could. I`ve been ambitious and perfectionistic since childhood, and those qualities got me to a place of success, but they also hurt me.

So you know, the way that I live is totally different. And one thing that I hope might be helpful to others is an idea of pacing. So rather than waiting until I finish a scene, or a book, or a tour to rest, I`m resting throughout the day.

You know, I`ll take a five minute break to meditate. I`ll walk around the block. Even just looking out the window for a few minutes when I`m on a screen, and this way, my energy moves like a wave instead of building to a point of collapse.

TONY DOKOUPIL: I can imagine younger people, particularly younger, creative people listening to you and saying it`s very easy for Chloe to say this now, because she`s already made it. She wrote a bestseller.

GAYLE KING: That`s so true, Tony.

TONY DOKOUPIL: What do you say to that?

CHLOE BENJAMIN: Well --

GAYLE KING: When you`re starting out, it`s very difficult.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Right. When you`re still trying to make it, make it, you`re still trying to push through, right?

CHLOE BENJAMIN: It is. It`s true. Although when I look back, I think maybe I didn`t have to do as much touring as I did for the book to be successful, and maybe it`s okay to say no, because when you say no, what are you saying yes to? That might be your health. That might be creating a way of working that is sustainable.

Because the thing is, you don`t want to have one book that is a success and then not be able to write or promote for years. So actually, if -- you know, I think maybe it`s a fallacy that you have to push and push and push until you make it because then you crash.

TONY DOKOUPIL: You definitely would.

CHLOE BENJAMIN: Maybe you can make it --

GAYLE KING: If you say no, what are you saying yes to? I like that.

CHLOE BENJAMIN: Yes, and maybe you know, you can make it.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Chloe, I am sorry.

CHLOE BENJAMIN: That`s okay.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Finish us off.

GAYLE KING: Finish the sentence. Just finish it.

CHLOE BENJAMIN: You know, maybe you can do it in a more sustainable way.

GAYLE KING: Okay.

TONY DOKOUPIL: I think it`s definitely true. I`m going to read "The Immortalists." Thank you very much, Chloe Benjamin.

GAYLE KING: Yes.

TONY DOKOUPIL: We`ll be right back.

CHLOE BENJAMIN: Thank you.

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

GAYLE KING: Well, we have to leave you with some very sad news for us here at CBS News. We`ve lost a very dear colleague, Michael Hopkins was our Director of Special Events and Logistics who died very suddenly yesterday.

Whenever -- look at his face -- whenever CBS News sent our teams to cover events like presidential debate or a natural disaster, it was Hops, "Hoppy" they called him, I like to call him "Mike" who made sure everyone and everything was where it needed to be.

He has been behind the scenes in all around the world for CBS News over the past 38 years. Remotes as we call them, won`t be the same without him.

Our hearts go out to Mike`s wife, Kathy, and their three children.

I got the news yesterday, last night, and I felt like I`d been kicked in the stomach.

Mike Hopkins was somebody you could call about anything and everything and he was always there to help with that raspy voice. He would say, "What do you need, dear?" And he would always figure it out.

TONY DOKOUPIL: Way too soon. Still a still young man.

GAYLE KING: Way too soon. You will be --

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

(LOCAL NEWS)

(LOCAL WEATHER)

(ANNOUNCEMENTS)

END

Content and programming Copyright MMXXII CBS Broadcasting Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CBST000020220420ei4k0008d


News; Domestic
Russia Test Fires New ICBM First Unveiled in 2016; Macron, Le Pen Clash in Debate Ahead of Presidential Runoff; British Prime Minister Vows to Get On With the Job During Grilling; Anger and Frustration in Shanghai Over COVID Lockdowns; Pope and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban to Meet. Aired 4:30-5a ET
Max Foster, Clare Sebastian, Jim Bittermann, Nada Bashir, David Culver, Delia Gallagher
3593 字
2022 年 4 月 21 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[04:30:00]

MAX FOSTER, CNN ANCHOR: Welcome back to CNN NEWSROOM, I'm Max Foster. The U.S. unveiled new sanctions on Russia on Wednesday targeting Russia's financial system and punishing those who try to evade the sanctions already in place.

Meanwhile, tensions boil over as finance ministers from the world's 20 largest economies met in Washington. The Canadian minister shared a photo of Western officials who walked out of the session when the Russian delegates started speaking.

But Russia's president is defiant as ever, Vladimir Putin boasting that the test launch of a new generation of long-range nuclear capable missiles would make adversaries think twice before threatening Russian territory. NATO's nicknamed the new missile "Satan II." It's an advancement of the old Soviet era ICBM that NATO calls "Satan I." For more on all of this CNN's Clare Sebastian joins me live from London. How do you interpret these images we were sent?

CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Max, I mean, the context of this, the missile launch was not a surprise, according to the U.S. Moscow telegraphed it. They have to under their international treaties. But the context of this is, of course, that the Russian military has taken a serious reputational hit during the conflict in Ukraine, and not least in recent days, because of the sinking of the Moskva, the flagship of the Black Sea fleet. Even though Russia has not admitted that it was a missile as Ukraine claims.

So, Putin says, you know, this is a missile there's nothing like it in the world, when it comes into service. He's talked about it in the past. It's been a lot of attention around the modernizing of Russia's military that is taking place under him. So, take a listen to what he had to say about the launch.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): This truly unique weapon will strengthen the combat potential of our armed forces. Reliably ensure Russia's security from external threats and provide food for thought for those who in the heat of frenzy aggressive rhetoric try to threaten our country. (END VIDEO CLIP)

SEBASTIAN: So that makes it pretty clear, Max, this is a missile that's capable of delivering nuclear warheads. It has a range that would take it as far as the continental United States. Worth mentioning that the U.S. has cancelled its own ICBM test earlier this month. I think there was a sense that because of the tension with Russia that it just wasn't a good time. So, it's interesting the different approaches there.

FOSTER: It's a message for the Russian people, as often these are, to say, that as you say, we might be -- you know, it might not be going as well as possible in Ukraine, but we do have this ultimate threat. Or is it a message to the West saying we could counterattack? If that's the way he sees it.

SEBASTIAN: I think it's both. I think this is something that we've seen from Putin, a lot recently, he is tailoring his messaging at the same time to the Russian people and to the international community. I think it's saying to the Russian people we are still, you know, a military to be reckoned with, he wants to sort of push to some kind of victory to show for his effort in Ukraine before the May 9th deadline. That's certainly what military experts are saying.

But at the same time, he's saying to the West, that you can sanction us, you can isolate us. We still have this powerful military. And we still have this sort of nuclear capable missile that has a range as far as the United States. I think the messages is extremely clear internationally as well as nationally.

FOSTER: OK, Clare, thank you.

Just days to go until Sunday's runoff election. The French presidential candidates went head-to-head in their first and only TV debate. For nearly 3 hours on Wednesday, President Emmanuel Macron and his far-right challenger, Marine Le PenMarine Le Pen sparred over a range of topics, including Russia, France's commitment to the EU and also the economy. CNN's Jim Bittermann joins us now live from Paris. It was a bit of a Putin-off, at one point, wasn't it? Who's closer to Putin because it's an obvious part of the election campaign.

JIM BITTERMANN, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: That definitely came up, Max. In fact, the president, the incoming president, in fact, accused his challenger of being very close to Putin, defending on him, as he said, not only for his -- her ideas, but for her support. Because she took a huge long-$10 million loan from a Russian bank a few years ago. And so, she looks like she's close ties to Putin. And she said several times that she feels very close to Mr. Putin. So, I think that was something. And the main thrust of her attack on Macron was on the economy. Basically, that he's isolated from the average French citizens and doesn't pay attention to pocketbook issues. Here's how one part of that exchange went down.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

[04:35:00]

MARINE LE PEN, FAR-RIGHT PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE (through translator): I must here again be the spokesperson of the French people. Because, Mr. Macron, I heard you, with your government you are delighted to have increased French people's purchasing power. But me, I only saw French people who told me about their problems of purchasing power. I only saw French people who told me that they can't make it anymore. They can't get by. They can't make ends meet at the end of the month.

EMMANUEL MACRON, FRENCH PRESIDENT (through translator): I am proud that altogether we have made it possible to create 1.2 million pay clips. Because I was looking at your program, your 22 measures, there is not even the word "unemployment" in it, which is striking.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

BITTERMANN: And Max, our colleague over at BFM TV, had commissioned a poll by Elabe, the snap poll after the television broadcast was concluded. And it shows that about 59 percent of the people that watched the debate found Mr. Macron more convincing, compared to 39 percent for Madam Le Pen. So, in that sense, she's being declared this morning by many analyst as the winner of the debate.

FOSTER: OK, Jim, thank you very much indeed for joining us in Paris. Do be sure to join us on Sunday at 8:00 p.m. Paris time, 2 p.m. Eastern in the U.S. of special live coverage of the French election right here on CNN.

The British foreign minister is getting a brief break from the festering "Partygate" scandal. But the punishment is moving forward.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

FOSTER: New Mexico officials say the crew of the movie "Rust" willfully violated safety rules leading to the shooting to death of a cinematographer Halyna Hutchins by the actor Alec Baldwin.

[04:40:00]

The Rust film production company was fine nearly $137,000, the maximum allowed by New Mexico law. According to the new report, gun safety procedures were not being followed on set. And the film's management knew about it but failed to correct it. Baldwin's attorney told CNN, they appreciate that the report exonerates the actor and clarified critical issues of the incident.

Actor Johnny Depp returned to the stand inside a Virginia courtroom in this defamation case against his ex-wife Amber Heard. He described their relationship and how a changed. Accusing Heard of calling him names and making demeaning comments. Depp also said an argument between the two in 2015 ended with him seeking medical care.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOHNNY DEPP, ACTOR: She threw the large bottle, and it made contact and shattered everywhere. And then I looked down and realized that the tip of my finger had been severed.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

FOSTER: Depp is suing her for $50 million over a 2018 "Washington Post" op-ed in which she wrote about her experience with domestic violence. Even though she didn't name him, Depp claims it cost him film work.

The British Prime Minister is beginning a two-day visit to India and a growing tarnishing from the "Partygate" scandal. In the coming hours, Parliament is slated to debate whether a committee should investigate his conduct on whether he misled lawmakers about illegal COVID lockdown gatherings. The Prime Minister whilst apologetic refuses to resign. And reported, he told journalists on the way to India that he has every intention of running again in the next election.

CNN's Nada Bashir is following all of these developments. He's trying to draw a line on this by carrying on with his other work. But also, I think his team -- aren't they here in London trying to push this investigation further down the road until other investigations are complete.

NADA BASHIR, CNN REPORTER: Yes, absolutely. The Labour Party had put forward for today, there would be a Parliament inquiry, into the Prime Minister knowingly misled Parliament. That was set to take place today, will take place. But overnight, the Conservative Party is now putting forward an amendment to that motion. They want to see this vote delayed until both the Metropolitan Police inquiry into the "Partygate" scandal is complete. And also, until the cabinet office investigation into the alleged party that was done to hand over government offices is complete.

So, that is interesting because the Conservative Party clearly trying to push that. We do understand that MPs within the Conservative Party have been instructed to vote in favor of this amendment. So, it is expected to pass. Clearly, they are trying to delay this.

But it was interesting because, you know, the first initial findings from that cabinet office report was released in January, highlights a serious failings by politicians within the Prime Minister's own party and of course, the Prime Minister himself. That has a serious impact on the public confidence in the PM. There was a lot of calls for him to resign at that point as well. So, the fact that they are waiting for this final report to be published that might not bode well for the Prime Minister either.

FOSTER: There's all of these calls for him to be replaced but there's no one to replace him. Isn't that the upshot here with the Tory backbenches, at least?

BASHIR: Yes, at this stage there doesn't seem to be a clear successor to the Prime Minister, at least haven't seen a Conservative Party at this stage. But also, there are local elections coming up. So, there is a concern about how this whole scandal will impact the party as a whole. Now we heard the Prime Minister telling reporters on the plane to India yesterday, that he intends to see the Conservative Party through the next general election. He is not stepping down. But if they do see him falling in the May elections, his hand might be forced by the Conservative MPs.

FOSTER: Well, they can be pretty brutal, can't they, when they feel like their jobs might be vulnerable. Nada, thank you very much indeed for joining us. We'll follow that debate -- may or may not be today.

Anger and frustration growing amongst those still under lockdown in China, in Shanghai. Startling reality is emerging as residents get creative in revealing how pandemic regulations are impacting daily life. This social media video shows an elderly women who appears to have left quarantine, trying to enter a neighborhood. She's been arguing with COVID workers who are trying to force her to go back into the quarantine center. She's not the only one tired of being under quarantine or lockdown in Shanghai. CNN's David Culver looks at the tense situation there as China doubles down on its zero COVID policy.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

DAVID CULVER, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Shanghai residents pushing back after nearly three weeks of lockdown. These videos circulating on social media show people confronting police for being forced from their homes.

[04:45:00]

These are not folks with COVID-19 but rather people whose apartments are being turned into government quarantine facilities to cope with a surge in COVID cases.

The rising tensions come as Chinese officials vowed to send every positive case of COVID-19 and any close contact to government quarantine, no matter the age. Here you see an elderly man shuffling towards a group of other senior citizens, some in their 90s, most in wheelchairs transferred from their nursing home to this isolation facility after testing positive.

Videos shared from inside another center shows elderly patients seemingly left unattended. Cots set up in the halls with wooden boards and thin sheets as bedding.

Since the start of this outbreak in early March, more than 400,000 cases have been reported in the city -- according to China's National Health Commission. And most in this metropolis of more than 25 million people are still in strict lockdown.

CNN's been living through it. We've mostly been sealed inside our homes, let out only for mandatory COVID tests and the occasional government distribution of groceries.

Last week, we had a brief taste of freedom. I could step out of my apartment and walk all the way to the compound gate, still double locked. But since a reversal for our community, new restrictions have a sealed back inside our properties. The draconian and inconsistent policies coupled with a constant uncertainty, weigh heavily. People tired, pushing back physically and through words. These banners appeared on the streets of Shanghai in a cover of night. This one calling residents to resist the limitless lockdown. This one reading, "People are dying," referring to the dire struggle to secure food and medical care.

Online, a flood of frustration surfacing on China's heavily controlled internet. On Chinese social media platform Weibo, users began quoting the first sentence of China's national anthem. It reads, "Rise, those who don't want to be enslaved." a rally called no longer aimed at foreign oppressors, but rather Beijing's pandemic response and its harsh restrictions. That line now censored.

Some residents even boldly calling out Chinese officials for a perceived hypocrisy. This person wearing the photo of one of China's Foreign Ministry spokespersons who repeatedly accused Western governments COVID response of harming people's wellbeing. The sarcastic critique shared repeatedly online.

The backlash likely to worsen as the week's long lockdown drags on, further damaging China's economic engine.

YANZHONG HUANG, SR. FELLOW FOR GLOBAL HEALTH, COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS: Implementing this strategy by excessive manner by itself could lead to exactly what the zero-COVID strategy wants to avoid.

CULVER (voice-over): The growing dissent calls into question China's zero-COVID strategy at a critical time. Later this year, President Xi Jinping is expected to assume an almost unprecedented third term, paving the way for him to rule for life. But the highly anticipated coronation now marred by discontent over a policy so closely tied to the people's leader.

David Culver, CNN, Shanghai.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

FOSTER: A Sixers star came through in the clutch, namely an all-time buzzer beater. A look at that and round off of the NBA runoffs, next.

[04:50:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

FOSTER: So, the clashes between Palestinians and Israeli security forces has broken out around the entrance of the al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem. Videos show Israeli police on the compound outside the mosque as Palestinians launch fireworks towards them. And other videos showed police firing stun grenades. The areas been a site of tensions over the last week as periodic clashes have broken out there.

Pope Francis will receive the Hungarian Prime Minister, Viktor Orban, at the Vatican a few minutes from now. The Russian invasion of Ukraine will likely be discussed, even more than the 470,000 Ukrainian refugees have crossed into Hungary since the conflict began. Mr. Orban a staunch ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin and has criticized Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy recently. CNN Vatican correspondent Delia Gallagher joins us live from Rome. Obviously, the Pope adept at the situations but a pretty sensitive meeting.

DELIA GALLAGHER, CNN VATICAN CORRESPONDENT: Well, it's very interesting, Max, because you have to consider that Francis has not been a fan of Viktor Orban's immigration and nationalists policies. The last time they met in September in Hungary, I was there. It was widely considered a snub on the part of Pope Francis. He only spent seven hours in Budapest. And then went to Slovakia, neighboring Slovakia for four days with the president there that he admired.

So obviously, the calculus has now changed, that the Vatican is actually welcoming Viktor Orban, on his first trip after reelection. And that Orban is choosing to come and see Pope Francis on his first trip after his reelection. So clearly, there it suggests that both sides think they have something to gain from this.

From the part of the Pope, that is obviously to keep the lines of communication open with Orban -- who as you say -- is the most pro- Putin European leader. The Vatican is keen, of course, to speak to any leader who would have the ear of Putin and can help change the tide of events. On the part of Viktor Orban, obviously, some credibility for him that Pope Francis would be his first stop after his reelection. Trying to walk a fine line of being pro-Putin but also a European leader -- Max.

FOSTER: In terms what we expect to hear from them. Will we both get comments from them and perhaps the Pope saying something that makes some headlines? He's been doing that recently, hasn't he?

GALLAGHER: Yes, the Pope does tend to make headlines. However, with the meetings, Max, what we noticed from the Vatican, is the Pope likes to keep it on the down low. This is essentially a private meeting. It's not a bilateral meeting of state where they would meet with other secretaries of state and so on.

[04:55:00]

It's a private meeting between the Pope and Viktor Orban. I expect we'll hear more from Viktor Orban than we will hear from the Pope. But you can't rule anything out with Pope Francis. Certainly, the war in Ukraine is top on his mind. If he can say or do anything to help that, he will -- Max.

FOSTER: Delia, we'll back with you as that meeting unfolds. Thank you.

Before we go, a quick look at the NBA runoffs picture -- playoff picture. The Bulls are the big winner over the defending champion, the Milwaukee Bucks, their first round series is now tied one all. In Boston, the Celtics enjoying a two-game advantage over Brooklyn. The Nets once up by 17 points wound up blowing that lead. But they'll have home court advantage for the next two games. And finally, the 76ers sunk a three-pointer in overtime right before the buzzer. That left them with an epic three-game lead over the Raptors the best of seven series. It's not looking good for Toronto. And Russian tennis players will be banned from competing at Wimbledon this year because of their country's invasion of Ukraine. Belarusian players also can't take part. Organizers for the Grand Slam events cite Russia's, quote, unjustified and unprecedented military aggression. The Kremlin because the decision unacceptable. This will affect a number of high ranked players, both men and women, including world number two and raining U.S. open champion Daniil Medvedev.

Well, thanks for joining me here on CNN NEWSROOM. I'm Max foster in London. Our breaking news coverage of Russia's war on Ukraine continues on "EARLY START" with Kristin Fisher. You are watching CNN.

[05:00:00]

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220421ei4l000jh


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungary warns Europe would face "brutal" recession if it does not buy Russian gas
261 字
2022 年 4 月 21 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
There is currently no alternative to Russian gas and if Europe stops buying it, as punishment for the invasion of Ukraine, the countries would face a "brutal" recession, the Hungarian government said today."Russian gas has no alternative, not even for Germany," Interior Minister Gergely Gulyás told the media, when questioned about the German announcement that it will stop buying Russian coal and oil this year, and will work to also do without gas in a joint move with the rest of the European Union countries.According to Gulyás, Europe "would face a brutal recession without Russian gas."The Hungarian minister stressed that without first securing an alternative "it is irresponsible to talk about sanctions" affecting these energy sources."In the case of any sanction we have to see clearly what the consequences would be and who would pay the price," the minister emphasized.Yesterday, Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó assured that what is important for the Hungarian government is the energy

security of the country and that it will not make "the population pay the price of this war".Hungary buys 85% of its gas and 65% of its oil from Russia.Budapest is considered one of Russian President Vladimir Putin 's best allies in the EU and although Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has condemned the invasion of Ukraine, Hungary has not sent arms to help the Ukrainian government and does not allow other countries to do so across its border with Ukraine.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220421ei4l00etm


EU inches forward on Russian oil ban as Germany, Hungary soften opposition]]
Alexandra Brzozowski, Oliver Noyan, Vlad Makszimov
1259 字
2022 年 4 月 27 日 07:17 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The two main opponents to a ban on Russian oil imports, Germany and Hungary, have softened their opposition to the move. EURACTIV looks at the options on the table and the state of play.

The next package of EU sanctions against Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine was expected to be presented to member states earlier this week, but is likely to be further delayed.

EU ambassadors have not yet discussed or even seen the sanctions package, which the European Commission’s foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell was expected to table by Wednesday (27 April), EURACTIV understands.

Kadri Simson, the EU’s Energy Commissioner, told reporters in Warsaw on Tuesday (26 April) that the sixth package of sanctions is expected “very soon”, though the exact date is yet to be confirmed.

According to several EU diplomats involved in preparatory talks, there has been no movement and envoys were cautious to predict an exact timing, with the more optimistic ones saying the proposal would be tabled “next week at the earliest”.

Meanwhile, Borrell said the topic will be discussed at the next EU summit due at the end of May and that he did not expect any final decision on the matter before then.

Brussels prepares to hit Russia with 'smart sanctions' on oil imports[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/brussels-prepares-to-hit-russia-with-smart-sanctions-on-oil-imports/]

The European Union is preparing “smart sanctions” against Russian oil imports, The Times reported on Monday (25 April), citing the European Commission’s executive vice-president, Valdis Dombrovskis.

What could be in the package?

“It is difficult to predict when member states will agree on the sixth package, but the bottom line is that a blanket ban on oil and gas is not likely and such a proposal does not have 100% by all at this stage,” an EU official told EURACTIV.

Around half of Russia’s 4.7 million barrels per day of crude exports go to the EU. Europe gets roughly a third of its gross available energy from oil and petroleum products, in sectors from transportation to chemicals production.

Europe has paid Russia €14 billion for oil since the start of what Moscow calls a special military operation in Ukraine two months ago, according to research organisation the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air. Cutting them off would deprive Moscow of a major revenue stream.

Germany, Poland and the Netherlands are Europe’s biggest buyers of Russian oil.

The most straightforward measure to sanction Moscow would be a ban on oil imports, along the lines of the embargo imposed by the EU on Russian coal last month.

Instead of a full-blown embargo, the sanctions package might opt for ‘smart sanctions’, which could include a gradual phasing-out of Russian oil or imposing tariffs on exports beyond a certain price cap.

Sanctions could also be applied differently depending on how the oil is delivered, differentiating between oil imported via pipelines or tankers, EU diplomats say.

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has called for an escrow account to be set up where some of the EU payments to Moscow for energy imports would be temporarily held. This means Russia could only access that money at a later stage or for set expenditures, such as for medical equipment or even payments to help rebuild damaged cities in Ukraine.

EU diplomats say it is unlikely that member states will opt for escrow since it would constitute a breach of oil contracts and risk Russia applying unilateral retaliatory measures such as cutting energy supplies to the bloc.

Beyond the oil embargo, the EU’s six sanctions package is also expected to target Russia’s banking sector, including the country’s largest bank, Sberbank, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen had suggested.

The EU has so far spared Sberbank from previous sanctions rounds because it, along with Gazprombank, is one of the main channels for payments for Russian oil and gas, which EU countries have been buying despite the war in Ukraine.

Germany and Hungary soften their opposition

Ukraine and a range of EU member states, including Poland and the Baltics are meanwhile getting impatient for a ban on Russian oil and gas.

One diplomat from the region disgruntedly said that “the decision should be clear by now after our warning haven’t been heeded in the first place”. Any hesitation would make things worse in the long run, he added.

Italy, which previously opposed an immediate end to Russian gas supplies, is now calling for a cap on its price, which Rome believes will deprive Moscow of some of its resources.

Germany and Hungary have been the most vocal opponents of an immediate, full-blown ban on Russian oil amid fears that such action would badly damage their own economies.

When it comes to Germany, however, there could be movement.

After weeks of hard work, Germany has come “very, very close” to being able to rid itself entirely of Russian oil, Germany’s Climate and Economy Minister Robert Habeck said on Tuesday (27 April), suggesting the country could end its dependence on Moscow “within days”.

Russian oil currently accounts for only 12% of Germany’s supply.

Habeck was speaking to reporters during a visit to Poland for talks about energy security, to discuss, amongst other things, if oil refineries in eastern Germany could in part be supplied with shipments via the Polish port of Gdańsk.

Sources close to the matter said the talks are likely to have influenced a potential change in position when it comes to talks on the next sanction package.

Germany 'very, very' close to independence from Russian oil[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/germany-very-very-close-to-independence-from-russian-oil/]

Thanks to efforts to diversify oil suppliers and with support from the Polish government, Germany is days away from being independent of Russian oil, Vice-Chancellor Robert Habeck said.

Hungary, meanwhile, which at first vehemently opposed any talk of an energy embargo appears to also somewhat have softened its opposition.

According to Eurostat, in 2020 Hungary imported 44.6% of its oil from Russia.

Gergely Gulyás, the prime minister’s chief of staff, said last week that the Hungarian government “would like to see what proposals are on the table and whether these proposals include alternatives to substitute raw materials from Russia”.

While Gulyás wholly rejected the gas embargo as “pointless”, he said “the situation is not much better for oil, but there are slightly more alternatives”.

He pointed out that a conversion of the MOL oil refinery in Százhalombatta, Hungary, would take several months and cost hundreds of billions of forints.

It would be necessary to see where and in what quantities the EU could obtain the oil to replace the Russian blend, what the move will cost and “who will pay the price”, he said.

“We do not see this today, and without it, it is irresponsible to talk about sanctions in any other area,” he added.

Allowing the ban of Russian oil may also hurt Orbán’s domestic political goals.

To protect domestic consumers from the rising fuel prices, Hungary capped[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/hungary-fixes-gas-price/] petrol prices last fall. The costs of the price freeze are currently divided between big players, small retail petrol stations and the government. The government provides some tax benefits and subsidies, while small stations are faced with covering their own operating costs. 

A ban on Russian oil could heavily impact MOL’s ability to sustain the petrol price cap, to be later reviewed by the government but in force at least until 15 May. 

[Edited by Frédéric Simon]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220427ei4r00004


Tusk accuses Austria of paying for Russian gas in rubles
367 字
2022 年 4 月 28 日 13:07 GMT
APA News Service
APANSE
英文
© 2022 APA NEWS SERVICE
Vienna - The leader of the European People's Party (EPP), Donald Tusk, accuses Austria, Hungary and Germany of going into the "ruble zone" to pay for Russian gas. This was reported by the Spanish news agency Europa Press on Wednesday. The former EU Council President and former Polish Prime Minister criticized that these countries are prepared to pay for Russian gas supplies in rubles, as Moscow is demanding.

"I heard that not only Hungary, but also Austria and Germany are ready to pay for Russian gas in rubles," Tusk wrote in a social media statement. "Are you still in the euro zone or in the ruble zone?" he quipped after Russia stopped supplying gas to Poland and Bulgaria. They had refused to pay in rubles. Poland's Environment Minister Anna Moskwa also criticized Germany, Austria and Hungary on Polish television and called for "consequences" for these countries.

With their allegations, the Polish politicians are apparently referring to media reports that the German energy supplier Uniper, for example, but also the Austrian OMV want to make their payments for Russian gas in euros in the future, but on their own accounts at Gazprombank, where the euro payments are made then be immediately converted into rubles. For example, the "Financial Times" reported on Thursday, citing unnamed sources, that OMV wanted to open a ruble account with Gazprombank in Switzerland to pay for Russian gas supplies.

Against the background of sanctions against the country, Russia will in future demand payment of gas bills in rubles. However, the new payment terms proposed by Russia provide for the possibility of depositing the money at Gazprombank in euros and then converting it into rubles.

Austria's Chancellor Karl Nehammer of conservative People's Party (VP) said on Wednesday that gas deliveries to Austria would flow without restrictions and that OMV would continue to pay in euros. According to Nehammer, OMV has accepted the Russian conditions. An OMV spokesman did not want to go that far today in a statement to the APA. Gazprom's proposal was received and checked and a sanction-compliant solution is being worked on, it said.

hhi

DIS0009-20220428

APA - Austria Presse Agentur eG

文件 APANSE0020220428ei4s000m9


Emerging Europe Monitor - Central Europe & Baltic States
Political Risk Analysis - Consolidation Of Power To Continue In Hungary Despite Loss Of EU Funding
1264 字
2022 年 4 月 28 日
Emerging Markets Monitor
EMDN
英文
© 2022 Fitch Solutions, Inc
Key View

* We at Fitch Solutions expect that the European Commission (EC) will withhold Recovery and Resiliency Facility (RRF) funding from Hungary following the initiation of rule-of-law proceedings against the country on April 27, though other structural funding will be unaffected in 2022 and 2023.

* While the loss of RRF funding will weigh on fixed investment, we do not believe Prime Minister Viktor Orban will implement reforms to alleviate EC concerns and expect little domestic backlash in response.

* Our 2022 forecasts remain unchanged as we had already accounted for non-receipt of RRF funds, but we have lowered our long-term forecasts. We have also revised downwards our Long-Term Political Risk Index score from 70.2 to 68.8, with a revision to the 'characteristics of polity' component from 69.0 to 64.2, to reflect elevated political risks over our 10-year forecast period.

We at Fitch Solutions expect that the European Commission (EC) will withhold Recovery and Resiliency Facility (RRF) funding from Hungary, though other structural funding will be unaffected in 2022 and 2023. The EC has formally initiated rule-of-law proceedings against the country on April 27. The procedure is designed to protect EU funding from graft, which the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) found impacted 2.2% of EU dispersals to Hungary (compared to an EU average 0.3%). The EC has not confirmed which funds would be targeted by the mechanism, which consists of two rounds of consultations with Hungary over approximately five to nine months.

 Loss Of RRF Funding To Weigh On Government Spending
 Hungary - 2022 Budget Government Revenues, HUFbn

Source: MNB, Fitch Solutions

While the loss of RRF funding will weigh on fixed investment, we do not believe Prime Minister Viktor Orban will implement reforms to alleviate EC concerns. Potential RRF dispersals over 2021-2027 are worth EUR7.2bn (4.7% of 2021 nominal GDP), with Hungary potentially losing 70% of its grants (EUR4.1bn) if it does not have its RRF plan approved in 2022. Receipt of such funding would provide a much needed boost to fixed investment in Hungary following the announcement of delays to several capital investment projects since December - we forecast a growth slowdown for gross fixed capital formation from 6.0% in 2021 to 1.5% in 2022. Incentives for Orban are skewed towards a continuation of his current policies regarding the business environment in Hungary. OLAF believes that Fidesz's favourable treatment of domestic businesses is leading to rent-seeking behaviour in exchange for political support. Among many examples, in 2018, OLAF reported irregularities and conflicts of interest in the award of public contracts for the firm Elios, then owned by Orban's son-in-law Istvan Tiborcz. Meanwhile, Fidesz appointees now dominate Hungary's Kuria (Supreme Court) due to mandatory retirement of non-Fidesz judges due to stricter age requirements (imposed by Fidesz), leading to opposition allegations that the courts largely favouring government policy. Under Fidesz, Hungary has fallen in Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index from 53rd (of 178 countries) in 2010 to 73rd (of 180) in 2021.

We believe Orban will face little popular backlash due to the loss of EU funding. Fidesz have affirmed their popularity in the April 3 election, in which they received 52.5% of the popular vote (vs 36.9% for the main opposition) and secured 135 out of 199 seats in the National Assembly. In response to EC action, Fidesz's control of the media and the party's popularity will allow Orban to push the narrative of the EU punishing Hungarian democracy. Our proprietary Short-Term Political Risk Index (STPRI) score for Hungary remains unchanged at 72.5 to reflect our view that this move from the EU will not raise risks for Fidesz; however, we have revised downwards our Long-Term Political Risk Index (LTPRI) from 70.2 to 68.8, with a revision to the 'characteristics of polity' component from 69.0 to 64.2.

 Rule Of Law Proceedings To Increase Long-Term Risk
 Hungary - Long-Term Political Risk Index

Note: Scores out of 100; higher score = lower risk. Source: Fitch Solutions

We believe the EC will for now avoid cutting other EU funds to Hungary. The EC's criticism of Hungary has so far been narrow and focused on corruption in public procurement. This suggests that only the RRF funding will be targeted, which the EC had been withholding since the launch of the RRF itself. However, given other issues (such as allegations of unfair election campaigns by independent observers) and little political will for anti-corruption reforms, we see risks that the EC has will seek to targeting EU cohesion funding in the long term (2024 onwards).

Our 2022 forecasts remain unchanged as we had already accounted for non-receipt of RRF funds, but we have lowered our long-term forecasts. Our 2022 forecasts already assume that Hungary would not receive RRF funding. However, amid a tighter fiscal backdrop and capital investment cuts, we believe loss of RRF funds will weigh significantly on long-term growth prospects. Consequently, we have revised down growth forecasts for the duration of our long-term forecast period (2022-2031) and now expect growth to average 2.2% vs a previous 2.5%.

 Loss Of RRF To Weigh On Long-Term Growth
 Hungary - Real GDP growth forecast, % y-o-y

<TD>Note: 2026 and 2030 are election years. Source: Fitch Solutions

In contrast, we expect that Poland's position at the forefront of the EU and NATO's efforts to support Ukraine will lead to a thaw between Warsaw and Brussels. Even before the invasion, there were signs of a rapprochement, which we anticipate will see Poland's RRF spending plan approved by year-end. On February 3, Polish President Andrzej Duda submitted legislation to dismantle the Disciplinary Chamber of the judiciary, a key condition that the EC had given for RRF disbursal. Unlike Hungary, Poland has not been targeted with the Rule of Law mechanism. We now expect EU recovery funds to start flowing to Poland by end-2022. This will help to support growth over the coming decade, though the near-term outlook remains downbeat owing to Poland's proximity to Ukraine and its large manufacturing sector.

Hungary and Poland's divergence risks opening up Hungary to other EU legal proceedings as vetoes from Poland would be less likely. Since 2015, Hungary and Poland have defended each other from potential EU sanctions, which typically require unanimity from member states to act against an accused party, with Orban explicitly stating he would veto any EU sanction against Poland in January 2016. Both countries also submitted simultaneous appeals against the legality of the rule-of-law mechanism. However, the countries have notably split over the war in Ukraine, with Poland favouring sanctions against Russia. Hungary continues to be a laggard in sanctions efforts and state media broadcasted a pro-Russian narrative immediately following the invasion. We believe this divergence will encourage a harsher EC stance in the rule of law proceedings compared to the past. Risks are also tilted to the downside. For example, if the EU moves to sanction Hungary under other mechanisms in the coming years, such as restricting certain membership rights (including some voting rights) under Article 7 proceedings, Poland could refuse to provide a veto, particularly if the Polish right-wing Law and Justice party loses power in legislative elections in 2023.

Fitch Solutions Inc.

文件 EMDN000020220430ei4s00022


CE Noticias Financieras English
Pro-Putin rally gathers only about 150 people in Budapest
243 字
2022 年 4 月 30 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Russia - A demonstration in support of Russian President Vladimir Putin gathered today in Budapest a mere 150 people, while a counter-protest called by the Ukrainian community was attended by more than a thousand.

The organizers of the rally in support of Putin, among them anti-vaccine activists, blamed the Russian aggression against Ukraine on the United States and NATO, which they described as "the greatest danger to world peace".

In contrast, the protest organized by the Ukrainians brought together some 1,000 people.

During this march, the Methodist pastor Gábor Iványi, very critical of the ultranationalist Hungarian government, asked for forgiveness from the Ukrainians "because not all Hungarians have supported them".

The government of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has condemned the Russian invasion much more tepidly than most leaders of European Union or NATO countries, to which Hungary belongs, and has flatly refused to support Ukraine militarily or to sanction the purchase of Russian hydrocarbons.

Orbán and his like-minded media, the vast majority in the country, have presented Putin as an ally in the defense of traditional values against the principles "alien" to the Hungarian culture which they claim Brussels defends.

Shortly before the elections on the 3rd, in which Orbán won his fourth consecutive absolute majority, 72% of Hungarians agreed with the policy of neutrality before the war in Ukraine defended by the Government. EFE

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220430ei4u009h2


Gulyas: Europe must not penalise itself because of Russia-Ukraine war - radio
548 字
2022 年 5 月 1 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, May 1 (MTI) - It is unfair for the state to owe

pensioners, Gergely Gulyas, the prime minister's chief of staff,

said on Sunday in connection with the government's recently

announced pension hike.

Gulyas announced earlier this week that pensions will increase

by a further 3.9 percent from July in light of higher than expected

inflation, bringing the overall pension hike to 8.9 percent.

Speaking to public broadcaster Kossuth Radio, Gulyas said the

government knows that inflation will be higher than what had been

projected prior to the outbreak of the war in Ukraine.

The 3.9 percent pension increase will make it easier to address

the difficulties posed by inflation, he said, adding that the

increased pension will be paid retroactively from the start of the

year in one go.

Gulyas said Hungarians must not be made to pay the price of

war. This can be prevented "if we can continue to buy our energy at

the cheapest possible price", he added.

The European Union should therefore withdraw its earlier

decisions and should not approve sanctions that would make it

impossible for member states to import Russian oil and gas, Gulyas

said. Otherwise Hungary would have to buy this energy at much

higher prices, which would make it impossible to uphold household

utility price caps and the economy could not function, either, he

added.

The government aims to preserve the conditions needed for the

utility price caps to remain in place, Gulyas said, noting that

this required Hungary to have access to oil and gas and for energy

prices to return to normal levels as soon as possible.

"We mustn't adopt sanctions with which we primarily penalise

ourselves instead of those we want to sanction," Gulyas said.

The EU has not approved any type of sanctions that would make

it impossible for a member state to pay in roubles for Russian gas,

Gulyas said, noting that such a transaction between a state and a

company is governed by an agreement subject to civil law. Gulyas

said the Hungarian state was in fact not paying in roubles for

Russian gas, but had opened a euro account [with Gazprom Bank]

which converts the euros transferred to its account by the

Hungarian state into roubles.

"There are nine other countries using the same payment scheme,

but because today the idea of being a good European also means that

the leaders of those countries are not honest when speaking either

in the international arena or to their own people, the other nine

countries won't say that they are doing the same thing," said

Gulyas.

"There should be no doubt in anyone's mind that countries

importing raw materials from Russia use exactly the same method to

pay for Russian gas," he said.

He said that because soaring energy prices required the

government to supplement funding from the central budget, the

government would need to regularly examine whether the price cap on

fuel and staple foods could be maintained.

Hungarian oil and gas company MOL is also undertaking a

significant burden in order to ensure that the retail price of fuel

can be kept at 480 forints (EUR 1.27) per litre, he said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220501ei5100001


EU in turmoil as Orban backs Putin with veto on energy ban ‘We’ll never support’
Antony Ashkenaz
634 字
2022 年 5 月 2 日 10:58 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
THE EUROPEAN Union's plans to sanction Putin may be scuppered as Hungary warned that it would veto any outright ban on Russian energy.

Senior officials in Hungary have warned that Budapest is prepared to block any attempts in the European Union to impose sanctions on Russia’s oil industry. As the bloc prepares its unveil its sixth round of sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin, Hungary has warned that if these measures would hinder Budapest’s ability to import energy, the country would be ready to veto it.

Related articles

According to Politico, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is set to propose a plan to phase out Russian oil by the end of the year.

The bloc will not issue an immediate ban on Russian oil, according to sources, but rather will form a plan to phase out oil imports from Moscow by the end of the year.

Fearing retaliation from Putin in the form of a ban on gas flowing to Europe, the Eu has been reluctant to sanction Russia’s energy sector so far.

Hungary in particular is heavily dependent on Russian fossil fuels, which is why it has been among the most vocal critics of sanctions against Putin.

Since becoming Prime Minister, Hungary’s Viktor Orban has repeatedly clashed with European Union institutions, while also developing a close relationship with Mr Putin.

Mr Orban’s government has warned that the ban on Russian oil and gas would cause severe damage to Hungary’s economy.

Hungarian Cabinet Minister Gergely Gulyas told HirTV on Sunday: “Since such decisions require unanimity, it makes no sense for the commission to propose sanctions affecting natural gas and crude oil that would restrict Hungarian procurements.

“We’ve made it clear that we’ll never support.”

READ MORE: Putin dealt hammer blow as EU ready to ban Russian oil and cripple ...

A ban on Putin’s oil and gas exports would be a devastating blow, as revenues from the energy industry account for about 40 percent of Russia’s budget in 2021.

According to a report from the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air , Moscow has earned over €63billion from the export of oil, gas and coal since the war began on February 24.

In order to avoid Hungary’s blocking any actions against Putin, the EU Commission will reportedly suggest including some kind of exception or transitional measures for Hungary and Slovakia.

An official told Reuters that o keep the 27-nation bloc united, the EU Commission might offer Slovakia and Hungary "an exemption or a long transition period".

DON'T MISS:

UK to avert Russia energy crisis with 'clean, cheap, sovereign system' [REVEAL]

London handed 15 minute nuclear warning after Russian threat [SPOTLIGHT]

Germany to soften Russia stance as Scholz' 'double-dealing' [INSIGHT]

In a Facebook post, government spokesman Zoltan Kovacs denied a previous report by German television network ZDF, which said that Hungary and Austria had lifted their veto threats.

Mr Kovacs said noted that Budapest’s stance against EU sanctions “hasn’t changed, we don’t support it.”

Earlier today, German Vice-Chancellor Robert Habeck warned that there was still no unity among the EU member states on whether to ban Russian oil and gas.

He told reporters: “I don’t know whether an oil embargo is imminent.

“I hear different things and talk to my colleagues about different options.

“Other countries are not that far along and I think you have to respect that.”

Related articles Energy crisis: Morocco supplies to enter UK via world's long cable India and China offer Putin lifeline as US and UK gas REPLACED Energy crisis: UK opens North Sea taps to SLASH household bills

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220502ei52002s7


Politics & Law
Hungarian government "does not support" Russian oil and gas embargo: official
248 字
2022 年 5 月 2 日 13:01 GMT
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
英文
Copyright 2022. Xinhua News Agency. All rights reserved.
BUDAPEST, May 2 (Xinhua) -- The Hungarian government does not support the oil and gas embargo against Russia, a senior official said on Monday.

"The Hungarian position on the oil and gas embargo has not changed: we do not support it!" Zoltan Kovacs, secretary of state for international communications and relations wrote on his Facebook page.

Kovacs reacted to a report made by German public television channel ZDF, according to which following a change of position in Germany, all European Union (EU) member states were now willing to support the EU's suspension of Russian oil imports as part of a new crackdown on Russia due to its conflict with Ukraine.

Besides Germany, Austria and Hungary were the most strongly opposed to halting Russian oil purchases, as their economies are heavily dependent on Russian oil supplies.

"The most important thing is for the European Union not to adopt a sanction that will make it impossible to import Russian oil and gas," Gergely Gulyas, head of the prime minister's office, told Hungary's main public radio channel MR1 on Sunday.

Otherwise, Hungary would have to procure these raw materials at a much higher price, without which the price caps on household utilities and the functioning of the Hungarian economy itself cannot be ensured, he added.

"We must not adopt sanctions with which we primarily penalize ourselves instead of those we want to sanction," Gulyas said.

Enditem

News and Information Center Xinhua News Agency

文件 XNEWS00020220502ei520080x


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungary stands alone in its no to the Russian oil veto to which Germany and Austria accede
777 字
2022 年 5 月 2 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The European Union is trying to resolve the latest reluctance within its ranks to sanction Russian oil in retaliation for the cuts in gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria, after these two countries refused to pay for their purchases in rubles. At an extraordinary meeting of energy ministers, the hitherto reluctant governments of Germany and Austria expressed their readiness to adopt a new sanctions package that includes crude from Moscow, leaving Hungary as the only country still refusing. "Austria is ready to support an oil embargo consistently if the Commission and the member states so decide. We are ready, I can say that," said Austrian Energy Minister Leonore Gewessler.

In the same vein, the German Robert Habeck stressed that, "after two months of work", his country "is not against a ban on Russian oil" and, although he acknowledged that "there is no time" to prevent such a sanction from causing a "local" problem in a refinery that uses exclusively Russian crude oil, he emphasized that "it will not hit the economy as a whole". Habeck did point out the need for the sanction on Moscow's oil to be gradual in order to undertake "technical preparations", while warning that "other countries may have more serious problems" if such a measure were to be adopted.

The move by Berlin and Vienna leaves Budapest as the only capital of the club that still openly maintains its veto on European sanctions - which must be approved unanimously - to include oil and gas from Russia, according to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's spokesman on the social network Twitter.

And this despite the fact that the Polish government, its main partner in the bloc, on Monday demanded greater forcefulness against Moscow in response to the cuts in gas supplies to his country and Bulgaria. "We already have coal, now it's time for oil and the next step is gas. The best option is for them to go together," emphasized Polish Climate and Environment Minister Anna Moskwa.

The European Commission has not yet wanted to detail the content of what will be the sixth package of sanctions against the Kremlin, which will also include sanctions against more Russian and Belarusian banks, new individual sanctions or the application of corrective measures also to the Russian nuclear sector. Energy Commissioner Kadri Simson summoned the press to the meeting of the college of commissioners scheduled for Tuesday.

According to the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA), the European Union has bought more than 47.4 billion euros in energy products from Russia since the invasion of Ukraine (19.7 billion in oil, 27 billion in gas and 780 million in coal).

Gas cut-off While the possible veto on Russian oil dominates the energy debate in Brussels, the energy ministers of the EU-27 met to discuss gas, following Gazprom's unilateral cuts. The European Commission, Warsaw and Sofia assure that "there is no immediate risk" either for Polish and Bulgarian companies or consumers and, in the medium term, Poland will be able to receive gas from Lithuania and Bulgaria from Greece.

But Gazprom's decision "is a turning point in the current crisis", according to the Commissioner, who does not rule out that Moscow could order a gas cut-off to the whole EU in the cold half of the year.

The subway reserves of the Member States, which the Commission wants to reach 80% before next autumn, are currently at 32% "and growing". But Brussels - and Moscow - knows that stockpiles and diversification will not be enough. "We cannot replace 165 billion cubic meters of gas with other suppliers," acknowledged Simson, who indicated that we will have to rely on renewables and hydrogen and recalled that at the end of May the Commission will present the details of its plan to accelerate the disconnection of Russian energy.

Also by the end of May, the Kremlin wants European importers to submit to Russia's new payment system, which requires buyers to open a euro and a ruble account at Gazprombank. Brussels insists that European companies cannot agree to pay in rubles because such a move would implicate Russia's Central Bank, prop up its currency and amount to "a violation of sanctions" on Moscow.

But companies are demanding more clarity and Brussels, which says it has no information that any European company has agreed to such payments, has pledged to issue "in the coming days" new guidance so that importers know how they can legally buy energy from Vladimir Putin's Russia.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220502ei52009eo


European Union
Hungary floats veto threat as EU works to sanction Russian oil
370 字
2022 年 5 月 2 日
Luxembourg Times
LUXTIM
英文
Copyright 2022 Saint-Paul Luxembourg – All Rights Reserved
Hungary would be ready to veto European Union sanctions on Russia’s oil industry if the measures restricted Budapest’s ability to import energy, according to a senior official in Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s government.

The European Commission is set to propose a ban on Russian oil by the end of the year over its war in Ukraine, with restrictions on imports introduced gradually until then, Bloomberg reported Saturday, citing people familiar with the matter.

Hungary, which is heavily reliant on Russian energy, has been among the most vocal in opposing the expansion of sanctions. Orban’s government has warned of severe damage to Hungary’s economy without access to Russian oil and natural gas.

“Since such decisions require unanimity, it makes no sense for the commission to propose sanctions affecting natural gas and crude oil that would restrict Hungarian procurements,” Cabinet Minister Gergely Gulyas told HirTV on Sunday.

Countries such as Hungary that are deeply reliant on Russian energy may get some additional flexibility as part of a compromise to drop their opposition to new sanctions, according to a person familiar with the matter.

Hungary’s position on imposing sanctions on Russian oil and gas “hasn’t changed, we don’t support it,” government spokesman Zoltan Kovacs said in a Facebook post on Monday. He was refuting a report by German television network ZDF, which reported on Sunday that Hungary and Austria had lifted their veto threats.

Orban, who was re-elected last month, has earlier called sanctions on Russian energy his “red line.”

His government has agreed with Russia to allow the conversion of their gas payments to rubles, testing the EU’s sanctions policy. Russia last week cut off gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria, making good on a threat to stop flows if payments aren’t made in rubles.

EU energy ministers are meeting in Brussels on Monday to discuss Russia’s demands for natural gas to be purchased in rubles, and are likely to discuss the oil sanctions package as well.

©2022 Bloomberg L.P.

Orban’s government has warned of severe damage to Hungary’s economy without access to Russian oil[https://blobsvc.wort.lu/picture/e06416c860d4b216a321fdad4726da3b/1349/900/wortv3/63279102fc98d95e9d02cd58c5d6aab6f1f75399]

Société Saint-Paul Luxembourg S.A.

文件 LUXTIM0020220502ei520002t


News
EU ban on Moscow's oil 'will come at a cost': Germany warns of knock-on effect for consumers as it backs new sanction
Lewis Pennock For The Daily Mail
362 字
2022 年 5 月 2 日 21:58 GMT
Mail Online
DAMONL
英文
Copyright 2022
* Bloc could be forced to soften announcement after Hungary threatened a veto

* Slovakia and Hungary could be offered 'an exemption' or 'long transition period'

* Yesterday Poland said it was now ready to be independent from Russian oil firms

Germany last night backed an EU-wide ban on Russian oil – but warned it will ‘come at a cost’.

The bloc could also be forced to soften any announcement after Hungary threatened to veto an outright ban.

The EU’s sixth package of sanctions could be unveiled as soon as today but would require unanimous agreement of all 27 member countries.

Robert Habeck, Germany’s economy minister and deputy chancellor, said Berlin backed the ban but warned of the knock-on effect for consumers.

EU sources conceded yesterday that Slovakia and Hungary could be offered ‘an exemption or a long transition period’ to keep the bloc united.

Poland said yesterday it is ready to be independent from Russian oil and is willing to support other countries to cut their supplies.

Austria and Italy have also expressed reservations about a total ban by the end of 2022.

Around half of Russia’s 4.7 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude exports go to the EU, which has paid around £17bn for Russian energy since the invasion on February 24.

EU ministers met in Brussels yesterday to discuss their response to Russia’s decision last week to cut gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland, which was branded ‘blackmail’.

Energy giant Gazprom says the two countries failed to pay their bills in April.

The two countries had refused to accept Russian President Vladimir Putin’s demand that ‘unfriendly’ countries must start paying for gas in Russian rubles.

More Gazprom bills are due on May 20, and the bloc is wary that Russia might turn off more taps then.

Britain has already pledged to phase out imports of Russian oil by the end of the year. Russian imports recently accounted for 8pc of total UK oil demand.

DMG Media Limited

文件 DAMONL0020220502ei52007sr


HUNGARY: EU SANCTIONS ON OIL AND GAS NOT SUPPORTED
533 字
2022 年 5 月 3 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2022. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
It is unfair for the state to owe pensioners, Gergely Gulyas, the prime minister's chief of staff, said in connection with the government's recently announced pension hike. He announced last week that pensions would increase by a further 3.9% from July in light of higher than expected inflation, bringing the overall pension hike to 8.9%.

Gulyas said the government knew that inflation would be higher than what had been projected prior to the outbreak of the war in Ukraine. The 3.9% pension increase will make it easier to address the difficulties posed by inflation, he said, adding that the increased pension would be paid retroactively from the start of the year in one go. Gulyas said Hungarians must not be made to pay the price of war. This can be prevented "if we can continue to buy our energy at the cheapest possible price", he added. The European Union should therefore withdraw its earlier decisions and should not approve sanctions that would make it impossible for member states to import Russian oil and gas, Gulyas said. Otherwise Hungary would have to buy this energy at much higher prices, which would make it impossible to uphold household utility price caps and the economy could not function, either, he added.

The government aims to preserve the conditions needed for the utility price caps to remain in place, Gulyas said, noting that this required Hungary to have access to oil and gas and for energy prices to return to normal levels as soon as possible.

"We mustn't adopt sanctions with which we primarily penalise ourselves instead of those we want to sanction," Gulyas said.

The EU has not approved any type of sanctions that would make it impossible for a member state to pay in rubles for Russian gas, Gulyas said, noting that such a transaction between a state and a company was governed by an agreement subject to civil law. Gulyas said the Hungarian state was in fact not paying in rubles for Russian gas, but opened a euro account with Gazprom Bank, which converted the euros transferred to its account by the Hungarian state into rubles.

"There are nine other countries using the same payment scheme, but because today the idea of being a good European also means that the leaders of those countries are not honest when speaking either in the international arena or to their own people, the other nine countries won't say that they are doing the same thing," said Gulyas.

"There should be no doubt in anyone's mind that countries importing raw materials from Russia use exactly the same method to pay for Russian gas," he said.

He said that because soaring energy prices required the government to supplement funding from the central budget, the government would need to regularly examine whether the price cap on fuel and staple foods could be maintained. Hungarian oil and gas company MOL is also undertaking a significant burden in order to ensure that the retail price of fuel can be kept at 480 forints (EUR 1.27) per litre, he said. (Daily News Hungary/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020220503ei530000x


Ukraine - Szijjarto: Hungarian economy can't physically operate without Russian oil
423 字
2022 年 5 月 3 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, May 3 (MTI) - Hungary's government will withhold its

approval of any sanctions that would render the transit of Russian

oil and natural gas to Hungary unfeasible, as this would compromise

the country's energy security, given the reliance of its

infrastructure on Russian deliveries, Foreign Minister Peter

Szijjarto said on Tuesday.

Whereas Hungary has so far voted for all European Union

sanction packages, it has had to contend with "unfair and unjust"

attacks, according to a ministry statement issued after Szijjarto

held a joint press conference with Kazakh counterpart Mukhtar

Tileuberdi.

He said Hungary was open and straightforward about its

unwillingness to abandon its energy supply security, adding that

the government protected the national interest first and foremost.

"We don't care what people in the East or the West think," he

said. "This is a real issue of energy security as it's currently

physically impossible to run the economy without Russian crude."

Around 20,000 tonnes each day, or 65 percent of Hungarian oil

consumption, comes from Russia through the Friendship Pipeline, he

said, adding that no alternative supply routes were available for

replacing this amount.

The Croatian section of the Adriatic pipeline has major

capacity limitations, the minister said, while developing the

necessary infrastructure would require enormous investment, and it

was unsure whether Zagreb would agree to this; and if it did, it

was uncertain how long it would take to do so, he added.

With circumstances thrust upon it, Hungary, he said, had no

time to alter its refinery to make the switch to another type of

crude, and it did not yet know exactly how many hundreds of

millions of dollars this would cost.

Hungary, he added, supported the diversification of European

energy supply, and has made headway in this direction by increasing

oil imports from Kazakhstan, which now cover 16 percent of its

total consumption. Still, this is supplied via Russia and could be

subject to sanctions.

Meanwhile, Szijjjarto said oil and gas company MOL was the

technical manager of a Kazakh-Chinese-Hungarian consortium that

plans extraction from a big gas field in Kazakhstan pending Kazakh

government approval. Extraction could start next year, he added.

Szijjarto praised Kazakhstan for combatting terrorism and

ensuring stability in the region neighbouring Afghanistan by

preventing the spread of extremist ideologies and by taking action

against migration and smuggling.

The minister is scheduled to meet Kazakh President

Kassym-Jomart Tokayev and travel to Kyrgyzstan later in the day.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220503ei530008d


Hungary sees energy security as top priority when weighing EU sanctions on Russian energy
531 字
2022 年 5 月 3 日 18:37 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2022. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
Hungary’s position remains unchanged, that energy security should be the real focus when deciding on sanctions against Russia, said state secretary for energy policy Attila Steiner, who represented Hungary at Monday’s meeting of EU energy ministers in Brussels.

EU energy ministers discussed the possibility of extending sanctions to include Russian oil exports, a move that has met with resistance from countries with greater dependence on Russian energy sources.

Germany's Economy Minister Robert Habeck hinted that some kind of compromise could be reached with countries that oppose extending sanctions to the energy sector. Hungary and Slovakia could get some form of relief from the decision, as they are the most dependent on Russian crude oil, Steiner said, adding that a proposal in writing has not yet been delivered.

According to Reuters, the European Commission is looking to finalise the sanctions proposals ahead of a meeting of EU ambassadors in Brussels on May 4. Germany has already signalled that it would be ready to cope with a phased embargo on Russian crude, leaving Hungary and Slovakia in the uncomfortable position to break the unity of the EU-wide sanction.

Steiner also said that Russia's recent decision to halt gas deliveries to Poland and Bulgaria has not affected Hungary's gas supply, as transit deliveries via Bulgaria continue, as stipulated in the terms of contracts. Hungary signed a 15-year gas contract with Gazprom in October, securing the supply of 4.5bcm gas through Serbia, bypassing Ukraine.

There is no quick replacement for Russian energy imports as establishing new delivery routes would take years, Zoltan Kovacs, the government's international spokesman told the BBC. All proposals on sanctions extending to Russian energy that the Hungarian government had seen so far would cause the Hungarian economy to grind to a halt, he added

The Hungarian government will withhold its approval of any sanctions against Russia that would render the transit of oil and natural gas to the country unfeasible, as this would compromise the country's energy security, given the reliance of its infrastructure on Russian deliveries, Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Tuesday after talks in Kazakhstan.

At present, about 65% of the country’s oil consumption, 20,000 tonnes a day, and 85% of the gas comes from Russia. There are no alternative transport routes to replace this quantity.

Hungary’s MOL said it would need years and millions of dollars to convert its refineries near Budapest and in Bratislava to switch from heavy, Urals-type crude oil, predominantly delivered via the Friendship pipeline, to other types.

Over the years, the company sought to reduce its dependence on Russian oil, but the investment of $170mn since 2013 has so far only succeeded in increasing the blending capacity of non-Russian oil in refineries to 30%.

The price gap between Brent and Urals and the high margins in the petrochemical segment allowed MOL to cash in big profit in its downstream unit, but much of the gain was wiped out by the retail and wholesale price fuel cap introduced by the government, extended until July 1.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020220503ei53001gt


Europe Moves to Sanction Russia Again, Closing In on Oil Embargo -- Update
By Laurence Norman
1872 字
2022 年 5 月 3 日 20:41 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The European Union is proposing a phased-in embargo on Russian oil imports, the delisting of more Russian banks from the Swift payment messaging system and fresh sanctions targeted at people spreading disinformation on Russia's war in Ukraine, EU officials said Tuesday.

The EU's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell on Tuesday became the first EU official to set out the key parts of a new sixth sanctions package against Russia drawn up by the EU's executive body, the European Commission, and which will be presented to member states for their approval late Tuesday.

The centerpiece of the package is a proposal that the bloc's member states stop importing Russian crude oil within six months and purchase no more Russian refined oil products by the end of the year, according to two officials familiar with the details.

However Hungary and Slovakia, two countries that are heavily dependent on imports of pipelined oil, would be given a phaseout of Russian imports of 20 months under the proposal, the officials said.

The bloc's 27 member states, which can only adopt the measures unanimously, will discuss the proposal Wednesday and could make a decision as early as this week, although diplomats said differences remained between capitals on some of the proposed sanctions.

"Russia's unprovoked war against Ukraine affects global security. We are working on the 6th package of sanctions which aims to de-swift more banks, list disinformation actors and tackle oil imports. These measures will be presented to" EU member states "for approval," Mr. Borrell said on Twitter.

The EU's move toward banning Russian oil imports marks a particularly significant escalation for the bloc because of the importance of energy exports to the Russian economy. It is also potentially costly for Europe, which is highly reliant on Russian hydrocarbons for transportation, heating, power generation and industrial production.

The move comes after Russia cut gas deliveries to two member states last week and reflects what western officials say is the absence of signs that the Kremlin is willing to scale back its military incursion into Ukraine.

The Kremlin said Russian President Vladimir Putin warned French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday that the West should stop arming Ukraine, in a conversation that lasted over two hours.

The Commission proposal will also ask member states to place sanctions on three Russian banks, including the country's largest lender Sberbank. However the sanctions won't include the cutoff of transactions with these banks but instead would see them knocked off the Swift financial messaging network under the proposal, according to officials.

Knocking banks off Swift can significantly complicate their ability to make and receive payments internationally but it falls short of a full ban on transactions, which effectively shuts the banks out of international markets.

The EU is also set to keep sanctions off Russia's Gazprombank, which EU member states are using to make payments for Russian gas.

Diplomats said there could be some tough discussions on a number of points in the package although a broad consensus has emerged in favor of an oil embargo.

Hungary has repeatedly warned it could veto an oil package that doesn't give it enough time and enough financial assistance to set up the infrastructure needed to wean itself off Russian oil pipeline deliveries. Diplomats said at least two more member states, the Czech Republic and Bulgaria, have argued that if Hungary and Slovakia are given more time to stop buying Russian oil exports, they should be given the same leeway.

Hungary and Slovakia are both on the route of the Druzhba pipeline, which brings Russian oil to Europe. They also import a high percentage of their crude oil and oil products from Russia.

Some countries were pressing for full sanctions against Sberbank and other Russian banks while some member states, including Poland, the Baltic states as well as nonmember Ukraine, have urged the EU to move toward a full energy import ban, including gas. That remains off the table for now despite Russia's decision to stop gas deliveries to Bulgaria and Poland.

However, with Germany and other countries rapidly reducing their imports of Russian oil and gas, most officials believe a sixth sanctions package could be agreed in the next few days.

"Our goal is simple: We must break the Russian war machine," European Council President Charles Michel said about sanctions. "And I am confident that the Council will imminently impose further sanctions, notably on Russian oil."

Before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the EU was importing between 3 million and 3.5 million barrels of oil a day from Russia, sending just under $400 million in payments daily, according to Brussels-based think tank Bruegel. That amounts to around 27% of EU oil imports.

Oil-and-gas revenues accounted for 45% of Russia's federal government budget in 2021, according to the International Energy Agency.

Germany said last week that it is rapidly reducing its reliance on Russian oil by arranging new oil-supply contacts. Berlin said that only 12% of the country's oil imports currently come from Russia, down from 35% before Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24.

Berlin says it has also reduced Russian gas to 35% of its gas imports, down from 55%, in that time. The country is rapidly replacing Russian energy with imports from the U.S., Norway and Gulf countries, according to a German government official.

Write to Laurence Norman at laurence.norman@wsj.com

3 May 2022 18:54 ET Europe Moves to Sanction Russia Again, Closing In on Oil Embargo -- 2nd Update

By Laurence Norman

The European Union proposed a phased-in embargo on Russian oil imports, the delisting of more Russian banks from the Swift payment messaging system and fresh sanctions targeted at people spreading disinformation on Russia's war in Ukraine, EU officials said Tuesday.

The EU's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell on Tuesday became the first EU official to set out the key parts of a new sixth sanctions package against Russia drawn up by the EU's executive body, the European Commission. The proposals were circulated to member states late Tuesday evening.

The centerpiece of the package is a proposal that the bloc's member states stop importing Russian crude oil within six months and purchase no more Russian refined oil products by the end of the year, according to two officials familiar with the details.

However Hungary and Slovakia, two countries that are heavily dependent on imports of pipelined oil, would be given a phaseout of Russian imports of 20 months under the proposal, the officials said.

The bloc's 27 member states, which can only adopt the measures unanimously, will discuss the proposal Wednesday and could make a decision as early as this week, although diplomats said differences remained between capitals on some of the proposed sanctions.

"Russia's unprovoked war against Ukraine affects global security. We are working on the 6th package of sanctions which aims to de-swift more banks, list disinformation actors and tackle oil imports," Mr. Borrell said on Twitter.

The EU's move toward banning Russian oil imports marks a particularly significant escalation for the bloc because of the importance of energy exports to the Russian economy. It is also potentially costly for Europe, which is highly reliant on Russian hydrocarbons for transportation, heating, power generation and industrial production.

The move comes after Russia cut gas deliveries to two member states last week and reflects what western officials say is the absence of signs that the Kremlin is willing to scale back its military incursion into Ukraine.

The Kremlin said Russian President Vladimir Putin warned French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday that the West should stop arming Ukraine, in a conversation that lasted over two hours.

The Commission proposal will also ask member states to place sanctions on three Russian banks, including the country's largest lender Sberbank. However the sanctions won't include the cutoff of transactions with these banks but instead would see them knocked off the Swift financial messaging network under the proposal, according to officials.

Knocking banks off Swift can significantly complicate their ability to make and receive payments internationally but it falls short of a full ban on transactions, which effectively shuts the banks out of international markets.

The EU is also set to keep sanctions off Russia's Gazprombank, which EU member states are using to make payments for Russian gas.

Diplomats said there could be some tough discussions on a number of points in the package although a broad consensus has emerged in favor of an oil embargo.

Hungary has repeatedly warned it could veto an oil package that doesn't give it enough time and financial assistance to set up the infrastructure needed to wean itself off Russian oil pipeline deliveries. Diplomats said at least two more member states, the Czech Republic and Bulgaria, have argued that if Hungary and Slovakia are given more time to stop buying Russian oil exports, they should be given the same leeway.

Hungary and Slovakia are both on the route of the Druzhba pipeline, which brings Russian oil to Europe. They also import a high percentage of their crude oil and oil products from Russia.

Some countries were pressing for full sanctions against Sberbank and other Russian banks while some member states, including Poland, the Baltic states as well as nonmember Ukraine, have urged the EU to move toward a full energy import ban, including gas. That remains off the table for now despite Russia's decision to stop gas deliveries to Bulgaria and Poland.

However, with Germany and other countries rapidly reducing their imports of Russian oil and gas, most officials believe a sixth sanctions package could be agreed in the next few days.

"Our goal is simple: We must break the Russian war machine," European Council President Charles Michel said about sanctions. "And I am confident that the Council will imminently impose further sanctions, notably on Russian oil."

Before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the EU was importing between 3 million and 3.5 million barrels of oil a day from Russia, sending just under $400 million in payments daily, according to Brussels-based think tank Bruegel. That amounts to around 27% of EU oil imports.

Oil-and-gas revenues accounted for 45% of Russia's federal government budget in 2021, according to the International Energy Agency.

Germany said last week that it is rapidly reducing its reliance on Russian oil by arranging new oil-supply contacts. Berlin said that only 12% of the country's oil imports currently come from Russia, down from 35% before Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24.

Berlin says it has also reduced Russian gas to 35% of its gas imports, down from 55%, in that time. The country is rapidly replacing Russian energy with imports from the U.S., Norway and Gulf countries, according to a German government official.

Write to Laurence Norman at laurence.norman@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 03, 2022 18:54 ET (22:54 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220503ei53003kk


EU Commission submitted oil embargo draft
250 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 08:29 GMT
APA News Service
APANSE
英文
© 2022 APA NEWS SERVICE
Brussels - The EU Commission has presented the draft for a new sanction package against Russia, which primarily provides for an oil embargo. According to diplomats the commission submitted the draft to all EU members the night of Wednesday. The paper provides for a gradual import ban within six to eight months. Exceptions were made for Hungary and Slovakia. This was according to the news agency AFP.

The EU plans a "complete ban on imports of all Russian oil", Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said on Wednesday in Strasbourg.

The oil embargo is the main component of the sixth EU sanction package against Russia. On Wednesday representatives of the EU states will discuss the sanctions. For adoption a unanimous decision of the 27 EU members is required.

Hungary and Slovakia are heavily dependent on Russian oil. They should be allowed to continue imports until the end of 2023.

The two countries obtain Russian oil via the southern line of the Druzhba pipeline, which also provides the Czech Republic. Hungary imports around 65 percent of its oil from Russia, stated the government in Budapest. This was more than double the EU average of recently 26 percent.

Hungary had threatened to veto the oil embargo, if it limited the own supply security.

According to EU diplomats the commission draft could start a new quarrel. The Czech Republic and Bulgaria also push for exceptions, citing their economies that are heavily dependent on Russian oil.

apo

DIS0003-20220504

APA - Austria Presse Agentur eG

文件 APANSE0020220504ei540005l


Hungarian Air Force scrambles fighter jets to border after 'unidentified' aircraft spotted
Alessandra Scotto di Santolo
701 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 08:29 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
HUNGARIAN Air Defence services were forced to rush to the eastern border of the country after their radar detected an unidentified jet.

According to a statement from the Hungarian Ministry of Defence, the radar signaled an unidentified aircraft in the late evening on May 3, so the Hungarian Air Defence Service issued an alert and ordered a takeoff for a fighter in the Air Defence Standby Service. The radars detected the signal around 10pm in the border area of ​​the eastern part of the country.

Related articles

No aircraft was found during the inspection of the airspace concerned, however, the aircraft remained in the area for some time for airspace surveillance and then returned to the base in Kecskemét.

It is unclear whether the aircraft was detected on the eastern border of the country with Ukraine or Romania.

The alert came as Russian forces fired rockets at the encircled steel works in Ukraine's Mariupol and smoke darkened the sky above the plant, where officials say 200 civilians are still trapped despite evacuations, while the EU prepared to sanction Russian oil.

The attack followed a UN-brokered ceasefire around the Soviet-era steel complex that allowed several groups of civilians to escape the last holdout of Ukrainian fighters in the southern port in recent days.

More civilians were trapped in bunkers and tunnels under the complex and some 100,000 remained in the rest of the city, mayor Vadym Boychenko said on Tuesday.

Mariupol is a major target for Russia as is seeks to cut Ukraine off from the Black Sea and connect Russian-controlled territory in the south and east.

Russia's offensive in eastern Ukraine, focused on the regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, killed at least three civilians in the city of Vuhledar, the Ukrainian president's office said.

Ukraine's military said Russian forces were trying to take the frontline town of Rubizhne.

Russian bombardments since troops invaded Ukraine on Feb.24 have flattened cities, killed thousands of civilians and forced more than five million to flee the country.

The war shifted to the eastern provinces, parts of which were already held by Russian-backed separatists before Russian President Vladimir Putin launched the invasion, after Russia abandoned an assault on Kyiv at the end of March.

Its troops are trying to encircle a large Ukrainian force there, attacking from three directions with massive bombardment along the front, in what Moscow says is a special military operation to tackle nationalists it calls Nazis.

In response, Western allies of Ukraine have stepped up supplies of increasingly heavy weapons. Ukraine's First Lady Olena Zelenska asked the West to maintain its support.

"Ukraine needs weapons so that Ukrainian refugees can return home and rebuild the economy. Therefore, we ask you not to stop, to accelerate the pace of heavy weapons provision," she told British morning television.

She said she had not seen President Volodymyr Zelenskiy since the start of the invasion.

In Brussels, the European Commission is expected to finalise a sixth package of EU sanctions against Russia on Tuesday, including a possible embargo on buying Russian oil.

Related articles

In a major shift, Germany said it was prepared to back an immediate EU embargo on Russian oil.

The European Commission may spare Hungary and Slovakia from the embargo because of the two countries' dependence on Russian crude, two EU officials said on Monday.

Kyiv says Russia's energy exports to Europe, so far largely exempt from international sanctions, are funding the Kremlin war effort with millions of euros every day.

"This package should include clear steps to block Russia's revenues from energy resources," Mr Zelensky said in his nightly video address.

EU countries have paid more than 47 billion euros to Russia for gas and oil since it invaded Ukraine, according to research organisation the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air.

Ambassadors from EU countries will discuss the proposed oil sanctions when they meet on Wednesday.

Related articles German businesses hammered by Brexit Russia claim that Israel supports neo Nazis ridiculed Business leaders issue Putin ultimatum with a ‘hope’ to return

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220504ei54001jl


'Huge blow' for Putin: EU announces COMPLETE ban on Russian oil as 3 nations drop vetos
Jacob Paul
743 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 08:59 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
VLADIMIR PUTIN has been dealt a "huge blow" as three EU nations have agreed to withdraw their veto threats, finally letting the bloc slap down an embargo on Russian oil.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen unveiled plans for an oil ban during her presentation of a sixth sanction package on Russia at a European Parliament meeting today. It involves phasing out oil by the end of the year, with a complete ban on oil imports after six months and a ban on refined petroleum products like gasoline by the end of the year. Ms von der Leyen said: “Today, we will propose to ban all Russian oil from Europe.

Related articles

“This will be a complete ban on all Russian oil, seaborn and pipeline, crude and refined.

“We will make sure that we phase out Russian oil in an orderly fashion so in a way that allows us and our partners to secure alternative supply routes and at the same time be very careful that we minimise the impact on the global market.”

Ukrainian energy advisor Pavlo Kutvah has told Express.co.uk that the move signals a “huge blow” for the Russian President.

He said: “The Russian economic model is that of a gas station essentially. They are selling oil and gas and that is their main revenue, and this is what funds both their corrupt elite and their war effort.

“So, of course, any kind of hit to that is a huge blow to the Russian economy and a huge step towards pacifying Russia.

“I think it it is a very good idea..it is important that the sanctions work fast and they are broad.”

This comes after Hungary, Slovakia and Austria had threatened to veto oil sanctions after being staunchly opposed to oil sanctions on Russia.

But now, the three nations have withdrawn their vetoes, according to German broadcaster ZDF.

Despite this, Hungary and Slovakia are expected to be exempt from the oil embargo.

Hungarian Cabinet Minister Gergely Gulyas told HirTV on Sunday that an EU-wide ban would need unanimity, adding that “it makes no sense for the commission to propose sanctions affecting natural gas and crude oil that would restrict Hungarian procurements”.

READ MORE: Germany strikes huge energy deal with India to slash Russia reliance

He continued: “We’ve made it clear that we’ll never support.”

EU officials will be hoping that this “unanimity” will via this exemption.

Officials told Reuters on Monday that the two nations might also be given more time to find alternative supplies.

Slovakia and Hungary are both majorly reliant on the Kremlin, depending nearly 100 percent on Russian oil which transits to the landlocked countries through the Druzhba pipeline

The rest of the bloc also spends a staggering amount on Putin’s oil imports.

DON'T MISS

VDL faces nightmare as EU rebels refuse to back sanctions [REPORT]

Russia's 'only oil pipeline to EU' in flames - 3 countries face crisis [REVEAL]

London handed 15 minute nuclear warning after Russian threat [INSIGHT]

Last year, the EU imported a staggering €48.5billion of crude oil in 2021, and €22.5billion of petroleum oils other than crude.

And it currently still relies on Russia for 26 percent of its oil imports.

EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said in early April that “since the start of the war, we’ve given [Russian president Vladimir Putin] €35billion compared to the €1billion we’ve given Ukraine to arm itself”.

The sanctions come after the bloc had been mulling over a ban for a number of weeks and had come under fire for not slapping a ban down quicker.

Related articles

Last month, European Parliament has called for an immediate ban on all of Russia's hydrocarbons after 413 MEPs voted on the motion.

Spanish MEP Luis Garicano launched a scathing attack on the EU Commission for this delay, arguing that it is "not even trying".

He said: "President von der Leyen, a gas ban is possible. We aren't even trying.

"If Europe does not stop funding Putin, history will not see us as bystanders. History will know we were complicit."

Related articles Forget Satan 2! US £157bn project can wipe out Putin's missile UK embarrassment laid bare: US hid details of NUKING British satellite Vallance skewers EV plans as going green 'totally impossible' for most

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220504ei540020f


News
Europe proposes to ban all Russian oil imports by the end of the year
Ben Aris in Berlin
1471 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 12:29 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2022. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
The EU will sanction all Russian oil imports, both crude and refined and both oil delivered by ship and pipeline, but the ban will be “phased in in an orderly way,” EU President Ursula von der Leyen told the European Parliament on May 4.

The sanctions will be phased in over the next year with crude deliveries banned in six months and refined productions by the end of the year, von der Leyen said. The price of Brent crude jumped 3% to more than $108 a barrel after the news.

The two countries that are heavily dependent on Russian oil deliveries, Slovakia and Hungary, and the most resistant to the sanctions, will get an exemption and are not required to stop imports until the end of 2023, according to reports.

However, Budapest was lukewarm on the idea of a total oil embargo and complained that von der Leyen's proposals didn't spell out how its energy security concerns would be addressed.

"We do not see any plans or guarantees on how a transition could be managed based on the current proposals, and how Hungary's energy security would be guaranteed," Hungarian government spokesman Zoltan Kovacs told Reuters.

Italy and Austria are also both heavily dependent on Russian imports. Germany’s dependence has fallen rapidly in the last two months as Berlin has worked hard to replace oil piped from Russia to its Leuna and Schwedt[https://www.intellinews.com/rosneft-owned-schwedt-refinery-near-berlin-puts-the-problems-with-sanctioning-russian-oil-under-the-spotlight-239688/] refineries by transporting oil from Poland’s oil terminal in Gdansk to the facilities instead. Russian oil accounted for 35% of Germany’s supplies before the war, but that has fallen to 12% in the last week and Germany said it is close to becoming entirely independent of Russian oil.

Von der Leyen's statement is only one of intent, as the final terms of the deal have yet to be concluded and signed by the EU ambassadors. Hungary in particular could still potentially veto the deal[https://www.intellinews.com/hungary-to-continue-to-oppose-eu-sanctions-on-russian-oil-243165/], although it has softened its objections to the plan more recently.

If the deal passes it would be a watershed for Europe, which is expected to increasingly wean itself off any reliance on Russian energy, ending decades of commercial relations that started in the 1970s when the Soviet Union began selling gas to Europe.

The EU first targeted Russian energy when a ban on coal was included in the fifth package[https://www.intellinews.com/ec-announces-a-fifth-package-of-sanctions-on-russia-targeting-coal-high-tech-equipment-and-transport-240449] of sanctions in April. Gas imports from Russia are also likely to be ended in future sanctions, but as the majority of gas is piped and there are no easy alternative supplies, that process will be much harder and take longer.

“Putin must pay a price, a high price, for his brutal aggression," Commission President von der Leyen told the European Parliament in Strasbourg, to applause from lawmakers, reports Reuters. "Today, we will propose to ban all Russian oil from Europe.”

The US has already banned imports of Russian crude[https://www.intellinews.com/us-bans-imports-of-russian-oil-and-gas-237461/], but the US is a net exporter of oil and cutting off Russian supplies will have little consequence for the US or Russia. Europe is a lot more dependent on Russian oil.

EU ambassadors are widely expected to adopt the Commission proposals as early as this week, allowing them to become law soon after.

Oil imports to EU already under pressure

Russian crude products are 40% down since 2021 as European countries rush to wean themselves off Russian oil, but refined products are actually up this year and imported by many more EU countries which is why the refined products ban will be phased in more slowly, as detailed by bne IntelliNews in series of articles “Sanctions by the numbers” (UN voting[https://www.intellinews.com/datacrunch-sanctions-by-numbers-un-voting-240928/], coal[https://intellinews.com/datacrunch-sanction-in-numbers-coal-241017/], oil[https://www.intellinews.com/datacrunch-sanctions-by-the-numbers-oil-241081/], gas[https://www.intellinews.com/hold-datacrunch-sanctions-by-the-numbers-gas-241142], grain[https://www.intellinews.com/hold-datacrunch-sanctions-by-numbers-grain-240870]).

It remains to be seen how effective the bans are. As bne IntelliNews’ sister publication NewsBase.com[https://newsbase.com/] reported, the sanctions on Russian oil are already leaky as the Kremlin is experienced in dodging sanctions and several signs of schemes and scams have already appeared to avoid the “self-sanctioning” by traders that normally buy Russian oil.

The incidence of ship oil tankers turning off their transponders and so making it difficult to track which ports they have visited, is up 600% since the start of the war in Ukraine in February. At the same time a slew of new exotic oil blends like “Lithuanian blend” and “Turkmen blend” have appeared on the market, oils from other markets mixed with Russian oil, to avoid labelling it “Urals blend,” Russia’s main oil export product, NewsBase reports.

Russian output is already falling as the self sanctioning by traders has hit demand for Russian oil. Russian oil storage facilities are already full, according to reports, and the discount on Urals blend to the benchmark Brent blend has blown out from the traditional $2 per barrel to around $30, as bne IntelliNews reported, after Russian oil became toxic[https://www.intellinews.com/buying-russian-oil-is-like-eating-toxic-nuclear-waste-again-238450/] thanks to the war with Ukraine.

Russia’s oil production has fallen from 11mbpd in January, making it one of the biggest single producers in the world, to 10.5mbpd as of the middle of April, and it is expected to fall further as sanctions start to bite.

Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said last week that he expects oil production to fall by 17% this year to around 9.3mbpd, taking the production levels back to their 2004 levels. Oil taxes account for 40% of Russia’s federal budget revenues, so falling oil sales will hurt its income, although that will be compensated to some extent by rising prices caused by removing 2mbpd from the market.

Analysts say that the partial phased-in approach would probably result in higher revenues for the Kremlin in the short-term and greater pain for the EU than Moscow to start with. However, the long-term consequences for Russia would be worse as 70% of its oil exports go to Europe and it cannot easily redirect those to other markets in the east and south.

New bank sanctions & Russian counter sanctions

In addition to the oil embargo, von der Leyen also announced new banking sanctions on the state-owned banking giant Sber (formerly known as Sberbank[https://www.sberbank.com/index]) from the SWIFT messaging service that allows for international bank transfers. So far only seven out of 365 Russian banks have been included in SWIFT sanctions[https://www.intellinews.com/russia-set-to-be-excluded-from-swift-network-236279/?source=russia] imposed in March, but those sanctions included Sber and VTB Bank[https://www.vtb.com/] which between them account for half of all the banking deposits in Russia.

"We hit banks that are systemically critical to the Russian financial system and Putin's ability to wage destruction," von der Leyen said as cited by Reuters. "This will solidify the complete isolation of the Russian financial sector from the global system."

Sber, which exited almost all its European markets in March, has previously said other rounds of sanctions would not have a significant impact on its operations.

Two other lenders were also included in the new bank sanctions as well as three state broadcasters (Rossiya 24, RTR-Planeta and TV Centre International), army officers and other individuals accused of war crimes.

A day earlier Russian President Vladimir Putin sent a law to the Duma that would sanctions people, companies and countries associated with the new sanctions and cut them off from supplies of Russia’s raw materials. So far the sanctions regime on Russia have been limited as Europe remains heavily dependent on Russian supplies of many raw materials, which have been exempted. Putin added that the Russian counter sanctions would, “greatly increase the costs of European citizens.”

Russia cut Poland and Bulgaria off from gas deliveries[https://www.intellinews.com/russia-to-stop-gas-supplies-to-poland-242564/?source=poland] starting on April 27 after both refused to pay for gas in rubles, as demanded by a presidential decree earlier in the month.

The ban will have little effect on Poland as it is due to see a new pipeline that connects it to the Norwegian gas fields come online in October just as the next heating season starts. Bulgaria is much more dependent on Russian gas and also had its supplies cut off, but says that it has enough in storage for the meantime and will source gas from Germany to make up the shortfall.

Putin’s counter sanctions decree will be ready in ten days from May 3 and come into force with its publication. It is intended to give Moscow the power to sow chaos across markets as it could at any moment halt exports or tear up contracts with an entity or individual included in its own sanctions list.

The Russian president said the new decree was a reaction to the “illegal actions of the United States and its allies,” meant to deprive "the Russian Federation, citizens of the Russian Federation and Russian legal entities of property rights or the restricting their property rights.”

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020220504ei54001jl


Brussels proposes to stop Russian oil imports by the end of the year
1387 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日
Euronews
EURONEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Euronews All Rights Reserved
Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the European Commission, has today unveiled a proposal to impose an EU-wide ban on Russian oil imports, one of Moscow's main sources of revenue.

The embargo will be structured and gradual, giving member states up to six months to phase out purchases of Russian crude and until the end of the year to stop buying all sorts of refined oil products.

The ban will apply to all Russian oil traded both via ports and pipelines.

"Let us be clear: it will not be easy. Some member states are strongly dependent on Russian oil. But we simply have to work on it," said von der Leyen while speaking before the European Parliament on Wednesday morning.

"We maximise pressure on Russia, while at the same time minimising collateral damage to us and our partners around the globe. Because to help Ukraine, our own economy has to remain strong."

Part of the sixth package of EU sanctions, the oil embargo represents the most impactful penalty the bloc has imposed on Russia since the start of the Ukraine war on 24 February and has the potential to deprive the Kremlin of one of its most reliable sources of income.

The radical measure threatens to further destabilise the whole European economy, which has already entered a period of deceleration[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/04/04/as-the-war-in-ukraine-rages-on-europe-braces-itself-for-stagflation] and record-breaking inflation as a result of the conflict.

The European Union is Russia's top oil client, buying around 3.5 million barrels of crude and refined products on a daily basis. Last year[https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/products-eurostat-news/-/DDN-20220307-1#:~:text=In%202021%2C%20Russia%20was%20the,equivalent%20to%20%E2%82%AC158%20billion], the bloc spent more than €73 billion on Russian oil, the greatest expenditure on fossil fuels by a large margin.

Von der Leyen's announcement follows days of intense behind-the-scenes diplomacy between the executive and representatives of member states, some of whom remain uneasy about the backlash the measure is expected to trigger against the European economy.

Given how inter-linked oil markets are around the world, the move from Brussels could easily have spill-over effects beyond the continent, hitting middle- and low-income countries along the way.

The embargo will be further discussed by ambassadors over the coming days and will enter into force only after its unanimous approval and publication in the EU's official journal.

Germany has been a key factor behind the decision-making process: the country recently lifted its opposition after managing to slash its dependency on Russian oil from 35% before the war to 12% in May.

"After two months of work, I can say Germany is not against an oil ban on Russia. Of course, it is a heavy load to bear, but we are ready,"Robert Habeck[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/05/02/brussels-says-difficult-months-ahead-for-europe-after-eu-energy-ministers-meeting], Germany's vice-chancellor and economy minister, told reporters on Monday.

"We have to prepare the hubs, we have to prepare the pipelines,"he said. "So, time is helpful, but other countries have bigger problems."

Germany is one of the countries linked to the Druzhba pipeline, a massive conduit operated by Russia's state-controlled giant Transneft, that also connects Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Austria.

During consultations, Hungary and Slovakia raised concerns about the ban's negative consequences for their national economies, according to diplomatic sources consulted by Euronews. The two countries, which are highly dependent on Russian pipeline oil, have pushed to be granted an extra year to complete the phase-out.

But the special treatment doesn't appear to be enough for the Hungarian government, which had said further sanctions on fossil fuels were a "red line."

"We do not see any plans or guarantees on how a transition could be managed based on the current proposals, and how Hungary's energy security would be guaranteed,"wrote Zoltán Kovács, the Hungarian government's international spokesperson, on a tweet reacting to the news.

Italy, Greece and Austria stressed the need to have sufficient time to adapt their energy supply chains, while Greece, Malta, Cyprus, Belgium and the Netherlands pointed out possible economic losses for their local shipping industries, Euronews understands.

On the other side of the table, Poland insisted on slapping a full embargo on both oil and gas imports, a dual scenario that would in all likelihood trigger a deep recession across the continent.

"We are depriving the Russian economy of its ability to diversify and modernise. Putin wanted to wipe Ukraine from the map. He will clearly not succeed,"von der Leyen said.

"On the contrary: Ukraine has risen up in unity. And it is his own country, Russia, he is sinking."

All eyes on suppliers

The protracted timeline envisioned by the Commission -- almost nine months before the total ban takes place -- is designed to allow member states to find new suppliers. The previous sanction against Russian fossil fuels, the coal ban, introduced a deadline of just four months.

All eyes turn now to other oil-producing countries, including Iraq, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Kazakhstan, Norway, the US and the UK, who will be expected to fill the huge gap left by Russia.

The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), which works in conjunction with Moscow, has previously warned an embargo on Russian oil would create a market disruption comparable to the 1970s energy crisis, which prompted a long, painful period of stagflation in the West.

"We could potentially see the loss of more than seven million barrels per day of Russian oil and other liquids exports,"OPEC Secretary-General Mohammad Barkindo said during a meeting last month with EU officials. "Considering the current demand outlook, it would be nearly impossible to replace a loss in volumes of this magnitude."

A similar but less stark warning was issued by Janet Yellen, the US Treasury Secretary, who said "we need to be careful when we think about a complete European ban"on Russian oil.

Yellen said the measure might trigger a spike in international prices that, in a counterproductive way, would bring more money into Moscow's coffers and help cushion the impact from Western sanctions.

A group of experts at Bruegel, a Brussels-based economics think tank, argued in a recent paper that the sudden removal of so many oil barrels from the market will constitute a "serious global supply shock."

"With already tight oil markets, it is not clear that suppliers would be able or willing to make up the shortfall,"the experts wrote, casting doubt over OPEC's willingness to help Europe weather the storm.

The EU appears to be willing to bear the brunt of its decision, mindful of how the continued purchase of Russian fossil fuels is denting the impact of the previous rafts of sanctions.

Although the bloc has targeted almost all imaginable sectors of the Russian economy, from the Central Bank to microchips and vodka, the aggression shows no signs of abating.

Ukraine has for weeks been calling on the 27 to boycott Russian oil, arguing the taxes the government receives from the exports are financing the military campaign.

"Oil is so important for us because of its direct impact on the Russian ability to continue and increase aggression against Ukraine," Taras Kachka, Ukraine's trade representative, told Euronews last month.

"[An oil embargo] means that there will be a limited capacity to pay salaries to the Russian soldiers. It will be impossible to produce weapons by Russian factories, logistics, etc,"he added.

Besides the oil embargo, President von der Leyen also proposed to remove Sberbank, Russia's largest bank, and two other "major banks"from SWIFT, the Belgium-based system that allows financial transactions around the world, and to ban three additional Russian state-owned broadcasters.

The Commission president, who in early April travelled to Kyiv and visited the scene of the Bucha massacres, said the sixth package of sanctions will impose travel bans and asset freezes on those involved in the alleged war crimes and the "inhuman siege"of the port city of Mariupol.

"This sends another important signal to all perpetrators of the Kremlin’s war: We know who you are, and you will be held accountable,"von der Leyen said.

President von der Leyen admitted the EU ban on Russian oil "will not be easy." (Jean-Francois Badias/Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/67/87/64/800x450_cmsv2_db35cca2-3163-5a0d-9c20-2ee2be70b76e-6678764.jpg]

Click to view video (euronews)[https://video-partners.euronews.com/mp4/1080p/EN/E3/BX/22/05/04/en/220504_E3BX_46276645_46276701_66760_105803_en.mp4]

Euronews

文件 EURONEN020220504ei5400035


Hungary won't support EC proposal for oil embargo in present form - Szijjarto
478 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日
MTI - EcoNews
MTIE
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, May 4, 2022 (MTI-ECONEWS) - Hungary cannot support a

proposal by the European Commission to phase in an embargo on

Russian oil in its present form, Minister of Foreign Affairs and

Trade Peter Szijjarto said in a video message posted on Facebook on

Wednesday.

Speaking on the tarmac at the airport in Tashkent, after an

official visit to Uzbekistan, Mr Szijjarto said Hungary cannot

"responsibly vote for the sanctions package from Brussels in this

form".

Early Wednesday, European Commission President Ursula von der

Leyen told a plenary session of the European Parliament that the

European Union's executive body would propose an embargo on Russian

oil to be phased in "within six months".

Mr Szijjarto acknowledged that the embargo would apply to

Hungary "from the end of next year", but said the proposed

sanctions package would "completely destroy" the country's energy

supply, which "rests on stable foundations" at present, and make

acquiring the volume of crude necessary for the operation of the

economy "impossible".

"Hungary could only agree with these sanction measures if there

is an exemption for oil deliveries via pipeline....In this case,

the security of Hungary's energy supply could be maintained," he

added.

Ms von der Leyen told MEPs the EC would propose a "complete

import ban" on Russian oil.

"Today we will propose to ban all Russian oil from Europe. This

will be a complete import ban on all Russian oil, seaborne and

pipeline, crude and refined," she said, adding that the proposed

embargo would involve a phase-out of Russian crude "within six

months" and of refined products by the end of the year

"Let's be clear: it will not be easy, because some Member

States are strongly dependent on Russian oil. But we simply have to

do it," she said.

Ms von der Leyen said the EC would propose excluding Sberbank,

Russia's biggest lender, along with two other "major" Russian banks

from the SWIFT system of international bank transfers.

It will also propose banning three big Russian state-owned

broadcasters from EU airwaves, blocking their content via cable,

satellite, internet or smartphone apps, she added.

She also said the EC would propose a ban on the services of

"accountants, consultants and spin-doctors from Europe" to Russian

companies.

Asked for comment by Reuters, Zoltan Kovacs, the Hungarian

government's international spokesman, said the proposed oil embargo

lacks any guarantee for Hungary's energy security.

"We do not see any plans or guarantees on how a transition

could be managed based on the current proposals, and how Hungary's

energy security would be guaranteed," he said.

Landlocked Hungary gets 65pc of its crude via pipeline from

Russia. The country's biggest refinery, operated by oil and gas

company MOL, is technically reliant on Russian crude.

MTVA

文件 MTIE000020220504ei54002p9


UPDATE 5-EU's toughest Russia sanctions yet snag on worries over oil ban
897 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 14:52 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
* Crude oil embargo would take effect in six months

* Exemptions for Hungary, Slovakia until end of 2023

* Broadcasters, military chiefs, banks also sanctioned (Adds detail on sanctions, energy dependency)

By Francesco Guarascio and John Chalmers

STRASBOURG, May 4 (Reuters) - The European Union's executive on Wednesday proposed the toughest package of sanctions yet against Moscow for its war in Ukraine, but several countries worried about the impact of cutting off Russia oil imports stood in the way of agreement.

The new punishments, announced by European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, included sanctions on Russia's top bank and a ban on Russian broadcasters from European airwaves, as well as the embargo on crude oil in six months.

The EU faces the task of finding alternatives when energy prices have surged as it imports some 3.5 million barrels of Russian oil and oil products every day and also depends on Moscow's gas supplies.

A handful of eastern EU countries are concerned that the halt would not allow them enough time to adapt, even though diplomats said Hungary and Slovakia would be given until the end of 2023.

Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Facebook that, even with the lag, Hungary could only agree to the measures if crude oil imports from Russia via pipeline were exempt from the sanctions.

The landlocked country - whose Prime Minister Viktor Orban cultivates closer ties with the Kremlin than others in the bloc - received more than half of its crude oil and oil products imports from Russia last year, according to the International Energy Agency.

Slovakia has asked for a three-year transition period and the Czech Republic was seeking a delay of two or three years.

Reluctance to deliver measures that damage EU economies as well as Moscow faded in recent weeks as Russia's invasion of Ukraine brought horrific images of slaughter in towns and concern about a renewed offensive in the east of the country.

PUTIN MUST PAY HIGH PRICE

Reflecting widespread anger in the West at Russian President Vladimir Putin's campaign - which Moscow says is a "special military operation" to defeat dangerous nationalists - the head of the EU executive said Moscow must be punished.

"Putin must pay a price, a high price, for his brutal aggression," von der Leyen told the European Parliament in Strasbourg. "Today, we will propose to ban all Russian oil from Europe," she said to applause in the chamber.

The Commission's proposal, which needs unanimous backing by the 27 EU countries to take effect, includes phasing out supplies of Russian crude oil in six months and refined products by the end of 2022. It also proposes to ban in a month's time all shipping, brokerage, insurance and financing services offered by EU companies for the transport of Russian oil.

The price of Brent crude rose around 3% to more than $108 a barrel by 1450 GMT.

If agreed, the embargo would echo the actions of the United States and Britain, which have already imposed bans to cut one of the largest income streams to the Russian economy.

Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic raised concerns about the oil embargo at a meeting of national envoys to the EU on Wednesday, a source said, noting however that a deal could be achieved on Thursday or later this week. One diplomat said Greece also had concerns about the impact on its shipping sector.

RISKY SANCTIONS

Simone Tagliapietra of the Brussels-based Bruegel thinktank said a gradual embargo on Russian oil was risky.

"In the short term it might leave Russian revenues high while implying negative consequences for the EU and the global economy in terms of higher prices - not to mention retaliation risks (by Russia) on natural gas supplies," he said.

Apart from oil, the latest round of sanctions proposes hitting Sberbank, Russia's top lender, adding it to several banks already cut off from the SWIFT messaging system.

The Commission also proposed to sanction Credit Bank of Moscow and the Russian Agricultural Bank, two EU sources told Reuters.

"We hit banks that are systemically critical to the Russian financial system and Putin's ability to wage destruction," von der Leyen said.

Sberbank did not respond to a request for comment. The lender, which exited almost all its European markets in March, has previously said other rounds of sanctions would not have a significant impact on its operations.

Von der Leyen said more high-ranking Russian military officials would face EU asset freezes and travel bans, without giving names, and the EU would also ban European accountants, consultants and spin-doctors who work for Russia.

The head of the Kremlin-allied Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill was to be blacklisted, a source told Reuters, and state-owned Russian broadcasters RTR-Planeta and R24 would be shut out of European airwaves, according to diplomats.

Von der Leyen also proposed a recovery plan for Ukraine once the conflict ends, saying hundreds of billions of euros were needed to rebuild the country.

"Eventually, it will pave the way for Ukraine's future inside the European Union," she said.

(Additional reporting by Jan Strupczewski, Kate Abnett, Benoit Van Overstraeten, Sabine Siebold and Gabriela Baczynska Writing by John Chalmers; editing by Barbara Lewis)

Released: 2022-5-4T15:52:13.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220504ei5401b5a


Hungary Pushes for Exemption Under EU Oil Embargo Plan -- WSJ
By Laurence Norman
347 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 16:32 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Hungary demanded accommodations under a European Union proposal to ban Russian oil imports (https://www.wsj.com/articles/eu-proposes-ban-on-russian-oil-imports-11651648950[https://www.wsj.com/articles/eu-proposes-ban-on-russian-oil-imports-11651648950]), arguing that its dependence on Russian supply made compliance unfeasible.

"This package of sanctions will completely destroy the security of Hungary's energy supply," said Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó, who said his country needed access to Russian oil sent into Hungary via existing pipelines. "Hungary would only be able to agree to these sanctions if the transport of crude oil through the pipeline is an exception to the restrictions."

The EU proposal would ban imports of Russian crude within six months and refined oil products from the country by the end of 2022, as outlined Wednesday by European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen in a speech to the European Parliament.

Hungary has repeatedly said it could veto an oil package that doesn't give it enough time and financial assistance to set up the infrastructure needed to wean itself off Russian oil pipeline deliveries.

The proposed measures offer Hungary and Slovakia, which is also dependent on imports of pipelined oil, a 20-month phaseout of Russian imports (https://www.wsj.com/articles/europe-moves-to-sanction-russia-again-closing-in-on-oil-embargo-11651597785[https://www.wsj.com/articles/europe-moves-to-sanction-russia-again-closing-in-on-oil-embargo-11651597785]), EU officials said.

At least two more member states, the Czech Republic and Bulgaria, have argued that if Hungary and Slovakia are given more time to stop buying Russian oil exports, they should be given the same leeway, diplomats said.

Hungary received around 60% of its oil imports from Russia in 2020, according to the International Energy Agency. Slovakia imports from Russia almost all of the oil it consumes.

NOTE: In-line links reference additional content of interest chosen by the WSJ news team.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 04, 2022 12:32 ET (16:32 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220504ei54002xk


World news
Viktor Orban blocks EU plan for total ban on Russian oil
By Jack Parrock
811 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 19:27 GMT
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
英文
The Telegraph Online © 2022. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Bloc split as Hungary, fearing for its own energy security, rejects a key new package of sanctions to put pressure on Vladimir Putin

An EU plan to ban all oil imports[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/politics/2022/05/04/eu-should-embrace-federalism-says-mario-draghi/] from Russia was rejected by Hungary on Wednesday, leaving the bloc split over a key new package of sanctions to put pressure on Vladimir Putin.

Shortly after proposals were published by the EU commission, Peter Szijjarto, the Hungarian foreign minister, said it would "obliterate" his country’s energy security. Every EU country has the power to veto sanctions.

Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, had put forward a total embargo on Russian oil on Wednesday morning, even warning it "will not be easy".

But it only served to highlight divisions among EU member states on how to tackle Russia over the invasion of Ukraine.

Brussels wants the import of Russian crude oil to be phased out within 6 months, and refined products by the end of the year.

Slovakia and Hungary are nearly 100 per cent reliant on Russia oil and were granted delays in phasing out Russian oil by the end of 2023.

Mr Szijjarto said this was still not enough and Hungary would only approve the ban if it was given a total exemption on oil imports through pipelines.

"This is not a question of lack of political will, or of intention or timing, but simply this is the physical, geographical, and infrastructural reality," he said.

Viktor Orban’s government[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/12/hungarians-re-elected-viktor-orban-dont-care-eus-rule-law-concerns/], the most pro-Russian EU administration, has consistently said it will never support oil and gas import bans.

But his government appeared to be ready to support an EU oil ban by the end of the year that allowed Hungary and Slovakia to phase out imports more slowly.

The surprise rejection has led to questions as to why the European Commission proposed the plan, only for Hungary to shoot it down.

Ms Von der Leyen outlined her plan to cut oil imports as part of the EU’s sixth round of sanctions against Russia.

"We maximise pressure on Russia, while at the same time minimising collateral damage to us," said Ms Von der Leyen during a speech at the European Parliament in Strasbourg.

The Czech Republic is also sceptical of the proposal regarding how countries should shoulder the burden of the embargo.

Brussels felt it was given the green light to put forward the oil embargo after a reluctant U-turn in Berlin.

During her speech, Ms Von der Leyen also spoke about the need for an "ambitious recovery package" that "should bring massive investment" for Ukraine to rebuild once peace is restored.

In an attempt to isolate the Russian financial sector further, the EU’s sixth package of sanctions includes a removal of Russia’s largest bank, Sberbank, from access to the Swift payment process system. Sberbank is believed to handle at least a third of all transactions in Russia.

Two other major banks will face the same measures and three dominant Russian media outlets will be banned from broadcasting and publishing, both on and offline, in the EU.

Bloomberg reported that the draft text of the EU’s new sanction package also includes a ban on property transactions with all Russian nationals, a measure to prevent wealthy oligarchs buying houses in luxury locations in the European Union.

"Putin must pay a high price for his brutal aggression[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/04/watch-russian-mercenaries-storm-trenches-fight-door-to-door/]," said Ms Von der Leyen.

The sanctions package comes after Moscow cut off the gas to Bulgaria and Poland[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/26/russia-cuts-gas-supplies-poland-tensions-mount-west/] last week, but some EU lawmakers do not believe the EU is going far enough.

"Slow sanctions don’t work," said Guy Verhofstadt, the prominent MEP. "There needs to be an immediate ban on all fossil fuel imports and all Russian banks need to be cut from Swift."

Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a senior fellow at German Marshall Fund, believes the measures are part of a longer term strategy from the EU to wean itself off Russian fossil fuels.

"The sanctions, as they are designed, are basically permanent. They’re not designed for an immediate impact on the battlefield," he told the Telegraph.

Mr Kirkegaard also reckons the removal of Sberbank from the Swift scheme is perhaps as significant as the oil embargo.

"It is going to kill off whatever relatively limited trade exists between Russia and the EU which hasn’t been affected by other sanctions," he said.

The move coincided with an announcement from the UK that it will sanction three Russian war correspondents who plug Kremlin disinformation and propaganda.

Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary, announced six Russian media organisations would also come under sanctions.

The EU’s sanction package also targets high-ranking military officers responsible for the atrocities in Bucha [https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/04/pictured-bucha-mass-grave-large-can-seen-satellites/]and the siege on Mariupol with asset freezes and travel bans.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

文件 TELUK00020220504ei54001ry


Live updates | UN: More than 300 evacuated from Mariupol
By The Associated Press
3029 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 23:21 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The United Nations says more than 300 civilians from the besieged southeastern city of Mariupol and four other towns have been evacuated to Ukrainian-held Zaporizhzhia in a second successful operation to get civilians out of areas subject to Russian shelling and attacks.

Osnat Lubrani, the U.N. humanitarian chief in Ukraine, said in a statement that many of the civilians from Mariupol, Manhush, Berdiansk, Tokmak and Vasylivka came Wednesday with nothing but the clothes they were wearing and are now getting humanitarian assistance. She said they'll also receive “much- needed psychological support.”

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the 344 evacuated Wednesday are in addition to the more than 150 people who were evacuated earlier this week from the bunkers under the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol, which is surrounded by Russian troops and reportedly came under renewed fire on Wednesday.

No civilians were reported evacuated from the plant on Wednesday. Zelenskyy said they are trying to reach an agreement to save those remaining at Azovstal, including women and children.

___

KEY DEVELOPMENTS IN THE RUSSIA-UKRAINE WAR: — AP evidence points to 600 dead in Mariupol theater[https://apnews.com/article/Russia-ukraine-war-mariupol-theater-c321a196fbd568899841b506afcac7a1] airstrike

— EU takes major step toward Russian oil ban[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-global-trade-moscow-europe-c6c7a1960b88c363ce5f3eaf0ea07dcd], new sanctions

— Why Russia is attacking Ukraine's railways[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-europe-migration-4129b6c37dfff07ec63ebdbb05ef37a2]

— Russia storms Mariupol steel plant[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-europe-donetsk-organization-for-security-and-cooperation-in-5de7bbc536a8da94c0d9586b95817612] as some evacuees reach safety

— Pope Francis struggles to make progress in Ukraine peace effort[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-pope-francis-diplomacy-europe-83a98bf40d2c51ba8a1de88e847c6e70]

— EU eyes sanctions for head of the Russian Orthodox Church[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-pope-francis-europe-religion-european-union-99cf29b70263256d8a1520af87675a3f]

Follow all AP stories on Russia’s war on Ukraine at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

___

OTHER DEVELOPMENTS:

The commander of the main defending force at the Azovstal steel mill in the strategic Ukrainian port city of Mariupol says Russian troops have broken into the territory of the mill, where limited evacuations of besieged civilians occurred last week.

The Russian government, meanwhile, pledged to facilitate humanitarian corridors from Thursday through Saturday to enable more evacuations.

In a video posted Wednesday, Denys Prokopenko, commander of the Ukrainian Azov regiment, said the incursions had continued a second day “and there are heavy, bloody battles.”

Azovstal remains one of the biggest hubs of Ukrainian military resistance and has been subjected to massive Russian aerial bombardments and shelling. Russian State TV showed smoke rising over Azovstal.

Hundreds of Ukrainian forces from different parts of the army, as well as civilians, remain in the plant’s underground shelters.

___

Sweden’s foreign minister says the United States is willing to provide “security assurances” during the application period if Sweden and neighboring Finland seek membership in NATO.

Ann Linde spoke to Swedish public broadcaster SVT on Wednesday from Washington after meetings with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and members of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.

Linde said there is great interest from the U.S. in Sweden and Finland joining NATO.

Jolted by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Sweden and Finland appear ready to revoke their long-standing policy of military non-alignment and apply for NATO membership.

Russia has warned of unspecified consequences if that happens and both countries have been looking for some form of NATO protection from the moment they apply to when they become members, a process that can take months.

___

A Russian government statement said its armed forces and their allies would open a humanitarian corridor on specified hours from Thursday through Saturday from the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol, Ukraine, so civilians can be evacuated.

The statement appeared on the Telegram messaging app Wednesday and pledged the forces would refrain from military actions, withdraw to a safe distance and facilitate the withdrawal of the civilians to any destination they choose.

But there was no immediate confirmation of those arrangements from other sources and similar promises to set up evacuation corridors have collapsed, because of what the Ukrainians blamed on continued fighting by Russians. A United Nations spokesman said discussions about future evacuations were ongoing.

___

Air raid sirens sounded in cities across Ukraine on Wednesday night and missile fire followed shortly after in the cities of Cherkasy, Dnipro and Zaporizhzhia.

In Dnipro, Mayor Borys Filatov said one strike hit the center of the city. The strikes in Dnipro also hit a railroad facility, authorities initially said, without elaborating. Ukrainian Railways said none of its staff were injured in the Dnipro attack.

Complaining that the West is “stuffing Ukraine with weapons,” Russia bombarded railroad stations and other supply-line points across the country. Meanwhile, the European Union moved to further punish Moscow for the war by proposing a ban on oil imports, a crucial source of revenue for Russia.

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says the sanctions imposed by his country and others against Moscow over its war in Ukraine will set back Russia’s economic development by decades if they remain in place.

Scholz told reporters in Berlin on Wednesday that Russia cannot hope to win a peace with Ukraine unless Kyiv supports it.

“A peace by diktat will not work,” he said.

___

In a video message posted on Twitter, Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba welcomed the European Union’s decision to propose an embargo on Russian oil. He said Ukraine isn’t happy it will be delayed for several months, but “it’s better than nothing.”

Kuleba said it should be clear now “that times for half-sanctions or half-measures when it comes to sanctions is gone.” He says the EU can no longer support Ukraine on one hand by imposing sanctions, while continuing to pay Russia for oil and gas and support their “war machine.”

He also said if any country continues to oppose the embargo on Russian oil, it will be a reason to say the country is complicit in the crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine.

The proposals need unanimous approval from EU countries and are likely to be the subject of fierce debate. Hungary and Slovakia have already said they won’t take part in any oil sanctions. They could be granted an exemption.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary’s foreign minister says the country won’t support a European Union proposal for banning oil imports from Russia in a move that could derail the bloc’s efforts to apply united pressure against Moscow over its war in Ukraine.

In a video on social media, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said Wednesday that Hungary’s energy supply “would be completely destroyed” by an EU embargo of Russian oil, which he said would make it “impossible for Hungary to obtain the oil necessary for the functioning of the Hungarian economy.”

Szijjarto’s statement came as European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen proposed that EU member nations phase out imports of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year as part of a sixth package of sanctions against Russia.

The proposals must be unanimously approved to take effect, and reluctance by governments in Hungary and Slovakia to support sanctions against Russian fossil fuels has placed roadblocks before a united EU response.

Szijjarto said Hungary would only support the sixth round of sanctions if oil imports were exempted.

___

LONDON — Britain announced a further raft of sanctions against Russia, banning the country from doing business with management consultants, accounting and PR firms in the U.K.

The British government also imposed asset freezes and travel bans on journalists working for state-owned media and other broadcast organizations the U.K. accuses of spreading propaganda.

The sanctioned individuals include three journalists embedded with Russian forces in Ukraine: Evgeny Poddubny, Alexander Kots and Dmitry Steshin.

The British government said the new sanctions would mean social media, internet services and app stores must take action to block content from two of Russia’s major sources of alleged disinformation, RT and Sputnik. Both have been pulled from British airwaves.

Tech and Digital Economy Minister Chris Philp said RT and Sputnik “have churned out dangerous nonsense dressed up as serious news to justify Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.”

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says Russian President Vladimir Putin has “completely miscalculated with his brutal war of aggression against Ukraine” because it has led NATO to strengthen its eastern flank, resulted in comprehensive sanctions against Russia, and prompted large-scale military support for the Ukrainian side.

Scholz said Wednesday that Germany is currently considering supplying Ukraine with howitzers, in addition to Gepard anti-aircraft guns and other equipment the government has already agreed to send.

He spoke to reporters in Meseberg, near Berlin, alongside German Finance Minister Christian Lindner, who announced plans to require that Russians who are subject to sanctions have to disclose their assets in Germany or risk fines.

Economy Minister Robert Habeck said the government is also planning to make it easier for Russians fleeing their home country to find work in Germany.

“We can really use them,” he said, but added that there would be security checks to ensure that “we don’t bring a lot of spies over here.” ___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria’s parliament has approved providing additional aid to war-torn Ukraine following a debate that had rattled the governing coalition.

The proposal, introduced by the centrist party of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, was supported by 200 legislators. Sixteen were against, one abstained, while 23 lawmakers were not present.

The vote took place after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sent a letter to the parliament in Sofia. Instead of weapons deliveries, he reportedly asked for damaged Ukrainian military equipment to be repaired at Bulgarian plants and then sent back.

While three of the parties in the four-party ruling coalition had been in favor of sending weapons and ammunition to Ukraine, the fourth party, the pro-Russian Socialists, threatened to quit the coalition if such aid were approved.

The decision also includes Bulgarian assistance for the export of Ukrainian grain via Bulgaria’s Black Sea ports, and Bulgaria importing electricity from Ukraine.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — British Defense Secretary Ben Wallace reaffirmed his country’s strong support for Finland and Sweden potentially joining NATO.

Finland and Sweden are expected to announce next week whether to seek membership of the 30-nation alliance.

“I cannot conceive that we would not come to support,” Wallace told reporters. “We will do whatever we need to do.”

Wallace said Finland was “in a pole position” to join NATO and the British Parliament would be able to ratify a Finnish membership “quickly.”

Wallace on Wednesday observed a military exercise in western Finland involving troops from the United Kingdom, Latvia, the United States and Estonia.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says his country could not accept a deal with Moscow that would allow Russian troops to remain in occupied territory.

Speaking to participants in the Wall Street Journal CEO Council Summit, Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces had halted the Russian offensive in what he described as the first stage of the conflict.

In the second stage, he said, Ukraine would expel Russian troops from its territory and in the third, would move to fully restore its territorial integrity.

Zelenskyy said he would not accept a cease-fire deal that would allow Russian forces to remain in their current positions. “We will not accept a frozen conflict,” the president said without giving further details.

Zelensky emphasized that Russian President Vladimir Putin must agree to meet him to negotiate any deal to end the fighting.

He said it was important to continue peace talks but noted that “until the Russian president signs it or makes an official statement, I don’t see the point in such agreements.”

___

LVIV, Ukraine — New satellite images analyzed by The Associated Press suggest fighting may be ongoing at a besieged steel plant in Mariupol.

The Kremlin is denying that Russian forces are trying to storm the Azovstal plant, the last remaining holdout of Ukrainian fighters in the port city.

An image shot by Planet Labs PBC at dawn Wednesday showed black smoke rising at one side of the plant near a canal. Buildings at the plant, including one under which hundreds of fighters and civilians are likely hiding, showed large, gaping holes in the roof. Debris littered the grounds.

Meanwhile, another satellite photo showed that a recent Russian missile attack tore a hole in a key bridge near Odesa.

Russia has attacked the bridge on three occasions. Though it is still standing, a chunk of the bridge is missing toward its south end, the image shows.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s Interior Ministry says a road crash in the western Rivne region has killed 26 people and injured 12 more. The collision involved a bus, a van and a fuel truck, the ministry said. The bus had been headed to Poland, which has been a key destination for Ukrainian refugees.

According to a ministry statement, the accident occurred because the van “performed a maneuver to overtake another vehicle, and drove into the oncoming lane, where it collided with a fuel truck.”

It wasn’t immediately clear how a Poland-bound bus with 34 passengers on board became part of the accident.

___ MOSCOW — The Kremlin has rejected media reports that President Vladimir Putin might formally declare war on Ukraine on May 9, when Russia celebrates the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II, and announce a broad mobilization.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed the reports as “untrue” and “nonsense” at a daily conference call with reporters.

Western media reported earlier this month, citing U.K. and U.S. officials, that Putin might pivot from a “special military operation” to an all-out war with Ukraine, which would allow him to introduce martial law and mobilize reservists.

The reports said Putin could announce the changes during Victory Day celebrations on May 9, Russia’s most important holiday. ___

MOSCOW — The Russian defense minister has warned that Moscow will see any Western transports carrying weapons into Ukraine as legitimate targets.

Sergei Shoigu’s statement Wednesday comes as the U.S. and other Western allies have increased shipments of weapons to Ukraine. Speaking at a meeting with top military officials, Shoigu denounced the West for “stuffing Ukraine with weapons.”

“Any NATO transports carrying weapons or resources for the Ukrainian military that arrives in the country’s territory will be seen by us as a legitimate target to be destroyed,” he said.

The Russian military has repeatedly reported strikes on Ukrainian depots containing Western weapons. Striking Western transports delivering them would mark a significant escalation in the conflict.

___

MOSCOW — Belarus has announced snap military exercises amid the Russian war in Ukraine, while insisting it would not threaten any neighbors.

The Belarusian Defense Ministry said the exercises that began Wednesday would be used to assess the readiness and capability of the country’s armed forces, and the military’s ability to operate on “unknown terrain in a rapidly changing situation.”

The ministry did not say how many troops are involved in the exercises but noted that their number would be gradually increased.

It said the maneuvers “do not threaten the European community in general and any neighboring countries in particular.”

Belarus allowed its ally Russia to use its territory as a staging ground before Moscow launched its military action in Ukraine on Feb. 24.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian officials say evacuations from the besieged port of Mariupol will continue on Wednesday.

Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said evacuations from Mariupol and three other locations to Zaporizhzhia, a city in southeast Ukraine, would take place “if the security situation permits.”

The governor of the Donetsk region, Pavlo Kyrylenko, confirmed that evacuation buses had already left Mariupol and would stop at three other locations to pick up more passengers.

Kyrylenko said the effort is supported by the United Nations and the International Red Cross.

___

BRUSSELS — The European Union plans to sanction the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill of Moscow, in its next round of measures against Russia, according to several EU diplomats.

The three people with direct knowledge of the discussions were not authorized to speak publicly as negotiations on the sixth EU package of sanctions between the 27-nation bloc’s ambassadors were ongoing Wednesday.

Kirill is a longtime ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin and has justified his country’s invasion of Ukraine.

Kirill has also echoed Putin’s unfounded claims that Ukraine was engaged in the “extermination” of Russian loyalists in Donbas, the breakaway eastern region of Ukraine held since 2014 by Russian-backed separatist groups.

If the sanctions proposed by the EU’s executive arm are approved by EU member countries, Kirill would be added to the EU’s updated list of individuals facing travel bans and a freeze of assets.

A total of 1,093 individuals, including Putin and oligarchs, as well as 80 entities, are already subject to the punishing measures.

— Reported by Samuel Petrequin

___

BRUSSELS — The European Union’s chief executive is proposing that the bloc ban oil imports from Russia over its war on Ukraine, and target the country’s biggest bank and major broadcasters in a new round of sanctions.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told EU lawmakers Wednesday that the sanctions should involve “a complete import ban on all Russian oil, seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined.”

She says the aim is to “make sure that we phase out Russian oil in an orderly fashion, in a way that allows us and our partners to secure alternative supply routes and minimizes the impact on global markets.”

The sanctions proposals are to be debated by the 27 EU member countries. Hungary and Slovakia have already said they would not take part. The two are landlocked and heavily dependent on Russia for their energy supplies.

Banks are also in the EU executive arm’s sights, notably the giant Sberbank. Von der Leyen says the aim is to “de-SWIFT Sberbank,” as well as two other banks. SWIFT is the major global system for financial transfers.

Von der Leyen says those alleged to be spreading disinformation about the war in Ukraine should be targeted, notably three big Russian state-owned broadcasters. She did not identify any of the outlets.

Eds: UPDATES: Updates with no civilians reported evacuated from Azovstal on Wednesday. With AP Photos. AP Video.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220504ei540099d


Russia: Hungary and Slovakia raise objections to EU’s plans for oil embargo
339 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
EC head announced oil embargo six months from now

Slovakia wants three-year transition, Hungary permanent exception

Disagreements on matter are unsurprising given differences in dependence on Russian energy

Hungary and Slovakia raised objections to EU's plans for an oil embargo. EC head Ursula von der Leyen announced a total oil embargo against Russia six months from now and an embargo on refined petroleum products as of end-2022, but it seems agreement has not been reached yet. Reuters quoted an unnamed EU official that Hungary and Slovakia will be granted an exception and allowed to import Russian oil until the end of 2023. Still, Hungarian foreign minister Peter Szijjarto said that Budapest will not support EU's sixth sanction package against Russia in its current form as it would destroy the country's energy supply. This contradicts media reports from the last several days that Hungary dropped opposition to the oil embargo after Germany and Austria agreed to it. Budapest may back the embargo if it is granted an exemption for oil transported through the Druzhba pipeline, Szijarto said. A possible alternative for Hungary would be to buy oil from Kazakhstan, but the new sanction package does not allow for such development as the oil should also be transported through the Druzhba pipeline through Russia.

At the same time, Slovakia said that it wants a three-year transition for EU's ban on Russian oil. The country's EconMin Richard Sulik said that other EU countries agreed to a transition period, but there is still no consensus on its length. Sulik urged not to associate Bratislava with Budapest at this point as the latter demands permanent exclusion.

Russia delivers about 25% of oil supplies to the EU, but the share differs widely among individual countries. Whereas Belgium, for instance, imports 8% of its oil supply from Russia, Hungary imports 65% and Slovakia 100%. Therefore, the disagreements on the matter within the bloc are hardly surprising.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220505ei5400011


Hungary: Hungary not to support new EU sanctions against Russia – Szijjarto
348 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
New sanction proposal to destroy Hungary's energy security despite delayed implementation

Hungary to support oil embargo if it does not include oil transit through pipeline

Hungary cannot support the new EU sanction package against Russia in its current form, foreign minister Peter Szijjarto announced while in a visit in Uzbekistan, local media reported. EC President Ursula von der Leyen announced a total oil embargo against Russia six months from now and an embargo on refined petroleum products as of end-2022. Media had speculated that Slovakia and Hungary would be granted an exception to implement the embargo as of end-2023 while Von der Leyen herself did not mention it during her announcement.

The new package of sanctions would completely destroy Hungary's energy supply, which is currently secure and stable, Szijjarto said. He said that Hungary would have to implement the package as of the end of next year, in our opinion implicitly confirming that Hungary would be given temporary relief due to its high dependence on Russian oil. This is not a question of lack of political will but rather a physical, geographical and infrastructural reality, Szijjarto pointed out. Hungary is currently able to process only Russian oil from a technological point of view and the government cannot support the new package in its current form, he stated. Hungary could consider supporting the oil embargo on Russia in case it does not include oil transported through the Druzhba pipeline, Szijjarto noted.

Hungary imports around 65% of its oil consumption from Russia, according to recent statements by Szijjarto during his visit to Kazakhstan a few days ago. Szijjarto had mentioned the possibility to increase oil imports from Kazakhstan but noted that this option would also fall under the new sanction package of the EC. Hungary can import oil from Kazakhstan only through the Druzhba pipeline, which passes through Russia.

The new sanction proposal of the EC should be approved by a unanimous vote of the EU Member States so Hungary can in practice block it.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220505ei540000n


POLITICS
EC officially announces total ban on oil imports from Russia. Yet, at least four states are against
704 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日
The Romania Journal
ROMJO
英文
Copyright 2022. ROMANIA JOURNAL – All rights reserved
Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission President, has proposed today a phased oil embargo on Russia, as well as sanctions on its top bank and to ban Russian broadcasters from European airwaves, in retort to Moscow’s invasion in Ukraine, Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/eu-lay-out-new-sanctions-russia-targeting-oil-imports-2022-05-04/?fbclid=IwAR0TjoOdOS_SUy244yenQNeRSTNBq8Uqh6_QDjcthM85EZ5ikDQm21GwGkw] reports.

If approved by EU governments, the plan will mark a turning point for the EU bloc, which is dependent on Russian energy and needs to find alternative sources.

“Today, we will propose to ban all Russian oil from Europe. Putin must pay a price, a high price, for his brutal aggression,” European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told the European Parliament in Strasbourg.

“We are addressing our dependency on Russian oil. And let’s be clear, it will not be easy because some member states are strongly dependent on Russian oil, but we simply have to do it,” she added.

However, EU officials failed to reach an agreement on an embargo on oil and oil products imported from Russia on Wednesday, with a new meeting scheduled for Thursday, according to Reuters sources.

Bulgaria, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia are among the countries that have objected. According to a European Commission document consulted by EFE, the European Commission has proposed exceptions for Hungary and Slovakia, so that they apply the embargo one year late to the other Member States.

Slovakia has demanded a three-year exemption period, while Hungary has said it does not support the European Commission’s proposal in its current form, as it would seriously affect its energy security. Hungary could only support the proposed measures if oil imported from Russia through pipelines is exempted from sanctions, said Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto. Bulgaria, for its part, has said it will ask the European Commission for exceptions to the Russian oil embargo. Bulgarian Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev said that technologically Bulgaria could do without Russian oil, but such an embargo would have the effect of significantly raising fuel prices. The Czech Republic has stated that, like Slovakia, it will ask for an exemption period of 2-3 years, during which time it will be able to increase its capacity to transport oil pipelines.

The draft sanctions provided for the phasing out of European procurement for a period of six to eight months, until the end of 2022, with an exemption for Hungary and Slovakia.

These two landlocked countries, which are totally dependent on deliveries through the Drujba pipeline, will be able to continue their purchases from Russia in 2023, a European official said. Russia exports two-thirds of its oil to the EU.

In 2021, Russia supplied 30% of crude oil and 15% of EU-purchased oil products, and the bill amounted to $ 80 billion, European Foreign Minister Josep Borrell said.

In addition to this progressive embargo, Member States are also examining immediate measures such as a tanker transport tax, according to the European official.

The new sanctions package also includes the exclusion of other Russian banks from the Swift interbank system and the inclusion of Russian regime propagandists and disinformation perpetrators on the EU’s blacklist of banned people. Seven Russian banks have already been excluded from the EU by Swift. Russia’s largest bank, Sberbank, which accounts for 37 percent of the market, will be among the banks to be excluded, according to several diplomatic sources.

EC also proposes sanctions against Russian Patriarch Kiril

The European Commission proposes to sanction the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kiril, in a sixth package of measures in response to the war in Ukraine, according to a document consulted by AFP on Wednesday.

The new list, which will have to be approved by the member states of the European Union, includes 58 personalities, including many Russian soldiers. Also on the list are the wife, daughter and a son of Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, as well as the head of the Roskomnadzor Telecommunications Regulatory Agency, Andrei Lipov.

The sanctions consist of banning access to the European Union and freezing assets held in its territory. More than a thousand people are already on the European blacklist.

Click to view image[https://www.romaniajournal.ro/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/von-der-leyen.jpg]

RomaniaJournal

文件 ROMJO00020220504ei54000b6


Killing EU credibility’ EU Russian oil ban in shambles as Hungary ‘handicapping’ bloc
Emma Crabtree
551 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日 00:31 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
THE EUROPEAN UNION'S Russian oil ban is in shambles as Hungary have been accused of "handicapping" the bloc.

All 27 EU countries need to be in favour of Ursula von der Leyen’s plan to ban nearly all imports of Russian crude oil within six months and processed fuels by the end of the year. Slovakia and Hungary are currently the EU nations holding back plans to sanction Russia for the conflict in Ukraine by stopping gas imports as they are almost 100 percent reliant on Russian gas supplies.

Related articles

Slovakia’s hesitations with the strategy are linked to the time frame with the country’s deputy economy minister telling POLITICO that the country needs until at least 2025 to prepare and adjust.

Both countries have been granted an extension on the deadline to phase out Russian oil imports by the close of 2023.

Hungary rejected the plans on Wednesday as the Foreign Minister for Hungary, Peter Szijjarto said the ban would “obliterate” Hungary’s energy security.

In a Facebook video, Mr Szijjarto declared the country needed more time and would only accept the ban if Hungary was given a total exemption on oil imports through pipelines.

He said: “In its current form the Brussels sanctions package cannot be supported, we cannot responsibly vote for it.

“Hungary could only agree with these sanctions if pipeline imports of crude oil would be exempt from the restrictions. Then Hungary’s energy security could be maintained. Now it cannot.”

He later added: “This is not a question of lack of political will, or of intention or timing, but simply this is the physical, geographical, and infrastructural reality.”

READ MORE: An apple a day keeps ageing skin at bay - dermatologist tips

Unanimity is killing EU credibility and now even our security !

We can’t afford this self-imposed handicap anymore.

Stop Orbán’s veto strategy !https://t.co/EnTnq3wH5I[https://t.co/EnTnq3wH5I]

Related articles

MEP Guy Verhofstadt took to social media to slam Hungary and the methods of unanimity used by the EU.

Mr Verhofstadt tweeted: “Unanimity is killing EU credibility and now even our security!

“We can’t afford this self-imposed handicap anymore.”

He concluded: “Stop Orbán’s veto strategy!”

DON'T MISS:

POLL: Is Boris Johnson the best leader for Tory Party? If not, who?

Wood-burning stove rules: Key changes you need to be aware of in 2022

Flight attendant on why Meghan and Harry didn't pay bill on flight

Every EU country is able to reject sanctions and Viktor Orban’s government is reportedly the most pro-Russian EU administration and has repeatedly stated it will not support bans on the imports of gas and oil.

The European Commission President put forward the plans with the warning that they “will not be easy” to implement but are necessary.

Ms von der Leyen added in her speech at the European Parliament in Strasbourg: “We maximise pressure on Russia, while at the same time minimising collateral damage to us.”

Related articles How the UK, US and their allies could respond to a nuclear attack Lorraine staggered by Andrew's 'fat cow' comment to ex Sarah Andrea McLean watches Met Gala from afar as she turns up uninvited

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220505ei550008d


跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
Czechs join Slovakia and Hungary in demanding exemption from EU embargo on Russian oil
752 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日 05:11 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2022. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
Czechia, Slovakia and Hungary appear to have won a carve-out from planned EU sanctions against exports of Russian oil because of their continuing heavy dependence on Russian supplies. Hungary had threatened to veto the sanctions unless it got its way and has still not fully signed up to the plans.

On May 4, Reuters reported that Czechia joined Slovakia and Hungary and is also seeking an exemption period to the EU embargo on Russian oil. It is reported that they will be allowed to buy Russian oil exports until the end of 2023, while other states have to cease crude deliveries in six months.

Slovakia is dependent on Russia for virtually all its needs, while Hungary is around 60% dependent and Czechia 30%. The countries' refineries are adapted to use high-sulphur Russian crude and processing of different types of oil for them is not immediately possible.

The EU will sanction all Russian oil imports, both crude and refined and both oil delivered by ship and pipeline, but the ban will be “phased in in an orderly way,” EU President Ursula von der Leyen told the European Parliament on May 4. The sanctions will be phased in over the next year with crude deliveries banned in six months and refined productions by the end of the year, von der Leyen said.

"We are ready to support this decision [on sanctions including oil], given the Czech Republic will have some postponement until capacity is increased in oil pipelines which can deliver oil to the Czech Republic," said Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala, as quoted by Reuters, adding that Czechia is trying to get a postponement for two or three years.

Fiala said that Czechia is seeking to increase the capacity of the TAL pipeline (from Italy through Austria to Germany). Fiala will discuss this with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz during his visit to Germany this week.

"The Czech Republic will face a serious problem if an embargo is imposed on imports of Russian oil and products into the EU. Not only drivers will suffer, as fuel will become more expensive again, but also [Czech] industry. The Czech Republic does not have a satisfactory solution for the complete replacement of Russian oil," said analyst Lukas Kovanda, according to iDnes.cz.

Slovakia's Economy Minister Richard Sulik said Slovakia will seek an exemption from any embargo of Russian oil agreed by the EU countries, and will request a longer transition period for oil transported by pipeline.

Slovakia receives almost all of its imported crude from Russia via the Druzba pipeline. "If it comes to an approved embargo of Russian oil as part of a further package of sanctions against Russia, then Slovakia will request an exemption," the Slovak economy ministry said to Reuters.

Slovakia's Prime Minister Eduard Heger told the BBC that the country isn't ready to give up supplies of Russian energy commodities at the moment, but it's doing everything it can to become less dependent on Russian gas.

According to him, the Slovak government is doing everything possible to disconnect Slovakia from Russian gas and oil as soon as possible. Together with Poland the country is working on a Slovak-Polish gas pipeline which is technically almost complete.

An alternative to Russian gas could be liquefied natural gas, Heger said. "We could transport it via infrastructure to Slovakia. However, we are landlocked, which is why we are such strong advocates of unity and solidarity," he was quoted by the Slovak News Agency as saying.

The Slovak government has so far refused to give a straight answer to speculation earlier last week that the state-owned energy company SPP has agreed to open a ruble account with Russia's Gazprombank. It could then put money for Russian gas in euros into its euro account and this could be converted by the bank into rubles in its ruble account before being transferred to Gazprom. This would in effect be paying for Russian gas in rubles, circumventing EU sanctions.

Heger only told the BBC that "[for gas] we will pay in euros".

The European Commission has said that payment should be made in euros, the transaction should be declared complete, and then it is up to the Russian side to convert the payment into euros.

The Slovak government has a few weeks to clarify its approach as its next payment for Russian gas is not due until May 20.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020220505ei55000b5


Hungary would veto EU’s Russian oil embargo in current form
654 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日 05:18 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2022. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
Hungary cannot responsibly support the European Commission's latest package of sanctions against Russia in its current form, Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on May 4, arguing that the sanctions would destroy Hungary's energy security.

In an interview with the BBC, the government’s international spokesman Zoltan Kovacs confirmed that Hungary will veto the EU's proposal. Speaking to BBC, Kovacs confirmed that the EC’s proposal is "unacceptable" and would "ruin the Hungarian economy." When asked whether Hungary would exercise its veto, he replied yes.

As part of the sixth package of sanctions, the European Commission has proposed discontinuing imports of Russian crude supplies within six months and that of refined products within a year. Ursula von der Leyen told EU lawmakers in Strasbourg that the Commission will propose a complete import ban on all Russian oil, seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined.

Hungary's energy supply is currently secure and on a stable foundation, but this sanctions package "would destroy that completely", making it impossible for Hungary to procure the amount of oil necessary to keep the economy running, the minister said earlier. In order for Hungary to support the measures, oil shipments via pipeline would have to be exempted from the embargo, Szijjarto added.

Ursula von der Leyen did not elaborate whether member states would receive temporary exemption from the sanction, but an EU source told Reuters that Slovakia and Hungary would be able to continue buying Russian crude oil until the end of 2023 under existing contracts. Szijjarto also noted that the EU would allow Hungary to continue buying oil until the end of 2023, because of its heavy dependence on Russian oil.

The latest sanction, like the previous five, would have to be approved by all 27 member states.

Hungary receives 65% of oil and 85% of gas from Russia. The Orban government has argued that there are no alternative transport routes to find replacements for Russian energy sources.

Zoltan Kovacs, the Hungarian government's international spokesman, also stressed the proposed oil embargo lacks any guarantee for Hungary's energy security. "We do not see any plans or guarantees on how a transition could be managed based on the current proposals, and how Hungary's energy security would be guaranteed," he said.

Hungary is a landlocked country that gets 65% of its crude via pipeline from Russia, a thing inherited from the past, he told CNN. In the past 12 years, Hungary established alternative routes and stepped up renewable energy sources, he added.

The country's biggest refinery, operated MOL, is technically reliant on Russian crude and the switch would take years and millions of dollars according to the company’s chief Zsolt Hernadi.

The pipeline linking MOL’s refinery near Budapest and Bratislava was upgraded and expanded in 2015 and opened jointly by Viktor Orban and former Slovakian PM Robert Fico.

"If Russian oil supplies were to stop tomorrow, MOL could still continue to operate, but with a significantly diminished capacity", Zsolt Huff, head of the downstream unit told business news site Portfolio.hu last month. This would lead to increased downtime and a decline in production in an already product-scarce market, he added.

CEE’s second largest oil company processes 14-15mn tonnes of oil per year, of which roughly 9mn come from Russia, 4mn from offshore oil from the Adriatic and 1mn from Hungarian and Croatian production.

"Extending sanctions to crude oil would be very bad news for Central European economies", Hernadi told independent news site Telex.hu. The burden of sanctions would be disproportionately borne by Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Serbia."

Hernadi argued that the only viable solution would be to give landlocked countries such as Hungary a period of three years of transition, otherwise "we can expect product shortages, economic damage and higher inflation in the short term," he added.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020220505ei55000dy


News
Orban blocks EU plan for total ban on Russian oil
Jack Parrock
770 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
13
英文
The Daily Telegraph © 2022. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Bloc divided on sanctions as Hungary rejects package that it says would destroy its energy security

AN EU PLAN to ban all oil imports from Russia has been rejected by Hungary, leaving the bloc split over a key package of sanctions to put pressure on Russia.

Shortly after proposals were published by the European Commission, Peter Szijjarto, the Hungarian foreign minister, said it would "obliterate" his country's energy security. Every EU state has the power to veto sanctions.

Ursula von der Leyen, the president of the commission, had proposed a total embargo on Russian oil yesterday morning. However, it only served to highlight divisions among EU member states on how to tackle Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Brussels wants the import of Russian crude oil to be phased out within six months, and refined products by the end of the year. Slovakia and Hungary are almost 100 per cent reliant on Russian oil and were granted delays in phasing it out by the end of 2023.

Mr Szijjarto said this still was not enough, and Hungary would only approve the ban if given a total exemption on oil imports through pipelines.

He said: "This is not a question of lack of political will, or of intention or timing, but simply this is the physical, geographical, and infrastructural reality."

Viktor Orban's Hungarian government, the most pro-Russian EU administration, has consistently said it will never support oil and gas import bans.

Hungary had earlier appeared to be ready to support an EU oil ban by the end of the year that allowed it and Slovakia to phase out imports more slowly, and its rejection has led to questions as to why the commission proposed the plan.

Mrs Von der Leyen had outlined her plan to cut oil imports as part of the EU's sixth round of sanctions against Russia.

During a speech at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, she said: "We maximise pressure on Russia, while at the same time minimising collateral damage to us."

The Czech Republic is also sceptical of the proposal regarding how countries should shoulder the burden of the embargo.

Brussels felt it was given the green light to put forward the oil embargo after a reluctant about-turn in Berlin.

Mrs Von der Leyen also spoke about the need for an "ambitious recovery package" which "should bring massive investment" for Ukraine to rebuild once peace is restored.

The EU's sixth set of sanctions includes a removal of Russia's largest bank, Sberbank, from access to the Swift international payment processing system. Sberbank is believed to handle at least a third of transactions in Russia.

Two other major banks will face the same measures and three dominant Russian media outlets will be banned from broadcasting and publishing, both on and offline, in the EU.

Bloomberg reported that the draft text of the EU's new sanction package also includes a ban on property transactions with all Russian nationals, a measure to prevent oligarchs buying houses.

The sanctions package comes after Moscow cut off gas to Bulgaria and Poland last week, but some EU officials do not believe it goes far enough. Guy Verhofstadt, the MEP and former Brexit negotiator, said: "Slow sanctions don't work. There needs to be an immediate ban on all fossil fuel imports and all Russian banks need to be cut from Swift."

"Jacob Funk Kirkegaard, a senior fellow at German Marshall Fund, said the measures were part of a longer term strategy from the EU to wean itself off Russian fossil fuels.

"The sanctions, as they are designed, are basically permanent. They're not designed for an immediate impact on the battlefield," he said.

The move coincided with the UK's announcement that it will sanction three Russian war correspondents who promote Kremlin disinformation and propaganda. Liz Truss, the Foreign Secretary, said six Russian media outlets will also receive sanctions.

'Offended sausage' Scholz mocked over rift with Kyiv

Olaf Scholz has accused Ukraine of creating a "problem" for diplomatic relations after criticism over his failure to visit Kyiv.

Ukraine's ambassador to Berlin responded by calling Mr Scholz a "Leberwurst" (offended sausage) a German idiom for a person with thin skin.

The chancellor said German people were unhappy with Ukraine after it prevented Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Berlin's president, from visiting Kyiv last month amid concerns he was too close to Russia.

Mr Scholz's remarks reflect a growing rift between Berlin and Ukraine at a time when leaders say full diplomatic support is crucial.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

文件 DT00000020220505ei550003x


Russia’s sixth sanction package opens EU’s Pandora’s Box]]
Aneta Zachová, Krassen Nikolov, Michal Hudec, Radovan Geist, Vlagyiszlav Makszimov
1003 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日 06:52 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Budapest and Bratislava are unhappy with the European Commission’s proposal to ban Russian black gold despite being given extra time to phase it out, while Sofia and Prague have jumped on the bandwagon and are now asking for special treatment. 

Moreover, sources said Greece and Cyprus raised objections to another proposal to ban all shipping companies that are EU-owned or have European interests from transferring Russian oil into Europe or elsewhere in the world.

Under the Commission’s proposal that would see a “complete ban on all Russian oil” and refined petroleum products within the next six months, Hungary and Slovakia would be allowed to continue buying from Moscow until the end of 2023 under existing contracts.

An EU diplomat told EURACTIV on condition of anonymity that for Europe, the big test is now, considering that it touches upon the core of sanctions against Moscow. 

“Politically, Europe cannot afford not adopting the sixth package,” the diplomat said, adding, however, that the equation will not be easy to solve. 

In an interview with EURACTIV in late February, the Russian ambassador to the EU, Vladimir Chizhov, said energy is an area where the level of interdependence between Russia and the EU is high.

“We understand that any decisions taken in this area are taken unanimously,  which indicates that there is a certain degree of discipline. Whether this reflects all the voluntary positions of any individual country, this remains to be seen.”

Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó was quick to oppose the plan, arguing that it would “completely destroy” the foundations of Hungary’s energy supply.

“It is not a question of lack of political will, it is not a question of intent, it is not a question of timespan, it is quite simply a physical, geographical and infrastructural reality,” Telex reported[https://telex.hu/kulfold/2022/05/04/szijjarto-europai-unio-orosz-olajembargo-szankcio-buntetocsomag] him saying.

The Hungarian foreign minister said that for Hungary to support the measures, oil transported through pipelines (rather than tankers) should be exempted from the embargo.

Bratislava would back an embargo on Russian oil, said Economy Minister Richard Sulik, noting that it would need a longer transition period of three years instead of the one year – until the end of 2023 – proposed by the European Commission.

Sulik argues that Slovakia, like Hungary and Czechia, is in a difficult position. As a land-locked country, it cannot import oil by sea tankers and is reliant on pipelines, he added. For example, the main pipeline – Druzhba – transports Russian oil.

Sulik cites other issues, however. Slovakia could import oil from the south via the Adria oil pipeline, yet its capacity remains limited. Slovak oil reservoirs are in eastern Slovakia and cannot be filled with oil from Adria because Slovak pipelines are not technically prepared for a reversed flow.

MOL Group, the Hungarian fossil fuel giant that operates[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/the-fossil-fuel-companies-profiting-from-europes-oil-trade-with-russia/] all the oil refineries in both countries and uses Russian oil, previously said it would need significant investment and time to transition. EURACTIV has reached out for comments to the MOL Group but had not received a reply by the time of publication.

The Czech Republic, for its part, is only ready to support the proposed ban on Russian oil imports if it also gets a postponement of two to three years until the oil pipeline capacity is increased.

“We are supporting the strictest possible sanctions against Russia. Nothing has changed in our attitude. However, we have been holding the position since the start that the sanctions must not harm Czech citizens more than Russia,” Prime Minister Petr Fiala has said.

Bulgaria, however, wants to be excluded[https://euractiv.bg/section/%d0%bf%d0%be%d0%bb%d0%b8%d1%82%d0%b8%d0%ba%d0%b0/news/%d0%b1%d1%8a%d0%bb%d0%b3%d0%b0%d1%80%d0%b8%d1%8f-%d1%89%d0%b5-%d0%bf%d0%be%d0%b8%d1%81%d0%ba%d0%b0-%d0%b4%d0%b0-%d0%b1%d1%8a%d0%b4%d0%b5-%d0%b8%d0%b7%d0%ba%d0%bb%d1%8e%d1%87%d0%b5%d0%bd%d0%b0-%d0%be/] from the EU oil embargo against Russia altogether.

“Bulgaria can continue without Russian oil, but this would significantly increase the cost of fuel. From this point of view, if the European Commission provides for exceptions, we would like to take advantage of these exceptions, as this is in the best interests of Bulgarian consumers, Bulgarian carriers and the Bulgarian people as a whole,” said Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Asen Vassilev.

“If there is a firm European position “we stop everything for everyone” – it is one thing. But if there are exceptions, we will use our right to use the same exception,” Vassilev told the weekly “Capital”.

In Bulgaria, the Russian company Lukoil owns the largest oil refinery in the Balkans.

Even if Bulgaria manages to fully compensate for the supply of oil products from other sources, the Bulgarian government will face serious social discontent in Burgas if the refinery stops operating.

Meanwhile, the state’s representative at the refinery, Krassimir Parvanov, warned that the Lukoil Neftochim refinery could shut down if the EU imposed a full embargo on Russian oil and oil products imports.

Parvanov told the Bulgarian news site Mediapool that the refinery used between 50% and 60% of Russian Urals oil, but it cannot work only with Arab oil, it also needs quantities of Russian oil.

Burgas is the largest employer in the region, and Lukoil Bulgaria is the second largest company in the national economy, with an annual turnover of €1.6- 3 billion

Greece, Cyprus also unhappy

Although it was not presented by the Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen at her speech in the EU House, EURACTIV has learned a proposal to ban all shipping companies EU-owned or with European interests from transferring Russian oil into Europe or elsewhere in the world is still on the table. 

An EU source told EURACTIV that this proposal aims to reduce the possibility of a deal for cheap oil transferred from Russia to China to counterbalance the EU ban considering that EU shipping companies are transferring it. 

The same source added that Athens and Nicosia had reacted strongly to this proposal, as it deals a severe blow to its shipping industries. 

(Vlagyiszlav Makszimov | EURACTIV.com[http://euractiv.com/] with Telex, Krassen Nikolov | EURACTIV.bg, Michal Hudec, Radovan Geist | EURACTIV.sk[http://euractiv.sk/], Aneta Zachová | EURACTIV.cz –[http://euractiv.cz/]Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos)

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220505ei550000d


Szijjártó: Hungary won't support EC oil embargo proposal in present form
475 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日
Budapest Business Journal
WBBJ
英文
© 2022 Budapest Business Journal, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Hungary cannot support a proposal by the European Commission to phase in an embargo on Russian oil in its present form, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó said in a video message posted on social media, according to a report by state news wire MTI.

Speaking on the tarmac at the airport in Tashkent, after an official visit to Uzbekistan, Szijjártó said Hungary cannot "responsibly vote for the sanctions package from Brussels in this form".

Early Wednesday, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told a plenary session of the European Parliament that the European Union's executive body would propose an embargo on Russian oil to be phased in "within six months".

Szijjártó acknowledged that the embargo would apply to Hungary "from the end of next year", but said the proposed sanctions package would "completely destroy" the country's energy supply, which "rests on stable foundations" at present and make acquiring the volume of crude necessary for the operation of the economy "impossible".

"Hungary could only agree with these sanction measures if there is an exemption for oil deliveries via pipeline....In this case, the security of Hungary's energy supply could be maintained," he added.

Von der Leyen told MEPs the EC would propose a "complete import ban" on Russian oil.

"Today we will propose to ban all Russian oil from Europe. This will be a complete import ban on all Russian oil, seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined," she said, adding that the proposed embargo would involve a phase-out of Russian crude "within six months" and of refined products by the end of the year.

"Let's be clear: it will not be easy, because some Member States are strongly dependent on Russian oil. But we simply have to do it," she said.

Von der Leyen said the EC would propose excluding Sberbank, Russia's biggest lender, along with two other "major" Russian banks from the SWIFT system of international bank transfers.

It will also propose banning three big Russian state-owned broadcasters from EU airwaves, blocking their content via cable, satellite, internet, and smartphone apps, she added.

She also said the EC would propose a ban on the services of "accountants, consultants and spin-doctors from Europe" to Russian companies.

Asked for comment by Reuters, Zoltan Kovács, the Hungarian government's international spokesman, said the proposed oil embargo lacks any guarantee for Hungary's energy security.

"We do not see any plans or guarantees on how a transition could be managed based on the current proposals, and how Hungary's energy security would be guaranteed," he said.

Landlocked Hungary gets 65% of its crude via pipeline from Russia. The country's biggest refinery, operated by oil and gas company MOL, is technically reliant on Russian crude.

Business Publishing Services Kft

文件 WBBJ000020220505ei550002t


The REAL State of the Union: Bloc in tatters ahead of Brussels' bid to gloat in key event
Alessandra Scotto di Santolo
2366 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日 08:58 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
BRUSSELS officials will head to Italy this morning to gloat about the EU in the three-day event for the State of the Union while member states appear more divided than ever.

EU Commissioners and leaders will try to woo guests at a three-day event in Florence from today in a bid to convince the world the bloc is "fit for the Next Generation". The conference will be held from May 5 to 7 and will focus on the future of the EU. The event's invitation reads: "Two years from the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, the EU’s importance in shaping a better future has never been clearer.

Related articles

"The State of the Union is a platform for experts and civil society members from all over the world to debate urgent crises.

"This year’s edition of the EU’s annual policy conference will focus on the European Union’s role in a constantly evolving global landscape.

"Leaders and Experts from all over the world will deal with issues ranging from multilateral governance to sustainability and resilience, democracy and the rule of law, to the developments in attitudes to migration, the future of digitalisation, and how crisis can fuel change."

EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is not expected to join the event, but her Vice-President Josep Borrell will give a speech on Friday on the security architecture of the bloc.

Free movement chief Commissioner Marie-Helene Boulanger will also participate this afternoon.

Regardless of the enthusiasm that will be shown to boast about the EU at the event, the bloc is appearing more divided than ever this year.

Speaking to Express.co.uk ahead of the conference, Nexit Denktank researcher Gabriel van de Bloemfontein said: "It is really strange to me that some unelected bureaucrats have the audacity to speak about democracy on behalf of the Dutch people.

"They're not more democratic than China. Just by saying they're democrats, doesn't mean they really are.

"If the EU truly cared about what the people think, they would have looked very carefully into the mirror when the British voted to leave in 2016. They did not do this for one second, but instead they accelerated their federalist ambitions.

"During this State of the Union they will say how glorious and strong the EU is, while in reality it is a very divided artificial union. They can barely ever agree on important topics such as sanctions, rule of law and gay rights.

"Stronger together? More like weaker together."

Member states are increasingly clashing among themselves and the EU Commission over issues of rule of law, sanctions against Russia, energy reforms and trade.

Over the past few years, the EU executive has been locking horns with Poland and Hungary over rule of law disputes culminating with the Commission officially triggering a mechanism that could see Budapest lose its funds.

The so-called rule of law mechanism was triggered last month after being introduced in recent years to combat EU states' misuse of EU funds, something that Hungary has been accused of repeatedly.

Despite years of criticism by rights campaigners that he was channelling EU funds to his associates, Viktor Orban won a fourth consecutive election victory earlier this year.

The European Commission responded by launching its new sanction tool.

Vera Jourova, deputy head of the Brussels-based Commission, said: "We identified issues that might be breaching the rule of law in Hungary and affect the EU budget.

"Hungary will have to reply to our concerns and propose remedial measures."

Poland has also been threatened by the Commission with the same mechanism but it has so far not been punished by the EU executive.

Denouncing the Commission's war on Poland and Hungary, Italian MEP Susanna Ceccardi said: "The European Commission is using the most subtle means against Hungary and Poland simply because these nations have center-right governments.

READ MORE: EU nations blow top at VDL over Russia sanctions: 'Not enough'

"The announcement of the start of the procedure came right after Viktor Orban's victory in the recent elections, incredibly and shamefully. What is it but a punishment and a warning against those voters who voted against the will of the European left? And what could be further from democracy than such blackmail?"

Poland, as Ms Ceccardi pointed out, has received over 3 million refugees from Ukraine.

She continued: "This is why Europe should show its solidarity and not threaten countries with useless sanctions. We have heard many legitimate concerns about respect for the rule of law, but we are underestimating a much more serious danger: that the principle of subsidiarity on which the Union is founded is violated."

On Ukraine and Russia the bloc is also deeply divided.

The European Union proposed its toughest sanctions yet against Russia on Wednesday, including a phased oil embargo, as Moscow pressed an offensive in eastern Ukraine and close Russian ally Belarus announced large-scale army drills.

But a first meeting of EU envoys on Wednesday ended without a deal, mostly because of some countries' criticism of the oil ban and other oil-related measures, such as a ban on EU shipping services for Russian oil, officials said.

The EU depends on Russian oil and gas, and faces the task of finding alternatives when energy prices have surged.

DON'T MISS:

Shackles off! Boris Johnson to rid Britain of EU red tape [INSIGHT]

Brexit LIVE: Remainer civil servants' plot to scupper £10bn trade deal [LIVE BLOG]

Ukraine LIVE: Putin humiliated as Victory Day parade slashed by third [ANALYSIS]

A handful of Central European countries are concerned that the halt will come too soon for them to adapt, even though diplomats said Hungary and Slovakia would be given until the end of 2023.

Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Facebook that, even with that extension, Hungary could only agree to the measures if crude oil imports from Russia via pipeline were exempt from the sanctions. Slovakia has publicly asked for a three-year transition period.

Reluctance to deliver measures that damage EU economies as well as Moscow faded in recent weeks as Russia's invasion of Ukraine brought horrific images of slaughter in towns and concern about a renewed offensive in the east of the country.

The Commission's measures include phasing out supplies of Russian crude oil in six months and refined products by the end of 2022. It also proposed to ban in a month's time all shipping, brokerage, insurance and financing services offered by EU companies for the transport of Russian oil worldwide.

If agreed, the embargo would echo the actions of the United States and Britain, which have already imposed bans to cut one of the largest income streams to the Russian economy, as the West buys more than half of its crude and petroleum products from Russia.

Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic raised concerns about the oil embargo at a meeting of envoys from the EU's 27 governments on Wednesday, a source said, noting however that a deal could be achieved at another meeting on Thursday or later this week.

The EU's reliance on Russian energy has sparked fury in the European Parliament on Tuesday.

Speaking at the latest plenary session, ID Group leader Marco Zanni said: "Today we realize that we need to become more autonomous about procurement, but I urge everyone not to repeat the same mistakes of the past: switching from Russian to Chinese dependence, for example, cannot be considered a winning strategy.

The highest officials of the Union must reconsider the decisions of the past and reflect on the answers to the enormous questions that the dramatic conflict in Ukraine has posed to us: is this still the right direction to follow? Was it wise to rely on the leadership of a single country to outline the political and strategic path of an entire continent? Is it really essential to insist on proposing ideological recipes for real problems? What is needed now is more pragmatism, less ideology; more concrete actions, fewer announcements. On the topics you touched on: work, energy, environment and defence.

"To find a solution, the EU can refer precisely to the energy issue. As we are seeing, the energy mixes vary from country to country, needs and lifestyles are different, depending on the capital in which we are located. I hope that this state of affairs, which is both reality and metaphor, can finally push these European institutions to abandon the one size fits all rhetoric which in many cases has made the completion of the European project itself an obstacle and not a resource as it should. to be. It is not a crime to admit mistakes and change course, but it must be done in time."

On Green policies, one of Ms von der Leyen's dearest projects for the bloc, member states are yet to agree on a common strategy with French President pushing for nuclear energy to be labelled green and northern countries trying to oppose the move.

The French President hopes that having the sustainable energy label could boost France's struggling nuclear energy industry, which was bailed out by the state in 2017 following construction delays and cost overruns.

But Mr Macron's ambition to classify nuclear energy as green has already been met with opposition from other EU member states including Germany.

The French leader was also sent a thinly-veiled threat by Austrian leader Karl Nehammer.

Mr Nehammer said: "Austria is clearly against nuclear energy, we are against a green washing of nuclear energy, this is a good tradition in Austria.

"We have allies here, including Luxembourg, but of course also powerful opponents, who are proponents of nuclear power.

"But we will not shy away from this discussion and will continue it vehemently."

France generates about three quarters of its electricity in nuclear reactors operated by state-owned utility EDF.

The European Union is preparing a rulebook on climate friendly investments, which will define which activities can be labelled as green in sectors including transport and buildings.

Related articles

The EU's aim is to restrict the green investment label to climate-friendly activities, steer cash into low-carbon projects and stop companies or investors making unsubstantiated environmental claims.

Member states seem to also struggle to agree on its enlargement. Last year, EU leaders failed to come to an agreement over Ms von der Leyen's plans to supersize the bloc.

The 27 leaders promised future membership to their six Balkan neighbours restating a pledge first made 18 years ago, but they brushed aside calls for a 2030 goal for fear of a backlash at home over migration.

After weeks of deliberation, EU leaders agreed that Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina, North Macedonia, Kosovo and Albania have a place in the world's largest trading bloc if they fulfil the criteria on areas from judicial reform to economics.

But with the "enlargement process" blocked by various disputes in Brussels and Serbian political leaders reluctant to ever recognise Kosovo's 2008 independence, many in the Balkans feel the EU declaration is an empty statement.

The Commission President called the Balkan countries "family", while French President Emmanuel Macron struck a conciliatory tone, saying the Balkans were "at the heart of Europe" and deserved a pathway to membership.

But northern countries such as Denmark, France and the Netherlands fear a repeat of the rushed accession of Romania and Bulgaria in 2007 and the poorly managed migration of eastern European workers to Britain that turned many Britons against the EU.

Bulgaria is against North Macedonia, already a NATO member, joining because of a language dispute.

Speaking of migration, southern EU member states have been locking horns with their northern neighbours for years in a relentlessly failed bid to come up with a new migration policy for the equal allocation of refugees across the bloc.

To make things worse, ahead of Russia's attack on Ukraine, the pressuring situation on the border between the bloc and Belarus pushed more EU leaders to back boarder walls and fences last year, urging the EU Commission to approve funds for their construction.

The first to propose such a drastic physical solution was Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban in the midst of the 2015 migration crisis that crippled the bloc.

At the time, Mr Orban was alone in his quest, which was promptly dismissed by the then European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker.

When five years ago Greece proposed a wall on its border with Turkey, Mr Juncker also dismissed the call saying: “No fence and no wall is high enough to deter these people from coming to Europe."

Last year, Ms von der Leyen renewed Juncker's position after Lithuania called on the EU to fund a wall on its border with Belarus.

She said: “There will be no funding of barbed wire and walls."

But EPP President Manfred Weber, the leader of largest group in the European Parliament, went against the Commission chief and supported Lithuania's demands.

He said: “We, as EPP, we are also asking that in an extraordinary situation EU funds must be available to finance these kinds of activities."

On the other hand, the Socialists & Democrats, the second-largest group in the Parliament, are staunchly opposed to the idea.

In October, 12 EU countries led by Lithuania urged the Commission to fund barriers “as a matter of priority" in a letter.

Greece, which supports a mandatory redistribution of asylum seekers across the bloc - opposed by Hungary - also signed the letter.

France, however, is opposed to the idea the EU should fund member states' border policies.

French European Affairs Minister Clement Beaune said at the time: “I am in favour of a Europe that protects its borders, but not a Europe that puts up barbed wire or walls."

Related articles Putin left 'in fix' as Ukrainian people 'will not forget' atrocities Russia resort to 'growing ferocity' as 'irritated' over slow advance Russia 'on way to being new North Korea'

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220505ei55002jw


EU Considers Imposing Sanctions on Russian Orthodox Church Leader -- WSJ
By Laurence Norman
459 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日 15:56 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
BRUSSELS--The European Union is considering sanctions on Russian Orthodox Patriarch Kirill, a leading advocate of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, diplomats said Thursday.

The potential asset freeze and travel ban on Patriarch Kirill, the leader of the world's largest Orthodox Church, would be part of a sixth round of EU sanctions, which was discussed by member states for the first time on Wednesday.

A decision could be taken as early as this week, diplomats say, although Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban's government is leading opposition to the restrictions on Patriarch Kirill, with some other member states also raising concerns about the principle of targeting a leading religious figure.

Patriarch Kirill, 75 years old, has long been a supporter of Russian President Vladimir Putin, calling his rule a "miracle of God." He has backed Russia's military invasion of Ukraine, rallying supporters against "external and internal enemies" of Russia and appealing to the unity of Russian and Ukraine, a key element of Mr. Putin's justification for war.

Patriarch Kirill on Wednesday criticized Pope Francis for saying the Russian Orthodox leader "cannot turn himself into Putin's altar boy," responding that the pontiff "took the wrong tone" and risked hurting inter-church dialogue.

Diplomats say they expect sanctions on him to be approved, despite Hungary's opposition. Mr. Orban, who has become Russia's most vocal advocate within the EU, has long spoken out against sanctioning Russia, going back to 2014, when he told reporters that European restrictions imposed on Russia's economy after the annexation of Crimea caused the EU more harm than Russia.

But Mr. Orban has rarely blocked sanctions that have the backing of Europe's larger and more powerful states, and he has repeatedly acquiesced to those measures supported by Germany, his principle economic partner, at times after extracting concessions on other issues.

Diplomats say that during the fifth sanctions round last month, Hungary pushed for the EU not to sanction Moshe Kantor, a prominent Jewish official, and some oligarchs. Mr. Kantor was sanctioned.

The EU has targeted a series of high-profile Russian figures, including Mr. Putin and two of his daughters (https://www.wsj.com/articles/eu-planning-to-sanction-two-of-putinsdaughters-in-latest-round-of-restrictions-11649174279[https://www.wsj.com/articles/eu-planning-to-sanction-two-of-putinsdaughters-in-latest-round-of-restrictions-11649174279]), as well as leading oligarchs, media personalities and top military officials.

--Drew Hinshaw contributed to this post.

NOTE: In-line links reference additional content of interest chosen by the WSJ news team.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 05, 2022 11:56 ET (15:56 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220505ei5500384


Russian invasion of Ukraine
RUSSIA; European Commission proposes an embargo on Russian oil by end of year
1165 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日
Bulletin Quotidien Europe
AGEU
1
12945
英文
Copyright 2022. Agence Europe All Rights Reserved
Brussels, 04/05/2022 (Agence Europe) – On Wednesday 4 May the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, presented the sixth package of sanctions against Russia, in retaliation for the war in Ukraine, to the European Parliament. As expected, Ms von der Leyen proposed an import ban on all Russian oil transported by sea or pipeline, both crude and refined. “We will phase out Russian crude oil deliveries within six months and refined products by the end of the year”, she said. The Commission’s proposal, obtained by EUROPE, mentions a deadline of eight months for these products.

It will also be prohibited to provide technical assistance, brokerage services, financing or financial assistance or any other service related to these prohibitions on the same schedule.

According to Ms von der Leyen, the orderly phase-out of crude oil will allow the EU and its partners to develop alternative supply routes and minimise the impact on world markets. “This will put maximum pressure on Russia while minimising the collateral damage to us and our partners around the world”, she said.

Reducing Europe’s dependence on Russian oil “will not be easy, some Member States are strongly dependent on Russian oil”, she warned.

During the discussion between the Member States’ ambassadors to the EU on Wednesday, several Member States reportedly expressed concern about the proposal.

Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó announced on Facebook that his country would not support the sanctions package as it stands, explaining that Budapest would need an exception for oil arriving via pipelines in order to approve the sanctions. According to him, it is not a question of political will, but of geographical and infrastructural reality.

However, the Commission’s proposal specifies that “due to the specific geographical situation of Hungary and Slovakia, which are landlocked countries, and their substantial dependence on crude oil imported via pipelines from Russia, a derogation from the ban may be granted by their national competent authority for a longer period of time, under certain conditions”. The Commission proposes that this derogation should end on 31 December 2023.

According to the document obtained by EUROPE, it also proposes to prohibit the transport to third countries of crude oil and certain petroleum products, originating in or exported from Russia, by any ship registered under the flag of a Member State or owned, chartered, operated or otherwise controlled by a national of a Member State or any legal person, entity or body which is incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State. The provision, directly or indirectly, of technical assistance, brokering services, financing or financial assistance, or any other service related to the transportation to third countries of crude oil and such petroleum products originating in Russia or having been exported from Russia would also be prohibited.

The announcement of an embargo was welcomed by the European Parliament, which had called for such an embargo in a resolution adopted on 7 April (see EUROPE B12928A8).

Faced with Hungarian reluctance, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba warned that if “any country in Europe (continued) to oppose an embargo on Russian oil, then there (would be) good reason to say that country is complicit in the crimes committed by Russia on Ukrainian territory”.

Exclusion of Sberbank from Swift

The President of the European Commission also announced that three major Russian banks, including Sberbank which represents 37% of the Russian market, could be excluded from the Swift system. The other two would be the Moscow Credit Bank and the Russian Agricultural Bank, according to Politico. “In doing so, we are hitting banks that are systemically critical to the Russian financial system and Putin’s ability to wage destruction. This will solidify the complete isolation of the Russian financial sector from the global system”, explained Ms von der Leyen.

The Commission is also proposing to ban the provision of European accounting, consultancy and communications services to Russian companies.

Ms von der Leyen also advocates blocking access to European airwaves for three major Russian state broadcasters. According to a document obtained by EUROPE, these are Rossiya RTR/RTR Planeta, Rossiya 24/Russia 24 and TV Centre International.

They would no longer be allowed to distribute their content in the European Union in any way, be it via cable, satellite, internet or smartphone applications. “We have identified these TV channels as mouthpieces, that amplify Putin´s lies and propaganda aggressively. We should not give them a stage anymore to spread these lies”, Ms von der Leyen said.

Sanctions against military personnel involved in “war crimes”

Finally, the EU should sanction 58 individuals and 17 entities. Among those subject to measures are high-ranking military officers and individuals who committed “war crimes” in Bucha and who are responsible for the “inhumane” siege of the city of Mariupol, according to the President of the European Commission. “We are sending another strong signal to all those who wage the Kremlin’s war: we know who you are and you will be held accountable for your actions” she warned.

The EU High Representative proposes to sanction 45 colonels, lieutenant colonels and commanders (majors) of the 64th separate motorized rifle brigade of the 35th Army of the Russian Federation, “who killed, raped and tortured civilians in Ukraine in Bucha”.

The EU could also sanction the Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia, Patriarch Kirill, who is a strong supporter of the war in Ukraine, and members of the families of oligarchs or those close to Vladimir Putin, including the children and wife of his press secretary, Dmitriy Peskov.

Moscow Duma member Sergey Savostynov, the Chairman and members of the ‘Salvation Committee for Peace and Order’ in Kherson, a “body collaborating with the Russian occupation in the Kherson Oblast”, the acting mayor of Melitopol, designated by the “Russian occupation forces”, Galina Danilchencko, and the head of the Russian Federal Service for the Supervision of Communications, Information Technology and Media, Andrei Lipov, may also be subject to measures.

The entities proposed by the EU High Representative work with the Ministry of Defence and the Russian armed forces.

Measures against Belarus

Furthermore, according to a proposal by the EU High Representative obtained by EUROPE, the Union could exclude Belinvestbank (Belarusian Bank For Development And Reconstruction) from the Swift system.

It could also subject new entities to restrictions on authorisations for the sale, supply, transfer or export of dual-use goods and technologies and goods and technologies that could contribute to the military and technological build-up in Belarus or the development of its defence and security sector.

Negotiations to continue on Thursday

After an initial discussion on Wednesday, the Member States’ ambassadors to the EU will discuss the sixth sanctions package again late on Thursday and, if necessary, on Friday morning. The aim is to have the sixth package adopted before the weekend. (Original version in French by Camille-Cerise Gessant with Damien Genicot and Mathieu Bion)

Agence Europe SA

文件 AGEU000020220505ei5500001


EU faces disruption concerns as it eyes ban on Russian oil
1140 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日
Al-Arab
ALAR
英文
© 2022, Al-Arab, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
The EU faces the task of finding alternatives when energy prices have surged as it imports some 3.5 million barrels of Russian oil and oil products every day and also depends on Moscow's gas supplies. T h e A r a b W e e k l y The Arab Weekly[https://thearabweekly.com/]

STRASBOURG-

The European Union's executive on Wednesday proposed the toughest package of sanctions yet against Moscow for its war in Ukraine, but several countries worried about the impact of cutting off Russia oil imports stood in the way of agreement.

Concerns about possible disruptions were voiced by Hungary and Germany. Requests for delays were sought by Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic.

The EU faces the task of finding alternatives when energy prices have surged as it imports some 3.5 million barrels of Russian oil and oil products every day and also depends on Moscow's gas supplies.

Prices soared on Wednesday, with Brent North Sea crude closing above $110 a barrel, its highest level in two and a half weeks.

But analysts said the new surge would not shake the 13 members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), led by Riyadh, and their 10 partners led by Moscow.

OPEC+ members meeting on Thursday are expected to agree a marginal increase in oil production, bolstered by risks to demand amid coronavirus restrictions in China.

European Union countries import 40% of gas and 25% of oil from Russia, and the current EU timetable doesn’t foresee energy independence from Moscow for another five years. As atrocities unfold, the EU is looking to sharpen sanctions.

The EU's executive commission on Wednesday proposed phasing out imports of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of 2022. It must be approved by all 27 member countries, which will be a battle because some are more dependent on Russian oil than others. Still, oil is easier to replace than natural gas, which is used to generate electricity and power industries.

In a poll of 1,230 random voters published last month by German public broadcaster ZDF, 28% said the country should halt natural gas and oil imports immediately, even if it means supply problems, while 54% said it should only happen if the supply is largely secured, and 14% opposed a ban.

A handful of eastern EU countries are concerned that the halt would not allow them enough time to adapt, even though diplomats said Hungary and Slovakia would be given until the end of 2023.

Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Facebook that, even with the lag, Hungary could only agree to the measures if crude oil imports from Russia via pipeline were exempt from the sanctions.

The landlocked country, whose Prime Minister Viktor Orban cultivates closer ties with the Kremlin than others in the bloc, received more than half of its crude oil and oil products imports from Russia last year, according to the International Energy Agency.

Slovakia has asked for a three-year transition period and the Czech Republic was seeking a delay of two or three years.

German Economy Minister Robert Habeck said on Wednesday that a gradual EU ban on Russian oil imports could lead to supply "disruptions" and price increases but backed the measure as a necessary step to sanction Moscow.

"I have said a few times that we can of course not guarantee in this situation that there won't be disruptions, primarily regional disruptions," he told reporters after a cabinet meeting, adding that Berlin backed the bloc's measure as a response to the Ukraine invasion.

Reluctance to deliver measures that damage EU economies, as well as Moscow, faded in recent weeks as Russia's invasion of Ukraine brought horrific images of slaughter in towns and concern about a renewed offensive in the east of the country.

--High price--

"Putin must pay a price, a high price, for his brutal aggression," von der Leyen told the European Parliament in Strasbourg. "Today, we will propose to ban all Russian oil from Europe," she said to applause in the chamber.

The Commission's proposal, which needs unanimous backing by the 27 EU countries to take effect, includes phasing out supplies of Russian crude oil in six months and refined products by the end of 2022. It also proposes to ban in a month's time all shipping, brokerage, insurance and financing services offered by EU companies for the transport of Russian oil.

The price of Brent crude rose around three percent to more than $108 a barrel by 1450 GMT.

If agreed, the embargo would echo the actions of the United States and Britain, which have already imposed bans to cut one of the largest income streams to the Russian economy.

Bulgaria, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic raised concerns about the oil embargo at a meeting of national envoys to the EU on Wednesday, a source said, noting however that a deal could be achieved on Thursday or later this week. One diplomat said Greece also had concerns about the impact on its shipping sector.

Simone Tagliapietra of the Brussels-based Bruegel thinktank said a gradual embargo on Russian oil was risky.

"In the short term it might leave Russian revenues high while implying negative consequences for the EU and the global economy in terms of higher prices, not to mention retaliation risks (by Russia) on natural gas supplies," he said.

Apart from oil, the latest round of sanctions proposes hitting Sberbank, Russia's top lender, adding it to several banks already cut off from the SWIFT messaging system.

The Commission also proposed to sanction Credit Bank of Moscow and the Russian Agricultural Bank, two EU sources told Reuters.

"We hit banks that are systemically critical to the Russian financial system and Putin's ability to wage destruction," von der Leyen said.

Sberbank did not respond to a request for comment. The lender, which exited almost all its European markets in March, has previously said other rounds of sanctions would not have a significant impact on its operations.

Von der Leyen said more high-ranking Russian military officials would face EU asset freezes and travel bans, without giving names and the EU would also ban European accountants, consultants and spin-doctors who work for Russia.

The head of the Kremlin-allied Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill was to be blacklisted, a source told Reuters, and state-owned Russian broadcasters RTR-Planeta and R24 would be shut out of European airwaves, according to diplomats.

Von der Leyen also proposed a recovery plan for Ukraine once the conflict ends, saying hundreds of billions of euros were needed to rebuild the country.

"Eventually, it will pave the way for Ukraine's future inside the European Union," she said.

Al Arab

文件 ALAR000020220506ei550000d


Report: Orban says Brussels threatens EU unity with Russian oil ban
407 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 05:24 GMT
Prime News
PRTASS
英文
© 2022. JSC PRIME. All rights reserved.
MOSCOW/BERLIN, May 6 (PRIME) -- Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban thinks that the European Commission will threaten the unity of the E.U. if it insists on introduction of the embargo on Russian oil, the Financial Times reported late on Thursday quoting Orban.

“If the commission insists on the adoption of its proposal, it will have to bear full responsibility for a historical failure in the course of European integration,” Orban said in a letter to European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, as quoted by the Financial Times.

The new anti-Russian sanctions suggested by the commission would lead to a further growth of energy prices without any softening measures from the E.U., this is why Hungary is unable to support the latest sanction plan in its current form.

Sanctions should be approved only after all E.U. member countries complete the necessary preparations, and the measures would require Budapest to upgrade the alternative supplies infrastructure seriously and reorganize its oil refining capacities completely. This means neither Hungary, nor the E.U. is ready to implement the measures, he said.

Newswire DPA reported quoting diplomatic sources that Germany and some other E.U. countries suggested amendments to the sixth round of anti-Russian sanctions.

For instance, the sanctions suggest disconnection of Russia’s top bank Sberbank from the SWIFT interbank messaging system, but Berlin wants tougher sanctions on the bank. DPA did not mention the possible tougher measures, but said that the European Commission had no plans to ban all deals with Sberbank or freeze all of its assets.

Disputes around the oil ban are also going on. The European Commission suggested a 20 month deadline for Slovakia and Hungary to terminate oil deals with Russia unlike a 6 month deadline for all the other E.U. countries. Bratislava and Budapest think that the exemptions are not enough, while the Czech Republic and Bulgaria want the same exemptions.

Cyprus, Malta, and Greece also express concerns about the oil embargo, as they think it will hurt their shipping companies.

The Netherlands and Germany want a detailed justification of the ban on broadcast of Russian television channels Rossiya 24, RTR Planeta, and TV-Tsentr. For the E.U. to be above reproach in regards to restriction of the freedom of speech, there should be ample evidence that these channels are propaganda machines, the newswire reported.

End

JSC PRIME

文件 PRTASS0020220506ei560005l


Magyarország Miniszterelnoke - Brussels oil embargo proposal discussed in the Carmelite Monastery
Magyarország Miniszterelnoke published this content on 06 May 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 06 May 2022 05:48:35 UTC.
423 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/3C896C20DA88A3DC4247408B7856E63B39842D48]

Brussels oil embargo proposal discussed in the Carmelite Monastery

Prime Minister Viktor Orbán convened an industry-specific meeting for Thursday afternoon in the Carmelite Monastery where attendees discussed issues related to Hungary's energy security in connection with the Russia oil embargo planned by Brussels, Bertalan Havasi, the Prime Minister's press chief informed the Hungarian news agency MTI.

Since the release of the EU draft, representatives of the Hungarian government have pointed out on a number of occasions that the European Commission's latest package of sanctions against Russia cannot be responsibly supported in its present form as it would destroy the security of Hungary's energy supply, the head of the Press Office of the Prime Minister recalled.

He added that Brussels would ban oil imports from Russia to Europe within a short time; in the case of Hungary, from the end of next year. At present, Hungary's energy supply is guaranteed and rests on stable foundations. However, this sanction package would destroy that, and would frustrate the procurement of the quantity of crude oil that is necessary for the functioning of the economy.

The Thursday meeting held in the Carmelite Monastery was attended by Gergely Gulyás, the Minister heading the Prime Minister's Office, Antal Rogán, the Prime Minister's press chief, Minister for Innovation and Technology László Palkovics, Minister of Finance Mihály Varga, Minister without Portfolio for the Management of National Assets Andrea Mager, prime ministerial appointee Márton Nagy, János Bóka, the Prime Minister's Secretary of State responsible for EU affairs, János Nagy, the Secretary of State heading the Programme Office of the Prime Minister, President of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry László Parragh, MOL Chair-Chief Executive Zsolt Hernádi, Chair-Chief Executive of the MVM Group Gábor Czepek, President of the Hungarian Energy and Utilities Regulatory Agency Péter János Horváth, Chief Executive of the Hungarian Hydrocarbon Stockpiling Association Béla Bártfai, and President of the Supervisory Authority for Regulated Activities Marcell Bíró, Mr Havasi reported.

* Original Link[https://miniszterelnok.hu/brussels-oil-embargo-proposal-discussed-in-the-carmelite-monastery/]

Disclaimer

Prime Minister of Hungary published this content on 06 May 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 06 May 2022 05:49:28 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020220506ei56003e9


EU's Russia Oil Ban In Jeopardy As Hungary Rejects Sanction As 'Atomic Bomb' For Economy -- Sky News
55 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 07:26 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
(SKY NEWS)--

Full Story https://news.sky.com/story/eus-russia-oil-ban-in-jeopardy-as-hungary-rejects-sanction-as-atomic-bomb-for-economy-12606420[https://news.sky.com/story/eus-russia-oil-ban-in-jeopardy-as-hungary-rejects-sanction-as-atomic-bomb-for-economy-12606420]

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 06, 2022 03:26 ET (07:26 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220506ei56000vl


UPDATE - EC's proposed oil embargo 'unacceptable' for Hungary - Orban (adds details)
635 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日
MTI - EcoNews
MTIE
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, May 6, 2022 (MTI-ECONEWS) - A proposal by the European

Commission to phase in an embargo on Russian oil is unacceptable

for Hungary as it fails to take into account the physical

circumstances of the country's energy supply and flies in the face

of a consensus reached earlier by European Union leaders, Prime

Minister Viktor Orban said in a weekly interview on public radio on

Friday.

Mr Orban said on Kossuth Radio that the proposal, announced by

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen earlier in the

week, doesn't consider that landlocked Hungary relies on pipelines

for its oil, while the country's main refinery is technically

reliant on Russian crude.

Refitting the refinery would cost "several hundred billion

forints", while a switch to alternative sources of crude would

raise prices at the pump to HUF 700 for a litre of petrol and HUF

800 per litre of diesel, he explained.

"We cannot accept such a proposal that doesn't take these

circumstances into account, because this proposal, in its current

form, is equivalent to dropping a nuclear bomb on the Hungarian

economy," he said.

"The proposal on the table creates a problem for Hungary and

presents no solution. That is unacceptable from the point of view

of Hungarian interests," he added.

Mr Orban said shifting Hungary's crude supply sources would

have to be undertaken at the same time as an upgrade of the entire

Hungarian energy system, including an expansion of the Paks nuclear

power plant and the addition of more solar power. That process

would cost "several thousand billion forints" and take five years,

he added.

Mr Orban said the EC's proposal also disregards the consensus

reached by EU leaders at a summit in Versailles in March on

ensuring that sanctions on Russia take into account the varied

energy mixes of member states and acknowledging national

sovereignty over those energy mixes.

Noting that he had responded to the proposal in a letter sent

to Ms von der Leyen on Thursday, Mr Orban warned that an embargo

would threaten Hungary's regulated pricing system for household

utilities.

"If the Hungarian issue is not resolved, and they still

introduce an oil embargo or a gas embargo...it will spell the end

of the regulated pricing system for household utilities. This

battle I am fighting is a battle for that system," he said.

Mr Orban said Hungary has a "completely different view" of

sanctions, pointing out that sanctions imposed after the annexation

of Crimea "hurt us more than Russia". "And I think that's true now,

too," he added.

Mr Orban acknowledged the degree of support sanctions have

among EU member states and noted that Hungary supported the first

five sanction packages.

"If everybody's driving in the opposite direction going down

the motorway, you're wise to consider a change of direction," he

said.

He said Hungary has to preserve its veto right for "the most

important matters" if it doesn't want "to lose all of its friends",

but sanctions affecting oil and gas are "a red line".

Mr Orban reiterated that Hungary "must stay out of this war".

He said that while some countries may "take sides" in a war,

historical experience suggests Hungary should "take a position"

based on its interests.

"We have a position, and it is peace....We are not on one

warring side or the other, we are on the side of peace. And all

steps the government takes serve the goal of achieving a cease-fire

and the start of peace talks as soon as possible," he said.

Mr Orban said he expects to present the new members of his

government "between May 20 and 30".

(HUF 100 = EUR 0.2644)

MTVA

文件 MTIE000020220506ei56000rt


2ND LEAD Hungary, Slovakia and Czechs to get more time to ban Russian oil By Doris Pundy and Ciarán Sunderland, dpa
383 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 10:20 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Brussels (dpa) - Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are to have more time to ban Russian oil imports in new European Commission proposals for an embargo, diplomatic sources have told dpa.

Hungary and Slovakia are to get until the end of 2024 to phase out Russian oil imports via pipelines. The Czech Republic is to have until the end of June 2024 to comply with the embargo, unless a new pipeline is finished sooner.

The extended deadlines for the three central European countries are included in the latest commission draft for a sixth package of sanctions on Russia submitted to representatives of the 27 EU member states to scrutinize in Brussels on Friday.

The European Union is to phase out Russian crude oil within six months, and refined products by the end of the year, under original commission plans which included an exemption for Hungary and Slovakia until the end of 2023.

Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are heavily dependent on Russian oil imports and struggled to secure alternative oil supplies ahead of the proposed ban due to a lack of sea access.

Speaking to a Hungarian radio station on Friday morning, Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orbán called the initial sanction proposal "an atom bomb being dropped on the Hungarian economy."

Orbán insisted that his country's initial 2023 deadline was too short to make sure Hungary would receive enough oil and avoid soaring prices.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said it is "difficult" yet achievable to find alternative supplies for the landlocked countries and to guarantee supply security.

Speaking at a media event in Frankfurt, von der Leyen said the ongoing talks in Brussels are "moving in the right direction."

"I am confident that we will also get this [sanctions] package on track. If it takes one day longer, then it takes one day longer," von der Leyen said, commenting on the timeline of the negotiations.

Talks in Brussels will continue on Friday afternoon, diplomats told dpa, aiming to agree on a new sanctions by the weekend at the latest.

All 27 EU member states need to agree for new Russia sanctions to come into force.

# Notebook

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220506ei56003h1


Hungary This Week - May 6, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 6 日, 11024 字, (英文)
Ukrainian refugees lift Hungary’s tourism data in MarchGuest nights at hotels with at least three stars jumped 464% y/y to 1.43mn in March, rising from a low base due to COVID-19 restrictions introduced a year earlier, the Central ...

Hungary Holds Up EU Deal to Sanction Russian Oil
731 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 13:30 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
The European Union is struggling to finalize the terms of an oil embargo on Russia amid resistance by Hungary, whose leader claimed Friday that the proposed embargo would hit his economy like an atomic bomb.

Prime Minister Viktor Orban has long cultivated close ties with Moscow and hasn’t joined other EU and North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries in trying to arm Ukraine. He is insisting on more time and EU money if Hungary is to join the rest of the bloc in transitioning away from Russian oil, diplomats say.

Hungary’s opposition means an oil-embargo deal is unlikely to be agreed Friday, as officials had hoped, but is still likely by Monday, according to people familiar with the EU’s negotiations. All 27 member states need to agree to the sanctions package, the bloc’s sixth since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24.

On Monday, Russia is due to hold its Victory Day military parade in Red Square to commemorate the end of World War II, an event that the Kremlin is planning to use as propaganda for its invasion of Ukraine.

The EU’s executive body, the European Commission, sent member states a proposal this week that would see the bloc stop crude-oil purchases from Russia within six months, and ban the import of Russian refined oil products by year-end. The proposed sanctions include the removal of three more Russian banks from the Swift financial messaging network and a ban on providing services to Russia, including insurance for oil shipments.

The Commission proposed offering Hungary and Slovakia, which are heavily dependent on Russian oil delivered via the Druzhba pipeline, a year longer than the rest of the EU to stop buying Russian energy imports.

However, diplomats have acknowledged that the two countries will need longer still, possibly until the end of 2024. The Czech Republic is also asking for more time.

Mr. Orban slammed the Commission’s proposal in an interview with state radio Friday. “The proposal on the table now creates a Hungarian problem, and there is no plan to solve it,” he said, saying his country needed five years to shift away from Russian energy.

Mr. Orban accused the Commission of breaking EU unity over Ukraine, saying he had always warned that embargoes on Russian energy would be very hard on Hungary. Mr. Orban also said the bloc’s sanctions have hit the European economy harder than Russia’s—an argument that no other EU leaders have made.

Hungary’s stance on sanctions and weapons to Ukraine has led to significant friction with Mr. Orban’s right-wing allies in the Polish government, and a war of words with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.

Mr. Orban won reelection in early April after pledging that his government would maintain a distance from the Ukraine war and reject measures that lead to Hungarian economic pain.

EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said Friday he would summon the bloc’s foreign ministers next week if no oil ban could be agreed this weekend. He also indicated Brussels would be flexible about the timetable for Hungary’s exit from Russian oil.

The fight over sanctions comes amid a backdrop of years of friction between the EU and Hungary over its increasingly authoritarian political system. Budapest denies backsliding on democracy and the rule of law, as well as allegations over the misuse of EU funds.

Brussels is holding back billions of euros of pandemic recovery funding from Hungary because of rule-of-law concerns. Last month, the Commission upped the stakes by triggering a new instrument that could allow it to freeze billions in regular funds for the country.

Officials and diplomats say the bulk of the other proposed Russia sanctions are close to approval. The latest bank sanctions are set to be approved, as are individual sanctions against military officials, and measures against individuals and broadcasters accused of spreading disinformation.

Greece and Cyprus are calling for concessions over a Commission proposal that would prevent European shipping companies from insuring shipments of Russian oil. They argue that the measure will simply lead to other countries’ tankers taking over the shipments. EU officials were working on a possible compromise.

Write to Laurence Norman at laurence.norman@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 06, 2022 09:30 ET (13:30 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220506ei560025b


World news
Viktor Orban says EU oil ban would be 'nuclear bomb' on Hungary's economy
By Joe Barnes, BRUSSELS CORRESPONDENT
577 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 11:54 GMT
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
英文
The Telegraph Online © 2022. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Hungarian PM accuses Ursula von der Leyen of attacking European unity after she proposed sixth round of Russian sanctions

Viktor Orban said on Friday the impact of the European Union’s plan to ban imports of Russian oil would be like a “nuclear bomb” being dropped on Hungary’s economy.

The Hungarian prime minister[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/04/hungary-threatens-sink-eu-plans-ban-russian-oil/] also accused Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president,[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/01/28/ursula-von-der-leyen-accused-maladministration-refusing-publish/] of breaking apart EU unity with her proposed ban on Russian oil.

“The European Commission president, intentionally or unintentionally, has attacked the European unity that had been worked out,” he told state broadcaster Kossuth Radio.

"From the first moment we made clear that there will be a red line, that is the energy embargo, they have crossed this red line."

Under the Commission's proposals for a sixth round of economic sanctions against Moscow, EU countries would phase out supplies of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year.

Landlocked Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have been offered a longer transition period, until the end of 2023, because of their reliance on deliveries of Russian oil via pipelines[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/03/22/eu-risks-running-steam-sanctions-russian-oil-gas/].

“The proposal on the table now creates a Hungarian problem, and there is no plan to solve it," Mr Orban added, proposing a five-year transition period to readjust his country's supplies.

European sources said they had hoped for a deal on the sanctions by Friday morning but talks are now expected to run into the weekend.

Backlash from EU member states

An agreement has proved hard to reach because a number of proposals face significant opposition from EU member states.

The Commission is proposing a ban on European ships transporting Russian oil and petroleum to any part of the world.

Greece has called for a carve-out from this sanction because it does not want to stop making money from its fleet of tankers.

In private talks, Athens argued if it halted its lucrative oil-shipping business, non-EU countries would quickly step in to transport Russian oil and petrol to the likes of India and China.

Diplomats said an exemption from this element would undermine the sanctions, which are aimed at reducing the number of tankers available to Russia.

Other countries, including Cyprus, raised questions over a proposed ban on providing corporate services, such as accountancy, to Russians.

And Hungary also opposed sanctions targeting religious figures after Patriarch Kirill, the head of the Russian Orthodox Church and an ardent supporter of Vladimir Putin[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/05/05/vladimir-putin-apologises-israeli-prime-minister-sergei-lavrovs/], was included on a draft list.

Responding to the criticism a European Commission spokesman said: "Sanctions are a sophisticated tool that we've always said are to ensure we can inflict maximum pain on the Kremlin and the ability to finance its war machine, while at the same time minimising the impact on the EU."

Exports of fossil fuels are one of Russia's main revenue sources. Germany alone imported €84 billion worth of oil from Russia since Moscow's illegal annexation of Crimea in 2014, according to an EU analysis seen by the Telegraph.

The sixth package of penalties would also see Sberbank, Russia's largest bank, disconnected from the SWIFT international payment system, Mrs von der Leyen announced earlier this week.

Credit Bank of Moscow and the Russian Agricultural Bank would also be cut off from Swift, according to the draft proposals.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

文件 TELUK00020220506ei560020a


EC's proposed oil embargo 'unacceptable' for Hungary, Orbán says
615 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日
Budapest Business Journal
WBBJ
英文
© 2022 Budapest Business Journal, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
A proposal by the European Commission to phase in an embargo on Russian oil is unacceptable for Hungary as it fails to take into account the physical circumstances of the country's energy supply and flies in the face of a consensus reached earlier by European Union leaders, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in a weekly interview on public radio on Friday.

Orbán said on Kossuth Rádió that the proposal, announced by European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen earlier in the week, doesn't consider that landlocked Hungary relies on pipelines for its oil, while the country's main refinery is technically reliant on Russian crude.

Refitting the refinery would cost "several hundred billion forints", while a switch to alternative sources of crude would raise prices at the pump to HUF 700 for a liter of petrol and HUF 800 per liter of diesel, he explained.

"We cannot accept such a proposal that doesn't take these circumstances into account, because this proposal, in its current form, is equivalent to dropping a nuclear bomb on the Hungarian economy," he said.

"The proposal on the table creates a problem for Hungary and presents no solution. That is unacceptable from the point of view of Hungarian interests," he added.

Orbán said shifting Hungary's crude supply sources would have to be undertaken at the same time as an upgrade of the entire Hungarian energy system, including an expansion of the Paks nuclear power plant and the addition of more solar power. That process would cost "several thousand billion forints" and take five years, he added.

The PM said the EC's proposal also disregards the consensus reached by EU leaders at a summit in Versailles in March on ensuring that sanctions on Russia take into account the varied energy mixes of member states and acknowledging national sovereignty over those energy mixes.

Noting that he had responded to the proposal in a letter sent to von der Leyen on Thursday, Orbán warned that an embargo would threaten Hungary's regulated pricing system for household utilities.

"If the Hungarian issue is not resolved, and they still introduce an oil embargo or a gas embargo...it will spell the end of the regulated pricing system for household utilities. This battle I am fighting is a battle for that system," he said.

Orbán said Hungary has a "completely different view" of sanctions, pointing out that sanctions imposed after the annexation of Crimea "hurt us more than Russia". "And I think that's true now, too," he added.

The PM acknowledged the degree of support sanctions have among EU member states and noted that Hungary supported the first five sanction packages.

"If everybody's driving in the opposite direction going down the motorway, you're wise to consider a change of direction," he said.

He said Hungary has to preserve its veto right for "the most important matters" if it doesn't want "to lose all of its friends", but sanctions affecting oil and gas are "a red line".

Orbán reiterated that Hungary "must stay out of this war".

He said that while some countries may "take sides" in a war, historical experience suggests Hungary should "take a position" based on its interests.

"We have a position, and it is peace....We are not on one warring side or the other, we are on the side of peace. And all steps the government takes serve the goal of achieving a cease-fire and the start of peace talks as soon as possible," he said.

Orbán said he expects to present the new members of his government "between May 20 and 30".

Business Publishing Services Kft

文件 WBBJ000020220506ei56000p1


Oil Embargo on Russia Would Hit Hungarian Economy Like a Nuclear Bomb, Orban Says -- WSJ
By Laurence Norman
330 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 15:00 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said Friday that a proposed European Union oil embargo on Russia would be devastating to his country's economy.

"The proposal on the table now creates a Hungarian problem, and there is no plan to solve it," he said in an interview with state radio on Friday, saying his country needed five years to shift away from Russian energy. "This proposal amounts to an atomic bomb dropped on the Hungarian economy."

Hungary's push for favorable terms under the bloc's proposed oil ban is complicating efforts to resolve the terms (https://www.wsj.com/articles/hungary-holds-up-eu-deal-to-sanction-russian-oil-11651843279[https://www.wsj.com/articles/hungary-holds-up-eu-deal-to-sanction-russian-oil-11651843279]) of the sanctions package, the EU's sixth since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24.

The EU's executive body, the European Commission, sent member states a proposal this week that would see the bloc stop crude-oil purchases from Russia within six months, and ban the import of Russian refined oil products by year's end. The commission proposed offering Hungary and Slovakia a year longer than the rest of the EU to stop buying Russian energy imports. Mr. Orban is insisting on more time and EU money to transition away from Russian oil, diplomats said.

Hungary's opposition means an oil-embargo deal is unlikely to be settled Friday, as officials had hoped, but is still likely by Monday, according to people familiar with the EU's negotiations. Russia stages its annual Victory Day celebration on Monday, a commemoration of the end of World War II.

NOTE: In-line links reference additional content of interest chosen by the WSJ news team.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 06, 2022 11:00 ET (15:00 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220506ei56002l3


3RD LEAD EU talks over Russian oil ban drag on over exemptions dispute By Doris Pundy, Ciarán Sunderland and Laura Dubois, dpa
558 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 17:28 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Brussels (dpa) - Talks in Brussels on new EU sanctions on Russia stalled on Friday due to a dispute over exemptions from an oil ban for Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, diplomatic sources told dpa.

Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic received extra time to ban Russian oil imports in revised European Commission proposals for a sixth package of sanctions on Russia.

The extended deadlines for the central European countries were included in the latest commission draft submitted to representatives of the 27 EU member states to scrutinize.

Difficulties arose over planned exemptions from the ban with Bulgaria continuing to demand more time and threatening to veto the sanctions on Russia, according to a report by the Bulgarian private TV station Nova.

Sofia is yet to receive backing from the commission for inclusion in the exemptions as Bulgaria is considered to have more options to secure alternative oil supplies, diplomatic sources said.

Hungary and Slovakia are to get until the end of 2024 to phase out Russian oil imports via pipelines. The Czech Republic is to have until the end of June 2024 to comply with the embargo, unless new supply channels are set up sooner.

Proposals may still change in the course of negotiations. Hungary continues to demand more time as well as financial supports to phase out Russian oil, EU diplomats said.

A ban on the transport of Russian oil by EU ships continues to meet resistance from Greece, Malta and Cyprus who are wary of the effects on their shipping industry, according to EU diplomats.

Other proposed sanctions target Sberbank, Russia largest bank, two other banks, state-owned media such as RTR Planeta, Russia 24 and TV Centre and a ban on providing professional services to the Kremlin.

The European Union is to phase out Russian crude oil within six months, and refined products by the end of the year, under original commission plans that included an exemption for Hungary and Slovakia until the end of 2023.

Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are heavily dependent on Russian oil imports and may struggle to secure alternative oil supplies ahead of the proposed ban due to a lack of sea access.

Speaking to a Hungarian radio station on Friday, Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orbán called the initial sanction proposal "an atom bomb being dropped on the Hungarian economy."

Orbán said that his country's initial 2023 deadline was too short to make sure Hungary would receive enough oil and avoid soaring prices.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said it is "difficult" yet achievable to find alternative supplies for the landlocked countries and to guarantee supply security.

"I am confident that we will also get this [sanctions] package on track. If it takes one day longer, then it takes one day longer," von der Leyen said, commenting on the timeline of the negotiations.

Talks in Brussels are to resume over the weekend, diplomats told dpa. All 27 EU member states need to reach agreement on the sanctions on Russia, before the measures can come into force.

# Notebook

## Note to editors - releads with talks continuing into the weekend; adds Bulgaria veto threat; adds Greece, Malta, Cyprus caution, removes part von der Leyen quote.

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220506ei56007sl


CE Noticias Financieras English
EU to continue negotiating Russian oil sanctions over weekend
618 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The Member States of the European Union (EU) will continue negotiating this weekend the sixth package of sanctions against Russia for the war in Ukraine, which includes a veto on Russian oil that still does not have the approval of all the capitals, which is necessary for it to go ahead.

The meeting held this Friday by ambassadors of the EU-27 did not yet serve to solve the problems posed by countries such as Hungary, Slovakia or the Czech Republic, various diplomatic sources explained.

These three partners, highly dependent on crude imports from Russia, are asking that the transition period to get rid of their oil be longer, despite the fact that Brussels has proposed an exception for Budapest and Bratislava that would give them one year more than the rest to achieve it, until December 31, 2023.

Although not originally included in this special deal, Prague has also publicly called for a two- or even three-year postponement to wean itself off Russian crude, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala himself said.

His Hungarian counterpart, Viktor Orbán, opted on Friday for a harsher tone to criticize the Brussels proposal as an "atomic bomb" for his country and, after arguing that a period of one and a half years would not be enough, he advocated giving himself four or five years "with an investment of a lot of money".

Meanwhile, the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs, Josep Borrell, said that it is necessary to "take into consideration" and "look for a solution" to solve Hungary's "problems", since "it is not the same to have a coastline and that oil tankers can reach you as not having a coastline and that no oil can reach you from any other part than Russia".

In any case, the head of European diplomacy assured that if it is not possible to reach an agreement between the EU-27 at ambassadorial level, it will be necessary to bring the matter to a meeting of ministers to unblock the situation.

In the meantime, diplomatic sources insist that the objective is to reach an agreement "by the end of the week" and that the differences between the Member States "are not political" but technical.

The objective of France as the rotating president of the EU is to continue the technical work with the European Commission and the Member States and to reconvene the ambassadors of the Twenty-Seven when sufficient progress has been made.

The EU executive's proposal, presented on Wednesday, aims to ban Russian oil imports into the EU six months after the sanctions come into force, while for refined oil the deadline is extended to eight months.

The sanctions would also veto any possible technical assistance, direct or indirect, and any intermediation services, including financial and insurance, that are related to the ban on Russian oil.

In addition, to prevent Russian oil tankers from circumventing the sanctions, the text calls for a ban on the transport of Russian crude oil in all its forms, including "ship-to-ship" cargo transfers from Russian vessels to non-flagged cargo vessels.

On the financial front, Brussels proposes to add to the list of Russian banks excluded from the international Swift transaction system Sberbank, the country's largest, as well as the Agricultural Bank of Russia, wholly owned by the State, and the Moscow Credit Bank.

Brussels has also proposed to sanction individuals, such as the Russian colonel known as "the Butcher of Bucha" or the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, and some twenty companies linked to the Ministry of Defense or the Russian Army, as well as three media outlets.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220506ei5600bu2


world
Hungary and Slovakia given another two years to ban Russian oil
Bruno Waterfield, Brussels
772 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 22:34 GMT
thetimes.co.uk
TIMEUK
英文
© Times Newspapers Limited 2022
The European Union will extend the deadline for Hungary and Slovakia to stop importing Russian oil by two years to address deep divisions over energy sanctions against the Putin regime.

Both landlocked central European countries are highly dependent on the Druzhba oil pipeline from Russian Siberia and need extra time to reorganise petrol and diesel production.

EU proposals envisage a phased

ban on Russian crude oil imports[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/eu-struggling-to-win-support-for-russian-oil-ban-9t8xvsv5f]

within six months, but the plan has hit the geopolitical reality of close links between central Europe and Russia dating to the Soviet era.

New proposals would give Budapest and Bratislava until the end of 2024 to adjust but both countries are demanding a longer transition period.

The compromise follows a veto threat by Hungary after

Viktor Orban[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/topic/victor-orban?page=1]

, the country’s prime minister, said the European Commission had crossed a “red line” by proposing sanctions that would be like “dropping a nuclear bomb on the Hungarian economy”.

“With this move, the commission has disrupted hard-established European unity, and in war, this has serious consequences,” he told Hungary’s state broadcaster, Kossuth Radio.

“From the first moment we made clear that there will be a red line, that is the

energy embargo[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/the-times-view-on-the-eus-ban-on-russian-oil-energy-embargo-kk9pptghl]

, they [the EU] have crossed this red line.”

He added: “The transformation of Hungary’s energy transmission and supply system could be completed in five years.”

Josep Borrell, the EU’s foreign affairs chief, said he understood Hungary’s position. “ If I were in their shoes I would say, ‘Look I have a problem.’ It is a matter of time and it is a matter of money. We cannot put on the table proposals that do not fit with reality,” he said.

“It’s not because Hungary is closer to Moscow. Hungary is a landlocked country. There is no other pipe bringing oil to Hungary but the one coming from Russia and going directly to their refinery, which is created for the physical characteristics of the Russian oil.”

Hungary is dependent on the Druzhba pipeline and Russian oil for up to two thirds of its fuel needs, a figure that rises to 96 per cent for Slovakia.

The Czech Republic is expected to take up the offer of an exemption from the ban until June 2024 unless alternative supplies can be found from the German TAL pipeline, which is running at full capacity.

The concession is significant and means that more than 250,000 barrels of oil a day will continue to flow down the

Druzhba oil pipeline[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/what-will-the-ban-on-oil-mean-for-the-eu-and-russia-z0v9fckfg]

to central Europe for two years after the rest of the EU has banned the trade.

Some countries are unhappy over the proposed delay and demands from Hungary for funding. “It pushes the envelope a little too far,” said a senior EU diplomat.

Diplomatic sources said that the EU could additionally postpone shipping restrictions, opposed by Greece, Cyprus and Malta, that would ban European tankers from carrying Russian crude oil anywhere in the world.

The Greek opposition has angered other countries because a maritime exemption would undermine the sanctions and allow EU tankers to help divert Russian oil from

Europe[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/topic/europe]

to India and China.

“There is a lot of understanding for Hungary and Slovakia but Greece is angering many capitals by demanding that its maritime sector could carry on shipping Russian oil to Chinese and Indian ports when Europe has stopped buying it,” a diplomat said.

Concessions would allow Greek, Cypriot or Maltese carriers to ship Russian oil for an extra three months into spring next year.

Extensive commission redrafting of the oil ban proposals have delayed

EU[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/topic/european-union]

negotiations, which are expected to run through the weekend. “It is a mess,” said the senior source.

Ursula von der Leyen, the German European Commission president, expressed confidence that the sanction would be agreed by next week. “I am confident that we will get this package on track — if it takes a day longer, it takes a day longer — but we are moving in the right direction,” she told a conference hosted by the

Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung

newspaper.

Hungary, with wider eastern European support, is opposed to proposals to place

Patriarch Kirill[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/putins-priest-patriarch-kirill-must-not-be-spared-sanctions-df577mc0r]

, the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, on the EU’s asset freeze and travel ban blacklist. “We will not allow church leaders to be put on a sanctions list,” Orban said.

The “Sanctionistas” bloc of Poland and the Baltic States is pushing to add

Alina Kabaeva[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/us-holds-off-sanctions-against-alina-kabaeva-over-fears-of-provoking-president-putin-wrf7pwpl7]

, a former gymnast who is

President Putin[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/topic/vladimir-putin]

’s alleged mistress, and thought to be mother of four of his children, to the blacklist.

News UK & Ireland Limited

文件 TIMEUK0020220506ei560018i


European Union
EU revises Russia oil ban to give Hungary more time
657 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日
Luxembourg Times
LUXTIM
英文
Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Luxembourg – All Rights Reserved
The European Union has proposed a revision to its Russia oil sanctions ban that would give Hungary and Slovakia an extra year, until the end of 2024, to comply, according to people familiar with the matter.

The Czech Republic would also be granted an exemption until June 2024, the people said. All other member states would phase out their imports by the end of this year as originally proposed, with imports of crude halting in six months and refined petroleum products in eight months.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said earlier Friday that he opposed the EU’s original proposal to ban Russian oil, saying it was tantamount to a “nuclear bomb” being dropped on his country’s economy. He said he wanted a five-year exemption on an oil ban after the EU originally proposed giving the country one extra year.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told an audience in Germany on Friday that finding unity on oil sanctions isn’t easy and may take “some days,” but added she is confident that a deal will be reached. EU diplomats are meeting Friday to discuss the revised proposals and negotiations could stretch into the weekend, one person said.

Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are heavily reliant on Russian oil, but they account for a relatively small portion of the EU’s overall imports from Moscow. The three countries would not be allowed to sell the supplies they import to others, under the proposed plans. The Czech exemption may be cut short if work on the Transalpine Pipeline is operational in time.

The revised proposal is currently being scrutinized by European governments. Slovak Deputy Economy Minister Karol Galek said Friday that his country continues to “insist on 3 years exemption.” He added, “Negotiations continue.”

Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala said Friday, “The proposal is in the right direction but we are still amid constructive talks with our EU partners. I don’t want to pre-empt the final version but I believe in a good solution.”

Hungary has been biggest obstacle to a deal, with Orban warning the oil ban push risks fracturing the EU’s unity over Ukraine. “If the commission insists on the adoption of its proposal, it will have to bear full responsibility for a historical failure in the court of European integration,” he wrote Thursday in a letter to von der Leyen.

The proposed ban on Russian oil wouldn’t affect purchases that originate in other countries and transit through Russia as long as they don’t lead to sanctions being circumvented, the people said.

Under the EU’s plan, European companies and individuals would also be banned from providing vessels and services, such as insurance, needed to transport oil to third countries. With the revision, that measure would now kick in within three months of the new sanctions being adopted, up from one month, the people said. Greece and Cyprus had raised questions about the original proposals, arguing the measure would benefit non-EU firms and damage European companies.

The EU is also proposing to cut three more Russian banks off the international payments system SWIFT, including Russia’s largest lender Sberbank, restrict Russian entities and individuals from purchasing property in the EU, ban providing consulting services to Russian companies, and trade in a number of chemicals.

The EU also gears up to sanction Alina Kabaeva, a former Olympic gymnast who is “closely associated” with Vladimir Putin, according to an EU document, and Patriarch Kirill, who heads the Russian Orthodox Church and has been a vocal supporter of the Russian president and the war in Ukraine.

Sanctions for dozens of military personnel, including those deemed responsible for reported war crimes in Bucha, as well as companies providing equipment, supplies and services to the Russian armed forces are also considered.

©2022 Bloomberg L.P.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban[https://blobsvc.wort.lu/picture/c593c204c13917e69dae0bcfce9075ee/1350/900/wortv3/6b735de0302959381a4f799835e8047dbfe284a4]

Mediahuis Luxembourg

文件 LUXTIM0020220506ei560008d


Russia: EU to give Hungary and Slovakia more time to give up on Russian oil imports
480 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Hungary remains main impediment to oil embargo

Other sanctions include cutting off Sberbank from SWIFT

Blacklisting more Russian companies and Putin's mistress

The EU will grant Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic exception from the embargo on Russian oil that should enter into force by the year-end, Bloomberg and Euronews reported quoting sources close to the matter. Namely, Hungary and Slovakia should be allowed to buy Russian oil until end-2024 rather than end-2023 as previously reported. At the same time, an exception will also be made for the Czech Republic, which will be able to continue to purchase Russian crude until Jun 2024. The country may implement the embargo earlier, if it is connected to the Transapline Pipeline quickly. Neither Hungary, nor Slovakia or the Czech Republic will be allowed to sell Russian oil to other countries. This should guarantee a severe blow for the Russian energy sector as the weight of the three Central European countries in EU oil purchases is limited and the biggest buyers, including Germany and the Netherlands, will give up on Russian crude by the year-end. The embargo will not cover oil from other countries that is transported through Russia. This likely addressed concern from Budapest, which complained it will not be able to buy crude from Kazakhstan as the ban would prevent shipment through the Druzhba pipeline.

Nevertheless, Hungarian PM Victor Orban continued to express opposition to the oil ban plans, commenting this will have catastrophic consequences for the Hungarian economy. At the same time, Slovak Deputy EconMin Karol Galek said that his country needs three more years to give up Russian oil and that negotiations continue. Czech PM Petr Fiala sounded more prone to concession saying the things are going in the right direction. The negotiations started on Wednesday and according to Euronews sources may extend into the weekend

The EU also intends to ban EU-based companies to transport Russian oil to non-oil countries. However, objections to this came from Greece, Cyprus and Malta and thus the three countries should be given three additional months to implement the ban.

Other measures in the sixth sanction package proposed by the EC include:

Disconnecting three more banks from SWIFT, including Russia's largest lender Sberbank.

Restrictions on purchases of real estate in the EU by Russian entities and individuals.

Prohibition on providing consulting services to Russian entities and trade in some chemicals.

Blacklist Alina Kabaeva, who is believed to be Putin's mistress and mother of two of his children. Reportedly, such sanctions were left out of previous Western sanction package as it was considered too personal.

Blacklist military personnel, including people believed to have participated in the Bucha war crimes. Sanction more companies providing services and equipment to the Russian army.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220509ei5600017


Hungary in bind over Russian oil as EU pushes embargo
Marton Dunai in Budapest and Andy Bounds in Brussels
916 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日 04:00 GMT
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
英文
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.
Alternative supply routes are few and refineries are tooled to process crude from Moscow

Hungary’s resistance to EU plans to hit Russia with an oil embargo might seem yet another aspect of the hostile relationship between Brussels and Viktor Orbán’s government, but officials and oil industry executives have stressed practical concerns behind Budapest’s stance.

Landlocked and with an oil pipeline infrastructure that points towards Moscow, Hungary says it would find an embargo on the import of Russian oil and fuel nearly impossible to handle.

Hungary’s government has said it cannot support the EU’s plan to ban Russian crude and fuel imports unless it exempts countries that rely exclusively on Russian pipelines to import their crude needs, putting the plan on hold as it requires unanimous backing from all 27 member states.

Under Orbán, disputes with the EU over corruption or democratic values have led to a stand-off that now threatens Budapest with financial penalties running to billions of euros, while Orbán has also been one of the EU leaders closest to Russian president Vladimir Putin. But Péter Szijjártó, Hungary’s foreign minister, said his government’s reluctance to sanction Russian oil with an embargo was “not a matter of a lack of political will or timing”.

“It is the simple geographical, physical, infrastructural reality . . . Hungary’s energy supplies are secure at the moment, but this sanctions package would completely ruin that security,” said Szijjártó.

EU diplomats believe Hungary will eventually be brought round, possibly by a promise of funding for new infrastructure. “They always negotiate hard but they backed the other five [sanctions] packages,” said one.

In a letter to European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen on Thursday, prime minister Orbán said Hungary was unable to support the EU’s latest sanctions plan “in its current form”.

“The sanctions would require diverting necessary national resources to redundant fossil investments while relevant funding from the EU is available to us only on paper,” Orbán wrote.

Zsolt Hernádi, chief executive of the Budapest-based multinational energy group MOL, said Hungary had neither physical access to sufficient other sources nor the technology to refine oil from elsewhere.

Hernádi said central Europe was fighting a “big fish / little fish problem . . . Western Europe has for decades built cheaper, smaller refineries, with a lot of capacity outsourced to the Middle East, for the seaborne, light Brent crude . . . So they are a lot less affected by a potential Russian oil embargo.”

Hungary and some other eastern European states cover most of their crude imports via the Soviet-era Druzhba pipeline, which traverses Ukraine. One alternative route exists: the Adria pipeline from the Croatian coast, which could theoretically cover 80 per cent of the region’s needs via seaborne crude, Hernádi said.

MOL’s refineries around the region include the only ones in Hungary and Slovakia.

Hernádi said the company had spent billions of dollars over decades to develop the technology to process the oil supplied via Druzhba — standardised blend of 70 various oilfields, called REBCO, or Russian Export Blend Crude Oil.

If either Russia or the EU decides to sever the crude ties completely, MOL’s refineries would have to be retooled again, a process that may take years and cost around half a billion dollars, Hernádi said.

MOL would have to find a replacement that matches REBCO in dozens of necessary parameters to produce the same range of products.

“In an embargo, it would be impossible to ensure market supply at even 60, 70 per cent of the current level,” he said. “We would have to prepare for at least three or four years of a shortage economy in Hungary, but also in Czechia, Slovakia and Bulgaria.”

Slovakia and Hungary were offered an extra year until the end of 2023 but Karol Galek, state secretary at the Slovak economy ministry, said it needed three years to convert its refinery — which also supplies Austria, the Czech Republic and Ukraine. It would cost up to €250mn, he added.

Jozef Sikela, Czech industry minister, wants a similar deal for Prague and said: “The pain should be shared equally.” Two EU diplomats said Bulgaria and Greece had asked for an objective criteria for who deserves extra time, suggesting any concession would have to be extended to other countries.

Budapest is also beholden to Russia for natural gas imports — with a long-term gas supply agreement signed just last year — and nuclear energy, with a project to expand a nuclear power plant that it has stood by despite years of delays even before the invasion of Ukraine.

The Hungarian government is contemplating ways to manage energy imports but the constraints are especially hard in the oil sector with no solutions readily available, according to sources with knowledge of the situation.

Any transition away form Russian oil would take time and cost money, which makes Hungary’s reservations warranted, said Tamás Pletser, an oil and gas market analyst at Erste Bank in Hungary.

“This is a politically supercharged question but there is an objective reality behind it,” Pletser said. “There are intense talks about it and the agreement will probably cover a transition period of a certain length. In the end, these countries may indeed end up using Russian oil longer term.”

Pletser said the EU could sweeten the deal with substantial financial support for alternative, parallel infrastructure, which would otherwise be uneconomical.

The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)

文件 FTCOM00020220506ei56000jo


LITHUANIA: FM CRITICIZES HUNGARY'S SANCTIONS RETICENCE
326 字
2022 年 5 月 6 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2022. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
The EU 's sixth sanctions package, which includes a ban on Russian oil imports, will be a significant step forward, says Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis . The reluctance of countries like Hungary to support it can be overcome, he believes.

The EU has proposed giving up Russian oil imports until the end of the year, although Hungary and Slovakia are being offered later deadlines to comply with the sanctions. Hungary's Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on May 4 the oil ban would undermine his country's energy security.

"We can't responsibly support this version of the Brussels sanctions package, we can't responsibly vote for it," he said in a Facebook video, adding that Hungary needed an exemption for crude oil imported via pipelines.

Lithuania's Landsbergis criticized the position.

"The situation we observe in the public sphere gives the impression that one country can hold the entire sanctions policy hostage. This is not fair," Landsbergis said. "Hungary is raising pressure on its EU partners by saying publicly that it will never give up Russian oil and is asking for very big exemptions."

However, "I believe that the ongoing search for compromise will be successful" to reconcile Hungary's energy needs and the EU 's sanction policies, Landsbergis believes.

EU member states are now more united on sanctions than before, he said, and the only delaying factor was considerations about their impact on the EU 's own economies.

"I think the biggest reason why this has changed is the shift in attitude of the German government ," he said. "Germany was always a few weeks behind what Russia was doing, dragging its feet with sanctions, with its aid to Ukraine, and there was a great deal of frustration about that, both in Europe and in Germany itself. Now, I think, Germany has caught up and is pursuing policies on Russia, on Ukraine, on sanctions." (LRT/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020220506ei560001f


Russian invasion of Ukraine
RUSSIA; no agreement between Member States on sixth sanctions package
586 字
2022 年 5 月 7 日
Bulletin Quotidien Europe
AGEU
2
12947
英文
Copyright 2022. Agence Europe All Rights Reserved
Brussels, 06/05/2022 (Agence Europe) – EU Member States had still not agreed on the sixth package of sanctions against Russia by the time of publication on Friday 6 May. The meeting of Member States’ ambassadors on Friday morning failed to reach an agreement, and discussions between the Member States and the European Commission continued on Friday. Discussions are expected to continue over the weekend. There is still no unanimity on the oil embargo. On 4 May, the European Commission proposed an embargo on Russian oil by the end of the year, with a proposed derogation for Hungary and Slovakia until the end of 2023. Faced with the reluctance of several Member States, a new proposal was made to extend the derogation for Hungary and Slovakia, as well as the Czech Republic, until the end of 2024. But this is not enough for Budapest.

According to several European sources, the reluctance is not linked to a political problem, but to a material one, with supply and infrastructure issues for some Member States.

On Friday morning, in an interview with Kossuth Rádió, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán expressed his opposition to the oil embargo. He said the European Commission had crossed “a red line” and “attacked European unity”. “I said ‘yes’ to the first five packages of sanctions, but we made it clear from the start that there was a red line: the energy embargo. They have crossed that line (...), there is a moment when you have to say ‘stop’”, explained the Prime Minister.

Mr Orbán said an embargo “would be like a nuclear bomb dropped on the Hungarian economy”, estimating that it would take 5 years to completely transform the Hungarian transport and energy supply model. He explained that his country would accept the European Commission’s proposal if crude oil delivered by pipelines was excluded from the package. “As long as the Hungarian question is not resolved, there will be no Hungarian ‘yes’”, Mr Orbán warned.

In addition, the proposal to sanction the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill, is dividing the Member States. “We will not allow church leaders to be put on a sanctions list”, Mr Orbán warned.

On the same day, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, sought to reassure. “The countries that are hesitating today are not yet ready”, she admitted in a video conference for a congress organised by the German daily FAZ, saying she was convinced that the package would be adopted. “If it takes one more day, it will take one more day”, said Mrs von der Leyen. The initial aim was for the package to enter into force ahead of 9 May, Europe Day in the EU and Victory over Nazi Germany Day in Russia.

For his part, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Josep Borrell, announced during a debate in Florence that, if the ambassadors of the EU27 were unable to reach an agreement, he would convene an extraordinary Foreign Affairs Council in the week following the Europe Day celebrations to discuss the situation.

“We can argue about the number of years needed to adopt an oil embargo, but it is unacceptable to link an embargo to something that has nothing to do with it, such as funding through Next Generation EU, apart from any policy reason”, he warned. (Original version in French by Camille-Cerise Gessant with editorial staff)

Agence Europe SA

文件 AGEU000020220507ei570000b


CE Noticias Financieras English
EU tries to agree on sanctions against Russian oil on Sunday
502 字
2022 年 5 月 7 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The ambassadors of the European Union will meet this Sunday to try to move forward the sixth package of sanctions against Russia for the war in Ukraine, which provides for a ban on oil imports from this country, although with a transition period and exceptions to the most dependent partners.

The capitals continued this Saturday with contacts at a technical level to overcome the reluctance of countries such as Hungary, Slovakia or the Czech Republic, although no meeting at ambassadorial level was convened during the day, which is scheduled for this Sunday.

According to diplomatic sources, the meeting will be "a priori at noon" with the objective of resolving the differences that persist on crude oil and "confirming" that there are no problems on the rest of the elements of the package.

With respect to oil, the same sources insist that "there is no political blockage", but it is necessary to look for "alternative" formulas to guarantee the supply of the hydrocarbon to countries which are dependent on crude oil sent by pipeline, a matter which "is not easy".

Talks on the rest of the retaliation package against Moscow, such as the exclusion of Swift from Sberbank or the new sanctioned individuals, are progressing "well", the same sources explain.

Being highly dependent on crude imports from Russia, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are asking for a longer transition period to divest themselves of their oil, even though Brussels has proposed an exception for Budapest and Bratislava that would give them one year longer than the rest to achieve this, until December 31, 2023.

Although it was not originally included in this special treatment, Prague has also publicly requested a postponement of two, or even three years, to disengage from Russian crude.

The EU executive's proposal, presented on Wednesday, aims to ban Russian oil imports into the EU six months after the sanctions come into force, while for refined oil the deadline is extended to eight months.

The sanctions would also veto any possible technical assistance, direct or indirect, and any intermediation services, including financial and insurance, that are related to the ban on Russian oil.

In addition, to prevent Russian oil tankers from circumventing the sanctions, the text calls for a ban on the transport of Russian oil in all its forms, including "ship-to-ship" cargo transfers from Russian vessels to other flagged cargo vessels.

On the financial front, Brussels proposes to add to the list of Russian banks excluded from the international Swift transaction system Sberbank, the country's largest, as well as the Agricultural Bank of Russia, wholly owned by the State, and the Moscow Credit Bank.

Brussels has also proposed to sanction individuals, such as the Russian colonel known as "the Butcher of Bucha" or the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, and some twenty companies linked to the Ministry of Defense or the Russian Army, as well as three media outlets.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220507ei570081w


News
EU weighs giving Hungary time and cash to agree oil sanctions
SAM FLEMING ; ANDY BOUNDS
668 字
2022 年 5 月 7 日
Financial Times
FTFT
1; Asia
2
英文
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.
Energy crisis

The EU is considering providing more time and money to Hungary to adapt to an embargo on Russian oil after talks on Brussels' plans for sanctions have become "stuck", the bloc's foreign affairs chief said.

Josep Borrell, high representative for foreign policy, told the Financial Times that he understood why Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic were resisting European Commission plans for the EU's sixth sanctions package on Moscow. The three countries rely on the Druzhba pipeline bringing heavy crude from Russia.

"I understand their position. If I were in their shoes I would say, 'Look I have a problem.' It is not bad will," Borrell said of Budapest's objections. "It is a matter of time and it is a matter of money. We cannot put on the table proposals that do not fit with reality."

Landlocked and with an oil pipeline infrastructure that points towards Moscow, Hungary says it would find an embargo on the import of Russian oil and fuel nearly impossible to handle. Its government has said it cannot support the EU's plan to ban Russian crude and fuel imports unless it exempts countries that rely exclusively on Russian pipelines for their crude needs, putting the plan on hold, as it requires unanimous backing from all 27 member states.

Diplomats expect all three countries to be given more time to wean themselves off Russian oil in new proposals from the commission, the EU's executive, yesterday. While most countries would have to ban Russian crude within six months, Hungary and Slovakia would have until the end of 2024. The Czech Republic would be offered until June 2024, which should satisfy Prague.

Borrell added that EU member state ambassadors in Brussels would be given the weekend to reach a deal, but that if the deadlock remained he would propose handing the matter over to European foreign ministers.

Under Viktor Orbán, Hungary's prime minister, disputes with the EU over corruption or democratic values have led to a stand-off that now threatens Budapest with financial penalties running to billions of euros, while Orbán has also been one of the EU leaders closest to Vladimir Putin, the Russian president. But Péter Szijjártó, Hungary's foreign minister, said his government's reluctance to sanction Russian oil with an embargo was "not a matter of a lack of political will or timing", adding: "It is the simple geographical, physical, infrastructural reality ... Hungary's energy supplies are secure at the moment, but this sanctions package would completely ruin that security."

Borrell said they faced an "objective problem" and that Orbán was not simply trying to make trouble. "It's not because Hungary is closer to Moscow,"

he said. "We have to take into account the specific situation of each country. Hungary is a landlocked country. There is no other pipe bringing oil to Hungary but the one coming from Russia and going directly to their refinery, which is created for the physical characteristics of the Russian oil."

The things that could be changed in the package were time and money, he said. "How much does it cost to make this refinery ready to treat another kind of oil?" Money "is not on the table but I wouldn't be surprised if someone says 'to refine another kind of oil I need to make a lot of investment'".

Borrell said it would be better to find a deal and move ahead quickly, since the countries accounted for only a small part of EU oil demand from Russia.

An EU ban on Russian gas, which accounts for 40 per cent of EU demand, remained some way off, he said, because it was vital for many industrial sectors including petrochemicals. Germany did not yet have facilities to import liquefied natural gas as an alternative.

"This problem can be solved and will be solved but it will not be solved overnight," Borrell said.

The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)

文件 FTFT000020220507ei570000r


The Ukraine Crisis: Hungary Holds Up EU Agreement to Sanction Russian Oil
By Laurence Norman
430 字
2022 年 5 月 7 日
The Wall Street Journal
J
A7
英文
Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
The European Union is struggling to finalize the terms of an oil embargo on Russia amid resistance by Hungary, whose leader claimed Friday that the proposed embargo would hit his economy like an atomic bomb.

Prime Minister Viktor Orban has long cultivated close ties with Moscow and hasn't joined other EU and North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries in trying to arm Ukraine. He is insisting on more time and EU money if Hungary is to join the rest of the bloc in transitioning away from Russian oil, diplomats say.

Hungary's opposition means an oil-embargo deal wasn't approved Friday, as officials had hoped, but is still possible by Monday, according to people familiar with the EU's negotiations. All 27 member states need to agree to the sanctions package, the bloc's sixth since Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24.

The EU's executive body, the European Commission, recently sent member states a proposal that would see the bloc stop crude-oil purchases from Russia within six months, and ban the import of Russian refined oil products by year-end. The proposed sanctions include the removal of three more Russian banks from the Swift financial messaging network and a ban on providing services to Russia, including insurance for oil shipments.

The commission proposed offering Hungary and Slovakia, which are heavily dependent on Russian oil delivered via the Druzhba pipeline, a year longer than the rest of the EU to stop buying Russian energy imports.

However, in an updated proposal, circulated Friday by the commission, Hungary and Slovakia were offered until the end of 2024 to cut off Russian oil imports. The Czech Republic, which has also lobbied for more time, would get until mid-2024.

Mr. Orban slammed the commission's proposal in an interview with state radio Friday. "The proposal on the table now creates a Hungarian problem, and there is no plan to solve it," he said, saying his country needed five years to shift away from Russian energy.

Mr. Orban accused the commission of breaking EU unity over Ukraine, saying he had always warned that embargoes on Russian energy would be very hard on Hungary. Mr. Orban said the bloc's sanctions have hit the European economy harder than Russia's -- an argument that no other EU leaders have made.

Mr. Orban won re-election in April after pledging that his government would maintain a distance from the Ukraine war and reject measures that lead to Hungarian economic pain.

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 J000000020220507ei570002a


Ukraine crisis - Govt official: Hungary against sanctioning religious leaders
218 字
2022 年 5 月 8 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, May 8 (MTI) - Hungary rejects sanctions against

religious leaders, the state secretary for aiding persecuted

Christians told public television on Sunday, commenting on the

European Union's plan to sanction Patriarch Kirill, head of the

Russian Orthodox Church.

Tristan Azbej, who also heads the Hungary Helps aid programme,

said that whereas Hungary condemned Russia's attack on Ukraine and

supported various sanctions, Hungary supported brokering peace and

"sees counterproductive, nonsensical sanctions as harmful".

The Russian Orthodox Church has some 160 million members and

40,000 priests worldwide, Azbej noted, adding that the EU's "crazy"

proposal would ban the patriarch from entering the bloc, isolating

religious people from their spiritual leader.

The Syrian orthodox patriarch, the Armenian Apostolic Church,

and the Hungarian eparchy of the Russian Orthodox Church, among

others, have turned to Prime Minister Viktor Orban, "the last voice

of Christianity and common sense in the EU", regarding the European

Commission's proposal, which he said would create a dangerous

precedent of "keeping other churches in check, and subjecting them

to politically motivated sanctions".

Hungary sees religious freedom as "sacred and inviolable", and

will not support sanctioning religious leaders, he said.

Meanwhile, Hungary has provided aid worth 2 billion forints

(EUR 5.2) to Ukraine, he said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220508ei58000dx


CE Noticias Financieras English
Day 74 of invasion: EU fails to reach agreement on ban on Russian crude oil purchases
513 字
2022 年 5 月 8 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The countries of the European Union (EU) were unable to reach an agreement on Sunday to ban oil imports from Russia in response to the war in Ukraine, because of the difficulties posed for some partners by their dependence on crude oil from Moscow.

The meeting of the EU-27 ambassadors to the EU began at about midday and lasted for an hour and a half, diplomatic sources explain, without the European capitals managing to unblock the reserves of countries such as Hungary, Slovakia or the Czech Republic.

The oil embargo continues to be the main difficulty in moving forward with the bloc's sixth retaliation package against the Kremlin, despite the fact that the European Commission's original proposal contemplates a generic withdrawal period until the end of the year and gives Hungary and Slovakia an extra year because of their dependence on imports of Russian crude oil by pipeline.

During the last hours "very important progress" has been made on "most of the elements" that make up the package, but "work remains to be done" to reach an agreement, the same sources specify.

In particular, on the guarantees sought by Budapest, Bratislava and Prague to ensure a sufficient supply of this hydrocarbon when they renounce Russian crude, on which they are very dependent through imports by pipeline.

The European club's objective, therefore, is to continue contacts "at all levels" at the beginning of next week in order to reach an agreement on the sixth package of sanctions "as quickly as possible".

The EU executive's proposal, presented on Wednesday, aims to ban Russian oil imports into the EU six months after the entry into force of the sanctions, while in the case of refined oil the deadline is extended to eight months.

In the case ofHungary and Slovakia, they would enjoy a longer period, until December 31, 2023, but both countries find it short and they were also joined by the Czech Republic, which asked for three years.

In any case, the sanctions would also veto any possible technical assistance, direct or indirect, and any intermediation services, including financial and insurance, related to the ban on Russian oil.

In addition, to prevent Russian oil tankers from circumventing the sanctions, the text calls for a ban on the transport of Russian oil in all its forms, including"ship-to-ship" cargo transfers from Russian vessels to other flagged cargo vessels.

On the other hand, Brussels proposes to add to the list of Russian banks excluded from the international Swift transaction system Sberbank, the largest in the country, as well as the Agricultural Bank of Russia, wholly owned by the State, and the Moscow Credit Bank.

Brussels has also proposed to sanction individuals, such as the Russian colonel known as "the Butcher of Bucha" or the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, and some twenty companies linked to the Ministry of Defense or the Russian Army, as well as three media outlets.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220508ei580052h


CE Noticias Financieras English
EU still no agreement to ban oil purchases from Russia
508 字
2022 年 5 月 8 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Madrid 8 MAY 2022 - 15:28CEST European Union countries were unable to reach an agreement on Sunday to ban oil imports from Russia in response to the war in Ukraine, because of the difficulties posed for some partners by their dependence on Moscow's crude. The European club's goal, therefore, is to continue contacts "at all levels" early next week to reach "as quickly as possible" an agreement on the sixth sanctions package.

The meeting of the ambassadors of the EU-27 to the EU began at approximately midday and lasted for an hour and a half, diplomatic sources explain, without the European capitals managing to unblock the reserves of countries such as Hungary, Slovakia or the Czech Republic.

The oil embargo continues to be the main difficulty in moving forward with the bloc's sixth retaliation package against the Kremlin, despite the fact that the European Commission's original proposal contemplates a generic withdrawal period until the end of the year and gives Hungary and Slovakia an extra year because of their dependence on imports of Russian crude oil by pipeline.

During the last hours "very important progress" has been made on "most of the elements" that make up the package, but "work remains to be done" to reach an agreement, the same sources specify.

In particular, on the guarantees sought by Budapest, Bratislava and Prague to ensure a sufficient supply of this hydrocarbon when they renounce Russian crude, on which they are very dependent through imports by pipeline.

Possible sanctions The proposal of the Community Executive, presented on Wednesday, aims to ban imports of Russian oil into the EU six months after the entry into force of the sanctions, while in the case of refined oil the period is extended to eight months

. In the case of Hungary and Slovakia, they would enjoy a longer period, until December 31, 2023, but both countries find it short and they were also joined by the Czech Republic, which asked for three years.

In any case, the sanctions would also veto any possible technical assistance, direct or indirect, and any intermediation services, including financial and insurance, related to the ban on Russian oil. In addition, to prevent Russian oil tankers from circumventing the sanctions, the text calls for a ban on the transport of Russian oil in all its forms, including "ship-to-ship" cargo transfers from Russian vessels to other flagged cargo vessels.

On the other hand, Brussels proposes to add to the list of Russian banks excluded from the international Swift transaction system Sberbank, the largest in the country, as well as the Agricultural Bank of Russia, wholly owned by the State, and the Moscow Credit Bank.

Brussels has also proposed to sanction individuals, such as the Russian colonel known as "the Butcher of Bucha" or the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, and some twenty companies linked to the Ministry of Defense or the Russian Army, as well as three media outlets.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220508ei58005cs


Lithuanian foreign minister says that Hungary cannot hold EU hostage on oil sanctions
351 字
2022 年 5 月 8 日 18:02 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
The EU’s sixth sanctions package, which includes a sweeping ban on Russian oil imports, will be a significant step forward, says Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis. The reluctance of countries like Hungary to support it can be overcome, he believes, LRT.lt, the website of national broadcaster LRT, reported on May 6.

The EU has proposed giving up Russian oil imports by the end of the year, although Hungary and Slovakia are being offered later deadlines to comply with the sanctions. Hungary’s foreign minister Péter Szijjarto said on May 4 even a postponement of the oil ban would undermine his country’s energy security.

“We can’t responsibly support this version of the Brussels sanctions package, we can’t responsibly vote for it,” he said in a Facebook video, adding that Hungary needs an exemption for crude oil imported via pipelines.

Lithuania’s Landsbergis criticised the position.

“The situation we observe in the public sphere gives the impression that one country can hold the entire sanctions policy hostage. This is not fair,” Landsbergis told LRT TV on May 4. “Hungary is raising pressure on its EU partners by saying publicly that it will never give up [Russian oil] and is asking for very big exemptions.”

However, “I believe that the ongoing search for compromise will be successful” to reconcile Hungary’s energy needs and the EU’s sanction policies, Landsbergis believes.

EU member states are now more united on sanctions than before, he said, and the only delaying factor is considerations about their impact on the EU’s own economies.

“I think the biggest reason why this has changed is the shift in attitude of the German government,” he told LRT TV. “Germany was always a few weeks behind what Russia was doing, dragging its feet with sanctions, with its aid to Ukraine, and there was a great deal of frustration about that, both in Europe and in Germany itself. Now, I think, Germany has caught up and is pursuing policies on Russia, on Ukraine, on sanctions.”

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220508ei58000ru


MTI News roundup
559 字
2022 年 5 月 9 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, May 9 (MTI) - See MTI's main stories from the previous

three days below:

HUNGARY WON'T VOTE FOR NEW EU SANCTIONS

Hungary will withhold its vote for the latest EU package of

sanctions unless a solution is found to Hungary's concerns over its

energy security, the foreign minister has said. "Today I spoke by

phone again with my friend Shahid Abdullah, president of the United

Nations General Assembly, whom I often consult with regard to the

war in Ukraine," Peter Szijjarto wrote on Facebook.

DEUTSCH: HUNGARIAN LEFT-WING MEPS ARE FIGHTING AGAINST THEIR

OWN COUNTRY

Hungarian left-wing MEPs are doing all they can to undermine

their own country, Fidesz MEP Tamas Deutsch told public radio in an

interview on Sunday. Deutsch accused Hungarian left-wing MEPs of

spreading "the biggest possible lies" about the coronavirus

epidemic. He also insisted that besides the Polish opposition led

by Donald Tusk, Poland's former prime minister, only Hungarian

left-wing MEPs had taken "every opportunity ... to snoop against

their own country".

GOVT OFFICIAL: HUNGARY AGAINST SANCTIONING RELIGIOUS LEADERS

Hungary rejects sanctions against religious leaders, the state

secretary for aiding persecuted Christians told public television

on Sunday, commenting on the European Union's plan to sanction

Patriarch Kirill, head of the Russian Orthodox Church. Tristan

Azbej, who also heads the Hungary Helps aid programme, said that

whereas Hungary condemned Russia's attack on Ukraine and supported

various sanctions, Hungary supported brokering peace and "sees

counterproductive, nonsensical sanctions as harmful".

MOL SUPPORTING UKRAINIAN ENERGY NETWORK

Hungarian oil and gas company MOL is supporting the Ukrainian

energy network's operations, and has so far offered material

support worth 290,000 euros as part of the International

Association of Oil and Gas Producers (IOGP) equipment support

programme. Responding to Ukraine's specific requests, MOL

transported equipment worth 50,000 euros to the border.

JAKAB RE-ELECTED AS JOBBIK LEADER

Peter Jakab was re-elected as leader of the opposition Jobbik

party at a party conference on Saturday. Jobbik's press office

said Jakab received 71.4 percent of the votes, while his opponent,

Janos Stummer, got 27.8 percent. Of the 245 ballots cast, 243 were

valid, the statement said.

NEZOPONT: ONLY GYURCSÁNY LESS POPULAR THAN JAKAB

Peter Jakab, on the cusp of re-election as the Jobbik party's

leader, has been outdone in the unpopularity stakes only by Ferenc

Gyurcsany, the former Socialist prime minister who now leads the

Democratic Coalition, according to a survey by the Nézőpont

Institute. Only 23 percent of active voters thought Jakab should

fill a top post, the survey published on Saturday found.

KOVER: HUNGARY FACING 'EROSION OF PARLT NORMS'

Hungary is facing the erosion of parliamentary norms as a new

generation of parliamentarians seem unwilling to adhere to house

rules, Speaker of Parliament Laszlo Kover said in an interview

broadcast on public radio on Sunday. Put to him that the opposition

had accused him of being overly "strict" with opposition lawmakers,

Kövér said the new generation of MPs entering parliament "do not

have a sense of the moral responsibility or the dignity" of the

chamber.

POLICE: OVER 14,000 REFUGEES ARRIVE FROM UKRAINE ON SATURDAY

Fully 6,079 people crossed into Hungary directly from Ukraine

on Saturday, while another 8,179 from Ukraine crossed via Romania,

the national police headquarters said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220509ei590002t


Szijjarto: Hungary not to support new EU sanctions against Russia
158 字
2022 年 5 月 9 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, May 9 (MTI) - Hungary will not support the European

Commission's sanctions against Russia as "problematic for the

country" and "not offering a solution", Foreign Minister Peter

Szijjarto said in parliament on Monday.

"Hungarians must not be made to pay the price of the war," he

said.

The Hungarian government's position has been clear since the

outbreak of the war, Szijjarto said. It wants peace in Ukraine as

soon as possible and will support all diplomatic efforts to that

end, he added. He also noted that the government had voted for the

first five sanction packages, but added that compromising Hungary's

energy supplies would be a "red line".

The current proposal "equals a nuclear bomb", he insisted,

which would compromise the security of Hungary's energy supplies

and, if passed, it would make it impossible for Hungary to purchase

the oil crucial for its economy.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220509ei5900105


UPDATE - Szijjarto: Hungary not to support new EU sanctions against Russia (adds details)
268 字
2022 年 5 月 9 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, May 9 (MTI) - Hungary will not support the European

Commission's sanctions against Russia as "problematic for the

country" and "not offering a solution", Foreign Minister Peter

Szijjarto said in parliament on Monday.

"Hungarians must not be made to pay the price of the war," he

said. The Hungarian government makes a "clear distinction between

attacker and victim", it condemns Russia's military aggression and

supports Ukraine's sovereignty, he said. Hungary launched "the

greatest aid programme of all times" to help Ukraine and has so far

accommodated nearly 700,000 refugees, he said.

The Hungarian government's position has been clear since the

outbreak of the war, Szijjarto said. It wants peace in Ukraine as

soon as possible and will support all diplomatic efforts to that

end, he added. He also noted that the government had voted for the

first five sanction packages, but added that compromising Hungary's

energy supplies would be a "red line". European leaders earlier

agreed that they would only support measures that "take into

consideration the different energy supply structure of each

member", Szijjarto said, and insisted that the current proposal

would violate that consensus.

The current proposal "equals a nuclear bomb", he insisted,

which would compromise the security of Hungary's energy supplies

and, if passed, it would make it impossible for Hungary to purchase

the oil crucial for its economy. Passing the new sanctions would

raise the price of petrol in Hungary to 700 forints per litre and

that of diesel to 800 forints, Szijjarto said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220509ei590012x


EU's von der Leyen Heads to Hungary to Discuss Russian Oil Embargo -- WSJ
By Laurence Norman
441 字
2022 年 5 月 9 日 16:34 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is headed to Budapest Monday evening to meet with Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán as Brussels seeks to persuade Hungary (https://www.wsj.com/articles/hungary-holds-up-eu-deal-to-sanction-russian-oil-11651843279[https://www.wsj.com/articles/hungary-holds-up-eu-deal-to-sanction-russian-oil-11651843279]) to sign onto an embargo on Russian oil.

Ms. von der Leyen's previously unannounced visit comes after a weekend of negotiations between Hungary and the European Commission, the EU's executive body, over the help Brussels would provide Mr. Orbán's government to re-boot Hungary's energy system to wean itself off Russian oil.

On Monday, Hungary's foreign minister said his government can't support the EU's oil embargo, the centerpiece of the bloc's latest sanctions package, because it would "destroy our stable energy supply," according to a government spokesman.

However, EU officials say the talks between Hungary and the Commission have advanced, with the bloc prepared to offer Hungary more time to stop importing Russian oil and guarantees and assistance to ensure Hungary can find energy alternatives.

One senior EU official said Ms. von der Leyen hoped to finalize a deal with Hungary on the trip on Monday.

Last week, the European Commission circulated a sixth sanctions package against Russia over its Ukraine invasion. The package proposed that EU member states stop importing Russian crude oil in six months and stop importing refined oil products by year-end. The sanctions need the backing of all 27 member states.

However, the Commission offered Hungary and Slovakia 20 months to stop importing Russian oil. Those countries have said that isn't enough time; and in a revised proposal on Friday, the Commission said they could give them until the end of 2024. The Commission is also offering the Czech Republic two years to wean itself off Russian oil. Bulgaria and Croatia are also both seeking EU assistance or more time.

Complicating the talks with Hungary are years of tension between Mr. Orbán', who recently won a sweeping re-election victory, and EU authorities. That includes the EU withholding billions of euros in coronavirus recovery money over its concerns about rule-of-law in Hungary and a recent move to potentially freeze future budget payments to Hungary.

NOTE: In-line links reference additional content of interest chosen by the WSJ news team.

This item is part of a Wall Street Journal live coverage event. The full stream can be found by searching P/WSJL (WSJ Live Coverage).

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

May 09, 2022 12:34 ET (16:34 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020220509ei590031s


Russian uranium ban would hit centraleast Europe hard
738 字
2022 年 5 月 9 日
European Daily Electricity Markets
EURODE
英文
© 2022 Reed Business Information Ltd.
LONDON (ICIS)--Should a ban on Russian uranium imports be backed by the European Commission, the cost of obeying sanctions would be high for centraleast Europe.

The ban, backed by Germany, could also impact plant supply contracts with Russian companies.

Few plants in centraleast Europe have shown indication of diversifying supply and remain reliant on Russian fuel. By contrast, Nordic utilities have indicated willingness to break ties with Russia.

In the plant supply sector, sanctions against Russia are proving troublesome for Finland, but a deal between Hungary and Russia’s Rosatom for the Paks II nuclear power plant shows little sign of falling through.

Hungary and Slovakia, both of which are reliant on Russian uranium, have also dragged their feet over a proposed sixth package of sanctions.

NORDIC PRODUCERS BREAK TIES WITH RUSSIA

Nuclear power production across the Nordic region is limited to Finland and Sweden, accounting for 26.1% and 29.4% of electricity generation respectively.

Any potential sanction on Russian nuclear fuel would present a challenge, however the impact in Sweden would be limited. Of 6.9GW operational Swedish nuclear capacity, only the 1450MW Oskarshamn plant uses Russian uranium. Even most of this plant’s uranium comes from Canada.

A spokesperson for Vattenfall, the owner of Forsmark and Ringhals plants, also said they did not expect any risks to their supply of nuclear fuel, as the fuel is sourced from Canada, Australia, Kazakhstan.

But Finland, where nuclear generation represents the primary source of power in the country, holds closer relationships with Russian organisations for the supply of nuclear fuel or plant supply.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine led to the termination of plant supply contracts between plant operator Fennovoima and Rosatom. Rosatom had been assigned the role of plant supplier for the now stalled Hanhikivi nuclear plant project.

Rosatom stated its disappointment and referred to potential legal action, saying it “reserves the right to defend our interests’’ in one of its press releases.

Fortum, operator of the Loviisa power plant, also holds its nuclear fuel agreement with Russian fuel company TVEL, which falls under the Rosatom family of companies. The contracts are set to last until the end of the plants operational licenses expire in 2027 and 2030.

In relation to the recent applications for extended operating licenses, a spokesperson for the operator noted that “a new tendering process for nuclear fuel will be initiated.”

The same source added that while the company did “not want to speculate on possible future sanctions,” they were monitoring the “development of sanctions and possible counter-sanctions.”

RUSSIAN FUEL RETAINS GRIP ON CENTRALEAST EUROPE

Several countries in central and southeast Europe rely on sizeable nuclear assets for much of their power production, with Hungary’s 2GW Paks plant, for instance, covering around 50% of the country’s consumption.

Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian and Bulgarian government agencies did not reply to requests for comment on nuclear fuel supply by the time of publication.

A spokesman for Czech plant operator CEZ told ICIS that 2GW Temelin nuclear power plant is currently supplied by TVEL. However, on the basis of a nuclear fuel tender completed in April 2022, the plant will be supplied Westinghouse and Framatome from 2024. Also in Czech Republic, Dukovany nuclear plant is sourcing nuclear fuels from Czech-based UJV Rez according to CEZ’s 2022 Annotation Report.

A spokesperson for Krsko Nuclear Plant in Slovenia, which also supplies Croatia, said Urenco – a British-German-Dutch consortium - is the supplier of enriched uranium for the Krso Nuclear Power Plant (NEK).

However according to the World Nuclear Association (WNA) data, Slovakia receives all of its nuclear fuel from Russian TVEL, while Bulgaria purchases the fuel via Techsnabexport (Tenex), a TVEL subsidiary. Hungary also sources all of its uranium from TVEL.

In the plant supply sector, the Hungarian government’s international communications office posted a press release on Friday on the subject of the Paks II nuclear expansion. According to the press release, Rosatom leaders assured the foreign minister in recent talks they would be able to complete the project.

In terms of replacing Russian uranium, Kazakhstan could be a possible candidate. WNA said the country was the world’s biggest uranium exporter and Kazakhstamprom, the country’s uranium producer, said its uranium production would reach record highs in 2021 and 2022.

Click to view image[https://www.icis.com/assets/getasset.aspx?ItemID=990611]

Additional reporting by Daniel Muir and Anne-Louise Petersen

Reed Business Information

文件 EURODE0020220509ei590002t


Business & Finance
Hungary continues to block EU oil sanctions against Russia
495 字
2022 年 5 月 9 日
Luxembourg Times
LUXTIM
英文
Copyright 2022 Mediahuis Luxembourg – All Rights Reserved
Hungary continued to block a European Union proposal that would ban Russian oil imports, holding up the bloc’s entire package of sanctions meant to target President Vladimir Putin over his war in Ukraine, according to people familiar with the talks.

A meeting of the EU’s 27 ambassadors ended on Sunday without an agreement, with talks expected to resume in the coming days, said the people, who asked not to be identified because the discussions were private. A ban on shipping Russian oil to third countries may also be delayed until Group of Seven countries commit to similar measures.

The EU’s proposal seeks to ban crude oil over the next six months and refined fuels by early January. The EU had offered Hungary and Slovakia until the end of 2024 to comply with the sanctions and the Czech Republic until June of the same year since they are heavily reliant on Russian crude.

The exemption failed to convince Hungary, which continued to block the plan on Sunday over the oil ban as well as how to fund the transition away from Russian energy, the people said.

The EU had been pushing to have the sanctions concluded by Russia’s May 9 Victory Day, which commemorates the end of World War II. The measures would increase the stakes for the bloc, which imported almost two-thirds of its crude oil from Russia in 2019. It would also put more pressure on Moscow since the EU is the single largest consumer of crude and fuel from Russia.

The leaders of the Group of Seven countries are also due to hold a video call later Sunday to discuss the war in Ukraine and the delay could limit what is announced.

Shipping, Insurance

Under an EU plan circulated to member states in the past week, European companies and individuals would be banned from providing vessels and services, such as insurance, needed to transport oil to third countries.

Greece and Cyprus want the shipping portion of that proposal delayed until after G-7 countries adopt similar measures, according to the people.

The EU is also proposing to:

- Cut three more Russian banks off the international payments system SWIFT, including Russia’s largest lender Sberbank.

- Restrict Russian entities and individuals from purchasing property in the EU.

- Ban providing consulting services to Russian companies and trade in a number of chemicals.

- Sanction Alina Kabaeva, a former Olympic gymnast who is “closely associated” with Vladimir Putin, according to an EU document; and Patriarch Kirill, who heads the Russian Orthodox Church and has been a vocal supporter of the Russian president and the war in Ukraine.

- Sanction dozens of military personnel, including those deemed responsible for reported war crimes in Bucha, as well as companies providing equipment, supplies and services to the Russian armed forces.

©2022 Bloomberg L.P.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban shown during a February visit to Brazil[https://blobsvc.wort.lu/picture/4d42f83968fa94ba1ee42db93b115a6e/1350/900/wortv3/a0c9f8ab86e476005ba18449d8551d05f4fdb4c1]

Mediahuis Luxembourg

文件 LUXTIM0020220508ei580002t


Hungary digs heels in over EU embargo on Russian oil
547 字
2022 年 5 月 10 日 13:43 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union's executive is looking to support Hungary in beefing up the eastern European state's oil pipelines, storage and refining capacity, a spokesman said on Tuesday, as Budapest dug its heels in over a Russian oil embargo.

Most other EU countries support banning Russian oil under a new sixth package of sanctions designed to punish Moscow for waging war on Ukraine. Unanimity is required for such a decision, however, with Hungary the most vocal critic.

Over dinner in Budapest on Monday, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen discussed investment in upgrading Hungarian oil infrastructure, a spokesman for the latter said on Tuesday.

"What is extremely important... is that we maintain unity of the European Union when it comes to sanctions against Russia, this is a collective effort," the spokesman, Eric Mamer, told a news conference.

"We hope the European Union can adopt the sanctions as quickly as possible."

Von der Leyen said more work was needed to reach agreement and that she would host a discussion about regional cooperation on oil infrastructure.

Mamer refused to say when that call would take place, adding that preparatory technical work was going on.

French President Emmanuel Macron also talked to Orban, the Elysee said on Tuesday, and France's EU minister said separately an agreement was possible this week. Member states' EU envoys are due to meet on the matter in Brussels on Wednesday.

WORK NEEDED

But comments from Budapest did not suggest an imminent breakthrough, with Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto saying the leaders' dinner marked "a small step forward" but that a lot more work was needed.

"The passing of this sanctions package would ruin our energy security," he said. "It would be impossible to purchase enough oil to keep Hungary and the Hungarian economy working."

"As long as the European Commission is not offering solutions to these problems, Hungary, obviously, cannot support this sanctions package as... an atomic bomb dropped on the Hungarian economy."

Orban said last week Hungary needed "vast investment" to modernise the country's energy system.

Some in EU hub Brussels made the link with the Commission, which criticises Orban for undercutting the rule of law, blocking Hungary's access to billions of euros intended to help economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic.

The Commission has also recently launched an unprecedented sanction, the so-called conditionality mechanism, over Hungary's persistently sluggish anti-corruption measures. It could cost Hungary more EU funds, an important driver of its development.

"What Viktor Orban's government is clearly looking for is extra money, a slow-walk on the conditionality mechanism, or both," said think-tank Eurointelligence.

Others worried Orban - who has cultivated close personal ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin - was seeking to ingratiate himself with Moscow and could drag the discussion out to the next summit of EU national leaders due on May 30.

"That would already be a win for Orban," said one EU diplomat, unhappy about the disagreement exposing divisions within the bloc and providing fuel to those criticising it for inefficiency.

(Additional reporting by Anita Komuves, Writing by Gabriela Baczynska, editing by Ed Osmond)

Released: 2022-5-10T13:43:49.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220510ei5a02v35


World news
Hopes for EU ban on Russian oil despite Hungary comparing plan to ‘nuclear bomb’
Jennifer Rankin in Brussels
627 字
2022 年 5 月 10 日 14:42 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2022. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
French minister says deal could come this week as Macron and Orbán try to break deadlockRussia-Ukraine war: latest updates

France has said a deal on a proposed EU ban on Russian oil could be struck this week, despite opposition from the Hungarian prime minister, Viktor Orbán, who has compared the plans to an atomic bomb.

The French president, Emmanuel Macron, held a phone call with Orbán in an effort to break the deadlock over the latest round of EU sanctions, the sixth since the eve of the invasion. There were “contacts at all levels to ensure we have a global deal on this sixth package”, a spokesperson at the Élysée Palace said after the call. Clément Beaune, a Macron ally and France’s Europe minister, said he thought “we could strike a deal this week”.

Meanwhile, Ursula von der Leyen said there had been progress after making a last-minute dash to Budapest to discuss the plans with Orbán on Monday night.

The European Commission president described the discussion as “helpful to clarify issues related to sanctions and energy security”. “We made progress, but further work is needed,” she added, promising to hold a video conference with other countries in the region to boost cooperation on oil infrastructure.

EU diplomats insist all 27 member states are united behind the idea of a ban on Russian oil, with sources close to the talks describing the delay as technical rather than political.

However, the EU had hoped to announce the oil embargo and a new set of sanctions on influential Russians before last weekend, following Von der Leyen’s presentation of the plans at the European parliament[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/04/ursula-von-der-leyen-says-putin-must-pay-high-price-as-she-proposes-oil-ban] last Wednesday.

About a quarter of the EU’s oil comes from Russia, but some countries use far more. Slovakia and Hungary, landlocked countries that are nearly 100%-dependent on Russian oil, have been offered a delay in imposing the oil embargo until the end of 2024, to enable them to overhaul their refineries. The Czech Republic has been offered a delay until June 2024, while the full ban would come into force for the rest of the EU by the end of this year.

Orbán said last week that “in its present form” the proposal was “tantamount to dropping a nuclear bomb on the Hungarian economy”. The Hungarian foreign minister, Péter Szijjártó, repeated the phrase before Monday’s talks with Von der Leyen, according to Orbán’s international spokesperson, Zoltán Kovács.

Hungary says it needs five years and hundreds of billions of forints to convert its Százhalombatta refinery near Budapest, which can only take Russian oil. Hungarian officials say they could get oil from Croatia, but this would require their southern neighbour to boost its capacity.

A European Commission spokesperson said on Tuesday that Von der Leyen had been invited by Orbán to discuss “issues related to European energy security and supply” and had gone to Budapest “to listen and to search for solutions jointly”. The discussion did not go into timelines on phasing out Russian oil in Hungary, the spokesperson said, but focused on oil transportation infrastructure.

Orbán has also threatened to block attempts to sanction Patriarch Kirill, the head of the Russian Orthodox church, who has described the attack on Ukraine as a “religious cleansing operation”[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/may/05/head-of-russian-orthodox-church-patriarch-kirill-eu-sanctions-list-draft].

Speaking on Hungarian radio last week, Orbán said the Orthodox community in Hungary had written to him protesting about the cleric’s inclusion on a draft list that would mean a travel ban and asset freezes in the EU. Orbán said he opposed imposing sanctions on church leaders “because that would affect the religious freedom of communities in Hungary, which is sacrosanct”.

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020220510ei5a001bh


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungary continues to criticize EU embargo on Russian oil
520 字
2022 年 5 月 10 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The European Union executive wants to support Hungary in bolstering the Eastern European country's pipelines, storage and refining capacity, a spokesman said Tuesday, as Budapest continues to criticize the Russian oil embargo.

Most EU countries favor banning Russian oil as part of a new sixth sanctions package aimed at punishing Moscow for the war against Ukraine. However, unanimity is required for such a decision, with Hungary being the most critical country.

At a dinner in Budapest on Monday, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen discussed investment in upgrading Hungarian oil infrastructure, a spokesman for the latter said on Tuesday.

"What is extremely important... is that we maintain the unity of the European Union when it comes to sanctions against Russia, this is a collective effort," the spokesman, Eric Mamer, told a news conference.

"We hope that the European Union will be able to adopt the sanctions as soon as possible."

Von der Leyen said further work was needed to reach an agreement and that he would organize a discussion on regional cooperation on oil infrastructure.

Mamer declined to say when such a convening would take place, adding that preparatory technical work was underway.

French President Emmanuel Macron also spoke with Orban, the Elysee said Tuesday, and the French EU minister said separately that a deal was possible this week. Envoys from EU member states are scheduled to meet on the issue in Brussels on Wednesday.

Work needed Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said the leaders' dinner was "a small step forward," but much more work was needed.

"Passing this sanctions package would ruin our energy security," he said. "It would be impossible to buy enough oil to keep Hungary and the Hungarian economy running."

"As long as the European Commission does not offer solutions to these problems, Hungary obviously cannot support this sanctions package...it would be like an atomic bomb dropped on the Hungarian economy."

Orban said last week that Hungary needed "major investments" to modernize the country's energy system. Some in the EU's Brussels heartland drew the link to the Commission, which criticizes Orban for undermining the rule of law by blocking Hungary's access to billions of euros meant to aid economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic.

The Commission also recently launched an unprecedented sanction, the so-called conditionality mechanism, for Hungary's persistently slow anti-corruption measures. It could cost Hungary more EU funds, an important driver of its development.

"What Viktor Orban 's government is clearly seeking is extra money, a slowdown of the conditionality mechanism, or both," said think tank Eurointelligence.

Others fear that Orban, who has cultivated close personal ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin, is seeking to ingratiate himself with Moscow and may drag out the debate until the next summit of EU national leaders, scheduled for May 30.

"That would already be a victory for Orban," said one EU diplomat, unhappy that the disagreement exposes divisions within the bloc and gives fuel to those who criticize him for ineffectiveness.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220510ei5a009b4


News
Brussels seeks 'backdoor' Russian oil ban
ELENI VARVITSIOTI ; SAM FLEMING; HARRY DEMPSEY
517 字
2022 年 5 月 10 日
Financial Times
FTFT
1; Asia
2
英文
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.
Penalties package

G7 lack of agreement and lobbying from Malta and Greece sink initial plan

Brussels has shelved its plans to ban the EU shipping industry from carrying Russian crude after failing to secure agreement from key partners to mirror the sanction.

However, the European Commission still aims to ban European companies from insuring tankers carrying Russia oil as a way of constraining Moscow's ability to make crude shipments.

The EU is trying to push through its sixth package of penalties aimed at Russia, which was intended to include the shipping ban and an embargo on Russian oil imports. The commission has been seeking to convince Hungary and other central and eastern European countries to sign up to the phased-in oil ban, with president Ursula von der Leyen travelling to Budapest for discussions yesterday.

The idea of the shipping ban has been dropped, according to several people familiar with the talks, following intensive lobbying from Malta and Greece, which is home to more than half of the EU flag tonnage.

During the talks, member states said for the ban to be effective other countries such as the US should also be involved. The lack of agreement among the G7 nations was central to the proposal being dropped.

The EU's executive arm is also proposing to ban European companies from providing services, including insurance, needed to transport Russian oil globally. That provision is expected to stay despite a reluctance from some member states, the people said.

David Semark, a maritime lawyer at Quadrant Chambers, said a ban on EU insurance for tankers carrying Russian crude and refined products would "amount to a backdoor ban on Russian oil worldwide".

Targeting maritime insurance is a potent tool because most Russian oil exports are transported via tanker and the largest specialist insurers for the sector operate primarily in western countries. All of the 13 Protection & Indemnity clubs, mutual insurers for shipping that cover third-party liabilities including bunker fuel spills, wreck removals and personal injury, are managed from the UK, EU, Norway, the US and Japan and cover 90 per cent of oceangoing ships.

Most ports require vessels to have P&I certification and buyers of Russian oil would be very reluctant to be liable for claims that could run into hundreds of millions of dollars without P&I cover.

Von der Leyen was travelling to Budapest yesterday afternoon to meet Viktor Orbán, the Hungarian prime minister, in the hope of addressing his concerns about the impact of the mooted sanctions on his country's energy security.

Hungary is hoping for a longer phase-in period than the bulk of member states preparing to sign up to the ban on Russian oil, as well as seeking EU financial support to help engineer its transition away from the country's fossil fuels. Other member states including Slovakia and the Czech Republic are also expected to receive special terms under the terms of the energy sanctions given their reliance on Russian crude. See FT View and Lex

The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)

文件 FTFT000020220510ei5a0003l


Hungary: Hungary to agree on oil embargo only in case of complete pipeline exemption
321 字
2022 年 5 月 11 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Hungary demands EC proposal on tackling impact from oil embargo

Hungary expects EU financing on oil refinery modernisation, expanding oil pipeline capacity

Hungary would agree to an oil import embargo on Russia only in case of complete exemption on pipeline transport, foreign affairs minister Peter Szijjarto announced on a Facebook video. Hungary has been the most vocal opponent of the EC proposal for new sanctions on Russia, which included a full oil embargo. EC President Ursula von der Leyen visited Budapest for talks with PM Viktor Orban a couple of days ago and French President and head of the EU Presidency Emanuel Macron also negotiated with Orban in a phone conversation. These talks achieved some progress but the government insisted that its position against an oil embargo has not changed.

A complete oil embargo on Russia will mean a 50-60% increase in oil prices, which will pass through to the prices of all products, Szijjarto said. He reiterated Orban's qualification that this would be like dropping an atomic bomb on Hungary's economy and said that Hungary could endorse such sanction in case the EC provided a solution, which was still missing. Hungary will need many billions of euros of financing to modernise its refineries to process non-Russian oil as well as to invest in expanding the capacity of the oil pipeline from Croatia, Szijjarto explained. Hungary also expects a proposal for the future of the Hungarian economy as an oil embargo would require a complete restructuring of Hungary's energy supply, he added. Hungary will return to its original proposal that an oil embargo on Russia applies only for maritime transport and that pipeline transport should be completely exempted, given the lack of a solution, Szijjarto stated. The government will take this position to the negotiations with the EC this week, he stressed.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220511ei5b0000p


Putin allies: Why Hungary is playing hardball with EU sanctions against Russia
James Gray
635 字
2022 年 5 月 11 日 09:28 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
HUNGARY has so far stopped short of agreeing to all EU sanctions against Russia, including a complete ban on energy imports from Moscow. So, why exactly is its Prime Minister, Viktor Orban, playing hardball?

On Wednesday, ambassadors from the European Union will meet in Brussels and continue discussions to reach an agreement on a sixth package of sanctions against Russia. Since Vladimir Putin ordered a full scale invasion of Ukraine in February, the EU has been quick to hit back at Moscow, though not every decision it’s proposed has been met with unanimous support.

Related articles

Hungary - a member of both the EU and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation - has condemned Russia’s invasion, it’s not offered its backing to every sanction tabled by the West.

During his time in office, Hungary Prime Minister Viktor Orban has nurtured a close relationship with President Putin, which has made him an outlier in Europe.

When EU officials proposed a ban on Russian energy imports, Hungary voiced its disapproval and has also refused to bilaterally provide Ukraine with weapons.

The stalemate has left leaders in Brussels puzzled as to how it can win support from Budapest.

READ MORE: Boris's energy masterplan scuppered by Brussels– EU still meddling

READ MORE

Under plans by the bloc, the majority of member countries would end Russian oil imports by the end of this year, but these are still waiting to be signed off.

About a quarter of the EU’s oil comes from Russia, though some countries use far more and so have been offered longer deadlines to wean off their supplies.

For example, Hungary and Slovakia, landlocked countries that are nearly 100 percent dependent on Russian oil, have been offered a delay in imposing the oil embargo until the end of 2024.

Meanwhile, the Czech Republic has been offered a delay until June 2024.

Officials from the bloc are now considering offering financial compensation to Hungary to persuade Mr Orban to change his position, according to Politico.

The money could be channelled to Budapest as part of the REPower EU strategy, which is due to be unveiled by the European Commission next week.

But whether a payment to buy support from Hungary would be backed by a majority of EU members remains to be seen.

On Tuesday, France President Emmanuel Macron held a phone call with Mr Orban to allay concerns he has around the oil ban.

DON'T MISS:

Pension triple lock fury: NO HINT of help as pensioners 'cast aside' [ANALYSIS]

Ukraine annihilates 'Putin's personal boat' in laser-guided attack [NEWS]

Ukraine LIVE: 'No way out' Biden slams Putin [LIVE]

READ MORE

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen claimed progress had been made after making a last-minute dash to Budapest to discuss the plans with Mr Orban on Monday night.

She described the discussion as “helpful to clarify issues related to sanctions and energy security”.

But she added “further work is needed” before a final agreement can be reached.

A video call promised by the Commission President, during her visit, to boost cooperation on oil infrastructure has also yet to materialise.

In April, Mr Orban was re-elected as Hungarian PM to serve a fourth consecutive term in office.

During his victory speech he hit out at Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky listing him as one of the opponents his party had faced in the election.

Mr Zelensky has previously attacked his Hungarian counterpart for taking a softer line with Russia than other EU leaders.

Related articles Russian troops WIPE OUT own unit in friendly fire fiasco Putin mouthpiece outlines plot for Moscow to take over factories as cu Royal Navy's new £30bn nuke subs can launch 12 separate missiles

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220511ei5b002s2


The Green Brief: Breaking up (with Russian oil) is hard to do]]
Frédéric Simon, Kira Taylor, Nikolaus J. Kurmayer
3232 字
2022 年 5 月 11 日 08:55 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Greetings and welcome to EURACTIV’s Green Brief. Below you’ll find the latest roundup of news covering energy & environment from across Europe. You can subscribe to the weekly newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/subscribe-to-the-green-brief/].

When she tabled a proposal to ban all imports of Russian oil and refined petroleum products by the end of the year, EU Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen knew she would face resistance, if not outright opposition.

“Let us be clear: it will not be easy,” she said in a speech[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/SPEECH_22_2785] before the European Parliament in Strasbourg last Wednesday. “Some member states are strongly dependent on Russian oil. But we simply have to work on it.”

Those difficulties materialised quickly enough. Hungary and Slovakia were first to reject the plan and asked for a complete exemption from the embargo, even though they were offered a delay in meeting the objective.

The Czech Republic and Bulgaria soon followed suit[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/russias-sixth-sanction-package-opens-eus-pandoras-box/] and asked for special treatment. Days later, Bulgaria even threatened to veto the whole plan[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/bulgaria-wants-to-join-eu-embargo-on-russian-oil-in-two-years/], which needs unanimous backing from the EU’s 27 member states before entering into effect.

Bulgaria’s concerns are genuine – the country’s only oil refinery in the Black Sea port of Burgas has been designed to process only Russian crude. Tweaking it to take oil from other suppliers would take both time and money.

But unlike Bulgaria, Slovakia, Hungary, and Czechia are landlocked countries – they simply cannot import oil by sea tankers and are entirely dependent on Soviet-era pipelines supplying them directly from Russia.

For Hungary to support the measures, oil transported through pipelines (rather than tankers) should be exempted from the embargo, said Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó.

The Hungarians have a point here. “It is not a question of lack of political will, it is not a question of intent, it is not a question of timespan, it is quite simply a physical, geographical and infrastructural reality,” according to Szijjártó, quoted in Telex[https://telex.hu/kulfold/2022/05/04/szijjarto-europai-unio-orosz-olajembargo-szankcio-buntetocsomag].

Under changes made on Friday[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/eu-tweaks-russia-oil-sanctions-plan-in-bid-to-win-over-reluctant-states/], Hungary and Slovakia would be able to buy Russian oil from pipelines until the end of 2024, and Czechia could continue until June 2024 if it does not get oil earlier via a pipeline from southern Europe.

Meanwhile, a proposed ban on EU tankers carrying Russian oil is likely to be scaled down after pressure exerted by Greece, Cyprus and Malta. However, insurance companies would continue to be banned from insuring those tankers under the EU’s proposed plans.

Frantic meetings took place at the ambassador level over the weekend and continued this week, with Ursula von der Leyen even making a surprise visit to Budapest[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/no-breakthrough-on-oil-embargo-after-von-der-leyens-surprise-budapest-visit/] – with no concrete results to show as of yet.

As often, the solution lies in new infrastructure backed with EU money. Under plans being considered in Brussels[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/eu-considers-more-cash-for-eastern-states-in-bid-for-deal-on-russia-oil-ban/], the European Commission would offer landlocked EU states more money to upgrade and extend pipelines to deliver oil from other EU countries. It was still unclear whether that could be used to upgrade oil refineries in eastern countries, many of which can only process Russian oil.

Still, diplomats remained confident that a deal could be done. “There is no political blockage, but the need to guarantee alternative sources of supply to landlocked countries dependent on Russian oil by pipeline. And it is not easy,” a European diplomat told AFP. “These are new infrastructure and technological changes, which require not only European funding but agreements between several member states. We are making progress, but that automatically takes time.”

Among those, Budapest is requesting guarantees that Croatia will commit to building the new infrastructure and that the EU will provide funds for it.

None of these obstacles appear insurmountable. If a new pipeline is needed to end the dependency of central European countries on Russian oil, then it’s the EU’s duty to support them.

But in doing so, the European Union should also keep an eye on its Green Deal objectives. Like with gas, the EU’s ultimate goal is to break away from all fossil fuels – including oil. And this crisis also provides an opportunity to reduce oil use wherever possible.

The International Energy Agency has already made this clear, drawing comparisons with the 1970s oil shocks, which motivated many European countries to start becoming less dependent on oil.

According to the IEA, today’s crisis is also an opportunity to accelerate change[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/opinion/how-to-cut-russian-fossil-fuel-imports-carbon-emissions-and-energy-bills-at-the-same-time/], including technologies for regulating energy demand, sophisticated heating systems, highly fuel-efficient vehicles, electric cars, and advanced insulation for buildings.

“Now is the time to do all we can to pursue independence from Russian fossil fuels and, at the same time, address the pressing climate crisis,” wrote the IEA’s chief Fatih Birol in an opinion piece for EURACTIV[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/opinion/how-to-cut-russian-fossil-fuel-imports-carbon-emissions-and-energy-bills-at-the-same-time/]. We couldn’t agree more.

– Frédéric Simon

Today’s edition is powered by FEAD

FEAD’s Biennial Conference & 40th Anniversary

From circular economy to the fight against climate change

FEAD will be proudly celebrating its 40th anniversary during its Biennial Conference in a HYBRID event dedicated to our holistic approach to waste management, from circular economy to climate change. After we will host a reception to celebrate FEAD’s anniversary.

Register Here >>[https://fead.be/?post_type=event&p=2726]

This week’s top stories

* LEAK: EU Commission considering higher renewable energy target for 2030[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/leak-eu-commission-considering-higher-renewable-energy-target-for-2030/]

* Germany’s ‘summer package’ to focus on heating sector revamp[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/germanys-summer-package-to-focus-on-heating-sector-revamp/]

* EU electrolyser industry commits to boost manufacturing capacity tenfold by 2025[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/eu-electrolyser-industry-commits-to-boost-manufacturing-capacity-tenfold-by-2025/]

* Germany secures four floating LNG terminals in mad rush to replace Kremlin gas[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/germany-secures-four-floating-lng-terminals-in-mad-rush-to-replace-kremlin-gas/]

* The fossil fuel companies profiting from Europe’s oil trade with Russia[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/the-fossil-fuel-companies-profiting-from-europes-oil-trade-with-russia/]

* EU proposes ‘complete ban’ on Russian oil imports within six to eight months[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/eu-proposes-complete-ban-on-russian-oil-imports-within-six-months/]

More stories:

* German government agrees on law to speed up LNG terminal construction[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/german-government-agrees-on-law-to-speed-up-lng-terminal-construction/]

* Hungary digs heels in over EU embargo on Russian oil[https://www.euractiv.com/section/all/news/hungary-digs-heels-in-over-eu-embargo-on-russian-oil/]

* Ukraine to halt key Russian gas transit to Europe, use alternative[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/ukraine-to-halt-key-russian-gas-transit-to-europe-use-alternative/]

* EU lawmakers may push 70% emission cut on carmakers by 2030[https://www.euractiv.com/section/electric-cars/news/eu-lawmakers-may-push-70-emission-cut-on-carmakers-by-2030/]

* EU considers more cash for eastern states in bid for deal on Russia oil ban[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/eu-considers-more-cash-for-eastern-states-in-bid-for-deal-on-russia-oil-ban/]

* Germany to take over critical companies in case of abrupt end to Russian gas[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/germany-to-take-over-critical-companies-in-case-of-abrupt-end-to-russian-gas/]

* G7 countries pledge to stop Russia oil imports[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/g7-countries-pledge-to-stop-russia-oil-imports/]

* Export subsidies are a ‘red line’ in EU carbon tariff negotiations, EU official says[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/export-subsidies-are-a-red-line-in-eu-carbon-tariff-negotiations-eu-official-says/]

* EU tweaks Russia oil sanctions plan in bid to win over reluctant states[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/eu-tweaks-russia-oil-sanctions-plan-in-bid-to-win-over-reluctant-states/]

* EU citizens may sue countries for health-damaging dirty air, top court adviser says[https://www.euractiv.com/section/health-consumers/news/eu-citizens-may-sue-countries-for-health-damaging-dirty-air-top-court-adviser-says/]

* Meddling with EU carbon market could have ‘unintended consequences’, MEP says[https://www.euractiv.com/section/emissions-trading-scheme/news/meddling-with-eu-carbon-market-could-have-unintended-consequences-mep-says/]

* EU hopes to build on past experience to fast-track hydrogen market[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/eu-hopes-to-build-on-past-experience-to-fast-track-hydrogen-market/]

* EXPLAINER: Why the EU may find it tough to squeeze out Russian oil[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/explainer-why-the-eu-may-find-it-tough-to-squeeze-out-russian-oil/]

News from the capitals

PARIS. EU states agreeing on Russian oil embargo ‘a matter of days’, says French minister. Member states could agree on a Russian oil embargo this week, European Affairs Minister Clément Beaune told news channel LCI on Tuesday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/eu-states-agreeing-on-russian-oil-embargo-a-matter-of-days-says-french-minister]

BRATISLAVA. Zelenskyy understands Slovakia unable to cut Russian and oil gas supplies. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he understands that Slovakia cannot afford to immediately cut its Russian oil and gas supplies but warned of the country’s dependence in a speech before the Slovak National Council on Tuesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/zelenskyy-understands-slovakia-unable-to-cut-russian-oil-and-gas-supplies].

BUDAPEST. Hungary runs out of capacity, no new solar power plants. Hungary has run out of available grid connection capacity to connect weather-dependent power plants, disappointing Hungarian solar power developers and investors. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/hungary-runs-out-of-capacity-no-new-solar-power-plants].

LJUBLJANA. Slovenia reintroduces fuel price caps. The Slovenian government has reintroduced the price regulation of motor fuels, a move that comes less than two weeks after previous price caps were lifted with the argument that the market had stabilised. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/slovenia-reintroduces-fuel-price-caps].

BELGRADE. Energy stability in Serbia must be defended, says minister. Serbia must defend its energy stability even if this would require a change in the ownership structure of the biggest oil company Naftna industrija Srbije (NIS), Energy Minister Zorana Mihajlović has said. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/energy-stability-in-serbia-must-be-defended-says-minister].

MADRID | LISBON. EU Commission approves Spanish-Portuguese plan to cap gas prices. The European Commission has given the green light to a Portuguese-Spanish proposal, also known as the “Iberian exception”, to cap gas prices on Monday, announced Portuguese Prime Minister António Costa, adding that both countries are working to pass national legislation on Tuesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/eu-commission-approves-spanish-portuguese-plan-to-cap-gas-prices].

BRATISLAVA. Another high-ranking Slovak politician backs gas payments in roubles. Sme Rodina member and Speaker of the National Council Boris Kollár is yet another high-ranking Slovak politician who says he supports paying Russia for gas in roubles. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/another-high-ranking-slovak-politician-backs-gas-payments-in-roubles].

BUDAPEST. No breakthrough on oil embargo after Von der Leyen’s surprise Budapest visit. Progress was made in efforts to convince Hungary to lift its veto on the sixth sanctions package that would see the EU quit Russian oil, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said after her meeting with Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on Monday evening. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/no-breakthrough-on-oil-embargo-after-von-der-leyens-surprise-budapest-visit].

HELSINKI. Finnish energy companies refuse to supply ‘Russia’s Google’. Finnish electricity companies are refusing to sign electricity contracts with Russian search engine Yandex, which has a data centre near Helsinki, due to suspicions it may be distributing war propaganda. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/finnish-energy-companies-refuse-to-supply-russias-google].

PARIS. French politicians silent on EU’s oil embargo plans, fear Yellow Vests. French politicians are keeping quiet about the EU’s proposed embargo on Russian oil, most likely to avoid new tensions with the Yellow Vests movement, whose protests shook the country in 2018-2019. EURACTIV France reports[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/french-politicians-silent-on-eus-oil-embargo-plans-fear-yellow-vests].

ROME. Italy in trouble if Russia soon curbs gas supplies, says minister. Italy would be in trouble if Russia decided to curb its gas supplies to the country in the next few months, Ecological Transition minister Roberto Cingolani told Festival Città Impresa in an interview on Sunday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/italy-in-trouble-if-russia-soon-curbs-gas-supplies-says-minister].

MADRID. Spain becoming one of Europe’s new hydrogen hubs, says von der Leyen. Spain is becoming one of Europe’s new hydrogen hubs, said European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen during a press conference in Barcelona on Friday, adding that the country has always been a “front runner” in the NextGenerationEU plan. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/spain-becoming-one-of-europes-new-hydrogen-hubs-says-von-der-leyen].

SOFIA. Bulgaria threatens to veto EU oil ban on Russia unless it gets derogation. Bulgaria has threatened not to support the European Union’s new set of sanctions against Russia if the Balkan country does not get a derogation from the proposed ban on buying Russian oil, Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev said late on Sunday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/bulgaria-wants-to-join-eu-embargo-on-russian-oil-in-two-years].

BERLIN. Germany ready to help landlocked EU states access LNG, Scholz says. Germany will show solidarity with European Union countries seeking alternatives to Russian gas and oil, for example helping eastern states without ports in the North or Baltic Seas access liquefied natural gas (LNG), Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Thursday (5 May). Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/germany-ready-to-help-landlocked-eu-states-access-lng-scholz-says].

BUDAPEST AND BRATISLAVA. Russia’s sixth sanction package opens EU’s Pandora’s Box. Hungary and Slovakia are unhappy with the European Commission’s proposal to ban Russian black gold despite being given extra time to phase it out, while Bulgaria and the Czech Republic have jumped on the bandwagon and are now asking for special treatment. Moreover, sources said Greece and Cyprus raised objections to another proposal to ban all shipping companies that are EU-owned or have European interests from transferring Russian oil into Europe or elsewhere in the world. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/russias-sixth-sanction-package-opens-eus-pandoras-box].

BERLIN. German industry backs oil embargo plans. Germany’s main industry associations have voiced clear support for the EU’s plans to impose a gradual Russian oil embargo, even though they said it would be a challenge. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/german-industry-backs-oil-embargo-plans].

WARSAW. Poland wants to become CEE’s main oil supplier, replacing Russia. Poland’s largest majority-state-owned oil company PKN Orlen says it can replace Russia as the main oil supplier for Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) as it has the infrastructure, the right suppliers, and enough fuel to ensure a continuous supply of oil to the region. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/warsaw/].

BUCHAREST. Romania ready to give up Russian oil. Romania supports the European Commission’s decision to phase out oil and petroleum products imports from Russia, Energy Minister Virgil Popescu has said. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/romania-ready-to-give-up-russian-oil/].

News in brief

High gas prices inflate EU’s projected 2030 energy bill by €250 billion, research finds. What will the EU’s gas bill look like in 2030 based on current prices? This is the question that think-tank Ember and international NGO Global Witness tried to answer in a new report published today (11 May). 

Looking at the gas consumption figures in the EU’s ‘Fit for 55’ policy package, the research found that the projected gas demand for 2030 could cost Europe €250 billion more than the European Commission originally estimated. 

And while the Commission’s REPowerEU plan, presented in March, aims to eliminate the EU’s imports of Russian gas “well before 2030”, it would only cut the bloc’s overall gas bill by €47 billion, the research found. 

Instead, putting energy savings and renewable energy at the heart of the EU’s energy strategy could significantly reduce the EU’s 2030 energy spend, with savings of €123 billion at today’s high gas prices under a joint NGO energy scenario[https://caneurope.org/repowering-for-the-people-flagship-actions-the-commissions-plan-repowereu-should-feature-in-the-current-fossil-fuel-and-energy-prices-crisis/] for 2030.

“Gambling on fossil gas is a losing bet. High and volatile gas prices are here to stay and will cost the EU dearly. The money is better spent on a transition that can bring stable, clean and affordable energy to all Europeans,” said Sarah Brown, a senior analyst with Ember. (Frédéric Simon | EURACTIV.com)

////

CEOs support EU push to decouple from Russian gas and oil. More than 100 business organisations and CEOs including Microsoft, Unilever, H&M Group, Signify and Iberdrola, have expressed support for the EU’s aim to phase out dependence on Russian gas, oil and coal as a way of strengthening energy security and addressing the ongoing price crisis.

In an open letter to Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, they urged Europe to accelerate the energy transition in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

“At the core of the current energy security and price crises sits an overdependence on volatile, imported fossil gas, oil and coal,” says the letter signed by 114 business leaders, including multinationals and SMEs, as well as 26 business networks. 

“Measures taken in response to the invasion of Ukraine must prioritise structural and just solutions that can deliver on the green and digital transition and respond to the level of emergency that we face. […] This is the time to be bold and double down on delivering the Green Deal and achieve ‘rapid, deep and immediate’ cuts to carbon emissions as demanded by the IPCC,” they write. (Frédéric Simon | EURACTIV.com)

Opinions

* Why the EU must see through Spain’s claim to be an energy island[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/opinion/why-the-eu-must-see-through-spains-claim-to-be-an-energy-island/] – By Jorge Sanz and Oscar Arnedillo

* How demand-side measures can ensure energy security in the EU[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/opinion/how-demand-side-measures-can-ensure-energy-security-in-the-eu/] – By Christoph Gran and Jonathan Barth

* Europe should dream big and start the gas exit now[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/opinion/europe-should-dream-big-and-start-the-gas-exit-now/] – By Kostantsa Rangelova and Martin Vladimirov

Upcoming events

13 MAY. Media partnership: Can the EU foster a global green transition? The international implications of achieving the EU Green Dela. For the European Green Deal to succeed, the EU must foster sustainable economic systems and societal wellbeing across the planet. Positive system change is essential to avoid climate and environmental disaster, and the best chance of making it happen is through serious implementation of the European Green Deal (EGD) and the Sustainable Development Goals. At this launch event, the Open Society European Policy Institute, The Club of Rome and SYSTEMIQ will present the core findings and implications of their new report. An expert panel will then react to the report and discuss its consequences for European policy. Programme and registration here[https://events.euractiv.com/event/info/media-partnership-can-the-eu-foster-a-global-green-transition-the-international-implications-of-achieving-the-eu-green-deal]. (Organised by Open Society European Policy Institute, SYSTEMIQ and The Club of Rome)

17 MAY. Sustainable and healthy buildings – reaching the goals of the EU Green Deal. Join this EURACTIV Virtual Conference to discuss how the revision of the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive (EPBD) can support a healthy indoor climate while accelerating a decrease in energy costs and decarbonising our buildings. Speakers to be announced soon. Programme and registration here[https://events.euractiv.com/event/info/sustainable-and-healthy-buildings-reaching-the-goals-of-the-eu-green-deal?_ga=2.55322859.1985331607.1649046373-1159847836.1603341107]. (Supported by Velux[https://www.velux.com/]).

17 MAY. A revised EPBD – faster decarbonisation of the EU’s building stock? Join this EURACTIV Hybrid Conference to discuss what can be done to improve the existing regulatory framework to support an effective decarbonisation process in the building sector. Speakers to be announced soon. Programme and registration here[https://events.euractiv.com/event/info/a-revised-epbd-faster-decarbonisation-of-the-eus-building-stock]. (Supported by EdEn – Equilibre des Energies[http://www.equilibredesenergies.org/]).

24 MAY. #EAPolitics Twitter chat | Debating Europe’s future IV – climate change, environment and health. The Conference on the Future of Europe has been launched to allow citizens from the 27 member states to discuss and suggest policy proposals through local events, panels, and an online platform, in order to shape the Future of Europe. EURACTIV took this opportunity to launch its “Debating Europe’s future” Twitter Chat. This last edition, which will tackle the “Climate change, environment and health” panel, following the citizens’ session. Details here[https://events.euractiv.com/event/info/eapolitics-twitter-chat-debating-europes-future-iv-climate-change-environment-health].

14 JUNE. Does Germany need a new forest policy? Potential and problems of the forest strategy 2050. Germany is one of the most densely forested countries in Europe with forests making up almost 30% of the total area. Former agricultural minister Julia Klöckner put the 2050 forest strategy in place, which included the economic use of wood. With the new German government in place, must it revamp the forest strategy? Join MEP Ulrike Müller, DG ENVI’s Stefanie Schmidt, German MP Tessa Ganserer and the expert for forest ecology, Nicole Wellbrock, with additional speakers to be announced soon, to find out more. Programme and registration here[https://events.euractiv.com/event/info/braucht-deutschland-eine-neue-waldpolitik-potential-und-problematik-der-waldstrategie-2050]. The event will be in German. (Supported by Life Terra)

15 June. Mind the gap – can biofuels play a strategic role in reaching EU energy and food security? Join this EURACTIV Hybrid Conference to discuss how the EU can maintain its commitment to achieving Fit for 55 climate and energy goals in an uncertain geopolitical situation. And what is the evolving role of low-carbon renewable fuels in achieving EU climate and energy goals. Programme and registration here[https://events.euractiv.com/event/info/mind-the-gap-can-biofuels-play-a-strategic-role-in-reaching-eu-energy-and-food-security]. (Supported by ePURE[https://www.epure.org/]).

On our radar

18 MAY. The European Commission will present its REPowerEU plan to break away from Russian fossil fuels, including:

* And updated Renewable Energy Directive with a higher target for 2030 and faster permitting rules

* A solar strategy that could make rooftop solar mandatory in all buildings (more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/leak-eu-commission-considering-higher-renewable-energy-target-for-2030/])

This combines with a new “international partnerships and energy package”, consisting of:

* A new strategy on international energy engagement

* A joint Communication on a partnership with the Gulf

25-27 MAY. Meeting of G7 climate and energy ministers.

7 JUNE. Joint Communication on international ocean governance.

15 JUNE. 2022 Strategic Foresight Report.

22 JUNE. Nature protection package (tbc):

* Sustainable use of pesticides – revision of the EU rules

* Protecting biodiversity: nature restoration targets 

27 JUNE. Energy Council.

28 JUNE. Environment Council.

20 JULY. Circular Economy Package 2:

* Policy framework for bio-based, biodegradable and compostable plastics

* Review of the Packaging and packaging waste directive to reinforce the essential requirements for packaging and establish EU level packaging waste prevention measures and targets

* Review of the Urban Wastewater Treatment directive

* Proposal for a Regulation on substantiating environmental claims using the Product/ Organisation Environmental Footprint methods (green claims)

20 JULY. Development of post-Euro 6/VI emission standards for cars, vans, lorries and buses

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220511ei5b0002x


CE Noticias Financieras English
War in Ukraine: how will the European Union impose oil embargo on Russia?
577 字
2022 年 5 月 11 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The Hungarian government remains the major obstacle for the European Union to approve its sixth package of sanctions against Russia, which includes a gradual ban on the purchase of Russian crude oil and its derivatives, as well as the expulsion of Swift from Sberbank, the largest Russian bank with 37% of its market.

Hungary refuses and claims that the proposal on the table is an "economic atomic bomb".

Prime Minister Viktor Orban's government claims that its energy dependence on Russia has no alternative and that turning off those taps would endanger the country's security.

Orban is partly right (it has very few connections beyond those connecting Hungary to Russia through Ukraine) and the European Commission, in its draft sanctions, had foreseen a longer period than the rest of the countries, up to two and a half years in the Hungarian case, to stop buying Russian oil and look for alternatives.

The President of the European Commission, Ursula Von der Leyen, made an emergency trip to Budapest on Monday night to convince Orban but returned to Brussels with "progress" but without the green light from the Hungarian.

After the meeting in Budapest, Von der Leyen was to have organized a videoconference with the heads of government of Hungary's neighboring countries on Tuesday, but she gave up because Orban showed no signs of giving in.

The new proposalSo the executive arm of the European Union is now considering going a step further and financing Hungarian energy diversification with European funds

.The European Commission is due to present (in principle on Wednesday 18) its energy strategy so that the bloc will no longer be dependent on Russia.

Otherproposals such as increasing the use of renewable energies from 32% to 40%

by2030

could already be included in this "RePower Europe", they hope in Von der Leyen's environment, energy connections for Hungary to, for example, the Adriatic Sea through Croatia or to Austria, which is connected to Italy

.Budapest is already connected to the Croatian coast (via the port of Rijeka) with a pipeline (Adria Oil) which was originally intended to route Russian oil to Croatia and which could be reversed but whose capacity would be insufficient.

Slovakia, which has the same energy isolation problems as Hungary, would receive similar treatment. Hungary and Slovakia would also be given up to two and a half years (until the end of 2024) to stop buying Russian oil. Czech Republic would have until June 2024.

The European Commission could tire of Orban's attitude (he is President Vladimir Putin's staunchest ally in Europe) and simply drop the oil embargo as a sanction

.The other 26 could announce that they stop buying Russian oil, but Brussels believes it is essential to maintain the unity of the 27

on this issue because the sanctions are renewed every year by unanimity.The ambassadors of the 27 met Wednesday to try to make progress on the Hungarian blockade that delays the implementation of the sixth package of sanctions. No progress has been made as Budapest is expected to be convinced when Brussels presents it with the financing proposal.

In the meantime, some governments have been getting exceptions. EU sources tell that the ban on trading Russian oil to third countries is no longer in the package, to the delight of Greek and Maltese shipping companies.

Brussels, specialCB

?

See

also

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220511ei5b00c8z


EU facing mass revolt as several members blow top over Hungary's Russia concessions
Antony Ashkenaz
601 字
2022 年 5 月 12 日 09:06 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
EU COMMISSION President Ursula von der Leyen is facing a nightmare situation as several member states are furious at the plan to offer Hungary help.

The Commission has drawn the ire of several EU nations over its plan to send funding to Hungary to help to convince President Viktor Orban to cooperate over EU sanctions on Russian oil. The officials are reportedly considering offering financial compensation to Mr Orban as Hungary refused to sign on to the bloc’s plan to sanction Russian oil. The Hungarian leader has described a complete oil ban as a “nuclear bomb” and has so far thwarted EU plans by demanding more time to phase out imports.

Related articles

Without the support of all 27 member states, the bloc cannot move forward.

Mr Orban said that while his government is willing to negotiate on any EU proposals that are in Hungary’s interests, the country’s geography and existing energy infrastructure make a shutdown of Russian oil unfeasible.

Hungary, being completely landlocked, is heavily dependent on Russian energy, accounting for 85 percent of its natural gas and more than 60 percent of its oil.

The Commission is now facing backlash for its plan to help Hungary ditch Russian gas faster with financial support, as senior diplomats from different countries raised concerns during a meeting in Brussels on Wednesday.

Ms von der Leyen has been scrambling to impose the sixth round of sanctions on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, this time looking to target Russia’s oil exports.

The bloc will not issue an immediate ban on Russian oil, according to sources, but rather will form a plan to phase out oil imports from Moscow by the end of the year.

Energy exports are vital to Russia’s economy, as its revenues propped up about half the country’s budget in 2021.

Experts agree that Russia’s brutal invasion has been largely bankrolled by its revenues from energy exports like oil, natural gas and coal.

READ MORE: Xi turns on Putin: Green energy production set to soar

Last month, all 27 EU governments agreed to block the import of Russian coal and other solid fossil fuels from August.

This move was easier to achieve because coal is the smallest of Russia’s fossil fuel exports.

In order to convince Budapest into signing onto the sanctions, the Commission plans to use the payment mechanisms that will be announced in the bloc’s upcoming energy strategy, called REPowerEU, POLITICO reports.

This strategy will be announced on May 18 and is poised to have funds available for all the EU countries to end their reliance on Russian fossil fuels well before 2030.

READ MORE:

Russia WIPES OUT satellites and tries to shut down West [REPORT]

Boris warns Putin that Sweden can 'request' UK nuclear support [REVEAL]

Stonehenge experts stunned as scan 'radically changes' understanding [INSIGHT]

A senior diplomat EU diplomat said: "The more we can help Hungary with REPowerEU, the faster they can move away from Russian oil.”

Last week, an EU Commission spokesperson highlighted the "specific situation of member states and the need to cater for their specific circumstances" when drafting plans for the Russian oil sanctions.

Hungary has previously warned that if these measures would hinder Budapest’s ability to import energy, the country would be ready to veto it.

Related articles Ukraine humiliates EU and CUTS flow of Putin's energy Russian troops accidentally incinerate themselves with flamethrowers NATO can wipe out Putin's nukes in seconds using £1.4bn system

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220512ei5c0028v


EU admits defeat: Orban forces bloc to give up Putin oil ban - 'Sending bad signal'
Antony Ashkenaz
571 字
2022 年 5 月 13 日 07:38 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
THE EUROPEAN Union has been humiliated as the bloc mulls ending its goals to sanction Russian oil.

It has been nine days since European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced plans to completely ban all Russian oil imports. However, these plans have been scuppered by Hungary, which has fiercely resisted any attempt to sanction Russian oil. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has described a complete oil ban as a “nuclear bomb” and, given that all 27 member states need to support the sanctions for it to pass, the bloc cannot move forward.

Related articles

Mr Orban said that, while Budapest is willing to negotiate on any EU proposals in Hungary’s interests, the country’s geography and existing energy infrastructure make a shutdown of Russian oil unfeasible.

Hungary, being completely landlocked, is heavily dependent on Russian energy, accounting for 85 percent of its natural gas and more than 60 percent of its oil.

Now, it seems like Mr Orban has got his way, as POLITICO reports senior EU diplomats are considering pausing plans on a complete oil ban, and focusing on parts of the sanctions list that Hungary could agree to.

An end of Russian oil imports would be a hammer blow to Vladimir Putin’s regime, as Russia’s economy is largely propped up on revenues from fossil fuel exports.

Europe’s heavy dependence on Russian oil and gas has made it slow to take action against Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine.

Experts agree that Russia’s brutal invasion has been largely bankrolled by its revenues from energy exports like oil, natural gas and coal.

One EU diplomat said: "There is indeed an idea floating to split up the package as we're agreed on 90 percent of it, so moving forward with everything but the oil ban.

"It's frustrating that we can't move forward with the things that are agreed on.

READ MORE: EU facing mass revolt as several members blow top over Hungary

“So why not do it like this, be pragmatic and then continue the energy discussion?"

The diplomat also warned that separating the oil ban from the rest of the sanctions and essentially postponing it would "send a bad signal".

They also warned that this move could face fierce opposition from other countries which are more eager to ban Russian oil.

The EU diplomats are set to meet on Friday , although it is unclear whether Russian sanctions will be discussed.

DON'T MISS:

Putin facing hell as Russia admits sanctions set to cripple country [INSIGHT]

UK and US sign historic space deal – investment set to 'skyrocket' [REPORT]

Japan steps in to ease energy crisis – gas prices PLUMMET [REVEAL]

Another EU diplomat admitted it would be better to return to the oil ban at a later stage as it would be better to agree on 90 percent of the proposed oil ban than none at all.

Last month, all 27 EU governments agreed to block the import of Russian coal and other solid fossil fuels from August.

This move was easier to achieve because coal is the smallest of Russia’s fossil fuel exports.

Related articles Boris warns Putin that Sweden can 'request' UK nuclear support Octopus invests in huge Moroccan solar farm to power UK homes Dead eyes brought back to life in Frankenstein-like study

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220513ei5d001ut


Hungary This Week - May 13, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 13 日, 11566 字, (英文)
Hungary’s core inflation gallops into double-digit territoryHeadline inflation in Hungary accelerated to 9.5% y/y in April, from 8.5%, while core inflation edged up from 9.1% to 10.3%, according to data from the Central Statistics Office ...

EXCERPT - Ukraine conflict - Hidveghi: Hungary rejects EU's proposed sanctions on Russia in current form
289 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Brussels / London, May 16 (MTI) - Hungary rejects the EU's

proposed set of sanctions including an embargo on Russian oil in

its current form, Balazs Hidveghi, an MEP of ruling Fidesz, told

the BBC on Monday.

"We are rejecting this current set of sanctions because in its

current form it is just unacceptable; it is crossing a red line for

our country," Hidveghi said, adding that beside Hungary, a number

of other countries in central Europe and also Germany are not in a

position to suddenly cut completely the import of Russian oil.

"We cannot wreak havoc on entire industries and stop the

functioning of entire businesses and put millions of people out of

work," he said, adding that the decision was hastily made and the

sanctions "would harm us more than would harm the Russians whom we

want to sanction," Hidveghi said. He said more time was needed to

negotiate the details of such a decision.

Asked about the timeframe allowing member states to phase out

the import of Russian oil until the end of 2022, Hidveghi said it

was a short time for a country like Hungary which is almost

completely dependent on the import of Russian oil and has a

refinery built for and working with Russian oil. "More time is

needed, more consideration is needed," the MEP said.

He underscored the importance of diversification in Europe in

terms of energy resources and energy dependence.

"We need international contracts that would guarantee the

energy security for our people and for our countries and I think

Brussels and the EU should play an active, a pro-active part in all

that," Hidveghi said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220516ei5g000gp


Hungary keeping EU 'hostage' over Russian oil ban, Lithuanian minister claims
677 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日
Euronews
EURONEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Euronews All Rights Reserved
Despite not being on the official agenda, Brussel's proposed Russian oil embargo was on Monday looming large over a meeting of foreign affairs ministers with accusations some member states are holding the bloc "hostage".

The proposal to phase out Russian oil across the bloc was unveiled 12 days ago by Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen.

But unlike the five previous sanction packages that were swiftly approved by the 27 capitals, negotiations have stalled with no resolution seemingly in sight.

Four member states particularly dependent on Russian fossil fuels — Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia — are demanding the European Commission allow them to continue importing Russian energy past December 2024, which already constitutes a significant delay from the rest of the bloc.

Hungary is seen as the primary hold-out with Prime Minister Viktor Orban describing the oil ban as an "atomic bomb"for his country's economy.

'We cannot be held hostage'

Speaking upon arriving at the Foreign Ministers Council in Brussels on Monday, Lithuania's Foreign Affairs Minister, Gabrielius Landsbergis, argued that "now, unfortunately, the whole Union is being held hostage by one member state who cannot help us find a consensus."

Asked specifically if he had a message for his Hungarian counterpart, he replied: "We have to agree. We cannot be held hostage."

"The Commission really offered some solutions which we were looking at as too relaxed. We're talking almost of a ban of oil that would end, the phase out, by December 31 of 2024,"he went on. "That's a very, very broad scope. I think everybody expected that this would be enough and I cannot explain why it isn't."

"One of the solutions could be to help Ukraine to decouple itself from Russian oil and gas because as you know, the member state who cannot help us find a consensus is dependent on the traffic from Ukraine so if the traffic would be stopped from Ukraine, the sanction question would be solved altogether,"he added.

An attempt to break the deadlock last week when von der Leyen travelled to Budapest to meet with Orban failed. Officials stressed afterwards that the discussions were over Hungary's logistical and infrastructure concerns following accusations that Budapest may be trying to leverage its acceptance of the package in order to secure more funding.

Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó rejected the accusation on Monday in a press conference streamed on his Facebook page, telling reporters: "I don't understand what the Lithuanian Foreign Minister is saying."

"It's a lie that we would keep the whole union hostage,"he said.

EU 'will succeed'

He said last week that the country would need nearly €800 million in order to upgrade its infrastructures to receive fossil fuels from alternative places.

And he added on Monday that Hungary will need between €15 billion and €18 billion to transition away from fossil fuels, suggesting that most of that should be financed by the EU.

The bloc's foreign affairs chief, Josep Borrell, meanwhile told reporters on Monday that "we will do our best to de-block the situation".

"I cannot ensure that it is going to happen because the positions are quite strong. But I think that if we understand the particular situation of some Member States and all of us make an effort to present a united front against Russia, we will succeed,"he also said.

The Commission's much-anticipated RePower EU initiative, to be unveiled on Wednesday, is now even more eagerly awaited because the financial contributions to support the costly energy transition of member states it should include could help move the needle on the oil ban.

Some diplomats however fear that Orbán might want to drag the talks until EU leaders meet on 30 May for an extraordinary summit where a political, rather than technical, solution could be found, sources told Euronews.

Lithuania's Minister of Foreign Affairs Gabrielius Landsbergis in Vilnius, Lithuania, Aug. 9, 2021. (AP Photo/Mindaugas Kulbis)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/70/42/42/800x450_cmsv2_eb636ec7-2004-53e7-83c5-d295aca80663-6704242.jpg]

Euronews

文件 EURONEN020220516ei5g0002w


No decision taken on oil embargo at EU foreign ministers meeting
226 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日
MTI - EcoNews
MTIE
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, May 16, 2022 (MTI-ECONEWS) - No decision on a proposed

embargo on Russian oil was taken at a meeting of European Union

foreign ministers in Brussels on Monday, Minister of Foreign

Affairs and Trade Peter Szijjarto said in a video message on

Facebook.

"No decision was taken today, nor was a proposal tabled," Mr

Szijjarto said, speaking after the meeting finished.

"Negotiations are ongoing," he added.

"Hungarian people didn't cause this war...so nobody can expect

Hungarians to pay the price of the war" he said.

On the basis of talks so far, Mr Szijjarto said it "isn't very

realistic" to expect a proposal from the European Commission that

would ensure compensation for all of the losses to the Hungarian

economy that an embargo on Russian oil would cause.

He reiterated that the EC could exempt pipeline deliveries from

the embargo "if it really wants to sanction imports of Russian

crude", noting that a large part of Russian oil is delivered to

Europe via tanker.

Landlocked Hungary gets most of its oil via pipeline from

Russia, and its main refinery is technically reliant on Russian

crude.

Switching to new sources of crude would require investments in

the hundreds of millions of euros, while motor fuel prices would

rise 55-60pc, Mr Szijjarto said.

MTVA

文件 MTIE000020220516ei5g002p9


Magyarország Miniszterelnoke - This decade will be an era of threats, uncertainty and wars
Magyarország Miniszterelnoke published this content on 16 May 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 16 May 2022 18:28:18 UTC.
3397 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://docs.publicnow.com/542BE939BEBE6ED343022F6E35BA006B044E7EAF]

This decade will be an era of threats, uncertainty and wars

This decade will be an era of threats, uncertainty and wars, the most important task is for Hungary to stay out of the war, and in the meantime, it refuses to accept economic measures that would destroy Hungarian families, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán stated in the National Assembly after Parliament re-elected him as prime minister.

At the beginning of his address, the Prime Minister thanked electors for their trust. "I was elected here by Members of Parliament, but I haven't forgotten that the mandate comes from the electorate, the Hungarian people," he said.

According to Mr Orbán, their opponents made sure that the elections received unprecedented international and domestic attention. Everyone could see that "Hungary is a country where election fraud doesn't, indeed, cannot happen," he stated.

He thanked opposition activists for "helping to protect Hungary's reputation and the public trust vested in Hungarian democracy with their work as observers and monitors."

He said a high election turnout is a sign of a healthy democracy. The Hungarian people are interested in their fate, they have an opinion on public affairs, and do not hide it, he pointed out.

He observed that in the thirty-two-year history of Hungarian democracy, never before had a single party received as many votes as the list and candidates of Fidesz-KDNP did, and he will do his best to serve "this enormous trust that is without a rival in the whole of Europe".

According to the Prime Minister, it is food for thought that they scored their biggest victory when they were compelled to rise to the challenge amidst the most difficult circumstances. "The domestic Left and their international allies, politicians, money people and the media, too, combined forces against us," and Brussels and George Soros, too, "bet on our failure".

He highlighted that they had won for the fourth time in a row despite the fact that financial crises, a pandemic, floods of migrants and a war threatened and are threatening Hungary. Such a series of victories is unusual in Europe, but perhaps even in the wider Western world, he added.

He said the Hungarians had learnt that "in times of danger, dissent, opposition and infighting could have grave consequences, could result in a decline, failure, or even a loss of country." "Infights and dissent are luxuries reserved for happy times of peace," but "we're not living in such times now," he pointed out.

He stressed that "in times of trouble, unity is the word of command," and those who disobey it bring a threat onto the community, the nation and the country. Therefore, electors thoroughly punish such parties and politicians, he said.

He observed that a consensus should be not sought, but must be created, and in politics, this requires strength, ability and above all, a good heart, good intentions and patriotism. Those who are equipped with those attributes may receive the people's trust, and this is the historical lesson of the 2022 parliamentary elections, he laid down.

Mr Orbán said the prime minister's number one responsibility is to somehow understand, to predict the times that await us, and to prepare the Hungarians for them. Everything that has happened since 2020, and everything that is unfolding today - meaning that which helps us understand the nature of the decade between 2020 and 2030 - points in the same direction: Europe, Western man - Hungary and we Hungarians in it and with it - entered an era of threats, he stated.

He highlighted that the decade ahead will be an era of threats, uncertainty and wars.

The Prime Minister recalled that the decade began with the coronavirus pandemic and continued with the war. The war and the European policy of sanctions given in response have caused an energy crisis. The energy crisis, combined with the American interest raises, has brought about an era of high inflation, and all that will bring about recession, a period of economic decline when years of decrease will alternate with years of stagnation and minor increase in the performance of economies in Europe, he explained.

He took the view that threatening pandemics could re-emerge, economic recession could escalate, migration towards the rich countries will intensify with a tectonic force, and on top of all that, a protracted and actual war conveying the threat of a global conflict is taking place in the territory of our Eastern neighbour.

Mr Orbán stressed that "the image of a decade of war is unfolding before our eyes," and while it would be good if this was not so, "we must focus not on our desires, but on reality".

In his view, the image of a decade of war that faces us "also features recurring waves of suicide in the Western world". As part of those waves of suicide, he mentioned "the overarching programme of the replacement of the European population" which seeks to replace the missing European Christian children with adults, migrants coming from other civilisations.

He also mentioned the "gender madness" which, in his view, perceives man as the creator of their identity, including their sexual identity.

He further mentioned the programme of a liberal Europe as another suicide attempt, pointing out that it transcends Christianity and the nation states that have kept the West alive so far, without replacing them with anything else, and sees freedom in man being cut off from his communities - his family and country - and forgets about the fact that the individual can never be free on his own, only lonely.

He said in summary that Hungary is being affected by economic troubles, the threats of war, Europe's internal intellectual weakness and Brussels' political flaws all at once.

He pointed out that it is in this situation that we must designate a path for Hungary, and once we have designated it, to set it on that path, and then to keep our country on it with a firm hand.

According to the Prime Minister, this is a difficult task, but we may succeed because the Hungarians are a tough species, and so "we stubbornly resist decline". Reasonable order, stability, zero complacency, but all the more humility, and above all, unwavering, uncompromising loyalty. And in the meantime, sincere kindness, sober self-interest, an optimistic, proud and brave Hungary, he designated the tasks in hand for the next government.

He indicated that the next government will especially count on the communities of historical churches whose very existence is a great value for Hungary.

We will guarantee the conditions that are necessary for preaching the gospel, freedom and respect for churches, he highlighted.

He said they see the increasing need for church schools, hospitals and homes for the elderly, and helping these will be an important part of the government's work.

Mr Orbán mentioned that he can also see the spiritual and physical impressions of a reviving national unity throughout the Carpathian Basin. This is beneficial not only for Hungarians living beyond the borders, but it equally strengthens the universal Hungarian community and the motherland.

Hungarians beyond the borders can count on us, we will continue our efforts aimed at the unification of the nation relentlessly, he stated.

Regarding the Russia-Ukraine war, the Prime Minister said it should never have started. In his view, today Europe has no means of any kind to manage the conflict taking place in its neighbourhood. In the absence of strength and means, the leaders of the continent are convinced that with the help of the European sanctions it is possible to bring Russia to its knees.

This may be possible on paper, and a number of "paper politicians" are waving about some kind of theoretical evidence, Mr Orbán said, stating that he cannot remember a single continental sanction that proved to be successful, but he does recall instances when those who invented them found themselves on the receiving end.

He repeatedly confirmed that in the interest of European unity, Hungary will not foil sanctions as long as they do not cross the red line of the self-defence of the Hungarian economy, meaning as long as they do not jeopardise Hungary's energy security.

Mr Orbán also stressed that his political community and government regards Hungary's NATO membership as "crucial".

He highlighted that NATO is a defence alliance, and we must not give in to the temptation of this organisation conducting offensive military campaigns outside the territory of its Member States. It must not be turned from a defence alliance into a military alliance that wages wars. NATO is not the Entente, and cannot become that, he laid down.

In his view, the importance of our NATO membership has never been as evident as it is now during the Russia-Ukraine war. "The situation is escalating," he took the view. He said the Russians declared the war a military campaign that can also be conducted without conscription, meaning that they turned it into "an infinite exercise," while the Americans decided to finance Ukraine's need for military equipment and supplies without an upper limit with a lend-lease law, a means known from World War II. This is the worst possible combination, he stated.

He added that the war in our neighbourhood will continue for a long time and with an inconceivable quantity of arms, and will pose a permanent security threat to Hungary.

Mr Orbán said the most important task of the decade ahead is for Hungary to stay out of the war and to protect the country's peace and security.

He stated that in his mind those who supply weapons "already have one foot in the war". He said "we stand for peace; peace builds, war destroys," and so we want an immediate ceasefire and peace talks. He indicated that he will stand by his position.

He took the view that NATO is a dependable ally, but they will not defend Hungary for us. In trouble, perhaps they will, together with us, but surely not for us, he warned, adding that a desire for peace and good intentions are not enough in themselves because if a country's army is weak, if its soldiers are not fit for fighting and its people do not want to defend themselves, that will be the first country to be attacked. "To fight a dragon you need a dragon's tooth. The dragon's tooth is called the Hungarian defence forces," he said.

Mr Orbán also pointed out that in the Russia-Ukraine war, Ukraine is the victim and Russia is the aggressor. This is why we support Ukraine, and this is why we launched the biggest humanitarian aid campaign in the history of Hungary. In relation to our population, we have let in the largest number of refugees, are providing care for those who need it and will continue to help Ukrainian refugees, he stressed.

He observed that for the time being, they are putting aside the injuries and insults that Hungarians in Transcarpathia sustained, and also the fact that Ukraine's president and government openly intervened in the Hungarian election campaign and supported their opponents. "Despite these facts, the Ukrainians can count on Hungary and the Hungarian government," he laid down.

Regarding Hungary's disputes with Brussels and the topic of the EU, he pointed out that Hungary is a member of the European Union and has a vested interest in remaining a member also in the decade ahead. At the same time, he also laid down that Hungary will not accept economic measures that would destroy Hungarian families.

He said Brussels abuses its power day in, day out, and "wants to force on us all sorts of things that are bad for us and alien to us". He added that, in the spirit of the principle of 'live and let live' Hungary made tolerance offers on the issues of migration, gender and most recently the oil embargo, but these were rejected.

"But we won't surrender the protection of our borders, won't dismantle the fence, and won't let migrants in. We will protect our families, won't let gender activists into our schools, in this country the father is a man, the mother is a woman, and they should leave our children well alone. We will continue to stand for Hungary's peace and security, and won't accept economic measures that would destroy Hungarian families," the Prime Minister stated.

He took the view that today Brussels is making attempts to restrict the sovereignty of Member States, including that of Hungary, and instead of a Europe of nations, they are seeking to build a new European empire, a United States of Europe.

Additionally, he continued, the cultural distance - which we could now almost call cultural alienation - is increasing ever more between the Western half of Europe and Hungary. In his view, this is so because we believe in the Christian civilisational foundations of Europe, and we believe in the nation states, something that Brussels has already given up on.

For us it is important to have "the Lord's blessing," to have a country that we can love and we can be proud of, to maintain the continuity of the Hungarian life of a thousand years, the Hungarian quality of existence in the Carpathian Basin, and that we may die knowing that our children and grandchildren have a motherland, have something to continue and to preserve.

He added that this is the greatest thing that a Hungarian can give his or her children, and "for us this takes precedence over all muddy talk and politics about common European values and ever closer integration".

What are we doing in the European Union? - the Prime Minister asked. His answer was: "we're looking for our dreams," "a community of free and equal nations". "A country of countries, a democracy of democracies," a Europe besieging the heights of erudition.

He said we are not members of the European Union because of what it is, but because of what it could be because such a Europe could offer the best chance, the greatest scope for an independent and free Hungary.

He confirmed that also in the decade ahead they envisage Hungary within the European Union as a member fighting with determination for its rights and looking for allies for the renewal of the union. A Hungary that is a member of NATO and the European Union will face the challenges of the decade of war ahead, but this is not the answer to the challenges as that can only be a successful economic policy that rests on national foundations.

Regarding results, he described the period between 2010 and 2020 as a decade of great progress. He listed the economic results in which Hungary was in the top three in the EU, including the rise in the number of jobs, the increase in investments and the minimum wage and the reduction of taxes. He also pointed out that in our state of development we overtook Greece and Portugal.

He also spoke about the difficulties ahead, including the economic crisis, migration and the pandemic. But he likewise mentioned that with the abatement of the pandemic, a keen competition evolved among countries about where the factories that previously closed down should be reopened. In this race, Hungary was among the winners, he stressed.

In his view, this gives the country's economy a chance to increase, rather than decrease during the European crisis that is unfolding.

He further mentioned that due to the Russia-Ukraine war, a number of strategic decisions adopted earlier had gained in significance, including the development of the Budapest-Belgrade railway line which could replace the destroyed Ukrainian transport routes and the Southern gas pipeline which could replace the gas pipelines currently transiting Ukraine.

An era of energy supply crises could set in, he stressed, in which those countries will be safe which will be able to generate their own energy needs. He described the construction of the new Paks block and the implementation of solar energy projects as key from a national security point of view as they will make that possible.

Hungary sells three quarters of its products in Europe; however, the biggest and most modern investments are now coming from the Far East. We are standing on both our feet, and this makes our economy crisis-proof, he continued, mentioning that we prepared for the revolutionary renewal of the automotive industry, and did much to push Hungary into the vanguard of the next-generation automotive industry. Hungary will soon become a major battery exporter, and at the same time, we are able to produce twice as much food as we need, he listed.

He said in the decade ahead, low taxes, physical security, advanced road networks and railway services, and political stability will be the main factors in the race for investments. In these, we are doing well, he highlighted, and so we will continue to build our economic strategy on the high level of investments.

He said even amidst the present difficult circumstances, he will undertake to make sure that Hungary will go forward, not backward.

The Prime Minister stressed that the government about to be formed will further undertake to preserve the most important results even amidst the unfolding European crisis, and to not give up the most important goals.

"We will protect full employment, we will protect our family grants, we will protect the value of pensions, we will protect the reduction of household energy bills," he stressed.

In the years ahead, Hungary will protect families and will be proud of its children, he highlighted.

Mr Orbán described today's young generation as the greatest value and resource. He stressed that everywhere around the country he sees young people who love their country, understand the world, speak foreign languages and use the latest technologies with ease. Therefore, Hungary has a bright future to look forward to.

In his speech, the Prime Minister also said the Carpathian Basin must be turned into the world's best place in cooperation with the peoples and countries living here. This is the common interest of Slovaks, Ukrainians, Serbs, Croatians, Slovenes and Hungarians, he said.

Therefore, we will not rise to provocations or attempts to divide us in the future either, he indicated, reassuring neighbouring countries that they can count on the Hungarians; we unwaveringly believe in the common future of the peoples of the Carpathian Basin.

Mr Orbán said today, Hungary is receiving an unusual amount of attention from members of the Western public not because of its population, army or economic strength, but because, in addition to Poland, Hungary has become the Western world's last Christian, conservative bastion.

We have different ideas about the world and the future than "the liberal, globalist mainstream," and we are building our country differently than they are building their own. We could live together in peace side by side. However, today Brussels is striving for exclusivity, the Prime Minister said, adding that they say that politics, the leading of a country and even Europe itself can only be conceived and cultivated in a single way. "Those who do not toe the line are punished with investigations by the evening."

Mr Orbán stressed that this is what Hungary is rebelling against.

He added that ever more people have the feeling that Hungary is an island of peace. We want to give hope to others as well, hope that the Christian way of life, patriotism, national pride, in other words, national politics are not a thing of the past, but a thing of the future, he said.

Thirty years ago we thought Europe was our future; today we believe that we are the future of Europe, Mr Orbán stressed.

* Original Link[https://miniszterelnok.hu/this-decade-will-be-an-era-of-threats-uncertainty-and-wars/]

Disclaimer

Prime Minister of Hungary published this content on 16 May 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 16 May 2022 18:29:38 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020220516ei5g00el1


UPDATE 4-EU ministers fail to persuade Hungary to sign up to Russian oil embargo
626 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日 18:23 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
* Budapest says no acceptable proposal yet from Brussels

* May 30-31 summit could be last-ditch attempt

* Oil embargo could last for years, Germany says (Adds Borrell news conference after meeting)

By Robin Emmott

BRUSSELS, May 16 (Reuters) - EU foreign ministers failed on Monday in their effort to pressure Hungary to lift its veto of a proposed oil embargo on Russia, with Lithuania saying the bloc was being "held hostage by one member state".

The ban on crude imports proposed by the European Commission in early May would be its harshest sanction yet in response to Moscow's Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine and includes carve-outs for EU states most dependent on Russian oil.

Germany, the European Union's biggest economy and a major buyer of Russian energy, said it wanted a deal to authorise the oil embargo, which it suggested could last for years.

As expected, the ministers failed to reach a deal on Monday, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said after the meeting, with ambassadors now charged to negotiate an agreement.

"Unhappily, it has not been possible to reach an agreement today," Borrell told reporters, saying Hungary set out its argument based on economic, not political, concerns.

Borrell said foreign ministers had decided, however, to provide an additional 500 million euros for arms purchases in support of Kyiv, taking the total sum of money the EU has earmarked for that purpose to 2 billion euros.

Some diplomats now point to a May 30-31 summit as the moment for agreement on a phased ban on Russian oil, probably over six months, with a longer transition period for Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.

"I am confident that we will find agreement in the coming days," German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said. Dutch Foreign Minister Wopke Hoekstra spoke of a deal soon.

Hungary, Moscow's closest ally in the EU, has said it wants hundreds of millions of euros from the bloc to mitigate the cost of ditching Russian crude. The EU needs all 27 states to agree to the embargo for it to go ahead.

"The whole union is being held hostage by one member state ... we have to agree, we cannot be held hostage," Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said.

COST OF 15-18 BLN EUROS?

Hungary's Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said Budapest had not received any serious new proposal from the European Commission regarding oil sanctions since the executive's president visited Hungary earlier this month.

"The European Commission has caused a problem with a proposal so it's a rightful expectation from Hungary ... that the EU should offer a solution: to finance the investments and compensate for ... the (resulting) price rises which necessitates a total modernisation of Hungary's energy structure in a magnitude of 15-18 billion euros," he said on Facebook.

Borrell questioned those figures, saying Szijjarto had spoken of much lower numbers with ministers on Monday and that the oil embargo went beyond individual EU governments.

"We have to get rid of this strong dependency (on Russian energy) that makes us very vulnerable," Borrell said.

An oil embargo, already imposed by the United States and Britain and which would follow five rounds of earlier EU sanctions, is widely seen as the best way to reduce Russian income for its war in Ukraine. The EU has banned Russian coal.

Moscow calls its invasion of Ukraine a "special military operation" to rid the country of fascists, an assertion Kyiv and its allies say is a baseless pretext for an unprovoked war. (Reporting by Robin Emmott and Sabine Siebold; Editing by Catherine Evans and Howard Goller)

Released: 2022-5-16T19:23:51.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220516ei5g013i9


CE Noticias Financieras English
Judit Varga, Hungary’s Minister of Justice: ‘We Must Remain a Country Where Faith, Homeland, or Family Are Not Obsolete Words’
1369 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Hungary’s conservative party, Fidesz, won its fourth consecutive supermajority led by both controversial and innovative party leader Viktor Orbán. Orbán has sought to create a non-leftist model of governance that still exists within the margins of a rule of law.

One of the recent keystones of his government is Judit Varga — probably the best-known member of his cabinet and head of the Justice Ministry — who spoke with El American about Fidesz’s latest victory and the relationship between Hungary and the EU. Varga has been both in charge of the Hungarian protection of its borders against illegal immigration and the reception of Ukrainian refugees. This interview has been edited for clarity.

Nobody expected such an overwhelming victory of Fidesz in last month’s election. What are the causes of this massive support of the Hungarian people?

The Hungarian people saw that the Christian-conservative side had one common passion, and the name of that passion is Hungary. In the last 12 years, we proved that the interests of the Hungarian people come first for us. That’s why we created 1 million new jobs, cut overhead costs, and built employment while providing financial support to families and the elderly.

Our credo is that Hungary must remain a sovereign Christian country where notions like faith, homeland, or family are not simply obsolete words but true values, which form the backbone of our thousand-year-old Hungarian identity. We held each other’s hand and sent a clear message to the world: whatever intrigue and cunning tricks the European left-wing uses to bring Hungary to its knees, we will resist and step up for our compatriots and the future of our children and grandchildren while remaining true and honest partners in the EU. In the end, the heart always wins!

The victory of Fidesz has been welcome in Brussels. From the first day, there was talk of a “legal but unjust victory” and the European Commission initiated the rule of law mechanism to sanction Hungary. Is there a problem in Brussels with democracy? Don’t you think that these actions can only lead to a break-up of the EU?

I bet the outcome of the elections was quite sobering for the Eurocrats in Brussels who apparently use a different definition of democracy. For us, it means the will of the people. And the Hungarian citizens have clearly stated that they don’t want the failed left-wing back. The rule of law mechanism is a mere political tool to take revenge for the victory of the national conservative side.

There was an article in Bloomberg, an outlet you can hardly blame for being conservative, that said that these punitive measures would be risky in such challenging times. But Brussels persists, disregarding the consequences. In fact, such petty political battles would only break the already-fragile trust in EU institutions. Nonetheless, we will endure and remain open to dialogue to finally fulfill the dreams of our founding fathers: to be united in diversity.

Last month, I was in Beregsurány where I saw firsthand the huge effort Hungary is making with the influx of refugees from Ukraine. Is the EU offering any help in this crisis or just nice words?

Let the numbers speak for themselves. Until mid-April, Hungary has spent 1.6 billion EUR on the defense of our Southern borders, and more than 105 million EUR on handling the refugee situation stemming from the war in Ukraine. The European Union so far only covered 2% of such costs, which is ridiculous. However, there are reasons to be optimistic at last, since the European Commission has recently announced the first cohesion funding payments to the Member States helping refugees. In the meantime, Brussels is holding back the RRF on political grounds.

The president of Frontex, Fabrice Leggeri, resigned last week over the OLAF report, which, according to Leggeri, defends the thesis of the most left-wing NGOs. What do you think about what is happening with Frontex and the growing influence of NGOs in the EU?

Certain NGOs are capable of exercising a significant influence over public life and public debate. Something even the EU Court of Justice confirmed when taking a decision on our law on civil society organizations in Hungary. In the European arena, however, some left-liberal NGOs have become dominant players in decision-making. A striking example was their activity before the Hungarian elections.

They literally used every means to discredit the conservative government. One of them published a report in which they stated that the Fidesz party rigged the 2018 elections. Another leftist organization literally called the government a cancer while on the forum of a liberal institute while speakers supported political pressure as a tool to influence Hungarian politics. And the list could go on. As one of the seven theses Hungary formulated on the future of Europe: decisions shall be made by elected leaders and not by international NGOs!

In many Western media, they write off the Visegrád Group as broken because of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. This is also a concern of many Hungarians because of the centuries-old friendship with the Poles. What is the situation within the V4? Is there any risk of a breakup if the war in Ukraine escalates?

I envy those journalists who have the time and energy to discredit our alliance like they had no other issues. Therefore, I will repeat it again: the V4 cooperation is alive and well. We keep consulting before the meetings of EU ministers, share our views on the different questions and respect each other’s positions. It has never been a secret that for Poland, the issue of Russia is a red line, nor is our pragmatic dependence on Russian energy.

Although the liberal media systematically forgets to report on it, Slovakia also gets 85 percent of its gas from Russia. We are on the same side as our V4 allies in many aspects regarding the war. Peace is a number one priority for all of us. Hungary has always joined the sanctions which were equally supported by all Member States. So, the whole idea about the breakup of the V4 is just a fairy-tale of liberals who cannot accept the outcome of the Hungarian elections.

How is the war affecting the economic situation in Hungary? Despite the crisis, the Hungarian government is going to increase pensions by 8.9%.

Let us be clear: the prices will keep rising for as long as the war continues. Therefore, we cannot afford to sit back and remain idle. We are doing everything we can to protect the Hungarian people from the consequences of these price rises.

This is why we have introduced price restrictions and increased pensions while retaining previously introduced measures as well, such as family support or the PIT exemption for under 25s. The Hungarian economy remains strong and stable, our GDP grew by 7.1% last year which is the 2nd best in the EU, our unemployment rate is below 4%, and Hungarian businesses keep expanding. There is no need to worry, the government will defend the interests of the Hungarian people and businesses.

Many conservatives see with hope the example of Viktor Orbán; do you think that this new, “Hungarian Revolution” can be exported?

I truly hope that our victory will energize conservatives around Europe. Hungarian people have proved that it is possible to believe in the values of family, homeland, and Christianity and that the ancient idea of a union based on a strong alliance of strong nations can be brought back.

The key to making European conservatism great again lies in the cooperation of think tanks, movements, and civilians in order to hold the spiritual flame for those who have been left without proper representation in the EU, especially after the EPP lost its identity and joined the liberal forces. A beautiful and hopeful era is ahead of us, although strategic patience is needed now as well. Because the most important right now are peace and security.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220517ei5g000r8


CE Noticias Financieras English
Foreign Minister assures there is no "fundamental opposition" in the EU to the Russian oil embargo
569 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The Minister of Foreign Affairs, João Gomes Cravinho, assured this Monday that there is no "fundamental opposition" in the European Union (EU) to the Russian oil embargo, despite admitting difficulties regarding Hungary, because it is "100% dependent on Russia.

"The sanctions package was not on the table because it is no longer a political problem, it is a technical problem. We know that Hungary, but also other countries - Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Bulgaria - have some difficulties, because they have a very high degree of dependence and have to find alternative ways of supplying themselves with oil and gas, [but] it is not a fundamental opposition in relation to the need for us to sanction Russia, including in these areas," declared the head of Portuguese diplomacy.

Speaking to Portuguese journalists in Brussels at the end of a meeting of EU foreign ministers, João Gomes Cravinho explained that "the work that is taking place is essentially the work of the European Commission, which is currently trying to identify mechanisms to help Hungary, in particular, and then the other countries also have the access they need to investment.

Asked when the 27 may reach an agreement on the sixth package of sanctions against Russia, presented by the European Commission in early May, the official estimated that it will happen "within a couple of weeks.

This "so that we don't miss, let's say, the useful time for the application of sanctions", he added.

Even so, João Gomes Cravinho stressed that "the political message is very clear.

"We are going to apply sanctions, including in these areas. We are now identifying the appropriate mechanisms so that the asymmetries, the asymmetric impact of the sanctions, will not be an obstacle," he stressed.

Assuring that the EU "is not hostage" to a single member state, João Gomes Cravinho said it is necessary to "understand what the real difficulties are" since "Hungary is 100% dependent on Russia for its oil.

"Obviously, there are no conditions for cutting off Russia's supply from one moment to the next, so what we need to do is help Hungary find other ways and that is the work that is being done," he said.

At stake is the sixth and new package of sanctions against Russia due to the invasion of Ukraine at the end of last February, after the European Commission had covered, in the previous set of restrictive measures, the ban on coal imports.

The latest package, presented by Brussels two weeks ago, envisages a total and gradual elimination of all Russian oil imports to reduce Europe's energy dependence on Russia, and also stipulates a one-year derogation for Hungary and Slovakia.

Hungary has already rejected the proposal for a gradual EU embargo on Russian oil under the terms proposed by the European Commission, claiming it jeopardizes the country's energy security.

The war in Ukraine has exposed the EU's excessive energy dependence on Russia, which accounts for about 45% of European gas imports. Russia also supplies 25% of the oil and 45% of the coal imported by the EU.

Russia launched a military offensive in Ukraine on February 24 that has killed more than 3,000 civilians, according to the UN, which warns that the actual number is likely to be much higher.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220517ei5g004ee


CE Noticias Financieras English
Borrell admits difficulties with Hungary over Russian oil sanctions
487 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The head of European Union (EU) diplomacy, Josep Borrell, acknowledged Monday the difficulties in securing Hungary's support for the proposal to sanction Russian oil due to the country's dependence on imports from Russia.

As part of the tightening of sanctions against Russia for invading Ukraine on February 24, the European Commission has proposed an embargo on Russian oil imports until the end of the year, but Hungary is opposed, even though the proposal provides for an extra year of transition for the country.

"We have to convince 27 countries. Among them, some have more problems than others. It is an objective situation that some member states face more difficulties," Borrell admitted in Brussels as he entered a meeting of EU foreign ministers on the situation in Ukraine.

The Spanish diplomat referred to the fact that there are countries "that are more dependent because they don't have access to the sea, they don't have the possibility of receiving tankers."

"They only have oil through pipelines and from Russia," the EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy recalled, quoted by Spanish news agency EFE.

The also vice-president of the European Commission said he will try to get ministers to give a political boost today to the proposal on the EU's sixth package of sanctions against Russia.

The proposal, presented on May 4, includes a ban on crude oil imports for six months and on refined oil for eight months.

Despite several meetings at the diplomatic level and the proposal granting Hungary and Slovakia a longer transition period, until December 31, 2023, there is still no consensus on the new sanctions.

The Czech Republic has also joined calls for a three-year deadline for the implementation of the Russian oil ban.

Borrell said that "everything possible will be done to unblock the situation," but admitted that he cannot guarantee that this will happen, "because the positions are very strong."

"But if we can understand the particular situation of some member states and make an effort to present a common front against Russia, we will succeed," he said.

"My role is not to blame anyone, but to reach a consensus," he added.

The sixth sanctions package also includes the exclusion of Sberbank, Russia's largest bank, from the Swift international transaction system, or selective restrictive measures against the patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church or perpetrators of atrocities in Ukraine.

During the meeting, Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba will brief his EU counterparts on the situation in the country, according to Borrell.

"The Ukrainians continue to resist fiercely and we will continue to provide them with weapons to do so," he said.

Borrell has proposed that the EU increase aid to Ukraine by another 500 million euros, to 2,000 million euros, to finance weapons such as armored vehicles.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220517ei5g004em


EU Fails to Clinch Russian Oil Embargo
Lisa Bryant
357 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日
Voice of America Press Releases and Documents
VOA
英文
Copyright © 2022 Federal Information & News Dispatch, Inc.
May 16, 2022 9:29 PM

Paris -

The European Union again failed to agree to an oil embargo against Russia Monday as part of a sixth package of sanctions over the war in Ukraine. Hungary remains a key holdout, demanding a high price for greenlighting the package.

Signs of exasperation against Hungary emerged at a meeting of European Union foreign ministers in Brussels - including from Ukraine's top envoy Dmytro Kuleba, who was invited to the talks. An oil embargo against Russia, he said, was essential.

"It's clear who's holding up the issue," Keleba said. "But time is running out because every day, Russia keeps making money and investing this money into the war."

Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis also expressed frustration.

"Now, unfortunately, we are - the whole union is being held hostage by one member state which cannot help us find a consensus."

The EU needs unanimous agreement from its 27 members to push through each set of sanctions. Until now, that's happened. An oil embargo would be the toughest sanction so far-hurting Moscow's ability to finance the war.

It would also hit some European countries highly dependent on Russian energy. But Hungary - already considered an EU maverick on other issues - is especially putting on the brakes. Reports say Budapest wants hundreds of millions of dollars in compensation, and possibly more, to transition from Russian oil imports.

EU Foreign Policy chief Josep Borrell said the conversations with Hungary were largely technical. He offered no timeline for coming to an agreement. Still, some EU members are hopeful that a breakthrough is only days or weeks away.

"One thing is clear - I think it's clear for everyone in the council: We have to get rid of the energy dependency of the European Union with respect to oil, gas and coal coming from Russia," Borrell said.

Borrell said the war in Ukraine has tested the bloc in key ways, not just the conflict itself. But it is also testing Europe's energy resiliency as it unwinds its dependency on Russian supplies - and its very legitimacy.

U.S. Government

文件 VOA0000020220517ei5g0000d


News
Ukraine: EU struggles to reach consensus over Russia oil embargo
368 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日 10:10 GMT
DW English
DEUEN
英文
© 2022. DW
Hungary is leading opposition to the oil embargo being discussed in a foreign ministers' meeting of the 27-member union. All member states must agree on the embargo for it to come into effect.

European Union members are struggling to agree on a sixth package of sanctions against Russia, as a small group led by Hungary oppose including an oil embargo.

The European Commission had proposed the ban on Russian oil imports on May 4, in an effort to increase economic pressure on Russia. Countries such as Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia were given more time to phase out their heavy reliance on Russian oil.

EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell stressed in statements on the sidelines of Monday's meeting that some union members "face more difficulties because they are more dependent, because they are landlocked".

"We will do our best in order to deblock the situation," the AP quoted Borrell as saying, as he prepared to chair a foreign ministers meeting. "I cannot ensure that it is going to happen because positions are quite strong."

In order to implement a Russian oil ban, all 27 EU members would need to support the policy.

EU 'held hostage by one member' — Lithuanian FM

Some members strongly opposed Hungary's stance. Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said "the whole union is being held hostage by one member state". and felt the phase out period Hungary and other countries were offered was sufficient.

Hungary has demanded financial aid and more time to implement the embargo.

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba is also attending talks and has stressed the importance of including the oil ban in the latest round of sanctions, warning that the bloc would be giving Russia cause for celebration if it did not reach agreement.

Austrian Foreign Minister Alexander Schallenberg said he expected consensus "in the next days". Luxembourg's Foreign Minister Jean Asselborn also expressed confidence that the new sanction package would be imposed, but added that the bloc "needs more time."

rmt/kb (dpa, AP, Reuters)

The EU hopes an oil embargo could further pressure Russia's economy (Yegor Aleyev/TASS/dpa/picture alliance) [https://static.dw.com/image/61714304_401.jpg]

Deutsche Welle

文件 DEUEN00020220516ei5g000gy


News
Ukraine: EU struggles to reach consensus over Russia oil embargo
368 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日 10:10 GMT
DW English
DEUEN
英文
© 2022. DW
Hungary is leading opposition to the oil embargo being discussed in a foreign ministers’ meeting of the 27-member union. All member states must agree on the embargo for it to come into effect.

European Union members are struggling to agree on a sixth package of sanctions against Russia, as a small group led by Hungary oppose including an oil embargo.

The European Commission had proposed the ban on Russian oil imports on May 4, in an effort to increase economic pressure on Russia. Countries such as Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia were given more time to phase out their heavy reliance on Russian oil.

EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell stressed in statements on the sidelines of Monday's meeting that some union members "face more difficulties because they are more dependent, because they are landlocked".

"We will do our best in order to deblock the situation," the AP quoted Borrell as saying, as he prepared to chair a foreign ministers meeting. "I cannot ensure that it is going to happen because positions are quite strong."

In order to implement a Russian oil ban, all 27 EU members would need to support the policy.

EU 'held hostage by one member' — Lithuanian FM

Some members strongly opposed Hungary's stance. Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said "the whole union is being held hostage by one member state". and felt the phase out period Hungary and other countries were offered was sufficient.

Hungary has demanded financial aid and more time to implement the embargo.

Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba is also attending talks and has stressed the importance of including the oil ban in the latest round of sanctions, warning that the bloc would be giving Russia cause for celebration if it did not reach agreement.

Austrian Foreign Minister Alexander Schallenberg said he expected consensus "in the next days". Luxembourg's Foreign Minister Jean Asselborn also expressed confidence that the new sanction package would be imposed, but added that the bloc "needs more time."

rmt/kb (dpa, AP, Reuters)

The EU hopes an oil embargo could further pressure Russia's economy (Yegor Aleyev/TASS/dpa/picture alliance) [https://static.dw.com/image/61714304_401.jpg]

Deutsche Welle

文件 DEUEN00020220516ei5g000ba


Ukraine's cut-off from Russian networks would resolve sanction issue – Lithuanian formin
327 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日 09:04 GMT
Baltic Daily - Political/Social News
BALPOLE
英文
© 2022 Baltic News Service
VILNIUS, May 16, BNS – The ongoing negotiations on a new sanction package for Russia are stalling due to Hungary's opposition to a proposed energy import embargo, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis says, adding that helping Ukraine to secure energy independence could help resolve the issue.

"Helping Ukraine to give up Russian oil and gas would be one of the solutions because we know that the country that cannot help to find a consensus is dependent on transit from Ukraine, and if this transit stops, the issue of sanctions would also be resolved," Landsbergis said on Monday, having arrived to Brussels to attend a meeting of EU foreign ministers.

In his words, the EU would be remembered in this situation either as a union that was able to move forward and send a "very clear message to Russia" or as a union that got stuck.

"Unfortunately, the whole union is now being held hostage by one country that cannot help us find a consensus", the foreign minister pointed out.

The European Union has been discussing ways to suspend imports of the Kremlin's natural resources for some time now but several EU member states heavily dependent on Russian fossil fuels are resisting.

A few weeks ago, the European Commission drafted a sixth package of sanctions for Russia, aimed at further punishing Moscow over the war in Ukraine. Several EU member states, most notably Hungary, are opposed to the plans to give up Russian oil by the end of this year.

Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have been offered the possibility to continue importing Russian oil until the end of 2024, but Budapest is seeking a five-year transition period for the phase-out and needs a new pipeline to Croatia for oil supplies via its ports, as well as guarantees for the project's funding.

, +370 5 205 85 10, Vilnius newsroom

AS Postimees Grupp

文件 BALPOLE020220516ei5g0025t


EU ministers fail to persuade Hungary to sign up to Russian oil embargo
Reuters News Service
567 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日
Cyprus Mail
CYMAIL
英文
© 2022, Cyprus Mail, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
EU foreign ministers failed on Monday in their effort to pressure Hungary to lift its veto of a proposed oil embargo on Russia, with Lithuania saying the bloc was being “held hostage by one member state”.

The ban on crude imports proposed by the European Commission in early May would be its harshest sanction yet in response to Moscow’s February 24 invasion of Ukraine and includes carve-outs for EU states most dependent on Russian oil.

Germany, the European Union ’s biggest economy and a major buyer of Russian energy, said it wanted a deal to authorise the oil embargo, which it suggested could last for years.

As expected, the ministers failed to reach a deal on Monday, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said after the meeting, with ambassadors now charged to negotiate an agreement.

“Unhappily, it has not been possible to reach an agreement today,” Borrell told reporters, saying Hungary set out its argument based on economic, not political, concerns.

Borrell said foreign ministers had decided, however, to provide an additional 500 million euros for arms purchases in support of Kyiv, taking the total sum of money the EU has earmarked for that purpose to 2 billion euros.

Some diplomats now point to a May 30-31 summit as the moment for agreement on a phased ban on Russian oil, probably over six months, with a longer transition period for Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.

“I am confident that we will find agreement in the coming days,” German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said. Dutch Foreign Minister Wopke Hoekstra spoke of a deal soon.

Hungary, Moscow’s closest ally in the EU, has said it wants hundreds of millions of euros from the bloc to mitigate the cost of ditching Russian crude. The EU needs all 27 states to agree to the embargo for it to go ahead.

“The whole union is being held hostage by one member state … we have to agree, we cannot be held hostage,” Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said.

COST OF 15-18 BLN EUROS?

Hungary’s Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said Budapest had not received any serious new proposal from the European Commission regarding oil sanctions since the executive’s president visited Hungary earlier this month.

“The European Commission has caused a problem with a proposal so it’s a rightful expectation from Hungary … that the EU should offer a solution: to finance the investments and compensate for … the (resulting) price rises which necessitates a total modernisation of Hungary’s energy structure in a magnitude of 15-18 billion euros,” he said on Facebook .

Borrell questioned those figures, saying Szijjarto had spoken of much lower numbers with ministers on Monday and that the oil embargo went beyond individual EU governments.

“We have to get rid of this strong dependency (on Russian energy) that makes us very vulnerable,” Borrell said.

An oil embargo, already imposed by the United States and Britain and which would follow five rounds of earlier EU sanctions, is widely seen as the best way to reduce Russian income for its war in Ukraine. The EU has banned Russian coal.

Moscow calls its invasion of Ukraine a “special military operation” to rid the country of fascists, an assertion Kyiv and its allies say is a baseless pretext for an unprovoked war.

Cyprus Mail Ltd

文件 CYMAIL0020220517ei5g00007


CE Noticias Financieras English
EU still no agreement to sanction Russian oil due to Ukraine's veto
699 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The foreign ministers of the European Union (EU ) failed on Monday to provide the necessary political impetus for Hungary to lift its veto on sanctioning oil imports from Russia and to bring forward the sixth round of sanctions against Moscow for the invasion of Ukraine.

"We are still discussing, unfortunately today it was not possible to reach an agreement to finalize the sixth package of sanctions," EU diplomacy chief Josep Borrell reported at the end of the Council of Ministers, where views were also exchanged with his Ukrainian counterpart, Dmitro Kuleba.

According to him, the matter will return to the EU Permanent Representatives Committee, where the ambassadors of the EU-27 "will continue to discuss", since "we still have the same difficulties about unanimity on the oil veto".

The Member States have not yet reached the unanimity necessary to finalize the proposal of the European Commission (EC) of May 4 for a new package of sanctions against Russia that would include a ban on imports of its oil in six months and refined oil in eight months.

The proposal also envisages sanctions against large Russian banks and targeted measures against the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, Kirill, or those responsible for atrocities in Ukraine.

Although an offer was made to extend the terms of the veto on Russian crude oil imports for Hungary or Slovakia, which are heavily dependent on them, Budapest remains opposed to the measure.

Asked about the issue, Borrell rejected that there is a link between the possibility of excluding the patriarch from the upcoming sanctioned list and Hungary lifting its block on an oil embargo.

"Today's discussion has clarified some issues about the difficulties Hungary faces," he explained, which can be measured in the time, which it will take to adapt, or in the cost that would be required to do so.

Thus, on the one hand, Hungary, which is landlocked and cannot receive oil tankers, would have to adapt its refinery structure and the capacity of its oil pipelines to allow crude oil to arrive from the Mediterranean through Croatia, said Borrell, who also alluded to the "permanent structural cost" of having to pay more for oil from another source.

"The relations of forces, geopolitical balances, alliances, the geopolitics of energy, will change drastically after this war," he said.

In any case, the Spanish Foreign Minister, José Manuel Albares , assured that he was not afraid of breaking the unity that the EU has maintained during the five previous packages of sanctions because "the support" for these new measures "is very great", and although "there is some reluctance on the part of some countries, they have approached it in a constructive manner".

Borrell also assured that at the Council they agreed to provide an additional 500 million euros from the European Peace Support Fund for arms deliveries to Ukraine, bringing the total to 2 billion.

Western Balkans

Foreign ministers also addressed the situation in the Western Balkan countries at a lunch with their counterparts from that region.

Borrell urged Serbia to join Western sanctions against Russia and asserted that maintaining "close ties" with the regime of Russian President Vladimir Putin "is no longer compatible with building a common future with the EU."

"Ministers expressed their clear expectation towards partners, as future member states, to commit to European values and European foreign policy. Those that have not yet done that, and Serbia is one of them, should as soon as they can step up their alignment and implement sanctions," he said.

On the other hand, Borrell considered that the EU-27 must now unblock the start of negotiations on the accession to the EU of Albania and North Macedonia and hoped that this step could be taken during the French presidency of the EU, which ends on June 30.

He described the delay in opening the negotiations as "unsustainable" and added that the situation is damaging both the two countries and the community club. "It is costing us and the region too much in terms of credibility and political perspective. It is a gift to Russia," he concluded.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220516ei5g00b9t


Ukraine's cut-off from Russian networks would resolve sanction issue – Lithuanian formin
327 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日 09:04 GMT
Baltic Business Daily
BALDAI
英文
(c) 2022 Baltic News Service
VILNIUS, May 16, BNS – The ongoing negotiations on a new sanction package for Russia are stalling due to Hungary's opposition to a proposed energy import embargo, Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis says, adding that helping Ukraine to secure energy independence could help resolve the issue.

"Helping Ukraine to give up Russian oil and gas would be one of the solutions because we know that the country that cannot help to find a consensus is dependent on transit from Ukraine, and if this transit stops, the issue of sanctions would also be resolved," Landsbergis said on Monday, having arrived to Brussels to attend a meeting of EU foreign ministers.

In his words, the EU would be remembered in this situation either as a union that was able to move forward and send a "very clear message to Russia" or as a union that got stuck.

"Unfortunately, the whole union is now being held hostage by one country that cannot help us find a consensus", the foreign minister pointed out.

The European Union has been discussing ways to suspend imports of the Kremlin's natural resources for some time now but several EU member states heavily dependent on Russian fossil fuels are resisting.

A few weeks ago, the European Commission drafted a sixth package of sanctions for Russia, aimed at further punishing Moscow over the war in Ukraine. Several EU member states, most notably Hungary, are opposed to the plans to give up Russian oil by the end of this year.

Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have been offered the possibility to continue importing Russian oil until the end of 2024, but Budapest is seeking a five-year transition period for the phase-out and needs a new pipeline to Croatia for oil supplies via its ports, as well as guarantees for the project's funding.

, +370 5 205 85 10, Vilnius newsroom

AS Postimees Grupp

文件 BALDAI0020220516ei5g001e1


EU still without agreement on sanctioning Russian crude
534 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日
EFE News Service
WEFE
英文
© Copyright 2022. EFE News Service. All rights reserved.
Brussels, May 16 (EFE).- The foreign ministers of European Union member states on Monday were not able to reach an agreement whereby Hungary would forego exerting its right to veto plans to sanction imports of Russian crude oil and the talks will continue on a sixth round of sanctions against Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine. "We're continuing to discuss, and unfortunately today it wasn't possible to arrive at an agreement to finalize the sixth package of sanctions," the EU 's diplomatic chief, Josep Borrell , said at a press conference after the close of the Council of Ministers meeting, where viewpoints were exchanged with his Ukrainian counterpart, Dmitro Kuleba.

He said that the issue will now move to the EU's Permanent Representatives Committee, where the ambassadors of the 27 member states "will continue discussing" the matter, given that "we're continuing to have the same difficulties on unanimity about the veto on petroleum." The member states have not managed to get the unanimity required to implement the European Commission proposal of May 4 on a new sanctions package on Russia that includes banning imports of Moscow's crude oil within six months and refined petroleum products within eight months. Part of the proposal is also that sanctions will be levied against big Russian banks along with selective measures against the patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church, Kiril, and those responsible for committing atrocities in Ukraine. Although an offer was made to extend the time periods within which imports of Russian crude and petroleum products for Hungary and Slovakia, which are very dependent on that energy source, would be implemented, Budapest continues to oppose the measure. When asked about the matter, Borrell rejected the idea that Hungary's stance had anything to do with a desire to exclude Kiril from the sanctions list. "The discussion today clarified some matters about the difficulties facing Hungary," Borrell said, matters that could bear on the time period for implementing the oil import ban or on the cost of doing so. Hungary, which is a landlocked nation and cannot take shipment of oil by sea, would have to adapt its refinery structure and the capacity of the pipelines through which oil arrives from the Mediterranean through Croatia, Borrell said, going on to allude to the "permanent structural cost" of having to pay for more expensive oil from other sources. "The relationship of the forces, geopolitical equilibria, alliances, the geopolitics of energy, will drastically change after this war" in Ukraine, the Spanish politician said. In any case, Spanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Albares said that he was not afraid that the EU unanimity that has been maintained through five earlier packages of sanctions will rupture because "the support" for these new measures "is very great," and although "there is some reticence on the part of a certain country, all has been handled very constructively." Borrell also said that the Council on Monday agreed to provide an additional 500 million euros ($522 million) from the European Peace Facility for the delivery of weaponry to Ukraine, bringing the total so far to 2 billion euros. EFE rja-drs-jug/cat/fpa/bp

EFE News Service

文件 WEFE000020220517ei5g00003


EU ministers urge Hungary to sign up to planned Russian oil embargo]]
Georgi Gotev
609 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日 15:22 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
EU foreign ministers sought to publicly pressure Hungary on Monday (16 May) to lift its veto on a proposed oil embargo on Russia, with Lithuania saying the bloc was being “held hostage by one member state”.

The embargo proposed by the European Commission in early May would be the harshest sanction yet after Moscow’s 24 February invasion of Ukraine and includes carve-outs for EU states most dependent on Russian oil.

Germany, the European Union ’s biggest economy and a major buyer of Russian energy, said it wanted a deal to authorise the oil embargo which it suggested could last for years.

“I am confident that we will find agreement in the coming days,” German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said as she arrived for a meeting with her counterparts. “We need to prepare it extremely well because it needs to be sustainable.”

But Hungary, Moscow’s closest ally in the EU, has said it wants hundreds of millions of euros from the bloc to mitigate the cost of ditching Russian crude. The EU needs all 27 states to agree to the embargo for it to go ahead.

“The whole union is being held hostage by one member state … we have to agree, we cannot be held hostage,” Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said.

Few ministers directly called Hungary out by name as they spoke to reporters, but Romania said it was up to the bloc to bring Budapest round.

‘Oil will be included’

Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó said on his Facebook page on 11 May that there was no solution in sight.

He said the government of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán needed “hundreds of millions of dollars” for Hungarian refineries, a capacity increase for a Croatian pipeline and compensation for the Hungarian economy.

However, EU ministers ranging from Austria to Estonia said there would still be an oil embargo, even if it took longer to come to an agreement.

“This package (of sanctions) will be adopted and oil will be included,” Estonia’s top diplomat, Eva-Maria Liimets, said – a position echoed by others, including Luxembourg and Romania. Spain also supported the Commission’s proposal.

‘Russia is watching us’

Austria expects the EU to agree on the sanctions package in the coming days, Foreign Minister Alexander Schallenberg said.

“I am confident that we will manage to get the sixth sanctions package done in the next days,” Schallenberg told reporters as he arrived for the ministerial meeting.

“It is clear that there still is a certain need for discussion but I believe we should aim to have these discussions where they belong, at the council, in order not give an image of disaccord in public. Russia is watching us.”

An oil embargo, already imposed by the United States and Britain and which would follow five rounds of earlier EU sanctions, is seen as the best way to reduce Russian income for its war in Ukraine.

The EU ’s foreign policy chief, Josep Borrell , last week signalled that Monday’s meeting might have been the moment for a breakthrough. On Monday he said he was doing his utmost to unblock the situation.

Some diplomats now point to a 30-31 May summit as the moment for agreement on a phased ban on Russian oil, probably over six months, with a longer transition period for Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.

Moscow calls its invasion of Ukraine a “special military operation” to rid the country of fascists, an assertion Kyiv and its Western allies say is a baseless pretext for an unprovoked war.

(Edited by Georgi Gotev)

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220516ei5g0005o


EU ministers fail to persuade Hungary to sign up to Russian oil embargo
587 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日 18:23 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) -EU foreign ministers failed on Monday in their effort to pressure Hungary to lift its veto of a proposed oil embargo on Russia, with Lithuania saying the bloc was being "held hostage by one member state".   

The ban on crude imports proposed by the European Commission in early May would be its harshest sanction yet in response to Moscow's Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine and includes carve-outs for EU states most dependent on Russian oil.   

Germany, the European Union 's biggest economy and a major buyer of Russian energy, said it wanted a deal to authorise the oil embargo, which it suggested could last for years.    

As expected, the ministers failed to reach a deal on Monday, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said after the meeting, with ambassadors now charged to negotiate an agreement.    

"Unhappily, it has not been possible to reach an agreement today," Borrell told reporters, saying Hungary set out its argument based on economic, not political, concerns.

Borrell said foreign ministers had decided, however, to provide an additional 500 million euros for arms purchases in support of Kyiv, taking the total sum of money the EU has earmarked for that purpose to 2 billion euros.   

Some diplomats now point to a May 30-31 summit as the moment for agreement on a phased ban on Russian oil, probably over six months, with a longer transition period for Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.    

"I am confident that we will find agreement in the coming days," German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said. Dutch Foreign Minister Wopke Hoekstra spoke of a deal soon.   

Hungary, Moscow's closest ally in the EU, has said it wants hundreds of millions of euros from the bloc to mitigate the cost of ditching Russian crude. The EU needs all 27 states to agree to the embargo for it to go ahead.   

"The whole union is being held hostage by one member state ... we have to agree, we cannot be held hostage," Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said.

COST OF 15-18 BLN EUROS?   

Hungary's Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said Budapest had not received any serious new proposal from the European Commission regarding oil sanctions since the executive's president visited Hungary earlier this month.   

"The European Commission has caused a problem with a proposal so it's a rightful expectation from Hungary ... that the EU should offer a solution: to finance the investments and compensate for ... the (resulting) price rises which necessitates a total modernisation of Hungary's energy structure in a magnitude of 15-18 billion euros," he said on Facebook .   

Borrell questioned those figures, saying Szijjarto had spoken of much lower numbers with ministers on Monday and that the oil embargo went beyond individual EU governments.    

"We have to get rid of this strong dependency (on Russian energy) that makes us very vulnerable," Borrell said.   

An oil embargo, already imposed by the United States and Britain and which would follow five rounds of earlier EU sanctions, is widely seen as the best way to reduce Russian income for its war in Ukraine. The EU has banned Russian coal.   

Moscow calls its invasion of Ukraine a "special military operation" to rid the country of fascists, an assertion Kyiv and its allies say is a baseless pretext for an unprovoked war.

(Reporting by Robin Emmott and Sabine Siebold; Editing by Catherine Evans and Howard Goller)

Released: 2022-5-16T18:23:53.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220516ei5g00xy9


EU reputation at stake as Hungary continues to block Russia sanctions]]
Alexandra Brzozowski
1192 字
2022 年 5 月 17 日 06:00 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The EU has not found consensus on the new sanction package against Russia and an agreement could be still ‘a week or two’ away, EU’s chief diplomat Josep Borrell said on Monday (17 May), as Hungary said it would not lift its veto.

“Unhappily, it has not been possible to reach an agreement today,” Borrell told reporters after a meeting of the bloc’s foreign ministers in Brussels.

The EU side has offered Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia long grace periods to phase out Russian oil imports, but that has not yet convinced Budapest to lift its opposition.

The philosophy of EU sanctions is that they should hit the third country, in this case Russia, rather than causing harm tor the member states. But sanctions in the field of energy inevitably cause damage to EU countries, some being hit more than others.

The EU’s Russian energy imports were worth €99 billion in 2021, Russian oil accounting for about 27% of EU oil imports.

Technically, oil imports from Russia are easier to be replaced than gas imports, however rising oil prices already add to inflation across the EU.

“I hope it’s not going to last more, but I cannot tell you if it’s going to take one week or two,” Borrell said, adding that he had initially aimed for ministers to discuss the sanctions package on Monday.

Borrell explained that the main obstacle to a deal was of economic nature: “Hungary has not explained their position in political terms, but in economic terms,” he said.

EU member states are increasingly desperate to avoid the appearance of division in the face of the Kremlin’s onslaught on Ukraine, and officials are scrambling behind the scenes to patch up a compromise with Hungary after making the initial proposal nearly two weeks ago on 4 May.

EU officials have made a series of concessions to member states since then, including dropping a plan to ban EU ships from transporting Russian oil, after opposition from Greece and Cyprus over the potential economic impact on their industries.

Some member states have also floated the idea of considering delaying the ban on oil to proceed with the rest of the sanctions package, but this has been opposed so far since it is believed that the measures would ‘lack teeth’ without the energy component.

EU ambassadors are set to meet for their regular meeting on Wednesday, where a more detailed discussion on the package is expected.

However, EU diplomats and some foreign ministers on Monday have said they rather consider the possibility that the discussion might drag on until an informal EU summit scheduled for the end of May.

Hungary also had hinted before that anything close to an oil ban would rather be Chefsache, meaning it would have to be discussed among EU leaders rather than on the lower political level.

“The risk here is that we will have ‘discussion on everything’ between EU leaders, from sanctions to energy to enlargement to treaty change, which can blow up depending on how annoyed member states are by that point in time,” one EU diplomat quipped.

Borrell said foreign ministers had decided, however, to provide an additional €500 million for arms purchases in support of Kyiv, taking the total sum of money the EU has earmarked for that purpose to €2 billion.

Holding the EU hostage 

Hungary has been accused of “holding the EU hostage” over its refusal to agree an oil embargo against Russia, as the bloc struggles to reach a consensus on its latest sanctions aimed at eroding the Kremlin’s ability to wage war.

“The whole union is being held hostage by one member state who cannot help us find the consensus,” Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis told reporters.

“Everybody expected this will be enough,” Landsbergis said, reflecting the widespread conviction amongst his counterparts that Hungary would fall into line if it got more time to convert its energy system to accommodate non-Russian oil.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has likened the economic impact on his country of banning Russian oil to a “nuclear bomb.”

Budapest says it needs time to adapt its energy systems and financial support to pay for updated infrastructure and more expensive alternatives to Russian oil.

Hungary, often the odd one out in EU decision-making, has demanded to be exempted from the embargo for at least four years and wants €800 million in EU funds to re-tool a refinery and boost the capacity of a pipeline to Croatia.

Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó on Monday appeared to up the price tag for ditching Russian oil by saying it would cost 15 to 18 billion to prepare its economy for the move.

“It is legitimate for Hungarians to expect a proposal” from the European Commission to cushion that blow, Szijjártó said in comments broadcast on his Facebook page.

“A complete modernisation of the Hungarian energy infrastructure is needed to the scale of 15 to €18 billion.”

The protracted dispute over the oil embargo has led some EU diplomats to believe achieving a ban on Russian natural gas is beyond reach.

The EU plans to cut its reliance on Russian gas by two thirds this year, for which an according proposal is set to be presented by the European Commission on Wednesday (18 May), but it has been reluctant to halt imports as Germany opposes such a move.

‘Reputation at stake’

Ukraine’s foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba urged the EU on Monday to overcome Hungary’s resistance to an embargo on Russian oil and then look to “kill” all of Moscow’s exports to starve its war machine of funds.

“We are unhappy with the fact that the oil embargo is not there,” Kuleba said after meeting EU foreign ministers in Brussels.

“It’s clear who’s holding up the issue. But time is running out because every day Russia keeps making money and investing this money into the war.”

Kuleba said he was convinced the oil embargo would come and “the only question is when and what will be the price that the European Union will have to pay to make it happen.”

“There is an understanding among EU member states that it is the reputation of the European Union that is at stake”, Kuleba said. 

He then called on the 27-nation bloc to move on to a seventh package of sanctions that would “kill Russian exports” and deliver a crushing blow to President Vladimir Putin’s coffers.

Orbán is known as Putin’s best friend in the EU. According to unconfirmed reports, Putin gave Orbán advanced notice ahead of the invasion of Ukraine, and the Hungarian strongman told him that his country was interested in taking part of Ukraine’s territory after the war.

According to analysts, Russia has been counting on internal EU divisions to evade major sanctions for its invasion of Ukraine.

Orbán was officially re-elected as Prime minister on Monday and received congratulations both from Council President Charles Michel and Commission President Ursula von der Leyen.

(Edited by Georgi Gotev)

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220517ei5h0000t


Hungarian PM: EU Abuses Its Power, Forces Alien Culture, Ideology Upon Budapest
445 字
2022 年 5 月 17 日
FARS News Agency
FARSNA
英文
© 2022, FARS News Agency, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
TEHRAN (FNA)- The European Union is abusing its power and forces an alien culture and ideology upon Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orban said on Monday.

"However, we still do not let migrants in, we do not give permission for gender ideologies and we do not accept economic measures that would destroy Hungarian families," the prime minister stressed, Sputnik reported.

Brussels is also reducing individual bloc member's powers, Orban continued.

He also took a dig at Western sanctions imposed against Russia, arguing that they work only in theory.

"Europe is convinced that different sanctions can bring Russia to its knees. This is possible on paper, and many 'paper' politicians put forward some theoretical evidence, but no matter how hard I try to remember, an effective continental blockade does not come to my mind. However, I saw the failure of those, who introduced it," Orban added.

Hungary earlier resisted the EU's move to ban Russian oil, blocking the sixth package of sanctions introduced by the bloc. The prime minister has repeatedly indicated that he will not support Western sanctions against Moscow that, in his view, undermine Hungary's energy security.

Orban's remarks came as he was re-elected prime minister by the country's parliament on Monday. He has already been congratulated by the European Commission, with its head Ursula von der Leyen voicing hope that the "unprecedented challenges" faced by the bloc may be collectively addressed.

Orban will lead the Hungarian government for the fifth time in his political career. He has already unveiled the list of ministers for his next cabinet, with Peter Szijjarto, Mihaly Varga and Judit Varga keeping their posts as foreign, finance and justice ministers, respectively. Kristof Szalay-Bobrovinczky has replaced Tibor Benko as the country's defence minister.

The Hungarian prime minister is one of Europe's longest-serving leaders, who is known for his strong anti-immigration stance and support of traditional Christian values.

The EU Foreign Policy Chief Josep Borrell noted on Monday it could take another two weeks before the European Union is able to agree on a plan to sanction Russia's lucrative oil industry.

While most countries are on board, Hungary is holding up a deal on a proposal to ban all imports of Russian crude and refined fuels, on the grounds that such a step would deal a massive blow to the Hungarian economy.

Speaking after a meeting of EU foreign ministers, Borrell stated Hungary needs time to adapt its energy systems and money to pay for new infrastructure and more expensive alternatives to Russian oil.

Click to view image[https://media.farsnews.ir/Uploaded/Files/Images/1401/02/27/14010227000328_Test_PhotoN.jpg]

FARS News Agency

文件 FARSNA0020220517ei5h00030


Oil Prices Drop As Hungary Vetoes EU's Move To Ban Russian Oil Import
451 字
2022 年 5 月 17 日
Forbes Middle East Online
FRBEN
英文
2022 FORBES MIDDLE EAST ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
The possibility of a Russian oil ban in the EU has contributed to volatility in oil prices. Image by ded pixto / Shutterstock.com

Crude oil prices dropped Tuesday after European Union (EU) lawmakers failed to reach a deal for a Russian oil import ban.

Key facts

West Texas Intermediate (WTI) fell by 0.43% to $113.68 per barrel as of 9:20 pm GST, while Brent Crude dropped by 0.37% to $113.82 per barrel around the same time.

The possibility of a Russian oil ban in the EU has caused volatility in oil prices this month. Both benchmark futures gained more than 2% Monday and 4% Friday, said a Reuters report. EU member Hungary has resisted lifting its veto on a potential oil embargo, which requires approval from all 27 EU nations, as the bloc's Foreign Affairs Council met Monday.

On May 4, the EU Commission President Ursula von Der Leyen announced the bloc’s sixth sanction package against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, including a proposal to ban all Russian seaborne, pipeline, crude, and refined oil.

In April, Hungary’s Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Peter Szijjarto, reportedly said the country would not support sanctions against Russian oil and gas following talks with Turkey. “Russian gas is supplied to Hungary without interruption,” Russian news agency TASS quoted Szijjarto as saying.

However, some EU ministers remained determined to push for the embargo on Russian oil. "The whole union is being held hostage by one member state ... we cannot be held hostage," said Lithuania’s Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis.

Crucial quote

“This is why we will phase out the Russian supply of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year. Thus, we maximize pressure on Russia while at the same time minimizing collateral damage to us and our partners around the globe,” said von der Leyen in a statement.

Oil demand

Global oil demand in March 2022 surpassed pre-pandemic levels, while crude production only met 97% of the level seen before the pandemic, data released by the Joint Organizations Data Initiative (JODI) showed.

Crude inventories in March were 284 million barrels below the five-year average, said the International Energy Forum. Major producer Saudi Arabia’s crude production in March stood at 10.3 million barrels per day (bpd), 2.1 million bpd above the year-ago period, according to JODI data.

Saudi Arabia’s energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said Monday[https://www.forbesmiddleeast.com/industry/energy/oil-prices-plunge-on-chinas-covid-19-lockdown-looming-supply-concerns] the country could achieve an output of more than 13 million bpd by the end of 2026 or the start of 2027.

Arab Publisher House

文件 FRBEN00020220517ei5h00003


Czech Republic slams Hungary for refusal to back sanctions on Russian energy
Ahmet Gencturk |
241 字
2022 年 5 月 17 日
Anadolu Agency
ANATOL
英文
© Copyright Andolu Ajansi
ANKARA

The Czech Republic slammed Hungary on Tuesday for its refusal to back sanctions on Russian energy.

“The decision and approach of Hungary’s government not to support any sanctions that target Russian energy exports is unacceptable,” Foreign Minister Jan Lipasky wrote on Twitter.

He was referring to Hungary’s veto on a EU proposal to ban Russian energy which is intended to hamper Russia’s ability to finance its war against Ukraine,

Hungary’s decision come at a time when “Europe needs to be united more than ever,” he added.

Meanwhile, state-run Radio Prague International reiterated that the ban on Russian oil proposed by the European Commission in early May would be its harshest sanction yet in response to Moscow’s military operation in Ukraine.

While the embargo is planned to take effect in 2023, Hungary and Slovakia have been given an exemption until the end of 2024, and Czechia until mid-2024, it added.

At least 3,668 people have been killed and 3,896 injured in Ukraine since Russia began its war Feb. 24, according to UN estimates. The true toll is believed to be much higher.

More than 6.2 million people have fled to other countries, with 7.7 million people internally displaced, according to the UN refugee agency.

Czech Republic slams Hungary for refusal to back sanctions on Russian energy[https://cdnuploads.aa.com.tr/uploads/Contents/2022/05/17/thumbs_b_c_7524f3df7bddaf898740e74c3383a87d.jpg]

Anadolu Agency

文件 ANATOL0020220518ei5h0002b


Putin's allies: Why Hungary is demanding a staggering €18bn to cut ties with Russian oil
James Gray
664 字
2022 年 5 月 18 日 15:51 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
HUNGARY is refusing to sign up to EU proposals that would see all 27 member states stop purchasing Russian oil. Express.co.uk outlines why Budapest opposes the move and what it's demanding for that to change.

Diplomats in Brussels have spent the past two weeks trying to get support from all members of the European Union to cease Russian oil imports by the end of 2022. The measure is part of a sixth raft of sanctions the bloc wishes to get signed off against Moscow. Doing so would help to cut funding for Russian President Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine. But the proposals have yet to win over Hungary and its Prime Minister Viktor Orban.

Related articles

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has said a complete ban on imports of Russian crude and refined fuels “will not be easy”, but she added “we simply have to do it”.

On Monday, Hungary’s Government told EU officials that it would need a payment of €15 billion to €18 billion for it to agree with the ban on Russian oil.

The sum is a significant increase on the €750 million quoted by Budapest’s Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó last week.

EU diplomats have been shocked by the development, with one telling Politico that the figures being sought by Hungary are “out of the question”.

READ MORE: Russia has ALREADY lost war in Ukraine as Putin's military 'decimated'

READ MORE

Mr Orban has said that “in the interests of European unity”, Hungary will not block the sanctions against Russia, although he does not agree with them.

But, he caveated the measures must “not endanger Hungary’s energy security”.

According to Mr Szijjártó, Hungary requires a €15bn to €18bn payment so that it can fund “a total modernisation of Hungary’s energy structure” and combat growing oil prices.

As Hungary is landlocked, it leans heavily on oil imports provided via pipelines and is particularly reliant on those owned by Russian entities.

Officials in the country have stated their opposition to a complete ban on Russian oil imports, and have said the measure should only extend to oil which is supplied by ship.

But the EU is pushing for a full ban to cut finances which are helping to support the Kremlin’s invasion of Ukraine.

Ms Von der Leyen made a dash to Budapest for face-to-face talks earlier this month to talk through Mr Orban’s concerns.

DON'T MISS:

Russia media is preparing nation for ‘bad news’ as Putin's plan fails [INSIGHT]

The NATO weapon that Putin ‘really fears’ [EXPLAINER]

Germany finally vows to 'pull out all the stops' to crush Russia [ANALYSIS]

READ MORE

But it appears the trip was in vain, and a planned video conference with regional leaders to discuss how to help Hungary adapt never materialised.

Initially, the bloc had hoped to overcome Hungary’s reluctance by offering some form of financial compensation via Wednesday’s REPowerEU strategy.

The document set out how the EU should end its dependence on all Russian energy imports by the end of the decade.

However, it now seems that Hungary will require greater persuasion before a unanimous agreement can be reached.

Hungary - a member of both the EU and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation - has condemned Russia’s invasion, but it's not offered its backing to every sanction tabled by the West.

During his time in office, Mr Orban has nurtured a close relationship with President Putin, which has made him an outlier in Europe.

Alongside opposing a ban on Russian energy imports Hungary has refused to bilaterally provide Ukraine with weapons.

Related articles Finland sends defiant message to Russia after voting to join NATO Sweden can deploy 'more than 1,000' fighter planes to help Ukraine Commons erupts in laughter at Blackford's order to 'sack the Treasury'

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220518ei5i004hc


World; Europe
Strongmen in Turkey and Hungary stall unified action by NATO and the E.U.
By Steven Erlanger and Matina Stevis-Gridneff
767 字
2022 年 5 月 18 日 18:15 GMT
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
英文
Copyright 2022. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Europe’s effort to stand up to Russia and Vladimir V. Putin, its president, is being slowed by two strongmen leaders insisting on the priority of their national interests and playing to domestic audiences.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey on Wednesday blocked a procedural vote on NATO moving ahead quickly[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/15/world/europe/finland-sweden-nato-russia-ukraine.html?searchResultPosition=17] with the membership applications of Sweden and Finland[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/13/world/europe/sweden-finland-nato-putin.html?searchResultPosition=7], handed in with much publicity Wednesday morning, a senior European diplomat said.

And Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary continues to block even a watered-down European Union effort to put an embargo on Russian oil, part of a sixth package of sanctions aimed at Moscow.

While NATO and the European Union have shown remarkable unity in their response to Mr. Putin’s war, the actions of both authoritarian leaders show the strains building as the war drags on[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/11/world/europe/ukraine-russia-western-solidarity.html?searchResultPosition=1], peace talks appear to go nowhere, and Western sanctions are causing economic pain and high inflation at home, as well as in Russia.

Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Orban may be outliers in their organizations, but they are able to use the requirement for consensus in both NATO and the E.U. to get their political concerns addressed by blocking unified action, even temporarily.

On Wednesday, a meeting of NATO ambassadors could not reach consensus on a first vote to proceed with the requests for membership because Turkey said it first wanted NATO to address its security concerns. In particular, Ankara wants Finland and especially Sweden to end what Mr. Erdogan has called support for “terrorist organizations” in their countries, primarily the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, as well as to lift export bans on certain arms sales to Turkey.

Turkey’s decision to block consensus came hours before the Turkish foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, was set to meet with Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken in New York; Turkey wants its security concerns to be addressed before NATO’s annual summit meeting in late June.

In an address to his lawmakers in Parliament on Wednesday, Mr. Erdogan criticized at length Western support for Kurdish groups that Ankara sees as a terrorist threat. But he has not said that he would veto Finland and Sweden’s applications.

The PKK is a Kurdish guerrilla group that has fought a decades-long separatist insurgency in parts of Turkey. It was designated by the United States as a terrorist organization in 1997.

National security is Mr. Orban’s argument, too. Hungary is dependent on Russia for its energy, getting 85 percent of its natural gas and 65 percent of its oil supply from Russia, as well as using Russian technology for its nuclear power plants.

While Hungary has approved all previous sanction packages, including an embargo on Russian coal, Mr. Orban proclaimed that an oil embargo would be the equivalent of an “atomic bomb” for the Hungarian economy.

But like Mr. Erdogan in NATO, Mr. Orban this time is the sole holdout, in his case, in the weekslong E.U. efforts to finalize a gradual embargo.

Talks began in mid-April. After extensive consultation between E.U. officials and diplomats from the bloc’s 27 member states, a proposal was put on the table in early May.

But Hungary seemed to be moving the goal posts. The first proposal gave extensions to Hungary and Slovakia so they could find alternative suppliers. While the other 25 E.U. members would have until the end of the year, Hungary and Slovakia would have until the end of 2023.

Then Hungary demanded, and secured, even more time. The latest version of the package would grant it until the end of 2024, but Mr. Orban has insisted that Hungary would need billions from the bloc to shield his nation’s economy.

Diplomats said that they expected Mr. Orban eventually to acquiesce to an oil embargo, having secured both a long extension and extra funding for Hungary, but that he could drag the talks out even longer, perhaps until the end of the month when leaders are set to meet in person in Brussels.

NATO officials expressed the same confidence about Mr. Erdogan — that he will eventually agree to back Sweden and Finland joining NATO in return for some concessions that will help him politically at home, with his economy in crisis and new elections only a year away.

Alexander Stubb, a former Finnish prime minister and foreign minister, said that “the Finns are cool and collected and so are the Swedes — this will work out.”

The New York Times Company

文件 NYTFEED020220518ei5i0099d


World; Europe
Strongmen in Turkey and Hungary Stall Unity in NATO and the E.U.
By Steven Erlanger and Matina Stevis-Gridneff
1432 字
2022 年 5 月 18 日 18:59 GMT
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
英文
Copyright 2022. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Russia benefits as Turkey slows down Swedish and Finnish applications to NATO and Hungary continues to block an E.U. embargo on Russian oil.

BRUSSELS — Europe’s effort to stand up to Russia and Vladimir V. Putin, its president, is being slowed by two strongmen leaders insisting on the priority of their national interests and playing to domestic audiences.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey on Wednesday blocked a procedural vote on NATO moving ahead quickly[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/15/world/europe/finland-sweden-nato-russia-ukraine.html?searchResultPosition=17] with the membership applications of Sweden and Finland[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/13/world/europe/sweden-finland-nato-putin.html?searchResultPosition=7], handed in with much publicity Wednesday morning, a senior European diplomat said.

And Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary continues to block even a watered-down European Union effort to put an embargo on Russian oil, part of a sixth package of sanctions aimed at Moscow for its war against Ukraine.

While NATO and the European Union have shown remarkable unity in their response to Mr. Putin’s war, the actions of the two authoritarian leaders show the strains building as the war drags on[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/11/world/europe/ukraine-russia-western-solidarity.html?searchResultPosition=1], peace talks appear to go nowhere, and Western sanctions are contributing to economic pain and high inflation at home, as well as in Russia.

Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Orban may be outliers in their organizations, but they are able to use the requirement for consensus in both NATO and the European Union to get their political concerns addressed by blocking the action of all the others, even temporarily.

On Wednesday, a meeting of NATO ambassadors could not reach consensus on a first vote to proceed with the requests for membership because Turkey said it first wanted NATO to address its security concerns. In particular, Ankara wants Finland and especially Sweden to end what Mr. Erdogan has called support for “terrorist organizations” in their countries, primarily the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, as well as to lift export bans on certain arms sales to Turkey.

Turkey’s decision to block consensus came hours before the Turkish foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, was set to meet with Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken in New York; Turkey wants its security concerns to be addressed before NATO’s annual summit meeting in late June.

In an address to his lawmakers in Parliament on Wednesday, Mr. Erdogan criticized at length Western support for Kurdish groups that Ankara sees as a terrorist threat.

“It wouldn’t be wrong to say that we are bittersweet watching the solidarity and cooperation in the region, the sources used, the arms opened, the tolerance shown,” he said. “Because we, as a NATO ally who struggled with terror for years, whose borders were harassed, big conflicts occurred just next door, have never seen such a picture.”

Turkey “asked for 30 terrorists,” he said. “They said: ‘We are not giving them,’” Mr. Erdogan told the Parliament. “You won’t hand over terrorists but you want to join NATO. We cannot say yes to a security organization that is devoid of security.”

The PKK is a Kurdish guerrilla group that has fought a decades-long separatist insurgency in parts of Turkey. It was designated by the United States as a terrorist organization in 1997.

Mr. Erdogan remains angry over support from Washington and Stockholm for a PKK-affiliated militia in Syria, where the group was fighting the Islamic State. His government last year rebuked the United States[https://www.nytimes.com/2021/02/15/world/middleeast/turkey-soldiers-deaths-kurdish-guerrillas.html] and Sweden over the matter. And Turkey has demanded the extradition of six alleged PKK members from Finland and 11 alleged PKK members from Sweden.

Mr. Erdogan has said these issues cause him not to have “favorable thoughts” about the membership of the Nordic countries. But he has not said that he would veto their applications.

On Saturday, Ibrahim Kalin, Mr. Erdogan’s spokesman and foreign-policy adviser, said: “We are not closing the door. But we are basically raising this issue as a matter of national security for Turkey.”

National security is Mr. Orban’s argument, too. Hungary is dependent on Russia for its energy, getting 85 percent of its natural gas and 65 percent of its oil supply from Russia, as well as using Russian technology for its nuclear power plants.

While Hungary has approved all previous sanction packages, including an embargo on Russian coal, Mr. Orban proclaimed that an oil embargo would be the equivalent of an “atomic bomb” for the Hungarian economy.

But like Mr. Erdogan in NATO, Mr. Orban this time is the sole holdout, in his case, in the weekslong E.U. efforts to finalize a gradual embargo on Russian oil, the headline measure in a sixth package of sanctions since the invasion of Ukraine.

Talks began in mid-April. After extensive consultation between E.U. officials and diplomats from the bloc’s 27 member states, a proposal was put on the table incorporating different positions in early May.

But Hungary seemed to be moving the goal posts. The first proposal gave extensions to Hungary and Slovakia so they could find alternative suppliers. While the other 25 E.U. members would have until the end of the year, Hungary and Slovakia would have until the end of 2023.

Then Hungary demanded, and secured, even more time. The latest version of the package would grant it until the end of 2024, but Mr. Orban has insisted that Hungary would need billions from the bloc to shield his nation’s economy. His foreign minister, Peter Szijjarto, said that to use different oil and modernize Hungary’s energy system would cost between 15 billion and 18 billion euros and take five years.

Hungary’s block on an E.U. oil embargo, breaking unprecedented unity in punishing Russia, was well-received in Moscow. Dmitri Medvedev, Russia’s former president who currently serves as deputy chairman of the country’s national security council, said Mr. Orban’s opposition to the oil embargo was “a courageous step for voiceless Europe.”

In a post on his Telegram channel on May 6, Mr. Medvedev wrote: “Apparently, the most sensible leaders of the E.U. countries are tired of moving quietly to the precipice along with the entire sterilized European herd being led to the slaughter by an American shepherd.”

Diplomats said that they expected Mr. Orban eventually to acquiesce to an oil embargo, having secured both a long extension and extra funding for Hungary, but that he could drag the talks out even longer, perhaps until the end of the month when leaders are due to meet in person in Brussels to talk about Ukraine.

NATO officials expressed the same confidence about Mr. Erdogan — that he will eventually agree to back Sweden and Finland joining NATO in return for some concessions that will help him politically at home, with his economy in crisis and new elections only a year away.

Alexander Stubb, a former Finnish prime minister and foreign minister, said that “the Finns are cool and collected and so are the Swedes — this will work out.”

In the end, he said, “this is about security in Europe and about strengthening the alliance, and both Finland and Sweden are strong advocates of Turkish membership in the European Union.”

In 1999, he said, it was the Finnish presidency of the European Union that opened the door for Turkish accession, “and our friends in Ankara will remember that.”

Sauli Niinisto, the president of Finland, said in Stockholm that the Turks “have communicated to us from many sources that Turkey would not block membership.” A fast process is still possible, he said.

Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO secretary-general, said on Sunday, “Turkey has made it clear: Their intention is not to block membership. Therefore, I am confident we’ll be able to address the concerns that Turkey has expressed in a way that doesn’t delay the accession process.”

At least not too much.

Carlotta Gall contributed reporting from Kharkiv, Ukraine; Benjamin Novak from Budapest; and Johanna Lemola from Helsinki, Finland.

Mourners carrying a banner of the imprisoned Kurdish leader of Kurdistan Workers Party Abdullah Ocalan while they attend the burials of Kurdish-led fighters killed fending off ISIS gunmen in a prison siege in February in Syria. | Diego Ibarra Sanchez for The New York Times | Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary in Parliament this month. Mr. Orban continues to block even a watered-down European Union effort to put an embargo on Russian oil. | Attila Kisbenedek/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images | A Hungarian oil plant this month near the town of Szazhalombatta, south of Budapest. | Attila Kisbenedek/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

The New York Times Company

文件 NYTFEED020220518ei5i009q1


Dispatches
E.U. ditching Russian oil is 'economic suicide': Vladimir Putin
Deutsche Welle
517 字
2022 年 5 月 18 日
Frontline
FRTLNE
英文
Copyright 2022. THG Publishing Pvt. Ltd.
Dispatches

Russia's president has said banning oil imports from his country would be impossible for some dependent European states.

Russian President Vladimir Putin on May 17 said European countries would not be able to impose a ban on Russian oil imports. His remarks came as E.U. members failed this week to negotiate a proposed embargo on Russian oil after a small group of countries continued to oppose the plan. The proposed embargo is part of broader action by the West against Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine.

"Obviously, some E.U. states, in whose energy balance the share of Russian hydrocarbons is especially high, will not be able to do this for a long time, to ditch our oil," Putin said in a televised address. Putin said Europe would see higher energy prices and inflation as a result of the proposed Russian oil embargo. "Of course, such an economic suicide is a domestic affair of the European countries," he said.

The U.S. and the U.K. have already imposed an oil embargo, although given that both countries are net oil exporters, this step is rather simpler to take. Putin admitted that the Russian oil market had been hit by "tectonic changes" amid sanctions following the invasion of Ukraine, adding that Moscow would help domestic oil producers, including facilitating access to loans and insurance.

Why hasn't the E.U. imposed an oil embargo?

On May 16, foreign ministers of the 27-member union gathered to discuss a ban on Russian oil imports to be included in the sixth sanction package against Moscow. E.U. members must reach a consensus to implement the measure, but a group of countries — led by Hungary — opposed the measure.

The E.U. has offered Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia more time to phase out their heavy reliance on Russian oil. But Budapest has not yet agreed, with its government saying €800 million ($830 million) in E.U. funds are needed to re-tool a refinery and boost the capacity of a pipeline to Croatia. Hungary is also seeking to be exempted from the proposed embargo for at least four years.

Where does Germany stand?

Berlin had initially opposed an oil embargo, citing its heavy reliance on Russian energy. But Germany recently shifted its stance, saying it would agree if its Western allies did and help try to enable one. On May 17, German Foreign Annalena Baerbock warned against division among E.U. countries. "Our unity as the E.U. has been our strength so far," she said, with many analysts surprised at the ease with which all 27 E.U. members had voted in support of some of the staunchest economic sanctions ever levied against a modern economy so far during the conflict. But Baerbock also expressed understanding for some E.U. member states who have problems phasing out Russian energy, saying all the different points of view had to be reconciled. "There is not the 'one size fits all' solution," she said.

fb/msh (AFP, Reuters)

THG Publishing Pvt. Ltd.

文件 FRTLNE0020220519ei5i00009


EU’s €2billion bombshell plan to support nations with oil ban may not sway Hungary
Emma Crabtree
544 字
2022 年 5 月 19 日 00:55 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION has announced that €2billion will be spent on funding oil infrastructure to support landlocked countries remove themselves from their reliance on Russian crude oil.

The funds will come from the RePowerEU package to cut ties to Russian fuels through saving energy, exchanging Russian imports with others, encouraging renewable energy and financing new infrastructure. The €300billion RePowerEU plan was announced by the European Commission on Wednesday in an attempt to cut off Russian fossil fuels “well before 2030”.

Related articles

At a press conference, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said: “Ninety-five percent of overall financing will go into speeding up and scaling up the energy transition.”

She added that also included “up to €2billion for oil infrastructure in view of stopping the shipment of Russian oil”.

The member states in the European Union have been at loggerheads over sanctions on Russian oil imports as Hungary refused to accept sanctions and have been accused of “holding the EU hostage”.

Lithuania’s foreign minister, Gabrielius Landsbergis said: “Unfortunately the whole union is being held hostage by one member state.”

Hungary’s Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has objected to the sanction saying it will destroy his country’s economy as they nearly entirely rely on Russian oil.

On Monday Mr Orbán said that Hungary would not prevent the EU sanctions against Russia so long as there was no threat to Hungary’s energy security.

Hungary’s Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó declared that a “complete modernisation of the Hungarian energy infrastructure” to break from Russian oil will cost €15billion and €18billion .

READ MORE: Russian soldier accused of war crimes pleads guilty in landmark trial

Related articles

The minister had previously said that the necessary infrastructure would cost €750million .

While the €2billion announcement on Wednesday has been seen as a step forward for getting Hungary in on the oil ban, it is uncertain if the country will have access to the funds.

The bloc’s €300billion package is due to be made up with €225billion £190.8billion) in unused loans from the Recovery and Resilience Facility with the leftover €75billion in grants from sales of additional CO2 emissions permits or from countries’ existing agricultural and cohesion funds provisions.

DON'T MISS:

Royal POLL: Should Netflix push Meghan and Harry for content?

Germany finally vows to 'pull out all the stops' to crush Russia

Queen’s favourite sandwich she's had ‘for every afternoon tea’

Budapest has not finalised its agreement with the EU on its RRP plan to open access to its recovery funding over issues surrounding anti-corruption protections.

A second Commission official said: “Indeed the RRP of Hungary is not approved yet, and we are in discussions with the Hungarian government – we have made very focused requests on what Hungary could do and should do in order for€¦the approval of the Hungarian RRP.

“We are continuing that dialogue, and the possibility for funding to be RRF, or additional funding, may be an additional element in this dialogue.”

Related articles Flight attendant shares ‘life-changing’ packing tip How to get rid of pigeons in your garden - 5 easy ways Poorest facing even tighter squeeze as increase

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220519ei5j0005l


Turkey, Hungary leaders delay unity in NATO, EU Objections center on Kurdish group, new energy system
Steven Erlanger; Matina Stevis-Gridneff
796 字
2022 年 5 月 19 日
The Capital (Annapolis)
CPGN
A.2
英文
Copyright (c) 2022 The Capital (Annapolis). Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS - Europe's effort to stand up to Russia and Vladimir Putin, its president, is being slowed by two strongmen leaders insisting on the priority of their national interests and playing to domestic audiences.

President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey on Wednesday blocked a procedural vote on NATO moving ahead quickly with the membership applications of Sweden and Finland, handed in with much publicity Wednesday, a senior European diplomat said.

And Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary continues to block even a watered-down European Union effort to put an embargo on Russian oil, part of a sixth package of sanctions aimed at Moscow for its war against Ukraine.

While NATO and the EU have shown remarkable unity in their response to Putin's war, the actions of the two authoritarian leaders show the strains building as the war drags on, peace talks appear to go nowhere, and Western sanctions are contributing to economic pain and high inflation at home, as well as in Russia.

On Wednesday, a meeting of NATO ambassadors could not reach consensus on a first vote to proceed with the requests for membership because Turkey said it first wanted NATO to address its security concerns.

In particular, Turkey wants Finland and especially Sweden to end what Erdogan has called support for "terrorist organizations" in their countries, primarily the Kurdistan Workers' Party, or PKK, as well as to lift export bans on certain arms sales to Turkey.

Addressing his lawmakers in Parliament on Wednesday, Erdogan criticized at length Western support for Kurdish groups that Turkey sees as a terrorist threat.

Turkey "asked for 30 terrorists," he said. "They said: 'We are not giving them,' " Erdogan told the Parliament. "You won't hand over terrorists but you want to join NATO. We cannot say yes to a security organization that is devoid of security."

The PKK is a Kurdish guerrilla group that has fought a decadeslong separatist insurgency in parts of Turkey. It was designated by the United States as a terrorist organization in 1997.

Erdogan remains angry over support from Washington and Stockholm for a PKK-affiliated militia in Syria, where the group was fighting the Islamic State. And Turkey has demanded the extradition of six alleged PKK members from Finland and 11 alleged PKK members from Sweden.

Erdogan has said these issues cause him to not have "favorable thoughts" about the membership of the Nordic countries. But he has not said that he would veto their applications.

National security is Orban's argument too. Hungary is dependent on Russia for its energy, getting 85% of its natural gas and 65% of its oil supply from Russia, as well as using Russian technology for its nuclear power plants.

While Hungary has approved all previous sanction packages, including an embargo on Russian coal, Orban said an oil embargo would be the equivalent of an "atomic bomb" for the Hungarian economy.

But like Erdogan in NATO, Orban this time is the sole holdout, in his case, in the weekslong EU efforts to finalize a gradual embargo on Russian oil, the headline measure in a sixth package of sanctions since the invasion of Ukraine.

Talks began in April. After consultation between EU officials and diplomats from the bloc's 27 member states, a proposal was put on the table incorporating different positions in early May.

But Hungary seemed to be moving the goal posts. The first proposal gave extensions to Hungary and Slovakia to find alternative suppliers. While the other 25 EU members would have until the end of the year, Hungary and Slovakia would have through 2023.

Then Hungary demanded, and secured, even more time. The latest version of the package would grant it until the end of 2024, but Orban has insisted that Hungary would need billions from the bloc to shield his nation's economy. His foreign minister, Peter Szijjarto, said that to use different oil and modernize Hungary's energy system would cost $15.7 billion to $18.8 billion and take five years.

Diplomats said they expect Orban eventually to acquiesce to an oil embargo, having secured both a long extension and extra funding for Hungary, but that he could drag the talks out even longer, perhaps until the end of the month.

NATO officials expressed the same confidence about Erdogan - that he will eventually agree to back Sweden and Finland joining NATO in return for some concessions that will help him politically at home, with his economy in crisis and new elections only a year away.

Caption: NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg displays documents as Sweden and Finland applied for membership Wednesday in Brussels, Belgium. Johanna Geron/Pool photo via AP

Capital Gazette Communications

文件 CPGN000020220519ei5j0000i


HUNGARY: COUNTRY NOT GIVING IN TO OIL EMBARGO AGAINST RUSSIA
444 字
2022 年 5 月 19 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2022. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
EU foreign ministers failed on May 17 in trying to pressure Hungary to lift its veto on a proposed oil embargo against Russia, with Lithuania saying the union was "held hostage by a member state".

The European Commission 's ban on crude oil imports in early May will be its toughest sanction to date in response to Moscow's February 24 invasion of Ukraine and includes compensation for EU countries that are most dependent on Russian oil, recalls Reuters.

Germany, the European Union 's largest economy and a major buyer of Russian energy, has said it wants a deal to resolve the oil embargo, which it says could last for years.

As expected, the ministers failed to reach an agreement on May 17, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said after the meeting, and ambassadors were now tasked with negotiating an agreement.

"Unfortunately, it was not possible to reach an agreement today," Borrell told reporters, adding that Hungary had made its argument based on economic rather than political concerns.

Some diplomats now cite the May 30-31 summit as a key moment in an agreement to phase out Russian oil, probably within six months, with a longer transition period for Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.

"I am confident that we will find an agreement in the coming days," said German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock .

Hungary, Moscow's closest ally in the EU, has said it wants hundreds of millions of euros from the bloc to mitigate the damage from the refusal of Russian oil. Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Sijarto said Budapest had not received a new serious proposal from the European Commission on oil sanctions since Ursula von der Leyen visited Budapest a few days ago.

"The European Commission has created a problem with the proposal, so Hungary's expectations are justified. The EU must propose a solution: to finance investments and compensate for the rise in prices, which requires a complete modernization of Hungary's energy structure in amounting to 15-18 billion euros," he said on Facebook .

Borrell questioned those figures, saying Sijarto talked about much lower numbers with ministers on May 17 and that the oil embargo went beyond the interests of individual EU governments.

"We need to get rid of this strong dependence on Russian energy that makes us very vulnerable," Borrell said.

The oil embargo - already imposed by the United States and Britain, which will follow five rounds of earlier EU sanctions - is considered the best way to reduce Russia's income from the war in Ukraine. The EU has already banned Russian coal. (Novinite/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020220519ei5j00010


Hungary This Week - May 20, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 20 日, 9585 字, (英文)
Orban’s top economic advisor flags higher domestic ownership in some sectors and extension of price locksMarton Nagy, who has been tapped to be the minister in charge of economic development in Prime Minister Viktor Orban's new cabinet, ...

Argus Media Limited - EU hesitant on Yellen's Russian oil tariff suggestion
Argus Media Limited published this content on 20 May 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 20 May 2022 12:54:19 UTC.
484 字
2022 年 5 月 20 日
Private Companies News via PUBT
PCNVB
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format [https://docs.publicnow.com/3F0D54FC08FB00F7324A53B36DF05BCD5D74F35C]

EU hesitant on Yellen's Russian oil tariff suggestion

The EU will be unable to implement a higher tariff for Russian oil as suggested by US treasury secretary Janet Yellen , a senior official said today, because of the difficulty in reaching a bloc-wide consensus.

Yellen indicated a G7 meeting of finance ministers and central bank governors in Bonn, from 18-20 May, would look at a number of ideas including tariffs and price caps [https://direct.argusmedia.com/newsandanalysis/article/2332699] on Russian energy imports.

But the official said "there's no way for us under common commercial policy to just increase the tariffs. We need to abide by the rules." Even if a tariff increase was enacted under the EU 's external commercial policy it would constitute a sanction, requiring unanimity among member states. The option of using the external commercial policy was also not used in March when the EU removed Russia's most-favoured-nation status [https://direct.argusmedia.com/newsandanalysis/article/2312079] under WTO rules and implemented a series of import and export bans. That decision was taken under the sanctions regime, requiring unanimity, rather than as external commercial policy.

With Hungary leading a number of central and eastern European countries objecting to sanctions that would shut out Russian oil, a unanimous agreement is unlikely.

Budapest wants financial "guarantees" from the EU, and said it needs up to €750mn for refinery and pipeline upgrades [https://direct.argusmedia.com/newsandanalysis/article/2331829] in order to phase out crude imports from Russia.

If the EU were, however, to go ahead and impose higher tariffs on Russian oil imports or a tariff-rate quota (TRQ), blocking this would be more difficult, in theory. It would normally require Hungary to garner a qualified majority of member states - at least 15 of the 27 EU member states representing at least 65pc of the EU's total population. Budapest, though, could contest the measure at the European Court of Justice (ECJ) as the commission would have presented a trade measure with the main aim of implementing EU sanctions that legally requires unanimity.

Another option would be co-ordinated national taxes by EU countries, without Budapest's participation. This would prevent landlocked Hungary from obtaining crude from Russia. But here, the ECJ might still favour Budapest by regarding the tax as exclusive competence of the commission and as external commercial policy.

"It would be sanctions, not something that falls under commercial policy," an official said.

By Dafydd ab Iago

* Original Link [https://www.argusmedia.com/en/news/2333601-eu-hesitant-on-yellens-russian-oil-tariff-suggestion?backToResults=true]

Disclaimer

Argus Media Limited published this content on 20 May 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public [http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 20 May 2022 12:57:34 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 PCNVB00020220520ei5k004ed


‘Be bolder!’ Ukraine warns EU 'time is of the essence' as bloc goes soft on sanctions
Jacob Paul
742 字
2022 年 5 月 21 日 13:01 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
A UKRAINIAN energy boss has urged the EU to "be bolder" in its attempt to scupper energy links with Vladimir Putin as "time is of the essence", warning the bloc still paying up to '€1billion euros a day' to finance his war.

The EU’s REPowerEU, published on Wednesday details the bloc’s plot to phase out Russian oil and gas imports by 2027. While the idea behind the strategy is “good”, according to Yuriy Vitrenko, CEO of Ukraine’s state-owned gas giant Naftogaz, he urged the EU to “be bolder”. Instead, he said a “full embargo” on oil and gas should be the “ultimate goal”, perhaps providing exemptions for counties like Hungary which has vetoed proposed embargoes.

Related articles

Mr Vitrneko told Express.co.uk: “The strategy is good, but we are in a situation where time is of the essence.

“While they are developing the strategy, they are still paying half a billion euros to €1billion per day to Putin’s regime to finance his war against Ukraine, and not just Ukraine.

“That is why it is impossible to be satisfied with the status quo. Speaking of a strategy, I think it can be bolder in terms of sanctions against Russian oil and gas.”

The Naftogaz boss is also part of Yermak-McFaul, a group of international experts drafting new sanctions they believe will be most effective at targeting Russia.

He told Express.co.uk that the EU’s plans could be smarter, and handed the bloc a plan.

Mr Vitrenko said: “It can be smarter by making some quick decisions now with some possible exemptions instead of delaying any decisions.

“Hungary is saying that it is dependent on pipeline imports of Russian oil. Just make an exemption for pipeline imports of oil and sanction all the other oil.

“Pipeline oil is from 20 to 30 percent of exports so this would immediately sanction 70 percent.

“But instead, the EU has been discussing a total ban for months and there is still no embargo.”

The REPowerEU strategy does appear to be attempting to appease Hungary so the bloc can push through with a ban.

READ MORE: Germany finally vows to 'pull out all the stops' to crush Russia

It comes after Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said it could cost Hungary as much as €18billion to move completely away from Russian oil supplies.

Mr Orban warned on Tuesday that Budapest would have to significantly overhaul its energy system in order with the loss of Russian oil.

To encourage Budapest to budge on its position, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has suggested pumping €2billion into oil infrastructure to help Hungary and other landlocked eastern European countries the bloc slash dependence on Russia.

Mr Vitrenko also said the EU needs to come down tougher on Russia with regards to a gas ban.

He told Express.co.uk: “With natural gas, it is important to do something now and not delay a decision.”

DON'T MISS

Putin nightmare as India turns on Russia to cut cash flow [REVEAL]

Doomsday warning as huge stockpile of sugar found in oceans [REPORT]

The NATO weapon that Putin ‘really fears’ [INSIGHT]

Related articles

He slammed the EU for doing “the opposite of what we want to achieve”.

Mr Vitrenko said: “Currently, because of storage obligations, the EU is putting some pressure on market participants to buy more Russian gas.

“That is exactly the opposite of what we want to achieve because people are buying Russian gas to put it into storage at the moment.”

The industry insider also noted that there is potential to access “untapped potential” for supplies in the Middle East, which European nations could purchase as an alternative to Russian supplies.

While the bloc does detail in its strategy how it plans to import gas from certain nations in this region to scupper links with Putin, Mr Vitrenko claims there is problem.

He told Express.co.uk that suppliers in the Middle East told him they could “probably export more right now, but need some kind of longer term clarity on consumption of oil and gas inside the EU.”

Related articles Energy lifeline as Greenland ‘freak zone’ to harness geothermal power Putin's worst nightmare: up to 100 US nuclear weapons surround Russia ‘Can't explain!’ Shock as Pentagon tells congress of 400 UFO sightings

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220521ei5l00361


Sanctions Against Russia: The Week In Review | 13 May 2022
Chip Poncy
1839 字
2022 年 5 月 24 日
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
英文
(c) 2022 Mondaq Ltd
The Week in Review delivers the impact and analysis for the public, private, and non-profit sectors from our regular reporting of the evolving global sanctions campaign against Russia.

This week, we reviewed the recent developments since our last update on 6 May as the United States (U.S.), the European Union (EU), and the United Kingdom (UK) continue to lead a global coalition in this sanctions campaign. In light of the unprecedented depth, breadth, and complexity of multilateral sanctions already issued against Russia, countries are now focusing more on implementation rather than imposing new sanctions. Nevertheless, K2 Integrity will continue to monitor sanctions updates and provide insight into the meaning and potential outcomes of sanctions actions.

DOLFIN users can visit the updated Russia Sanctions page on DOLFIN to find additional resources and information on sanctions against Russia, including sanctions evasion typologies, case studies, and analysis on other sanctions programs implicating Russian actors, such the Global Magnitsky Sanctions Program Targeting Human Rights Violations and Corruption.

Recent Developments Related to Sanctions Against Russia

Since the last update, numerous authorities have undertaken sanctions-related actions against Russia.

U.S. actions include:

On 10 May, the Wall Street Journal reported that the United States is considering additional sanctions and export controls against Russia, according to Matthew Axelrod, a senior official at the U.S. Department of Commerce's Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS). Axelrod explained U.S. agencies are contemplating adding more restrictions on doing business with Russia, rather than just concentrating on enforcing the sanctions and controls that are already in place. He said sanctions have an immediate "bite," while export controls cause shortages that compound over time. He added that allied countries are coordinating on the scope of export controls to impose and are also sharing information for enforcement.1 Speaking separately on 9 May, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Wally Adeyemo stated that U.S. export controls have left two of Russia's major military tank production plants idle due to lack of foreign components.2

On 8 May, in an unusual sanctions designation announced on a Sunday, the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) imposed blocking sanctions on a number of individuals and entities supporting Russia's war efforts. OFAC blocked Moscow Industrial Bank and 10 of its subsidiaries; Promtekhnologiya, a state-supported weapons manufacturer; and three of Russia's state-controlled television stations, including the most prominent propaganda channel, Channel One. OFAC also issued a determination pursuant to Executive Order (E.O.) 14071 prohibiting the export or supply by any U.S. person, wherever located, of accounting, trust and corporate formation, and management consulting services to any person located in Russia, with a small number of exceptions. The prohibition becomes effective on 7 June 2022. In parallel with the E.O., OFAC identified these same services as sectors targeted under E.O. 14024, meaning that OFAC can impose sanctions on any individual or entity determined to operate or have operated in any of those sectors.3

EU actions include:

On 8 May, Reuters reported that while a final deal is still in the works, the EU is moving towards a new, sixth round of sanctions that could include a ban on purchasing Russian oil.4 According to reporting, supplying landlocked member states Hungary, the Czech Republic, and Slovakia - all of which rely heavily on Russian oil - with alternative sources of energy has been a critical issue in the negotiations. Additionally, Bulgarian Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev announced that his government would not support a new round of EU sanctions targeting Russian oil unless Bulgaria received an exemption.5 The Hungarian foreign minister also stated that Hungary would not support the EU oil embargo "as long as [the EU] does not provide a solution for Hungary's concerns."6  As part of this sixth package of sanctions the EU is also considering a prohibition on providing certain consulting and corporate formation services to persons in Russia, although the exact scope is yet to be defined.

On 6 May, the Italian Guardia di Finanza — Italy's financial police — issued a press release announcing the freezing of a superyacht, the Scheherazade, linked to Russian President Vladimir Putin.7  The yacht was the subject of an investigation conducted by Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny's Anti-Corruption Foundation. While the Guardia di Finanza's press release did not name Putin as the ultimate beneficial owner of the yacht, the Anti-Corruption Foundation's head of investigations, Maria Pevchikh, believes there is "solid enough proof that Scheherazade belongs to Putin himself."8

UK actions include:

On 9 May, the UK government announced planned trade sanctions that will target approximately GBP 1.7 billion (USD 2.1 billion) worth of trade. International Trade Secretary Anne-Marie Trevelyan and Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak said the latest move includes additional tariffs on Russia's platinum and palladium exports, for which the UK is a major market, as well as outright bans on the export to Russia of certain materials such as chemicals, plastics, rubber, and machinery.9

Key Implications (Public, Private, and Non-Profit Sectors)

On 8 May, OFAC issued General Licenses (GLs) 33, 34, and 35.10 Among other things, GL 33 authorizes the winding down of operations or existing contracts involving the three blocked Russian TV stations, Channel One Russia, NTV Broadcasting Company, and TV Station Russia-1, or any entity in which they own a 50 percent or greater interest. GL 33 expires on 7 June 2022.11 GL 34 authorizes the winding down of accounting, trust and corporate formation, and management consulting services to any person in the Russian Federation that would otherwise be prohibited by E.O. 14071 and expires on 7 July 2022.12 GL 35 authorizes transactions involving credit rating and auditing services and expires on 20 August 2022.13 Although there is no explicit reference to credit rating and auditing services in the determination issued under E.O. 14071 or accompanying OFAQ FAQs, GL 35 suggests that they fall within the prohibited services.

The determination under E.O. 14071 that prohibits the export of the above-mentioned services to persons located in Russia excludes services provided to entities in Russia that are owned or controlled by U.S. persons or services in connection with the winding down or divestiture of an entity located in Russia that is not owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by a Russian person.14 Nevertheless, there is now an increased risk that persons may be designated for operating in the aforementioned sectors, although OFAC clarified in FAQ 1037 that such designation is not automatic.15

OFAC's prohibition of a wide variety of services and the accompanying discussions of implementing similar prohibitions on services provided by EU or UK persons will make it challenging for any person wishing to continue to operate in Russia, as they will have no access to these traditional types of services necessary to run businesses. This may trigger a new exodus of companies from Russia and place additional pressure on an orderly divestiture by Western companies of their holdings in Russia by accelerating the divestment timeline.

Persons that provide accounting, trust and corporate formation, and management consulting services — all of which OFAC defined very broadly — will need to carefully assess their customer base and existing contracts to understand what exposure, if any, they have to persons in Russia. Persons providing the aforementioned services should also update sanctions-related policies and procedures to account for new risks presented by the services prohibitions.

Going forward, OFAC will likely continue to make sectoral determinations under E.O. 14024 that permit it to designate individuals and entities operating in or having operated in to-be defined sectors of the Russian economy. In addition, OFAC will likely continue to make service determinations under E.O. 14071 that prohibit U.S. persons from providing a growing list of services. Such a dynamic makes it very challenging to engage in any business activities in Russia.

Footnotes

1. Expect More Russia Sanctions, Export Controls, Top U.S. Official Says (10 May 2022) https://www.wsj.com/articles/expect-more-russia-sanctions-export-controls-top-u-s-official-says-11652213094[https://www.wsj.com/articles/expect-more-russia-sanctions-export-controls-top-u-s-official-says-11652213094]

2. Russia 'can't make more' tanks because of this key sanction, Biden official says (9 May 2022) https://finance.yahoo.com/news/russia-cant-make-more-tanks-because-of-this-key-sanction-biden-official-says-204705566.html[https://finance.yahoo.com/news/russia-cant-make-more-tanks-because-of-this-key-sanction-biden-official-says-204705566.html]

3. U.S. Treasury Takes Sweeping Action Against Russia's War Efforts (8 May 2022) https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0771[https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0771]

4. EU edges towards oil sanctions on Russia, no deal yet (8 May 2022) https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/eu-edges-towards-oil-sanctions-russia-no-deal-yet-2022-05-08/[https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/eu-edges-towards-oil-sanctions-russia-no-deal-yet-2022-05-08/]

5. Bulgaria says will veto EU oil sanctions on Russia if it does not get derogation (8 May 2022) https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/bulgaria-says-will-veto-eu-oil-sanctions-russia-if-it-does-not-get-derogation-2022-05-08/[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/bulgaria-says-will-veto-eu-oil-sanctions-russia-if-it-does-not-get-derogation-2022-05-08/]

6. EU Struggles to Convince Hungary on Russia Oil Sanctions (9 May 2022) https://www.wsj.com/articles/eus-von-der-leyen-heads-to-hungary-to-try-to-unblock-oil-embargo-against-russia-11652118279[https://www.wsj.com/articles/eus-von-der-leyen-heads-to-hungary-to-try-to-unblock-oil-embargo-against-russia-11652118279]

7. Adopted the freezing decree of the boat Scheherazade (6 May 2022) https://www.mef.gov.it/en/ufficio-stampa/comunicati/2022/Adopted-the-freezing-decree-of-the-boat-Scheherazade-00001/[https://www.mef.gov.it/en/ufficio-stampa/comunicati/2022/Adopted-the-freezing-decree-of-the-boat-Scheherazade-00001/]

8. Twitter (21 March 2022) https://twitter.com/pevchikh/status/1505942207030779912?s=20&t=8VP200D3uAnJLfRMBiA0mA[https://twitter.com/pevchikh/status/1505942207030779912?s=20&t=8VP200D3uAnJLfRMBiA0mA]

9. UK punishes Putin with new round of sanctions on £1.7 billion of goods (9 May 2022) https://www.gov.uk/government/news/uk-punishes-putin-with-new-round-of-sanctions-on-17-billion-of-goods[https://www.gov.uk/government/news/uk-punishes-putin-with-new-round-of-sanctions-on-17-billion-of-goods]

10. Russia-related Designations and Designations Updates; Issuance of Russia-related General Licenses, Publication of Russia-related Frequently Asked Questions (8 May 2022) https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-sanctions/recent-actions/20220508[https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-sanctions/recent-actions/20220508]

11. GENERAL LICENSE NO. 33 (8 May 2022) https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/126/russia_gl33.pdf[https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/126/russia_gl33.pdf].

12. GENERAL LICENSE NO. 34 (8 May 2022) https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/126/russia_gl34.pdf[https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/126/russia_gl34.pdf].

13 GENERAL LICENSE NO. 35 (8 May 2022) https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/126/russia_gl35.pdf[https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/126/russia_gl35.pdf].

14. DETERMINATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 1(a)(ii) OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 14071 (8 May 2022) https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/126/determination_05082022_eo14071.pdf[https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/126/determination_05082022_eo14071.pdf]

15. FAQ 1037 (8 May 2022) https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-sanctions/faqs/1037[https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/financial-sanctions/faqs/1037]

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2022 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com[http://www.mondaq.com]

Mr Chip Poncy

K2 Integrity

845 Third Avenue

New York

NY 10022

UNITED STATES

Tel: 212694 7000

E-mail: abernardis@k2intelligence.com

URL: www.k2integrity.com[http://www.k2integrity.com]

Mondaq Limited

文件 BBPUB00020220524ei5o0000s


Hungary wields the knife on EU Russian oil ban as Orban hands VDL ‘wish list’ of demands
Cally Brooks
579 字
2022 年 5 月 25 日 21:05 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
HUNGARY holds the fate of the EU's Russian oil ban in its hands as pro-Putin Prime Minister Viktor Orban has reportedly issued a "wish list" of demands to the president of the European Commission.

The central European country declared a state of emergency over the war in Ukraine in a bid to be more responsive to challenges created by the war. Yesterday [May 24], Mr Orban announced the new “state of danger”, adding the war in Ukraine represents “a constant threat to Hungary” which was “putting our physical security at risk and threatening the energy and financial security of our economy and families.”

Related articles

The PM has held firm in demanding energy investment before it backs an EU wide embargo on Russian oil.

The Russian oil ban comes as an attempt to cripple Vladamir Putin’s economy following his invasion of Ukraine, with a six-month phase out of all Russian oil supplies in the EU.

But it has now been revealed Mr Orban gave a “wish list” of demands to Ursula von der Leyen before backing the move.

Mujtaba Rahman, director at Eurasia group, tweeted: “Senior EU official tells me on @vonderleyen recent visit to Budapest, PM Viktor Orban passed on a “wish list” of demands he wants met to support [EU] oil sanctions on [Russia].”

READ MORE: Russian pundits' swipes backfire as Moscow handed dire forecast

Related articles Brexit LIVE: 'Not what we voted for' furious Farage pinpoints Boris Johnson LIVE: 'I'm f***ing Fuhrer!' Cummings in bizarre claim

Mr Rahman said the list included money, unblocking the Recovery and Resilience Facility, swapping lines with the European Central Bank and ending Rule of Law Article 7 and “conditionality mechanism” procedures.

The Hungarian Justice Minister Judit Varga proclaimed a “solutions first, sanctions afterwards”, indicating Budapest will need help from Brussels to wean itself off its dependency on Russian oil.

Opposition to the sanction means the ban has yet to be confirmed as unanimous support is required from all 27 member states.

The EU is currently dependent on Russia for 25 percent of its oil supplies.

Hungary is heavily reliant on crude stocks from Russia.

DON'T MISS:

'There is no love' UK and US warned China will not back down [INSIGHT]

'Broken' Putin forces using 'retired' equipment [PICTURES]

Russian pundits in sick 'McDonald's' jibe over orphaned Ukraine kids [COMMENT]

Last week the European Commission offered up to €2billion in order to support EU countries which are landlocked and reliant on Russian supplies.

They include Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia.

On Monday, the German Economy Minister Robert Habeck warned Hungary against blocking efforts to impose an EU embargo on Russian oil imports.

Mr Habeck said at the World Economic Forum: “There are different solutions for different countries. I expect everyone, including Hungary to work on a solution.”

The Commission has proposed phasing out Russian oil imports by the end of the year in most EU member states, while Hungary and others could be given more time.

According to Reuters, Budapest has said it “wants hundreds of millions of euros from the bloc to mitigate the cost of ditching Russian crude”.

Related articles Erik ten Hag urged to sell Cristiano Ronaldo as Man Utd warned Queen backed! Meghan and Andrew balcony snub supported by Britons Harry and Meghan set for enormous £18M funding windfall

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220525ei5p005se


EU can agree Russia oil embargo, or seek alternative, Germany says
377 字
2022 年 5 月 26 日 09:23 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
BERLIN, May 26 (Reuters) - The European Union can still strike a deal on a Russian oil embargo in the coming days or look to "other instruments" if no agreement is reached, Germany's economy minister Robert Habeck said at Group of Seven talks in Berlin on Thursday.

The EU executive European Commission proposed the embargo as the harshest sanction yet on Russia after its invasion of Ukraine. But talks have failed to produce a breakthrough so far, with Hungary, Moscow's closest ally in the EU, vetoing the move.

Habeck said all EU countries had to reduce their oil dependency.

"That includes Hungary. If you take that as the basis of discussion, then an agreement should be possible. If you include other topics into the question of an oil embargo it will be very, very difficult," he said.

"I know that intensive discussions are ongoing. In five days we have the next EU Council, I assume that that is the corridor in which either an agreement is reached or one will have to consider other instruments."

He did not specify what those other instruments could be.

Habeck was speaking as G7 energy, climate and environment ministers were set to wrangle over how to keep climate change goals on track at talks overshadowed by spiralling energy costs and fuel supply problems sparked by the war in Ukraine.

Brussels has already proposed giving Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic more time to impose an embargo, compared with other EU states.

The EU also offered up to 2 billion euros ($2.1 billion) for oil infrastructure to help those countries pivot to non-Russian supplies.

Hungary, however, said about 750 million euros would be needed in short-term investments to withstand an embargo, while a total modernisation of its energy system would cost billions.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban told the EU not to attempt to agree the oil embargo when EU country leaders meet next week at a summit in Brussels, in a letter seen by Reuters.

($1 = 0.9363 euros) (Reporting by Kate Abnett in BRUSSELS, Markus Wacket and Maria Sheahan in BERLIN Writing by Matthias Williams Editing by Mark Potter)

Released: 2022-5-26T10:23:00.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220526ei5q01drp


CE Noticias Financieras English
EU can agree to oil embargo on Russia or seek alternative, says Germany
386 字
2022 年 5 月 26 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
By Maria Sheahan and Kate Abnett

BERLIN (Reuters) - The European Union may still reach an agreement on an oil embargo on Russia in the coming days or resort to "other instruments" if no deal is reached, German Economy Minister Robert Habeck told Group of Seven talks in Berlin on Thursday.

The European Commission, the EU's executive body, proposed the embargo as the toughest sanction yet against Russia following its invasion of Ukraine. However, the talks have so far been unsuccessful as Hungary, Moscow's closest ally in the EU, has vetoed the measure.

Habeck said all EU countries have to reduce their dependence on oil.

"That includes Hungary. If that is taken as a basis for discussion, an agreement should be possible. If other issues are included in the oil embargo question, it will be very, very difficult," he said.

"I know that intense discussions are going on. In five days we have the next EU Council, I guess that is the time when either an agreement is reached or other instruments will have to be considered."

He did not specify what those other instruments might be.

Habeck was speaking as G7 energy, climate and environment ministers were set to discuss how to maintain climate change targets in talks overshadowed by spiraling energy costs and fuel supply problems caused by the Ukraine war.

Brussels has already proposed giving Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic more time to impose an embargo compared to other EU states.

The EU has also offered up to 2 billion euros ($2.1 billion) for oil infrastructure to help those countries pivot to non-Russian supplies.

Hungary, however, said some 750 million euros in short-term investments would be needed to withstand an embargo, while a total modernization of its energy system would cost billions.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban called on the EU not to try to agree to the oil embargo when leaders of EU countries meet next week at a summit in Brussels, in a letter accessed by Reuters.

($1 = 0.9363 euros)

(Reporting by Kate Abnett in BRUSSELS, Markus Wacket and Maria Sheahan in BERLIN; Writing by Matthias Williams; Editing by Mark Potter, translated by Jose Munoz in the Gdansk newsroom)

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220526ei5q005bw


CENAFTAENG
EU seeks alternatives to Russian oil embargo
Staff Oil & Gas Magazine
217 字
2022 年 5 月 26 日
CE NAFTA 2.0-USMCA
NAFTA
英文
Copyright © ContentEngineLLC
Germany says the European Union could look for alternatives to the veto on Russian oil purchases.

The European Union (EU) may still reach an agreement on the oil embargo on Russia in the coming days or resort to other alternatives if no deal is reached, German Economy Minister Robert Habeck said Thursday.

The European Commission, the EU's executive body, proposed the embargo as the toughest sanction yet against Russia following its invasion of Ukraine.

However, negotiations have so far been unsuccessful as Hungary, Russia's closest ally in the Europe, has not agreed to the proposals arguing serious impacts on its economy.

"I know that intense discussions are going on. In five days we have the next EU Council, I guess that is the time when either an agreement is reached or other instruments will have to be considered."

However, the minister did not disclose what the other instruments would be.

The EU has already proposed giving Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic more time to impose the ban on Russian oil purchases, as well as offering up to $2.1 billion to build storage infrastructure.

Hungary, however, said that some 750 million euros in short-term investments would be needed to withstand an embargo.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NAFTA00020220526ei5q000b8


Zelensky to address EU summit as oil sanction plan stalls
329 字
2022 年 5 月 27 日 13:17 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will speak via videolink with EU leaders on Monday as the bloc struggles to agree oil sanctions on Russia in the teeth of opposition from Hungary.

EU chief Charles Michel said in a letter sent to leaders on Friday that Zelensky would virtually join the beginning of the two-day emergency summit taking place in Brussels.

The gathering will tackle Ukraine's immediate need for cash, the energy and food crises ensuing from the war, and how to build up a coordinated European defence military industry, Michel's letter said.

Much of the attention though will be on Brussels' stymied effort to impose an import embargo on Russian oil as part of stepped-up punishment on Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine.

Announced by European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on May 4 as a plan to be phased in over this year, the oil ban has run aground on resolute refusal by Hungary to accept it.

The government of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban -- a longtime thorn in Brussels' side for his rolling back of democratic norms -- says it needs financial "solutions" from the European Union first, given the country's dependence on piped-in Russian oil.

The question of money is especially problematic, as the EU has been withholding coronavirus recovery funds sought by Budapest because of its rule of law failings.

Orban wrote to Michel earlier this week saying it would be "counterproductive" to raise the oil sanctions issue at the summit.

But Michel said Wednesday he was "still confident" the matter could be resolved in time for the gathering.

EU ambassadors were on Sunday to meet to try once more to find agreement.

Some diplomats said it might be possible to exclude the oil pipeline to Hungary from the sanctions package, but others said that would expose EU disunity and hand Russian President Vladimir Putin a win.

rmb/del/ah

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220527ei5r009st


EU realistically in for the long-haul on Russian oil ban]]
Alexandra Brzozowski, Kira Taylor
1291 字
2022 年 5 月 27 日 17:00 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Hungary is digging in its heels, and the prospect of the sixth sanction package against Russia, including a ban on imports of Russian oil, being approved before the EU summit on Monday (30 May) is decreasing, EURACTIV understands.

According to EU diplomats, the rest of the package is ready to go, and – if Hungary dropped its opposition – could be implemented quickly.

For the past month, however, Budapest has argued that halting Russian oil imports would be too big of a blow to its economy since the landlocked country cannot easily access oil from elsewhere.

The package goes well beyond the agreement by EU leaders to phase out Russian fossil fuels “as soon as possible”, Hungarian President Viktor Orbán wrote in a letter to European Council President Charles Michel earlier this week, asking him to not discuss sanctions as part of summit agenda.

“If adopted, the proposed sanctions would immediately cause serious supply disruptions in Hungary and undermine our vital energy security interests,” Orbán wrote.

“In addition, they would increase fuel prices by approximately 55-60% at a time when energy prices are already at a 40-year high,” he continued.

Hungary said it needs up to four years to shift away from Russian crude oil, requiring investments of about €750 million to upgrade refineries and expand a pipeline bringing oil from Croatia.

It also said the longer-term conversion of its economy away from Russian oil could cost as much as €18 billion, and it is looking to the EU to provide the funds for such a transition.

At the moment, most of Hungary’s oil comes from the Russian-supplied Druzhba pipeline that runs through Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary. These three landlocked EU countries would have the biggest problem finding alternative oil supplies and have voiced objections to an oil embargo.

The European Commission has been working hard to get Hungary onside. In its plan to phase out Russian fossil fuels, it included extra sources of funding that could be channelled through the COVID-19 Recovery and Resilience Fund to help EU countries wean themselves off Russian gas.

The Commission’s proposal also lifted certain “do no significant harm” criteria, which would allow additional investment into fossil fuel infrastructure. The EU executive estimates [https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/eu-tables-e300bn-plan-to-ditch-russian-fossil-fuels-speed-up-green-transition/]that an extra €1.5-2 billion is needed across the EU for oil and €10 billion for gas.

“Given the situation in which we need to be able to also do some investment in oil and gas infrastructure […] the regulation allows a limited and targeted derogation from the do no significant harm principle only for these objectives,” an EU official said.

Under the proposal, Hungary could access €345-346 million of funding, according to an EU official – however, this comes to under half of the €750 million sum Hungary has demanded for its upgrade.

Moreover, the channelling of much of this money through the COVID-19 fund presents a significant problem for Budapest, since Hungary’s portion of the money is currently frozen due to it not meeting the criteria for rule of law.

No Russia oil embargo discussion at EU summit, says Hungary's Orbán[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/orban/]

Hungary will not drop its opposition to an EU embargo on Russian oil any time soon, and so EU leaders should not discuss the issue at next week’s summit in Brussels, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán told European Council President Charles …

According to Orbán, the Commission’s plan is not enough. In his letter to Michel[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/orban/], he slammed the proposal, saying that it does not provide extra help for landlocked EU countries, and gives no indication of the “modalities and the timing” of finance to help diversify fossil fuel infrastructure.

Orbán also emphasised that the recovery funds would be problematic, arguing that these are “not equally accessible”.

However, there are concerns that giving in to Hungary would lower the standards around rule of law and that, were Hungary actively compensated for the oil ban, other countries would also have a claim for compensation.

Meanwhile, Budapest has made it clear that it does not want sanctions to be addressed at the meeting next week. EU diplomats have said that the sanctions risk ‘blowing up’ the EU summit discussions.

In his letter to Michel, Orbán wrote, “Hungary is not in a position to agree on the 6th sanctions package until the negotiations succeed in resolving all the outstanding issues. Solutions must come before sanctions.”

Alternatives to an outright oil ban

If Hungary were not to support the sixth package as it is, there are alternatives that could allow it to pass. For instance, leaders could choose to:

* Split the package and pass it without the oil ban. However, this risks being a public admission of failure and there is pressure from Ukraine to agree to an oil ban which is unlikely to pass.

* Only sanction sea-borne energy deliveries, not pipeline oil, which Hungary relies on. However, this would disproportionately hit certain EU countries and mean varying fuel prices across Europe.

* Apply a tariff to Russian oil to make it more expensive to import and use the revenues to rebuild Ukraine. This would incentivise diversifying supplies away from Russia, but the tariff would likely be passed on to consumers and worsen the energy crisis.

Although EU ambassadors are due to meet on Sunday (29 May) to thrash out a potential eleventh-hour agreement before the summit, it looks increasingly unlikely a deal could be reached.

Budapest’s opposition has left many other EU member states frustrated, particularly the Baltics, Poland and the Nordics, EURACTIV understands.

“Hungary has received commitments for everything that was technically and practically reasonable, but if they want to trade with war criminals, that’s their choice,” a disgruntled Eastern European diplomat said.

EU sanctions require unanimous agreement, but EURACTIV understands that some EU officials have been looking into legal options on how to bypass potential blockages.

One such option includes EU member states imposing sanctions bilaterally on Moscow.

Asked whether moving forward on the sanctions package with the EU26, without Hungary, would be an option, the EU diplomat said “technically everything is possible, it’s also politically possible”.

However, EU officials said such an option would be a ‘last resort’ since it would damage the sense of unity the bloc wants to project to Moscow.

EURACTIV understands that there might be a certain sympathy, especially on the European Commission’s side, to pursue negotiations on the package as it is as long as it takes to convince Hungary, even if this takes until the next EU summit, given the oil ban would not come into force for six to eight months time.

Many hawkish member states also favour moving forward with a complete package rather than risking showing EU disunity by moving with only parts of it.

Moreover, avoiding an agreement on an outright ban on Russian oil may not go down well in Ukraine.

“How many more weeks will the EU try to agree on a sixth package?” Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a recent address,[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/zelenskyy-loses-patience-with-eu-divisions-over-new-russia-sanctions/] adding that Moscow was receiving a billion euros a day from the EU for energy supplies.

“Pressure on Russia is literally a matter of saving lives. And every day of procrastination, weakness, various disputes or proposals to ‘pacify’ the aggressor at the expense of the victim merely means more Ukrainians being killed,” he added.

Zelenskyy’s comments were also clearly targeted at Hungary.

“Of course, I am grateful to those friends who are advocating new sanctions. But where do the people blocking this sixth package get their power from? Why are they allowed to hold such power?” he asked.

[Edited by Nathalie Weatherald]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220527ei5r0008d


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungary ready to challenge EU on Russian oil embargo plan
712 字
2022 年 5 月 28 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban prepared his latest challenge before European Union (EU) leaders meet on Monday to define the sixth package of sanctions against Russia, which would include an oil embargo.

The package proposed weeks ago by the European Commission, the bloc's executive arm, requires the unanimous support of all 27 EU countries.

But the combative Orban, re-elected in April for a fourth consecutive term, has said the embargo is a "red line" and an "atomic bomb" that will destroy his country's economy.

Budapest, which under Orban has sought to move closer to Moscow, insists the ban would lead to recession, shortages and price hikes, while affecting Hungary's energy security.

Orban said last week in a letter to European Commission chief Charles Michel that there is no point in raising the embargo at the summit.

- Solutions before sanctions -

"Solutions must come before sanctions," declared Orban, frequently at odds with EU decisions and currently at odds with the bloc over rule of law issues.

Orban dismissed the EU's offer of a few years' exemption and insists that the package exempt crude imports through pipelines such as the "Druzhba" (friendship) pipeline, through which 65% of the country's oil demand passes.

As an alternative, it wants a longer exemption and a transition period of at least three and a half to four years, and at least 800 million euros ($860 million) in EU funds to modernize its refineries and increase the capacity of the pipeline to Croatia.

In the face of this, German Finance Minister Robert Habeck and others have called on the EU to enforce the embargo anyway.

"If 26 of us agree to it, even with the exception of Hungary, it is a path I will always support," he told German public radio.

- Money at stake -

Some experts are dubious about Hungary's official alarm over the Russian oil ban.

"It will be difficult for the economy but not an atomic bomb," Zoltan Torok, an economist at the Bank of Budapest, assured AFP.

"It would be costly, potentially cause some shortages that won't be solved overnight, but it's a challenge that can be managed," he said.

Hungarian energy conglomerate MOL operates a refinery near Budapest and another in Slovakia, both considered among the most modern and adaptable in the EU.

In reality, the Hungarian resistance is due more to an "advantageous situation" that MOL currently enjoys because of the war, said Tamas Pletser, an energy analyst at Erste Bank in Budapest.

Managed by an Orban ally, MOL used to buy Russian crude at one to three dollars less per barrel than Brent.

But the embargo scare pushed that difference up to $30 to $40 per barrel.

"MOL is earning on both sides, it buys cheap Russian crude and sells it at a good price on the free market, it is earning an additional 10 million dollars per day," Pletser assured AFP.

- New tax -

Budapest on Thursday announced a windfall profits tax aimed at generating 300 billion forints ($820 million) from the "additional profits" of energy companies, especially MOL.

The tax bonanza could help prop up Orban's economic campaigns, such as caps on fuel and utility prices, according to Attila Holoda, a former Orban state secretary and ex-MOL official.

"The refusal of the embargo is a money issue: protecting MOL's profits and, indirectly, tax revenues," he told AFP.

Populist measures such as the oil price cap helped Orban win re-election in April and cheap Russian energy is key to his strategy to stay in power.

Hungary signed a gas supply deal with Russia's Gazprom last year, and three weeks before the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Orban discussed the deal in Moscow with President Vladimir Putin.

Orban has taken a neutral line during the war, not blaming Putin for starting the war and sending humanitarian -- not military -- aid to Ukraine.

Hungary depends on Russia for 85% of its gas, so its veto of the sanction is also "because of the danger that the next step would be an EU embargo on gas, and that would be an atomic bomb," according to Zoltan Torok.

pmu/jza/rl/mas/zm

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220528ei5s0031z


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungary prepares to challenge the EU on its plan for a Russian oil embargo
701 字
2022 年 5 月 28 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has prepared his latest challenge before European Union (EU) leaders meet on Monday to set the sixth package of sanctions against Russia, which would include an oil embargo.

The package proposed weeks ago by the European Commission, the bloc's executive arm, requires the unanimous support of all 27 EU countries. But the combative Orban, re-elected in April for a fourth consecutive term, has called the embargo a "red line" and an "atomic bomb" that will destroy his country's economy.

Budapest, which under Orban has sought a rapprochement with Moscow, insists that the ban would cause recession, shortages and price hikes, and harm Hungary's energy security.

Orban said last week in a letter to European Commission head Charles Michel that it makes no sense to talk about the ban at the summit.

- Solutions before sanctions -

"Solutions must come before sanctions," Orban said, often contradicting EU decisions and currently at odds with the bloc on rule of law issues.

Orban has rejected the EU's exemption offer for a few years and insists that the package exempts oil imports through pipelines such as the "Druzhba" (friendship), through which 65 percent of the country's oil demand passes.

Alternatively, it wants a longer exemption and a transition period of at least three-and-a-half to four years, and at least 800 million euros ($860 million) in EU funds to modernize its refineries and increase pipeline capacity.

In light of this, German Economy Minister Robert Habeck and others called on the EU to enforce the embargo anyway. "If 26 of us agree to this, even with the exception of Hungary, it is a path I will always support," he told German public radio.

- Money at stake -

Some experts doubt Hungary's official alarm over the Russian oil ban.

"It will be hard on the economy, but not an atomic bomb," Zoltan Torok, an economist at the Bank of Budapest, told AFP.

"It would be expensive, potentially cause some shortages that won't be solved overnight, but it's a challenge that can be managed," he said.

Hungarian energy conglomerate MOL operates a refinery near Budapest and another in Slovakia, both considered among the most modern and adaptable in the EU.

In reality, the Hungarian resistance is due more to a "vantage point" that MOL currently enjoys due to the war, said Tamas Pletser, an energy analyst at Erste Bank in Budapest.

Run by an Orban ally, MOL used to buy Russian oil for $1 to $3 less per barrel than Brent.

But fear of the embargo has caused that difference to widen to $30 to $40 per barrel.

"MOL is winning on both sides, it buys cheap oil from Russia and sells it at a good price on the free market, it is making an extra $10 million a day," Pletser told AFP.

- New tax -

Budapest announced on Thursday an unexpected tax aimed at generating 300 billion forints ($820 million) from the "extra profits" of energy companies, especially MOL.

The tax boom could help prop up Orban's economic campaigns, such as limits on fuel and utility prices, according to Attila Holoda, Orban's former secretary of state and a former MOL official.

"The denial of the embargo is about money: to protect MOL's profits and, indirectly, tax revenues," he told AFP.

Populist measures, such as caps on oil prices, helped Orban win re-election in April, and cheap Russian energy is key to his strategy to stay in power.

Hungary signed a gas supply deal with Russia's Gazprom last year, and three weeks before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Orban discussed the deal in Moscow with President Vladimir Putin.

Orban followed a neutral line during the war, not blaming Putin for starting the war and sending humanitarian - not military - aid to Ukraine.

Hungary depends on Russia for 85% of its gas, for which his veto of the sanction is also "because of the danger that the next step is an EU embargo on gas, and that would be an atomic bomb," according to Zoltan Torok.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220528ei5s006hk


EU prepared to water down oil ban to secure agreement ahead of summit
Nicholas Earl
677 字
2022 年 5 月 29 日 12:59 GMT
City AM Online
CITONL
英文
Copyright 2022. CITY AM.
The EU is edging towards a watered down package of sanctions on Russia after weeks of talks with holdout country Hungary. The post EU prepared to water down oil ban to secure agreement ahead of summit appeared first on CityAM.

The European Union (EU) is edging towards a watered down package of sanctions on Russia – which will focus on seaborne deliveries of Russian oil and exclude piped supplies.

This follows a sustained impasse between the EU and Hungary, which has delayed plans for a bloc-wide embargo.

The country remains the only holdout on the proposed phase out of Russian oil supplies, which is intended to be the centrepiece of the trading bloc’s sixth series of measures against the Kremlin since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February.

The EU is keen to secure an agreement that its member states can endorse at its special meeting of the European Council next week on May 30-31, with envoys set to meet in Brussels today ahead of the summit.

It has managed to unify the vast majority of EU member states behind a pledge to discontinue purchases of Russian oil suppliers over a six-month window, following approval for a ban on Russian coal imports earlier this year.

However, while Slovakia, Bulgaria and Czechia have secured longer two-year windows to curtail oil imports from Russia – Hungary has demanded a four-year transition period alongside a financial package of €750m to upgrade its refineries and expand a pipeline bringing oil from Croatia.

The demands have been the focus of extensive talks between the EU and Hungary, which has warned that halting oil imports from Russia would be a body blow to the its economy as the landlocked country can’t easily source supplies from elsewhere.

This has resulted in delays to other parts of the sanction package such as disconnecting Russia’s biggest bank, Sberbank from the SWIFT messaging system, banning Russian broadcasters from the EU and extending its list of people whose assets are frozen and who cannot enter the EU.

Read more

Ukraine puts pressure on Germany to limit Russian gas through Nord Stream 1 pipeline[https://www.cityam.com/ukraine-puts-pressure-on-germany-to-limit-russian-gas-through-nord-stream-1-pipeline/]

New plans reflect EU difficulties

Currently, the bloc relies on Russia for around 25 per cent of its imports – three quarters of which is delivered by tankers to the 27-nation bloc.

Therefore, the reduced ban would still deal a significant blow to Russian oil trading – with the EU by far its biggest customer – but it would also create competition problems within the EU.

This is because Hungary, Slovakia and Czechia would get cheaper Russian oil for their refineries – which can sell their products all over the EU – while other countries’ refineries would have to pay more for imported Brent crude.

Despite the reduced scope of the sanctions package, any agreement would be a cause of relief to the EU.

Hungary’s opposition to an oil embargo had threatened to turn next week’s summit into a public relations disaster for the bloc, as it would both suggest disunity within the bloc and indicate it was less effective than allies such as the UK and US, which have already unveiled their own plans to discontinue Russian oil purchases.

An EU official told news agency Reuters: “It would be humiliating not to discuss the sanctions at all because there is no agreement, or to remove the oil embargo part of the package completely only to push through the other elements.”

“So the idea is to have an embargo on Russian oil and exempt the Russian Druzhba pipeline supplying Hungary only for some time, to give the European Commission and Hungary time to solve the problem.”

Since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February, the EU has spent €27.8m on Kremlin-back oil supplies.

Read more

Brussels outlines plans to bolster EU powers to seize oligarchs’ assets[https://www.cityam.com/brussels-outlines-plans-to-bolster-eu-powers-to-seize-oligarchs-assets/]

The post EU prepared to water down oil ban to secure agreement ahead of summit[https://www.cityam.com/eu-prepared-to-water-down-oil-ban-to-secure-agreement-ahead-of-summit/] appeared first on CityAM[https://www.cityam.com].

City AM Ltd

文件 CITONL0020220529ei5t000m9


CE Noticias Financieras English
New EU attempt to impose Russian oil embargo fails
283 字
2022 年 5 月 29 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
BRUSSELS, 29 MAY (ANSA) - Another attempt by European Union member states to approve an embargo on oil imports from Russia has failed.

Meeting in Brussels on Sunday (29), the ambassadors of the 27 countries failed to reach an agreement on the sixth package of sanctions against the regime of Vladimir Putin, promised since early May.

The main obstacle remains Hungary, which is against restrictions on the purchase of Russian oil in the bloc.

During the meetings on Sunday, the member states even discussed the possibility of exempting from the embargo the Friendship Pipeline, which connects Russia to Eastern European countries, especially Hungary.

That way, the ban would mainly affect oil transported by sea, but again there was no agreement among the representatives of the member states due to resistance from Budapest.

The goal was to reach a consensus before the extraordinary meeting of EU heads of government and state, which takes place Monday (30) and Tuesday (31), and insert it in the conclusive document of the summit.

A new ambassadorial-level meeting is due to take place at 9:30 a.m. local time this Monday in a last attempt to reach an agreement before the leaders' meeting.

The fifth package of sanctions against Moscow was announced almost two months ago, on April 5, and imposed an embargo on coal imports, but since then Brussels has not established any further measures against the Putin regime.

With several sectors already affected, it now remains for the EU to sanction the oil and gas segment, but most of the bloc's countries still depend on Russia to meet their energy demand. (ANSA).

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220529ei5t009on


EU summit unlikely to adopt Russia oil ban, will look at ‘the broader picture’]]
Alexandra Brzozowski, Kira Taylor
1233 字
2022 年 5 月 30 日 06:00 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Attempts to negotiate an eleventh-hour compromise to get Hungary to back a full Russian oil ban before an EU emergency summit later on Monday (30 May) have made no progress. Reportedly, leaders don’t want to squabble and will look at “the bigger picture”.

EU ambassadors throughout Sunday examined a compromise slated to enable them to break the deadlock on a Russian oil embargo, which since May has prevented the bloc from imposing the sixth round of sanctions on Moscow over its war in Ukraine.

As the new sanctions bite on member states, the stage has been reached, as German Economy Minister Robert Habeck has put it, when EU unity is “starting to crumble”.

Hungary continues to block the plans, citing fears for its energy supply as the country is dependent for 65% of its oil needs on Russian crude supplied via the Druzhba pipeline, which runs from Russia to various points in eastern and central Europe.

EU realistically in for the long-haul on Russian oil ban[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-realistically-in-for-the-long-haul-on-russian-oil-ban/]

Hungary is digging in its heels, and the prospect of the sixth sanction package against Russia, including a ban on imports of Russian oil, being approved before the EU summit on Monday (30 May) is decreasing, EURACTIV understands.

Budapest has rejected as inadequate a proposal to allow it two years longer than other EU states to wean itself off Russian oil.

It wants at least four years and at least €800 million in EU funds to adapt its refineries to process non-Russian crude and boost pipeline capacity to neighbouring Croatia.

Tabled compromise

A compromise solution, tabled by France and put to national negotiators, consisted in excluding the Druzhba pipeline “for the time being” from a future oil embargo and only imposing sanctions on oil shipped to the EU by tanker vessel, European diplomats said.

The Druzhba pipeline accounts for a third of all EU oil supplies from Russia, while seaborne oil accounts for the remaining two thirds.

Slovakia and the Czech Republic, also supplied by the Druzhba pipeline, accepted exemptions of two and half years, EU diplomatic sources said.

The proposal envisages ending the purchases of Russian oil within six months and Russian petroleum products by the end of the year.

It would also impose additional sanctions on Russian banks and expand the list of Russian individuals blacklisted by the bloc.

‘Level playing field’

However, EU ambassadors did not find agreement on the compromise, with EU officials saying the compromise proposal raised questions of fairness on the sanctions burden shouldered by member states.

According to some EU capitals, the bloc’s single market “level playing field” would be tilted by the compromise plan to ban Russian oil delivered by tankers while still allowing oil to flow via pipeline.

On Sunday, some Western European member states complained the pipeline exemption would unfairly benefit countries like Germany and Poland that aren’t at risk of fuel shortages, while granting them an unfair economic advantage.

EU ambassadors are set to meet again on early Monday morning as some EU officials seemed hopeful for an agreement.

“It might not work, it might work, but I think we have a duty to try,” one EU official said.

“There is a willingness from all member states to work on oil and to ban (Russian) oil from European markets. The question is, how to do it and how to cater for national specificities,” he added but was far more optimistic than others have been throughout the weekend.

If no deal is reached, which under current circumstances seems likely, the issue will likely be discussed by EU leaders at the European Council, something several EU countries wanted to avoid.

A European Commission official toned down expectations for a summit sanctions deal by saying leaders will “only be briefly informed” on Monday evening and that an agreement is expected later in the week at the level of EU ambassadors.

The option to postpone the entire package of new sanctions until a solution can be found to provide Hungary with alternative oil supplies is also on the table.

The European Commission has been arguing that since a ban would not take place before years’ end, there would be no rush to have agreement quickly.

Pledging support, but

However, expectations are that Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, who is set to address EU leaders virtually, will press the bloc to “kill Russian exports” three months after the invasion of Ukraine.

A previous summit in March featured an emotional plea for help and more sanctions, but also shamed Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-summit-marked-by-zelenskyy-shaming-hungarys-orban/] for his blockage of previous measures.

According to the latest draft conclusions, seen by EURACTIV, EU leaders are set to discuss how best to aid Ukraine four months into Russia’s invasion and how to deal with the conflict’s impacts of high energy prices, an impending food shortage and the EU’s defence needs.

However, little in terms of new decisions on any of the main topics is expected.

One of the pledges includes political backing for a €9 billion package of EU loans, with a small grants component to cover part of the interest, so that Ukraine can keep its government going and pay wages for around two months.

But the decision is only expected after the European Commission makes a proposal on how to raise the money.

The draft summit conclusions also suggest EU leaders will back the creation of an international fund to rebuild Ukraine after the war, with no details, and want to look into the possibility of confiscating frozen Russian assets for that purpose[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-to-unveil-plans-for-seizing-russian-assets-frozen-by-sanctions/].

Asked about not feeling the urgency by reporters, a senior EU diplomat defended the bloc’s record in responding to Russia’s war against Ukraine war, saying that there was an over-focus on sanctions.

‘The broader picture’

“The EU does not lose the broader picture,” the diplomat said. 

“We are continuously working on different particularities related to the war: financial support, food security, support for refugees, etc. It can be also clearly seen from the Council’s agenda. Perhaps media consider the sanctions more attractive to follow,” the diplomat said.

Despite EU capitals starting to feel the heat that a decision needs to come soon, a delay in the oil embargo has been convenient for some because it prevents the focus from moving toward banning Russian gas.

“Gas is going to be even more difficult,” another senior EU diplomat said, adding that the technicalities of the oil embargo have yet to be worked out.

“If we want a carve-out for one or two member states for specific security of supply reasons, we should make sure that legally (…) we’ll do it in such a way that we’ll not have more damage done to the internal market than we intended to do,” the diplomat said.

“It has to be done very carefully. And this is a technical, legalistic issue, and this we are still working on,” he added.

EU to unveil plans for seizing Russian assets frozen by sanctions[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-to-unveil-plans-for-seizing-russian-assets-frozen-by-sanctions/]

The Commission is set to unveil plans on 25 May which will make it easier to confiscate frozen assets linked to serious illegal activities and suspected criminals, including those evading EU sanctions against Russia, according to documents seen by EURACTIV.

(Edited by Georgi Gotev)

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220530ei5u0000x


2ND LEAD Renewed push for EU ban on Russian oil imports meets opposition By Doris Pundy and Ciarán Sunderland, dpa
663 字
2022 年 5 月 30 日 16:36 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Brussels (dpa) - EU leaders at a two-day summit in Brussels are still aiming for political agreement on Monday for a sixth set of sanctions on Russia that would exempt oil delivered via pipeline from an import ban.

"No one can predict whether it will actually be the case, but everything I hear sounds as if there could be a consensus sooner or later," said German Chancellor Olaf Scholz arriving at the meeting.

EU leaders are meeting for an extraordinary summit to discuss the war in Ukraine after nearly four weeks of internal talks failed to break the deadlock surrounding the proposed Russian oil ban in the sixth sanctions package.

Talks between diplomats and EU officials on the sanctions on Monday morning failed to resolve differences over the ban, with EU leaders now examining a watered-down oil deal that aims to prohibit all Russian oil imports by sea by the end of the year.

According to a draft joint statement from the 27 EU member states seen by dpa, the package "will cover crude oil, as well as petroleum products, delivered from Russia into member states, with a temporary exception for crude oil delivered by pipeline."

The latest revision to the proposed Russian oil ban comes after Hungary and other landlocked countries continued to criticize proposals to sanction on oil supplies over land in the talks.

Budapest especially is opposed to sanctions on the Druzhba pipeline, a huge pipeline transporting Russian oil to Hungary and Germany among others.

Arriving at the EU leaders' summit, Hungarian Prime Minister Victor Orbán called the compromise on pipeline oil deliveries "a good approach" but lowered expectations of a deal, saying "there is no agreement at all."

In the event of damage to the Druzhba pipeline flowing through war-torn Ukraine, Budapest also wants "the right to get Russian oil from other sources" in order to back the compromise, Orbán said.

Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala stressed earlier on Monday that new sanctions on oil imports should not jeopardize supply safety in the country that also lies along the Druzhba pipeline.

Germany, also connected to Russia via the pipeline, is preparing to end all its imports of Russian oil by the end of the year, Chancellor Scholz said.

Five previous rounds of sanctions targeting Russia's economy, financial system, central bank, top government officials, Russian President Vladimir Putin and his inner circle were adopted without comparative delay.

At the start of May, the commission proposed to end imports of Russian crude oil in six months. But Hungary and Slovakia among others, all heavily dependent on Russian oil supplies, have steadfastly blocked the measure, leading to the ongoing stand-off and causing mounting discord among EU member states.

The disagreement among EU countries over new sanctions risks being on full display when Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is expected to join the meeting via video link.

Zelensky announced on Saturday that he wants to talk about the "terror" Russia is inflicting on Ukraine, but also on the European energy market and the global food market.

Also on Monday, EU leaders are expected to discuss short-term financial assistance to war-torn Ukraine as well as funding for the country's post-war reconstruction.

EU leaders are expected to give the green light to provide Ukraine with around ?9 billion ($9.7 billion) to be disbursed in tranches until the end of the year to cover state expenses.

How to potentially finance Ukraine's post-war reconstruction is also under discussion on Monday.

The commission's major initiative to end all Russian energy imports to the bloc within the next five years is also on the agenda.

# Notebook

## Note to editors - New headline; leads with comments by Scholz; adds draft EU statement on sanctions; adds Orbán comments; Adds Fiala comments

## Internet links - [Speech by Volodymyr Zelenskyy](http://dpaq.de/fKfUU[http://dpaq.de/fKfUU])

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220530ei5u007bx


European leaders negotiate sanctions on Russian oil
Juan M. Garcia
319 字
2022 年 5 月 30 日
Prensa Latina
PRSLAT
英文
© 2022 ACN. All rights reserved © - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Brussels, May 30 (Prensa Latina) The leaders of the European Union began a two-day meeting here on Monday to negotiate an agreement on the oil embargo on Russia, as a sanction for the conflict in Ukraine. The 27 nations that make up the bloc are assessing vetoing crude oil imported by sea from Russia to circumvent Hungary's veto and introduce temporary limits on energy prices together with international partners. The post European leaders negotiate sanctions on Russian oil first appeared on Prensa Latina.

According to experts on the subject, the new proposal distinguishes between a total ban on Russian imports by sea by the end of the year and a temporary exemption for oil from the Druzhba pipeline, the longest in the world.

However, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban expressed his disagreement on Monday and demanded a new exception for his country, as a condition for accepting the veto.

“The proposal we have received is not a good one. We are ready to accept the sixth package if there are solutions for Hungary’s energy supply security… First we need solutions and then sanctions,” Orban said.

The new meeting, convened by the president of the European Council, Charles Michel, comes after several weeks of unsuccessful negotiations on a measure for which there is still no consensus in the bloc.

Meanwhile, international organizations such as the World Trade Organization (WTO) warned about the consequences for the global economy of sanctions that limit the flow of trade between countries, with an impact on world prices for energy, food and, therefore, on people’s lives.

Participants in the meeting will also discuss the possibility of confiscating the property and assets of Russian business people who try to circumvent European sanctions, as well as “ways to curb rising energy prices, including the feasibility of introducing temporary price caps.” jg/mgt/att

ACN Agencia Cubana des Noticias

文件 PRSLAT0020220530ei5u000gr


CE Noticias Financieras English
EU tries deal to embargo Russian oil; Zelensky pushes for it
598 字
2022 年 5 月 30 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
BRUSSELS, 30 MAY (ANSA) - European Union leaders participated on Monday (30) in an extraordinary summit in Brussels to negotiate the sixth package of sanctions against Russia, but still could not reach an agreement on banning Russian oil imports in the bloc.

Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky even pressed the representatives of the bloc's member countries to maintain unity and called for internal disputes to be ended for the sanctions to be approved.

"It is necessary to end all quarrels in Europe, internal disputes that only encourage Russia to put more and more pressure on you," Zelensky said via videoconference, claiming that this is the time for no divisions to occur.

In his speech, the Ukrainian leader also thanked "everyone who is promoting the sixth sanctions package and trying to make it a reality." "Unfortunately, however, for some reason we have not yet reached that point."

According to European sources, the package proposed by the European Commission against Russia confirms new restrictive measures against more Russian personalities and the exclusion from the Swift system of other financial institutions in Moscow that had previously been unaffected by sanctions.

With regard to Russian oil, there are reports that during the meeting a compromise on punishments was reached that is "quite structured," providing for the embargo in two phases: the first concerns the arrival of Russian oil entering the EU by sea; and the second, which will be implemented later, is on crude oil coming by pipeline.

This political agreement to implement the project in two stages would be reached "probably this week," the source explained.

Although the EU has already announced five other sanctions packages against Vladimir Putin's government, Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that there is "no commitment" yet regarding the import ban.

The Hungarian government is the main resistance to a Russian oil embargo and has said it is ready to support the new sanctions package only if there are solutions for Hungary.

"For us it is very simple: energy is a serious issue, first you have to have a solution and then the sanctions," Orbán finished, denying that he is a puppet in Putin's hands.

Today, the EU's High Representative for Foreign Policy, Josep Borrell, did not rule out an agreement that would make an exception for imports via pipelines, a method used by the countries most dependent on Russian oil, such as Hungary, the Czech Republic, and Slovakia.

"Hungary, but not only Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia account for 7% or 8% of Russian oil imports. These are particular difficulties, so I think we should continue to look for a solution, giving them more time to adapt," Borrell explained.

The Foreign Policy representative also showed optimism of reaching an agreement on the proposed embargo on Moscow's oil imports.

"In the end, we will have an agreement. We must take into account the circumstances of each country and decide unanimously. There were negotiations on Sunday all afternoon and Monday morning. We will continue to work," he said during an interview with France Info radio.

The fifth package of sanctions against Moscow was announced almost two months ago, on April 5, and imposed an embargo on coal imports, but since then Brussels has not established any further measures against the Putin regime.

With several sectors already affected, it now remains for the EU to sanction the oil and gas segment, but most of the bloc's countries still depend on Russia to satisfy their energy demand. (ANSA)

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220531ei5u000gu


EU, resolving a deadlock, in deal to cut most Russia oil imports
671 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 00:27 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) -European Union leaders agreed in principle on Monday to cut 90% of oil imports from Russia by the end of this year, resolving a deadlock with Hungary over the bloc's toughest sanction yet on Moscow since the invasion of Ukraine three months ago.

Diplomats said the agreement would clear the way for other elements of a sixth package of EU sanctions on Russia to take effect, including cutting Russia's biggest bank, Sberbank, from the SWIFT messaging system.

"Agreement to ban export of Russian oil to the EU," said European Council President Charles Michel in a tweet at the end of the first day of a two-day summit of the bloc's 27 leaders.

"This immediately covers more than 2/3 of oil imports from Russia, cutting a huge source of financing for its war machine. Maximum pressure on Russia to end the war," he said.

Two thirds of the Russian oil imported by the EU comes via tanker and one third by the Druzhba pipeline. The embargo on seaborne oil imports would therefore apply to 2/3 of all oil imported from Russia.

The embargo would encompass 90% of all imports from Russia once Poland and Germany, which are also connected to the pipeline, stop buying it by the end of the year.

The remaining 10% will be temporarily exempt from the embargo so that landlocked Hungary, which was the main holdout for a deal, along with Slovakia and the Czech Republic, which are all connected to the southern leg of the pipeline, has access which it cannot easily replace.

Budapest also appeared to have won reassurances from other leaders that emergency measures would apply "in case of sudden interruptions of supply" following concerns raised by Prime Minister Viktor Orban about risks posed to the Russian oil pipeline that runs through Ukraine to Hungary.

The ban on oil imports to EU countries will apply to Russian crude that is delivered by shipments.

It was not immediately clear how member states that receive oil from tankers would be compensated for the higher cost compared with those that will keep the pipelines open.

ZELINSKIY CHIDES EU LEADERS

Earlier, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy chastised the EU leaders in a video address for being too soft on Moscow as an agreement on an oil embargo still appeared elusive.

"Why are you dependent on Russia, on their pressure, and not vice-versa? Russia must be dependent on you. Why can Russia still earn almost a billion euros a day by selling energy?" Zelenskiy said.

The EU has rolled out five rounds of sanctions since Russia invaded Ukraine in February, demonstrating uncharacteristic speed and unity given the complexity of the measures.

But the haggling over an oil import ban exposed a struggle to widen sanctions as the economic risk for Europe grows, because so many countries depend on Russian crude.

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said as he left the Brussels talks that he had been surprised by the turn of events.

"At the beginning of the evening I wasn't at all hopeful, but at 11 p.m. or so, it was done," he said, adding that technical details still unresolved should not be difficult.

The summit also brought political backing for a package of EU loans worth 9 billion euros ($9.7 billion), with a small component of grants to cover part of the interest, for Ukraine to keep its government going and pay wages for about two months.

Leaders also backed the creation of an international fund to rebuild Ukraine after the war, with details to be decided later.

On Tuesday the leaders will pledge to accelerate work to help Ukraine move its grain out of the country to global buyers via rail and truck because the Russian navy is blocking the usual sea routes, and to take steps to more quickly become independent of Russian energy.

(Editing by Leslie Adler)

Released: 2022-5-31T00:27:41.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220530ei5u0038p


EU leaders back partial ban on Russian oil imports into the bloc]]
Alexandra Brzozowski, Kira Taylor
765 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 00:46 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
After several weeks of drawn-out negotiations mostly stalled by Hungary, EU leaders on Monday (30 May) struck a political compromise to ban seaborne imports of Russian oil by the end of the year, but fell short of a full embargo.

Under the compromise agreed by EU leaders, the partial embargo will include oil and petroleum products but will crucially allow a temporary exemption for crude delivered by pipeline.

“This immediately covers more than 2/3 of oil imports from Russia, cutting a huge source of financing for its war machine.  Maximum pressure on Russia to end the war,” European Council President Charles Michel said[https://twitter.com/eucopresident/status/1531391899218608133?s=20&t=Qqj2f1hzrSiwDa8RkKQztg].

EU ambassadors are expected to take the legal decision on Wednesday (1 June) to approve the oil embargo and the 6th Russia sanctions package, Michel told reporters after Monday’s talks.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said the move “will effectively cut around 90% of oil imports from Russia to the EU by the end of the year” as Germany and Poland had committed to renouncing deliveries via a pipeline to their territory.

Since the start of Russia’s war on Ukraine, the EU has sent a total of €56.5 billion to Russia in return for fossil fuel supplies, with payments for oil reaching almost €30 billion being accounted for in crude oil supplies – money being used to fund Moscow’s invasion.

Nevertheless, the agreement falls short of the initial proposal by the European Commission, which envisioned banning all oil imports.

This was not agreed on due to fierce opposition from several EU countries, which heavily rely on supplies of Russian oil via pipelines.

Keeping pipelines out of any Russian oil embargo has been a key demand of Hungary, which feared a ban would put its economy at risk given its reliance on oil delivered by the Druzhba pipeline from Russia.

Landlocked Hungary, which imports 65% of its oil from Russia through the Druzhba pipeline continued to oppose the sanction long into Monday, and, along with Slovakia and the Czech Republic, have asked for an exception from the import ban.

Hungary’s blockage drew much criticism from other EU countries, particularly Poland, the Nordics and the Baltic States.

EU leaders did not agree on how long any exemptions of oil supplied via pipeline would last, with the final summit communiqué stating they would “revert to the issue of the temporary exception for crude oil delivered by pipeline as soon as possible”.

They are now expected to task EU diplomats and ministers with finding a solution that would also ensure fair competition between those still getting Russian oil and those being cut off.

Moreover, Hungary’s Prime Minister, Viktor Orban, had told reporters arriving at the summit in Brussels, that he would also seek guarantees that it could purchase oil by sea if Russian oil shipments stopped coming via the Druzhba pipeline, the country’s main source of crude imports.

“In case of sudden interruptions of supply, emergency measures will be introduced to ensure the security of supply,” EU leaders stated, in a veiled gesture towards Budapest’s concerns.

Germany and Poland, which could benefit from the pipeline exemption, have committed themselves to a de facto shutdown of the northern Druzhba pipeline by the end of the year, EU diplomats told reporters.

An EU official said the Czech Republic secured an 18-month long exemption from the ban to cover the resale of oil products.

Other measures proposed as part of the sixth sanctions package include the exclusion of the largest Russian bank, Sberbank, from the SWIFT international payment system, banning three further Russian state-owned broadcasters and listing individuals who have committed war crimes in Ukraine.

The final deal on the sixth sanctions package would need to be agreed upon by all 27 member states.

Shortly before the announcement, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy had called the EU too soft on Moscow when it appeared leaders would not reach an agreement on the oil ban.

“Why are you dependent on Russia, on their pressure, and not vice-versa? Russia must be dependent on you. Why can Russia still earn almost a billion euros a day by selling energy?” Zelenskyy asked EU leaders during his virtual address.

“Why are terrorist banks still working with Europe and the global financial system? Serious questions,” he added.

Several EU diplomats hinted that the seventh EU sanctions package could include the next steps towards a full oil ban and include pipeline-borne Russian oil.

[Edited by Benjamin Fox]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220531ei5v0000u


跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
Decisions on new sanctions take a while, because they affect not only Russia but also ourselves - Kalnina-Lukasevica
463 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 07:54 GMT
Baltic Business Daily
BALDAI
英文
(c) 2022 Baltic News Service
RIGA, May 31, BNS - Decisions on new sanctions take a while, as they affect not only Russia but also ourselves, Zanda Kalnina-Lukasevica (New Unity), Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, admitted in an interview with Latvian Radio.

She acknowledged that the decisions made last night was important, because it had led to decisions that no one believed in March. In addition, the decision taken last night on the oil embargo was not the only decision - a decision has also been made to impose sanctions on Russia's largest bank, Sberbank, the Russian Orthodox Church and its patriarch Kirill, Russian military officials, as well as three media channels. Kalnina-Lukasevica emphasized that this is necessary to stop the Russian war machine.

According to the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the possibilities of sanctions have certainly not been exhausted yet, and decisions have now have to be made which are the most obvious and can have the fastest impact on Russia. There are still opportunities to sanction companies, officials, the energy sector, etc.

Kalnina-Lukasevica believes that the decisions taken confirm the common understanding of European countries on values, as they are already in a situation where sanctions not only affect the Russian economy, but also have a severe impact on the economies of European countries.

"Understandably, decisions take time - they are not easy decisions, because they affect us as well, so it quite a long time to make a decision," added the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

As reported, EU leaders on Monday backed a ban on most Russian oil imports, after a compromise deal with Hungary to punish Moscow for the war in Ukraine.

The 27-nation bloc has spent weeks haggling over a proposed total embargo on Russian oil but came up against stubborn resistance from Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban.

EU leaders meeting in Brussels hatched a compromise deal to exempt deliveries arriving in Europe by pipeline from the ban, after Budapest warned halting supplies would wreck its economy.

"Agreement to ban export of Russian oil to the EU. This immediately covers more than two thirds of oil imports from Russia, cutting a huge source of financing for its war machine," European Council chief Charles Michel tweeted during the summit. "Maximum pressure on Russia to end the war."

The head of the EU's executive, Ursula von der Leyen, said the move "will effectively cut around 90 percent of oil imports from Russia to the EU by the end of the year" as Germany and Poland had committed to renounce deliveries via a pipeline to their territory.

BNS, +371 67088611, zinas@bns.lv

AS Postimees Grupp

文件 BALDAI0020220531ei5v000ul


News
EU leaders meet over divisions on Russian oil sanction
Irish Daily Mail Reporter
479 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日
Irish Daily Mail
IRDAIM
1; Ireland
2
英文
© 2022 Solo Syndication. All rights reserved.
THE Taoiseach met with other EU leaders yesterday over fears that European unity on sanctions against Russia are 'starting to crumble.'

The meeting was ahead of a proposed Russian oil ban, which is reportedly unlikely to be agreed upon with Hungary continuing to block the measure.

European diplomats are now working on a watered-down proposal, which will ban tanker imports of oil. However, this new proposal will allow the importation of Russian oil only to countries with a direct pipeline to Russia meaning one-third of Russian oil will still be available.

The proposal is likely to cause anger as it would mean some countries will be turning to expensive alternatives to Russian oil, while others including Hungary, Germany, Slovakia and Poland will be able to avail of Russian oil through the pipelines.

Yesterday, German minister Robert Habeck called for EU nations to stand together during the ongoing invasion of Ukraine, saying that unity with Ukraine is 'starting to crumble.'

Yesterday's online meeting had Ukraine, food security, energy and defence as the main items with leaders discussing the increasing rise in fuel and food costs. Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy addressed the gathering via video link and denounced the lack of EU resolve. He asked the EU leaders: 'Why are you dependent on Russia, on their pressure, and not vice-versa? Russia must be dependent on you. Why can Russia still earn almost a billion euro a day by selling energy?

'Why are terrorist banks still working with Europe and the global financial system?'

Estonian prime minister Kaja Kallas told the meeting it was more realistic to expect an agreement on an oil embargo in the next few weeks.

Some EU leaders complained harshly over the lack of a deal.

Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins said: 'We're forgetting the big picture. It's only money. The Ukrainians are paying with their lives.'

An agreed draft text between the leaders would confirm that a sixth package of sanctions will include a ban on seaborne oil imports, with pipeline oil supplied to landlocked Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic to be sanctioned at some later point.

However, the leaders will task diplomats and ministers to agree how it would work, including by ensuring fair competition between those still getting Russian oil and those cut off.

Hungary receives Russian oil via a pipeline that runs through Ukraine. After initially asking for an exemption for pipelines, it has added new demands and now seeks assurances on supply.

One EU diplomat said: 'Each time there is an issue on the table and technical solutions to resolve it are being offered, new demands are being raised, it's a moving target, impossible to reach a deal that way.'

news@dailymail.ie

'Why are terrorist banks still working with Europe?'

DMG Media Limited

文件 IRDAIM0020220531ei5v0003a


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungary seeks gas from Romania to avoid dependence on Russia
1321 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The invasion of Ukraine has forced several countries to seek alternative routes to their gas supply in the face of Russian dependence. Hungary is one of them and has targeted an interesting ally: Romania.

Thus, Hungary intends to start importing gas from this producer country. Romania produces around 11 billion cubic meters per year, according to S&P Global. According to Electricity Map, 18.41% of Romania's electricity comes from natural gas, while hydropower accounts for 31.04%. Also, the production found in the Black Sea could turn Romania into a gas exporter to the entire Eastern European region.

Black Sea Oil & Gas (BSOG) is a company with a track record of more than 25 years in the Romanian offshore oil and gas sector. It is the first company to develop a new gas field in the Romanian offshore sector in the last 30 years.

The company will start extracting gas from its Romanian offshore project in the second quarter of 2022. Gas producers have been preparing to exploit Romania's estimated 200 billion cubic meters in the Black Sea for more than a decade, but four years ago they suspended their projects when an additional offshore tax was introduced, according to Black Sea Oil & Gas' own website.

Libre Mercado has had the opportunity to interview Attila Steiner, the Hungarian State Secretary for the Development of Circular Economy, Energy and Climate, to discuss different energy issues.

"Security of supply is an important element of national sovereignty. The Hungarian government aims to strengthen its energy independence and market integration by creating a diversified supply portfolio through the support of energy infrastructure development, the maximum sustainable use of domestic hydrocarbon assets (conventional and unconventional) and renewable resources, and the maintenance of nuclear capacity in energy" Steiner explained.

As of October 1, 2019, a reverse flow capacity of 1.75 billion cubic meters/year is available at the interconnection point between Romania and Hungary. "Romania has sufficient domestic onshore gas production, which covers more than 40% of its domestic demand. Likewise, it is also part of the Trans-Balkan Corridor, which can transport natural gas from Bulgaria and Greece, including LNG and other sources from Turkey and the Middle East," Steiner said.

Steiner has assured that not only Romania's own gas can be crucial for the Magyar country, but the Black Sea can be key:"The Black Sea also has huge untapped gas potential, which is expected to be explored in the next 5 years. New compressor stations in Hungary and the development of some pipelines will open up the possibility of transporting offshore Black Sea gas production to Hungary."

The Russian gas dilemma Hungary is one of the countries most dependent on Russian gas. The same goes for oil. At least two-thirds of crude oil and 75/80% of natural gas comes from Russia, according to Eurostat. As a result, the Hungarian government rejects all energy sanctions against Russia. It is not the only country: Bulgaria, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have also done so.

Despite pressure from the European Union to sanction Russian oil and gas, Hungary is standing firm on the decision to maintain supplies."The government's priority is to ensure the energy security of the population and to maintain regulated energy prices, which are conditional on the availability of oil and gas, and the return to normal energy prices as soon as possible," Steiner said.

Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, said on a radio that if the latest sanctions package were to be carried out, the Hungarian economy would suffer "an atomic bomb".

Steiner insists on that idea. "The economic consequences of sanctions imposed on Russia are serious, but if they were imposed on oil and gas imported into Europe, they would be even more serious, considering that 85% of all gas consumed in Hungary comes from Russia, 85% of Hungarian households run on gas and we produce fuel with oil, 64% of which also comes from Russia. We cannot allow the Hungarian people to pay the price of war," he says.

It is a truism that the invasion has created an opportunity for other countries to rethink their energy strategy, and Hungary is one of them. "The current war has initiated and accelerated the search for alternative solutions. The Hungarian pipeline network is connected to all its neighbors, with the exception of Slovenia. Of the 6 interconnectors, 5 bring Russian gas to Hungary. Our interconnection capacity is sufficient to diversify our gas supply from alternative sources, but the gas sources available on the market are limited," Steiner said.

Also, Hungary' s geographical location makes alternative supplies from other energies difficult, as Steiner explains. "If we want to bring more LNG from Croatia we have to develop the Croatian LNG terminal and the Croatian gas system, as well as the Romanian system, including extraction, to integrate the Romanian offshore resource. Finally, to import gas from Norway or Poland, the Slovak-Polish interconnector must first be put in place."

What is the role of nuclear power in Hungary? Currently, nuclear power represents the largest power supply for the Magyar country. 30.15% of Hungary's electricity is produced by nuclear power, according to Electricity Map.

Steiner says Hungary continues to rely on this energy and tells us about its latest project. "The permitting process for the Paks II project, the largest Hungarian investment of our time, is underway. The two new Paks reactor units will have a total gross electrical output of 2400 MW compared to our 4 reactor units currently in operation, which - due to upgrades and improvements - reached an output of 500 MW/each reactor unit, with a total of 2000 MW capacity. Nuclear power provides a stable backbone and backbone of the electricity system with about 50% of the total national production. With the new Paks II project this contribution can be maintained in the long term."

"We believe that all low-carbon energy sources must be part of a diverse energy mix to meet the growing demand for reliable, affordable and clean electricity. Therefore, realistic and responsible policies must continue to be pursued with the clear understanding thatthe carbon neutral economy cannot be established without nuclear power. Therefore, maintaining and developing our nuclear capacities is one of the main pillars of Hungary's Energy Strategy and National Energy and Climate Plan," concluded Steiner.

Poland, the key country? On the other hand, Poland is one of the European countries that is most openly confronting Russia on energy issues. In fact, the Polish government is seeking the toughest possible sanctions against Putin's country, while it is the country that has taken in the most refugees according to UNHCR and the sixth European country that has sent the most military aid to Ukraine, according to Statista.

In addition, Poland is also looking to its allies for alternatives to Russian gas with which to turn its back on the invader. One of them is the Baltic Pipe, a gas pipeline that will have a capacity of about 10 billion cubic meters per year, which is roughly equivalent to the amount of gas Poland currently imports from Russia, being able to help other Eastern countries in the supply of gas in the future and thus not depend on Putin.

"We are familiar with the project, we constantly discuss security of supply and strategic energy issues with our V4 (Visegrad) partners, including Poland. In 2017, the Polish government secured its long-term capacity supply with its decision to launch the 10 bcma capacity Baltic Pipe project, which connects to Norway and starts operations on October 1, 2022. We support the Baltic Pipe project as it could contribute to the diversification of Hungarian supply routes by making it possible to import gas from Slovakia, facilitating imports through the North-South Gas Corridor," Steiner concluded.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220531ei5v003ih


EU agrees to cut 90% of Russian oil, unplug Sber from SWIFT
380 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 10:00 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2022. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
The European Union leaders have agreed in principle to cut 90% of Russian oil imports by the end of 2022, resolving the weeks-long stalemate over the sixth sanction package for Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine. The new package will also include cutting off Russia’s biggest lender state-controlled bank Sber (Sberbank) from SWIFT.

As followed by bne IntelliNews, the latest EU oil ban proposal allows a temporary exemption for pipeline supplies, the key demand of Hungary which was blocking the adoption of the sanction package.

According to European Council President Charles Michel, there was an agreement to immediately cut seaborne oil imports from Russia, which account for two thirds of Russian oil supplies to the EU.

The remaining third comes through the Druzhba pipeline, but Poland and Germany are reportedly committed to phase out Druzhba supplies by the end of the year. This would put EU oil cut at 90%, with the remaining 10% reserved for the exemptions given to Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.

Hungary's government has opposed a sweeping oil embargo as the landlocked country gets close to two-thirds of its oil from Russia via pipeline, and the country's main refinery is technically reliant on Russian crude.

Russia is the European Union’s largest oil supplier, providing the bloc with a quarter of its oil and petroleum product imports in 2020, and as bne IntelliNews reported in a deep dive into Russia’s oil and other energy businesses, “sanctions by the numbers” (UN voting[https://www.intellinews.com/datacrunch-sanctions-by-numbers-un-voting-240928/], coal[https://intellinews.com/datacrunch-sanction-in-numbers-coal-241017/], oil[https://www.intellinews.com/datacrunch-sanctions-by-the-numbers-oil-241081/], gas[https://www.intellinews.com/hold-datacrunch-sanctions-by-the-numbers-gas-241142], grain[https://www.intellinews.com/hold-datacrunch-sanctions-by-numbers-grain-240870]), a ban on oil exports could have a devastating impact on Russia’s budget revenues.

The US has already banned imports of Russian crude[https://www.intellinews.com/us-bans-imports-of-russian-oil-and-gas-237461/], but the US is a net exporter of oil and cutting off Russian supplies will have little consequence for the US or Russia.

As far as SWIFT is concerned, previously the EU has aleady disconnected from the financial messaging system the sanctioned VTB Bank, Russia's second-largest state-controlled bank, Otkritie (restructured by the central bank and primed for IPO prior to invasion), restructured state-controlled "military bank" Promsvyazbank, military-affiliated Novikombank, Bank Rossiya with links to Kremlin, the state development bank VEB.RF, and private Sovcombank.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020220531ei5v000xd


NEWS
EU leaders reach deal on partial ban of Russian oil
585 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日
USA Today
USAT
A.2
ISSN:07347456
英文
© 2022 USA Today. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All Rights Reserved.
European Union leaders reached a deal late Monday on a sixth sanction package that would include a partial oil embargo against Russia after resolving an objection from Hungary.

During a marathon meeting in Brussels, the EU members agreed to an embargo that covers Russian oil transported by sea, allowing a temporary exemption for imports delivered by pipeline.

EU Council President Charles Michel said on Twitter the deal covers more than two-thirds of oil imports from Russia, "cutting a huge source of financing for its war machine. Maximum pressure on Russia to end the war."

The package had stalled in recent days as Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban repeatedly claimed his nation's economy would shatter without oil from Russia, which supplies 60% of Hungary's oil. All 27 EU countries must agree for the package to win approval.

As a landlocked nation, Hungary is not impacted by the ban on oil brought in by tanker.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen had expressed doubt that an agreement would be reached at the two-day summit. "My expectations are low that it will be solved in the next 48 hours," she said.

Biden won't send Ukraine long-range missiles

The U.S. has no plans to send rocket systems to Ukraine that are capable of striking into Russia, President Joe Biden said Monday. Ukrainian officials have been asking for longer-range systems including the Multiple Launch Rocket System that has a range of hundreds of miles. The administration is working out details on a new package of equipment.

Dmitry Medvedev, the deputy head of Russia's Security Council, called Biden's comment a "reasonable" decision. "Otherwise, if our cities come under attack, the Russian armed forces would fulfill (their) threat and strike the centers where such criminal decisions are made," Medvedev said, adding that "some of them aren't in Kyiv."

UK: Russia likely losing many young officers

Russia likely has suffered devastating losses among its mid- and junior ranking officers, the British Defense Ministry said in it latest assessment of the war.

The assessments says brigade and battalion commanders likely deploy forward into harm's way because they are held to an uncompromising level of responsibility for their units' performance. The loss of large proportion of the younger generation of professional officers will likely "exacerbate its ongoing problems" in modernizing command and control.

Other developments:

Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan told Russian President Vladimir Putin he was ready to resume a role in ending the war, including taking part in a possible "observation mechanism" between Ukraine, Russia and the U.N. Negotiations in Istanbul held in March made no headway.

French journalist Frdric Leclerc-Imhoff was killed Monday in Ukraine while trying to show the "reality of the war," French President Emannuel Macron announced. Macron said Lecler-Imhoff was on a humanitarian bus alongside civilians forced to flee to escape Russian bombs near Sievierodonetsk, a key city in the Donbas region.

More than 30 million people in different regions of Africa – the Horn in the east and the Sahel across the north – are facing severe hunger because of drought and other agricultural challenges. The war in Ukraine has made the situation even more precarious as the price of staples like wheat and cooking oil have skyrocketed. Russia and Ukraine have stopped wheat exports through the Black Sea since Moscow launched its invasion Feb. 24.

Contributing: John Bacon, USA TODAY; The Associated Press

USA Today Information Network

文件 USAT000020220531ei5v00003


EU leaders back partial ban on Russian oil imports into the bloc]]
Alexandra Brzozowski, Kira Taylor
790 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 00:46 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
After several weeks of drawn-out negotiations mostly stalled by Hungary, EU leaders on Monday (30 May) struck a political compromise to ban seaborne imports of Russian oil by the end of the year, but fell short of a full embargo.

Under the compromise agreed by EU leaders, the partial embargo will include oil and petroleum products but will crucially allow a temporary exemption for crude delivered by pipeline.

“This immediately covers more than 2/3 of oil imports from Russia, cutting a huge source of financing for its war machine.  Maximum pressure on Russia to end the war,” European Council President Charles Michel said[https://twitter.com/eucopresident/status/1531391899218608133?s=20&t=Qqj2f1hzrSiwDa8RkKQztg].

EU ambassadors are expected to take the legal decision on Wednesday (1 June) to approve the oil embargo and the 6th Russia sanctions package, Michel told reporters after Monday’s talks.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said the move “will effectively cut around 90% of oil imports from Russia to the EU by the end of the year” as Germany and Poland had committed to renouncing deliveries via a pipeline to their territory.

Since the start of Russia’s war on Ukraine, the EU has sent a total of €56.5 billion to Russia in return for fossil fuel supplies, with payments for oil reaching almost €30 billion being accounted for in crude oil supplies – money being used to fund Moscow’s invasion.

Nevertheless, the agreement falls short of the initial proposal by the European Commission, which envisioned banning all oil imports.

This was not agreed on due to fierce opposition from several EU countries, which heavily rely on supplies of Russian oil via pipelines.

Keeping pipelines out of any Russian oil embargo has been a key demand of Hungary, which feared a ban would put its economy at risk given its reliance on oil delivered by the Druzhba pipeline from Russia.

Landlocked Hungary, which imports 65% of its oil from Russia through the Druzhba pipeline continued to oppose the sanction long into Monday, and, along with Slovakia and the Czech Republic, have asked for an exception from the import ban.

Hungary’s blockage drew much criticism from other EU countries, particularly Poland, the Nordics and the Baltic States.

EU leaders did not agree on how long any exemptions of oil supplied via pipeline would last, with the final summit communiqué stating they would “revert to the issue of the temporary exception for crude oil delivered by pipeline as soon as possible”.

They are now expected to task EU diplomats and ministers with finding a solution that would also ensure fair competition between those still getting Russian oil and those being cut off.

Moreover, Hungary’s Prime Minister, Viktor Orban, had told reporters arriving at the summit in Brussels, that he would also seek guarantees that it could purchase oil by sea if Russian oil shipments stopped coming via the Druzhba pipeline, the country’s main source of crude imports.

“In case of sudden interruptions of supply, emergency measures will be introduced to ensure the security of supply,” EU leaders stated, in a veiled gesture towards Budapest’s concerns.

Orban had wanted the right to import Russian oil also from tankers via a pipeline through Croatia, which EU diplomats said he obtained this concession.

Germany and Poland, which could benefit from the pipeline exemption, have committed themselves to a de facto shutdown of the northern Druzhba pipeline by the end of the year, EU diplomats told reporters.

An EU official said the Czech Republic secured an 18-month long exemption from the ban to cover the resale of oil products.

Other measures proposed as part of the sixth sanctions package include the exclusion of the largest Russian bank, Sberbank, from the SWIFT international payment system, banning three further Russian state-owned broadcasters and listing individuals who have committed war crimes in Ukraine.

The final deal on the sixth sanctions package would need to be agreed upon by all 27 member states.

Shortly before the announcement, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy had called the EU too soft on Moscow when it appeared leaders would not reach an agreement on the oil ban.

“Why are you dependent on Russia, on their pressure, and not vice-versa? Russia must be dependent on you. Why can Russia still earn almost a billion euros a day by selling energy?” Zelenskyy asked EU leaders during his virtual address.

“Why are terrorist banks still working with Europe and the global financial system? Serious questions,” he added.

Several EU diplomats hinted that the seventh EU sanctions package could include the next steps towards a full oil ban and include pipeline-borne Russian oil.

[Edited by Benjamin Fox]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220531ei5v0002y


Ireland
EU reaches agreement on ban of Russian oil imports; Leaders agreed to sanction Russian oil by exempting pipeline deliveries
545 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日
The Irish Times
IRTI
6
英文
© 2022, The Irish Times.
European Union leaders reached a late night breakthrough to sanction Russian oil by exempting pipeline deliveries in a deal leaders said would bar two-thirds of imports and hit Moscow's financial ability to wage war in Ukraine.

The agreement must still be converted into a legal text, meaning diplomatic work lies ahead to finesse the details, but was welcomed as a breakthrough after a month in which the opposition of Hungary prevented the EU's sixth package of sanctions from coming into force.

German chancellor Olaf Scholz said the EU was "united" while European Council president Charles Michel said the measure would cut "a huge source of financing" for Russia's "war machine".

The package of measures will also bar Russia's largest bank Sberbank from the Swift messaging system, ban three Russian state-owned broadcasters, and add individuals implicated in the war to the EU's sanctions list.

Mr Michel also announced that the EU was also prepared to give Ukraine €9 billion in financial support, to help with immediate liquidity needs and eventual reconstruction.

Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy had urged the 27 leaders to show unity as he addressed the Brussels summit over video link.

"Why can Russia still earn almost a billion euros a day by selling energy resources?" he asked them.

"The sixth sanctions package must be agreed upon. It must be effective - including oil. So that Russia feels the price of what it is doing against Ukraine and against the whole of Europe. And for you and us to finally become independent from Russian energy weapons."

Hungarian opposition had been the biggest obstacle preventing the EU's sixth package of sanctions from being agreed almost a month since it was first proposed by the European Commission.

The ban on oil imports from Russia poses serious energy challenges to some landlocked eastern member states, namely those dependent on Russian oil due to infrastructural links built up since Soviet times.

But Hungary's right-wing leader Viktor Orban has exploited the issue in domestic politics, casting himself as standing up to the proposed oil ban as the latest example of EU over-reach that victimises Hungary. "Hungary's energy supply and the future of Hungarian families are at stake," his official account posted on Facebook yesterday, sharing an image of him arriving at the European Council meeting in Brussels with the caption "battle begins".

Ahead of the summit, diplomats worked late into Sunday and met early yesterday in a bid to eke out a compromise.

The 27 leaders were presented with a proposed compromise to ban "all seaborne oil from Russia", according to an EU official. In addition, some member states would be granted "temporary exceptions . . . to ensure security of supply".

The draft conclusions read that the ban "will cover crude oil, as well as petroleum products, delivered from Russia into member states, with a temporary exception for crude oil delivered by pipeline."

Dutch prime minister Mark Rutte insisted this did not entail "watering down" the package. Together with plans by Germany and Poland to stop using Russian oil, ending shipments would cut out "90 per cent" of imports, he told reporters..

Itronics Limited

文件 IRTI000020220531ei5v00066


NEWS
EU agrees gradual Russian oil embargo, gives Hungary exemptions
Newsroom
614 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 13:04 GMT
Kathimerini English Edition
KATMER
英文
Copyright © 2022, H KAΘHMEPINH
European Union leaders have agreed an embargo on Russian oil imports that will start kicking in towards the end of the year and which exempts, for now, pipeline imports that Hungary and two other landlocked Central European states rely on.

The toughest sanction yet on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, agreed overnight after weeks of wrangling, aims to remove 90% of Russia's crude imports into the 27-nation bloc by year-end, senior officials said.

"The purpose is to stop Russia's aggressive war," Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins said.

Two-thirds of the Russian oil imported by the EU comes via tanker and one third through the Druzhba pipeline.

The ban on the seaborne imports will be imposed with a phase-in period of six months for crude oil and eight months for refined products, a European Commission spokesperson said.

This means the target for refined products is effectively early 2023 rather than at the end of this year, since that timeline would kick in once the sanctions are formally adopted, with EU states aiming to do this week.

The target to cut 90% of all Russian imports by the end of 2022 includes seaborne deliveries as well as Poland and Germany stopping their own imports of Russian oil via pipeline by then, which they have pledged to do.

The remaining 10% would be temporarily exempt from the embargo so that landlocked Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have access to Russian oil from the Druzhba pipeline.

Oil prices extended a bull run after the EU's agreement, stoking concern about inflation, which was ran at a record high of 8.1 percent year-on-year in euro zone countries this month, Eurostat said on Tuesday.

Energy prices

With energy prices soaring, leaders will ask the EU's executive Commission to explore ways to curb them, such as through temporary price caps, according to draft conclusions for their summit.

The draft, which could change before it is adopted, would also task Brussels with working on potential reforms to Europe's electricity market - a move backed by countries including Spain and Greece but which countries including Germany have opposed.

Leaders are also set to endorse a Commission plan to wean itself off Russian fossil fuels within years through a faster rollout of renewable energy, improvements in saving energy, and more investments in energy infrastructure.

And they will call for better EU-wide contingency planning in case of further gas supply shocks. Moscow on Wednesday cut gas supplies to the Netherlands for refusing to comply with a demand to pay for gas in roubles, having already cut off Poland, Bulgaria and Finland.

Russian gas next target?

The oil embargo deal follows an earlier ban on Russian coal and allows the bloc to impose a sixth round of sanctions that includes cutting Russia's biggest bank, Sberbank, from the SWIFT international system.

But while several countries already want work to begin on a seventh round of sanctions, Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer said: "Gas can't be part of next sanctions."

Europe is heavily dependent on Russian gas, which explains why it has been left out of EU sanctions so far. The EU this month agreed a law requiring countries to fill gas storage to reach at least 80% ahead of next winter, in a bid to create a buffer against supply disruptions.

EU gas storage is currently 46% full.

"Russian oil is much easier to compensate...gas is completely different, which is why a gas embargo will not be an issue in the next sanctions package," Nehammer said.

[Reuters]

Click to view image.[https://www.ekathimerini.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/Charles-Michel-Kaja-Kallas-AP-scaled.jpg]

NEW YORK TIMES FRANCE – KATHIMERINI S.A.S

文件 KATMER0020220531ei5v000b6


EU summit LIVE: Gleeful Orban declares 'victory' over EU and mocks Brussels after oil row
Francesca Edwards,Olivia Stringer,Tara Fair
8375 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 19:54 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
VIKTOR ORBAN has declared "victory" over the EU as a compromise was reached on the sixth package of EU sanctions against Putin.

The Hungarian leader was opposed to a complete ban on Russian oil but agreed to a compromise that would allow Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic to continue being supplied via the Soviet-era Druzhba pipeline that runs through Ukraine. Following a two-day summit of EU leaders, Mr Orban declared via a social media post a "victory report from Brussels." Appearing to mock the EU, he added: “The father is a man, the mother is a woman, petrol is 480." This is a reference to the ruling Hungarian party's message that Hungary is fighting Brussels to safeguard traditional gender norms. The “480” references Hungary's legal price cap on fuel.

FOLLOW BELOW FOR LIVE UPDATES...

KEY EVENTS Huge EU rift opens as nations slap down Eastern block on Russian gas ban17:08EU announces new ban on Russian oil imports to cripple Putin's war machine 07:40'This is a good sign'- Scholz14:32Orban blames EU for delay14:23Ukraine accused EU of 'hypocrisy to great extent'12:19

20:48 Olivia Stringer

Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi has said that all major EU countries except Italy are against Ukraine joining the EU.

However, he added: "Ukraine’s rapid move towards the EU cannot be ruled out. And it seems to me that the European Commission also agrees with this view."

19:56 Olivia Stringer

Berlin will give Greece infantry fighting vehicles so that Athens can pass on Soviet-style weapons to Ukraine, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said on Tuesday.

Following a two day summit of EU leaders in Brussels, he said: "We will provide Greece with German infantry fighting vehicles.

Mr Scholz gave no details on the kind of infantry fighting vehicles it will give to Greece or what kind of weapons Greece will pass on to Kyiv.

He said: "The defence ministries will work out the details and quickly implement this agreement.

18:57 Olivia Stringer

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte has said that a seventh package of EU sanctions on Russia "will happen" but added: “it’s difficult for me to predict how long it will take.”

Mr Rutte said he did not want to "speculate" on whether the next round of sanctions would include further fossil fuels sanctions.

Commenting on the drawn-out talks on the sixth package, he said: “I think what we can learn from the sixth package is that it’s best to first have a discussion on technicalities and then to decide on the exact size and makeup of the whole sanctions package itself.”

18:19 Olivia Stringer

The West risks alienating African nations if it cannot stabilise global food supplies, Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi said on Tuesday.

Mr Draghi warned that Russia is already spreading propaganda in Africa that food shortages are the result of Western sanctions.

He said: “Winning the battle of food security for Africa is also important from a strategic point of view … because the thesis that is spread is that a possible famine would depend on sanctions,” he said. “When we know that sanctions depend on the war.”

Many African countries, he added, “are not on the side of the West, you have seen their votes at the United Nations — most of them have abstained. So what the alliance would like to do is to bring them to our side.

“If you lose the war on food security, there will never be any hope that these countries can come to the side of the alliance because they will naturally feel betrayed, then whose fault is this is the least relevant issue for them.

So “beyond the humanitarian consequences, which are tragic, there are the strategic consequences which are very, very serious."

17:49 Olivia Stringer

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has said that the reconstruction of Ukraine following the war will be a "very big task" for the next few years, that must not be underestimated.

Mr Scholz said the EU will work with international organisations and experts to develop the best solutions.

He stressed the need to involve “many international organizations that can develop, with the greatest expertise, a concrete way forward” for Ukraine, which was suffering from “a great pile of debt and great destruction.”

17:28 Olivia Stringer

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has welcomed the new package of EU sanctions, however, he criticised the "unacceptable" delay between the fifth and sixth sanctions packages.

In an address to EU leaders on Monday, Mr Zelensky said that 74 children had died in the 52 days since the last package of EU sanctions.

Today, he added: "When over 50 days have passed between the 5th and 6th sanction packages, the situation is not acceptable for us."

17:08 Olivia Stringer

A huge rift has opened up on the second day of the EU Summit as nations slap down the eastern block on a Russian gan ban.

On Monday night, the EU announced that an agreement had been reached to ban Russian oil to the EU.

The agreement, that will immediately impact 75 percent of oil imports from Russia and stop 90 percent by the end of the year, is being celebrated as a victory in Brussels. The EU is now divided on whether the bloc should go further and target Russian gas next.

Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer has dismissed the possibility that the EU would go after Russian gas next after sanctioning Russian oil. He said: “Gas behaves very differently from oil in terms of security of supply — it is much easier to compensate for oil." But Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has said it is important that Russian gas is part of the next package.

16:56 Olivia Stringer

Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo has called for an EU price cap on gas following today's summit.

Mr De Croo said that a price cap would help the EU hide a "stick behind the door" so that prices do not become“speculative and detached from reality.”

He described the move towards a price cap as an unwelcome necessity.

He said: “I'm not a proponent of having to use [price caps] either, but it's a bit like defence: I'm not a proponent of using the army either, but you have to have it ready."

16:28 Olivia Stringer

Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi has called the EU summit "reasonably successful" while acknowledging compromises had to be made to get a deal on a Russian oil emabrgo.

Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi gave an upbeat assessment of the summit, while acknowledging leaders were forced to make some compromises to get a deal on a ban on Russian oil.

Asked by POLITICO whether the summit had been successful, Draghi replied: “Yes, yes. It was reasonably successful.”

“We reached lots of objectives. We managed to have the embargo on oil. We were quite united on that. It was a difficult decision. Some countries that are landlocked were given an exemption but all this would account for less than 10 percent of the oil embargo.

“We managed to discuss the electricity market, the possibility of a price cap. The Commission will have a mandate to study this issue. We discussed defense and we discussed food security. So it was a good summit.”

16:14 Olivia Stringer

Hungarian President Viktor Orban has declared via a social media post a "victory report from Brussels.

He said: “The father is a man, the mother is a woman, petrol is 480."

This is a reference to the ruling Hungarian party's message that Hungary is fighting Brussels to safeguard traditional gender norms.

The “480” references Hungary's legal price cap on fuel.

15:42 Olivia Stringer

French President Emmanuel Macron has said he is not ruling out more sanctions on Russia after a sixth package of EU sanctions was agreed upon following a two-day summit in Brussels.

Speaking to reporters following the summit, Mr Macron also said he hoped that soon an agreement could be reached with Russia to get more exports of grain out of Russia.

He said: "I hope that the next few days or weeks will make it possible to resolve this situation".

15:20 Olivia Stringer

The EU will keep working to make sure it closes any loopholes in Russian sanctions, Ursula vo der Leyen has said.

She added that the global food crisis is solely the fault of Russia as the EU has not put any sanctions on food.

She said: "The only reason we are struggling now is because of this brutal war."

15:14 Olivia Stringer

Germany has already managed to reduce its dependence of Russian oil from 35 per cent to 12 percent , Ursula von der Leyen has said.

She said that this shows that just by working hard to finish contracts and look for alternative contracts, the EU can wind down its tolerance on Russian oil.

15:06 Olivia Stringer

The best option for getting grain out of Ukraine is a maritime corridor, Chares Michel has said.

He said the EU supports the UN in their attempts to get grain out of Ukraine.

Mr Michel added that the EU is also looking at ways to facilitate alternative routes, however, he said this will be more expensive and more difficult.

15:04 Olivia Stringer

Good afternoon, I'm Olivia Stringer and I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the EU summit for the next eight hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: olivia.stringer@reachplc.com

Twitter: @Livstringer_

14:33 Tara Fair

The EU is a political and economic union of 27 countries that trade with each other and allow citizens to move easily between the countries to live and work.

The UK joined the EU, then known as the EEC , in 1973.

A referendum was held June 23 2016 to decide whether the UK would remain inside the EU.

The Leave side won by nearly 52 percent to 48 percent - 17.4 million votes to 16.1 million.

14:23 Tara Fair

Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades said he briefed EU leaders at the summit about the “latest illegal actions by the Turkish occupying forces in Cyprus, inter alia, in the fenced-off area of Varosha.”

He said: “Despite United Nations and European calls, Turkey continues to create new faits accomplis, inter alia, at the expense of prospects of resuming negotiations.

“Reiterated my proposal for confidence building measures that can build trust and pave the way for restarting meaningful talks, aimed at a viable solution."

He called for EU assistance to make this possible and expressed full solidarity with the Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis “amid Ankara’s recent inflammatory rhetoric.”

14:03 Tara Fair

EU leaders are set to discuss the bloc's military capabilities after concluding their debate about a looming global food crisis.

The conversation comes just days after Germany agreed on a giant €100billion investment fund to boost its own chronically under-financed armed forces.

13:39 Tara Fair

The African Union chair, President of Senegal Macky Sall, has thanked the EU for their efforts during the joint discussion on global food security.

He said: "On behalf of the African Union, I thank the European Leaders who associated me with the European Council meeting to discuss solutions to the food crisis caused by the war in Ukraine, which is impacting Africa.

"The AU will continue its consultation with the EU."

Au nom de l\u2019Union Africaine, je remercie les Dirigeants Europ\u00e9ens qui m\u2019ont associ\u00e9 \u00e0 la r\u00e9union du Conseil europ\u00e9en pour \u00e9changer sur les solutions \u00e0 la crise alimentaire engendr\u00e9e par la guerre en Ukraine, qui impacte l\u2019Afrique.L\u2019UA poursuivra sa concertation avec l\u2019UE.

13:12 Tara Fair

French President Emmanuel Macron has warned world leaders not to fall into the Russian "disinformation trap" as they meet to discuss food security.

Meanwhile, Senegalese President Macky Sall stressed the need to counter a Russian propaganda campaign blaming Western sanctions for food export blockages.

An EU official told Politico the two leaders made their points during a session on food security.

The official recalled Mr Macron saying Europe and Africa should “be vigilant not to fall into the trap” of Russian disinformation, calling for strong coordination between the EU and the African Union.

12:47 Tara Fair

Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal has thanked EU leaders after they agreed to ban the purchase of most Russian oil.

He said he was "grateful" for the development.

#EUCO agreed a 6th package of sanctions, which will allow a ban on oil imports from russia. Grateful to @EUCouncil, @vonderleyen & @eucopresident for support of \ud83c\uddfa\ud83c\udde6! The sanctions will impact 75% of russian oil imports just now. And 90% will be banned by the end of the year.

12:35 Tara Fair

Poland is working hard to increase the export capabilities of Ukraine amid a looming food security crisis, according to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki.

He said: “I showed Polish capabilities, I showed how much Poland is doing to increase the export capabilities from Ukraine and how much more we could do, especially if we are supported by EU partners."

12:09 Tara Fair

The President of the European Council, Charles Michel has accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of "using food as a weapon of war".

He said the Kremlin was destroying crops, blocking tonnes of grain and risking global famine.

"The EU is sparing no efforts to free Ukraine's exports over land and exploring alternative sea routes," Mr Michel insisted.

Thanks @Macky_Sall for joining #EUCO to address food security #AUEU

Russia is using food as weapon of war.

Destroying crops, blocking tonnes of grain, risking global famine.

EU is sparing no efforts to free #Ukraine's exports over land and exploring alternative sea routes. pic.twitter.com/InTkQfiQ6c

11:48 Tara Fair

The Irish Prime Minister has accused Vladimir Putin of attempting to create a global food crisis.

Micheal Martin said there is “no doubt” the Russian President was trying to create this problem and said the EU would be discussing this issue on Tuesday morning.

There are concerns among European countries, Mr Martin said that “if you combine the impact of the war with drought in the Horn of Africa, we are facing into very challenging times around food security and famine across the Middle East and Africa.”

The Irish prime minister warned: “A significant humanitarian crisis still awaits us in respect of the food dimension.”

11:29 Tara Fair

The new sanctions on Russian oil will push the EU to accelerate renewable energy projects, according to Irish Prime Minister Micheál Martin.

He noted countries must now establish offshore wind capacity “much sooner” than they had previously anticipated.

Ireland has focussed on developing its offshore wind energy capacity since Russia invaded, Mr Martin said.

He hopes this move will eventually end the dependence on imported fossil fuels.

11:16 Tara Fair

The African Union chair, President of Senegal Macky Sall, has addressed the leaders on the second day of the EU Summit.

The leaders will today discuss food security after reaching an agreement on a Russian oil ban on Monday.

At #EUCO @eucopresident now invited @Macky_Sall chair of @_AfricanUnion to address #EU27 leaders on food security. pic.twitter.com/ZdTzq942sn

10:58 Tara Fair

A Ukrainian official has slammed the EU for its reluctance to introduce sanctions on Russia.

In a tweet, the advisor, Mykhailo Podolyak, said: “Russia must not win, but we won’t give heavy weapons – it may offend.

"Putin must lose but let’s not impose new sanctions.

"Millions will starve, but we’re not ready for military convoys with grain.

"Rising prices are not the worst that awaits a democratic world with such a policy.”

\ud83c\uddf7\ud83c\uddfa must not win, but we won\u2019t give heavy weapons - it may offend Rf. Putin must lose but let\u2019s not impose new sanctions. Millions will starve, but we\u2019re not ready for military convoys with grain. Rising prices are not the worst that awaits a democratic world with such a policy.

10:41 Tara Fair

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán sent a message to Hungarians overnight that he has succeeded in protecting their oil price reductions.

Mr Orbán boasted in a video posted to social media that a deal to ban Russian oil included exemptions that would allow Hungary to stick to its old supply routes.

This exemption is intended to be temporary and EU leaders have vowed to return to this issue.

But Mr Orban is celebrating the deal as a victory for his administration.

10:24 Tara Fair

Latvia’s Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš has said the EU is "determined" to stop the flow of money to Vladimir Putin's war machine.

He said: “Three months after the start of the war, we have gone sanction after sanction after sanction, ever tighter ever tighter, notwithstanding the fact that the sanctions also negative never negatively affect us, European Union's member states.

“We're still determined to stop the flows of money to Moscow and the unity is there.”

10:10 Tara Fair

Mark Rutte has interrupted Brussels' oil celebration to point out that Viktor Orban "had a point" after the EU announced it would ban 90 percent of Russian oil imports by the end of the year - with Hungary exempted.

On Monday night, the EU announced that an agreement had been reached to ban Russian oil to the EU.

The agreement, that will immediately impact 75 percent of oil imports from Russia and stop 90 percent by the end of the year, is being celebrated as a victory in Brussels.

Hungarian Prime Minister Mr Orban has been issued an exception for pipeline imports without a deadline and a provision that would allow Hungary to buy oil via shipments if pipeline supplies are cut off.

Dutch Prime Minister Mr Rutte said: “I think to have the whole picture we have to acknowledge that they are in a difficult position because they are using Russian oil. And because their refineries are only working on this particular crude [oil].

"So, in that sense, I think they have a point.”

10:06 Tara Fair

Latvia’s Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš urged EU countries to keep passing progressively harsher energy sanctions on Russia, hours after leaders agreed to a near-embargo on Russian oil.

He said: “The stronger the sanctions, the quicker the war will end.

“Once again, I have argued from February 24 that we need immediate and full energy sanctions on oil, coal and gas.”

09:51 Tara Fair

Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer has dismissed the possibility that the EU would go after Russian gas next after sanctioning Russian oil.

He said: “Gas behaves very differently from oil in terms of security of supply — it is much easier to compensate for oil.

“Therefore, the gas embargo will also not be discussed in a next sanctions package.”

EU leaders late Monday agreed to ban Russian oil purchases, after negotiating a carve-out for pipeline oil that flows to landlocked countries.

09:47 Tara Fair

Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer has said the sanctions are "painful" for the EU, but is "nothing compared with the suffering in Ukraine.

Mr Nehammer said the oil sanctions are “a measure that will certainly be painful for the member states.”

“But we must be realistic.

“The pain we are suffering is nothing compared to what the Ukrainian people are suffering.”

09:37 Tara Fair

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has urged the EU to go after Russian gas in its next sanction package.

Ms Kallas said: “We discussed it briefly already yesterday, but gas is of course much more difficult than than oil already was.

“All the next sanctions will be more difficult because so far they have only hurt Russians.

“But now they’re also having effects on Europeans, and that’s why it’s much more politically difficult.

“I think that the gas has to be in the seventh package, but I’m realistic as well.

“I don’t think it will be there.”

09:16 Tara Fair

The Prime Minister of Belgium has said after banning most of Russian oil, the EU should stop sanctioning Russian energy.

Alexander De Croo argued Monday that the bloc had reached its limit in terms of sanctions.

He said: “In my view, this is the end of the road, especially in the area of sanctions in the field of energy.

“Besides, today's decisions should be about how we can better control energy prices so that we don't have the same problems this winter.”

“That should be the priority.”

08:59 Tara Fair

EU diplomat Josep Borrell has defended the bloc's deal to bar Russian oil with an exception for Hungary.

Mr Borrell argued that the concessions, which carved out Russian pipeline oil deliveries to landlocked countries, was a “reasonable way out to the discussion.”

Between the now-agreed-to ban on Russian oil delivered by ship and pledges from Germany and Poland to cut off Russian pipline oil, the EU will effectively eliminate 90 percent of Russian oil imports by year's end, Mr Borrell noted.

Asked whether the new package will actually weaken Russia, Mr Borrell said: “Certainly, we cannot prevent Russia to sell their oil to someone else.

"We're not so powerful. We are the most important client for Russia. They will have to look for another one. And certainly they will have to decrease the price.”

08:46 Tara Fair

The EU "should not stop here" with sanctions against Russia, according to Latvian Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš.

Mr Kariņš tweeted that a “significant step has been taken to hinder Russia’s ability to finance the brutal war,” but added that “we should not stop there – pressure on Russia should be continued.”

Significant step has been taken to hinder Russia's ability to finance the brutal war. Tonight we agreed on the sixth package of #EU sanctions including oil embargo. We should not stop there - pressure on Russia should be continued. #EUCO

08:33 Tara Fair

EU chief Ursula von der Leyen has said she is "very glad" that European leaders have reached a new agreement "in principle" on banning oil imports from Russia.

"I am very glad that the leaders were able to agree in principle on the sixth sanctions package," she said.

"Council should now be able to finalise a ban on almost 90 percent of all Russian oil imports by the end of the year. This is an important step forward. On the remaining 10 percent, on these we will soon return to the issue of these remaining 10 percent of pipeline oil."

I am glad that tonight leaders agreed in principle on the sixth sanctions package. This is an important step forward.

We also agreed to work on a mechanism to provide Ukraine with a new, exceptional macro-financial assistance package of up to \u20ac9 billion. https://t.co/La3bZl6JNp[https://t.co/La3bZl6JNp]

08:22 Tara Fair

Poland's Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki praised the leaders' decision on a Russian oil ban, stressing that without this agreement it would be “difficult to talk about an effective fight against Putina's war machine.”

“In spite of pessimistic announcements, our diplomacy and the diplomacy of the European Commission and a couple of other governments worked well,” he said.

08:08 Tara Fair

Volodymyr Zelensky has slammed the length of time it has taken the EU to agree on another sanctions package.

The last package was introduced nearly two months ago.

In an address to the Ukrainian people, he said he was grateful to Charles Michel, the President of the European Council, for "trying to find the necessary compromises" to make the measures possible.

He said: "Russia must feel a much higher price for its aggression.

"The key point is, of course, the oil. I believe that Europe will have to give up Russian oil and oil products in any case.

"Because this is about the independence of Europeans themselves from Russian energy weapons.

"And the sooner this happens, the more complete the abandonment of Russian oil will be, the greater the benefit will be for Europe itself in the end."

08:00 Tara Fair

French President Emmanuel Macron claims the fresh sanctions brought in by the EU shows the bloc's solidarity with Ukraine.

On Twitter, he said: "Russia has chosen to continue its war in Ukraine.

"Tonight, as Europeans, united and in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, we are taking new decisive sanctions.

"We have decided to stop importing 90 percent of Russian oil by the end of 2022."

Russia has chosen to continue its war in Ukraine. Tonight, as Europeans, united and in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, we are taking new decisive sanctions. We have decided to stop importing 90% of Russian oil by the end of 2022.

07:47 Tara Fair

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte has claimed Viktor Orban "had a point" when he pushed back against the EU over a Russian oil ban.

The comment comes as the EU announced it had reached an agreement to ban Russian oil to the EU.

The agreement, that will immediately impact 75 percent of oil imports from Russia and stop 90 percent by the end of the year, is being celebrated as a victory in Brussels.

Hungarian Prime Minister Mr Orban has been issued an exception for pipeline imports without a deadline and a provision that would allow Hungary to buy oil via shipments if pipeline supplies are cut off.

Dutch Prime Minister Mr Rutte said: “I think to have the whole picture we have to acknowledge that they are in a difficult position because they are using Russian oil. And because their refineries are only working on this particular crude [oil].

"So, in that sense, I think they have a point.

"It is true that [Orban] very much pleaded for an exemption temporarily for Hungary, but also for the Czechs and Slovaks.

"But at the same time, they have this issue where we always acknowledged that there was a problem with the fact [that] they are very much dependent on Russian oil.

"We agreed tonight that we'll come back to the next European Council.

"Of course, we have to assess how much time it takes for countries like Hungary to rebuild their refineries and what is reasonable in terms of the time-lapse.”

07:40 Tara Fair

The President of the European Council, Charles Michel, has announced an agreement had been reached to ban Russian oil to the EU.

He said this will immediately impact 75 percent of oil imports from Russia which is funding the war in Ukraine.

On Twitter, he said: "Maximum pressure on Russia to end the war."

The deal would see 90 percent of imports stop by the end of the year.

This sanctions package includes other hard-hitting measures:

de-Swifting the largest Russian bank Sberbank,

banning 3 more Russian state-owned broadcasters,

and sanctioning individuals responsible for war crimes in #Ukraine#EUCO

07:13 Tara Fair

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told EU leaders that 74 Ukrainian children have died since the last set of EU sanctions were imposed on Russia, as he urged them to swiftly approve a sixth round of sanctions.

EU leaders are meeting in Brussels on Monday and Tuesday with the main item on the agenda being the proposed ban on Russian oil.

In a videoconference, Mr Zelensky said he does not blame the EU for the atrocities occurring in Ukraine but hopes that they can come to a swift agreement on the next round of EU sanctions.

He said: "On April 8, the 44th day of this war, the EU’s fifth sanctions package was introduced. And 52 days have passed since then. What happened during this period?

“Then, as of April 8, there were 169 children on the list of those killed by the Russian occupiers in Ukraine. As of today, 243 children.

“Of course, I want you to understand me: I’m not blaming any of you.

“The blame for everything that is happening is only on the Russian state.

"But I am convinced that it is obvious to each and every one of you that there should be progress in sanctions for this aggression.

"And for us, it is very necessary. It will help us a lot!”

He added: “I am grateful to everyone who promotes the sixth sanctions package and tries to make it effective. However, unfortunately, for some reason, it is not there yet.”

07:11 Tara Fair

Good morning from London. I’m Tara Fair, I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the EU Summit. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: Tara.fair@reachplc.com

Twitter: @TaraFair_

22:05 Olivia Stringer

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has asked EU leaders why Ukraine is still not recognised as a terrorist state.

During his address to EU leaders via videoconference, Mr Zelensky recalled European Council President Charles Michel's recent visit to Ukraine, during which Michel and Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal had to take shelter after a missile attack set off air raid sirens.

Mr Zelensky said: "Mr President Michel, you were recently in Odesa and were forced to take shelter due to a missile attack.

"Mr. President has felt for himself what I am talking about now. And if this was felt even at such level, why is Russia still not recognized as a terrorist state? A state sponsor of terrorism?”

21:21 Olivia Stringer

Irish Europe Minister Thomas Byrne has said he is reasonably confident that EU leaders could come to an agreement on Russian oil sanctions on Monday night.

Mr Byrne said he spoke with Irish leader Micheal Martin during a break in the summit and heard there was a “very constructive mood in the meeting” and “people want to get this done.”

Mr Byrne admitted that some countries "certainly have issues" with the proposals.

However, he insisted: “I think people want to get it done in the best possible way.”

20:23 Olivia Stringer

Discussions on what happens to pipeline oil should take place at leaders' level since the issue is very political, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban told EU leaders, according to two diplomats.

This remark contradicts those made by other EU officials who have insisted questions related to sanctions on Russian oil imports are mainly technical at this stage and could be resolved by specialist officials.

Mr Orban is still holding out against the current compromised package of sanctions - even though it includes an exemption on Russian oil coming via pipeline.

If Orban insists that the matter can only be resolved by leaders, the issue will have to wait until the next EU summit on June 22 and 23.

19:53 Olivia Stringer

74 Ukrainian children have died since the last set of EU sanctions on Russia, President Zelensky said in a videoconference with EU leaders.

Mr Zelensky called on the EU to act faster to impose further sanctions on Russia.

He said: “On April 8, the 44th day of this war, the EU’s fifth sanctions package was introduced. And 52 days have passed since then. What happened during this period?”

“Then, as of April 8, there were 169 children on the list of those killed by the Russian occupiers in Ukraine. As of today, 243 children,” the president told the EU chiefs.

“Then, as of April 8, 928 educational institutions were destroyed: kindergartens, schools, universities. As of today: 1,888.”

“Of course, I want you to understand me: I’m not blaming any of you.

“The blame for everything that is happening is only on the Russian state. But I am convinced that it is obvious to each and every one of you that there should be progress in sanctions for this aggression. And for us, it is very necessary. It will help us a lot!”

He added: “I am grateful to everyone who promotes the sixth sanctions package and tries to make it effective. However, unfortunately, for some reason, it is not there yet.”

19:13 Olivia Stringer

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has urged EU leaders to approve the sixth round of sanctions against Russia in a video address to the summit, an EU official has said.

The official said that Zelensky also urged EU leaders to find a way to unblock exports of grain from Ukraine.

Zelensky warned that Putin is having success in Asia and Africa blaming the blockade on Ukraine.

He also noted that Ukraine has completed the questionnaire to become a candidate for EU membership and expects a swift response from the bloc.

18:51 Olivia Stringer

Danish energy company Ørsted today said it has no plans to pay for Russian gas in rubles as Russia has demanded.

A company statement read: “We have no legal obligation under the contract to do so, and we have repeatedly informed Gazprom Export that we will not do so.

The statement added that because of this, there is a risk that Gazprom will stop supplying gas to Ørsted.

It added: "In Ørsted’s view, this will be a breach of contract.”

18:11 Olivia Stringer

Greece’s Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has urged his colleagues to reopen a debate on capping the price of natural gas in order to lower EU energy prices.

He said: “All European member states are currently facing very high energy prices, the result of excessively high gas prices, prices which — as I have said many times — are not justified by the laws of supply and demand."

Mr Mitsotakis added that he would be bringing up Turkey’s “recent intense provocativeness and its impact on the stability of the Eastern Mediterranean", during the meeting.

Tensions over disputed territory have been recently flaring up between the two countries.

He said: “Greece faces these challenges with confidence and determination,” he said. “We are a country that has international law on its side, we have strong allies and of course, we have invested even more in our deterrent capacity so that we do not allow anyone to challenge our sovereignty and sovereign rights.”

17:52 Olivia Stringer

Slovak Prime Minister Eduard Heger said he will back the EU's proposed ban on Russian oil if Slovakia can obtain oil from its neighbours in case of supply disruptions.

He said: “We are fully supporting the alternatives for Russian oil and gas — on the other hand, we need the help of our partners.

“We've always been a reliable partner in transiting oil and gas.

“Now, in case of an emergency, we'll need the same from the partners around us who have access to the sea.”

Mr Heger added that he had spoken to Hungarian leader Viktor Orban ahead of the summit.

He said: “I expressed to him that unity is very important, I was trying to get him on board.

“I also … emphasized that the money given for Russian oil and gas is financing the Russian aggression in Ukraine.”

17:32 Olivia Stringer

Irish Premier Micheal Martin has said he urges Hungarian PM Viktor Orban to support the latest package of EU sanctions.

Mr Martin said he is fully supportive of the sanctions and will be using the EU summit to make his position clear.

17:22 Olivia Stringer

Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has asked whether the EU has done all it could to stop the war in Ukraine.

He said: "We have to ask ourselves a question if we have done everything to end this war as soon as possible and end in a victorious way."

Mr Morawiecki said that Poland's "basic demand" is that the EU stops buying Russian oil.

He added: "We’re trying to build a consensus around it.

“We understand that there are countries that don’t have access to the sea and that’s why they are dependent on pipelines. We have special solutions for them.”

17:14 Olivia Stringer

Dutch gas trader GasTerra announced its refusal to comply with Russia's decree mandating that Russian gas payments be transferred to rubles via Russian bank accounts.

A company statement read: “In response to GasTerra’s decision, Gazprom declared to discontinue supply with effect from 31 May 2022.

“The cessation of supply by Gazprom means that, between now and 1 October 2022, the date on which the contract ends, approximately 2 billion [cubic meters] of contracted gas will not be delivered … GasTerra has repeatedly urged Gazprom to respect the contractually agreed payment structure and supply obligations, but to no avail.”

The Netherlands’ Minister for Energy and Climate Rob Jetten said “the government understands GasTerra’s decision not to agree to Gazprom’s unilaterally imposed payment terms. This decision has no consequences for the physical delivery of gas to Dutch households. GasTerra has bought extra gas in preparation for this situation. Therefore, it is expected that there will be no consequences for physical deliveries of gas to the Dutch business sector either. However, the government will continue to monitor the situation closely in the coming period.”

16:58 Olivia Stringer

If the latest package of EU sanctions on Russia does not include a Russian oil embargo, it will be hard to trigger other elements of the package, a senior European Commission official said on Monday.

The official said: "It is true - if there was no agreement on it either today or in the next days ... we would have difficulties with the rest of the package.

"But since we're confident that over time there will be a solution, I don't see a reason to think that one could split it or it would even make sense to split it."

16:34 Olivia Stringer

The future of Hungarian families is "at stake" due to the proposed ban on Russian energy, Hungarian President Viktor Orban said in a Facebook post.

16:25 Olivia Stringer

It is important that there is both fairness and competitiveness in the EU, President of the European Commission Ursula vo der Leyen has said.

Speaking ahead of the meeting of the European Council, she said: "It is in fact very important that there is fairness for everyone as well as competitiveness for everyone. Esp when it comes to the issue of oil and the issue of Russian oil. And this is exactly the issue we haven’t solved yet.

Different proposed solutions are on the table. But we haven’t reached this step, that we are able to take a joint position. I am confident that we will be able to find a solution. Whether during the council - the probability isn’t very high- or afterwards, one thing is clear: we will revisit the issue of replacements for oil via the sea route, which has already been clarified, and the issue of pipeline oil from Russia.

16:07 Olivia Stringer

Latvian Prime Minister Arturs Krisjanis Karins has said that talking with Putin makes little sense as he is not interested in making concessions.

Speaking ahead of today's EU Council summit, he said that if the EU continues to supply Ukraine with weapons and isolate Russia's economy and Putin realises he is losing to war, that is when he will talk.

Krisjanis Karins added that he has no sympathy with Hungarian Prime Minister Orban stating that a ban on Russian oil would be hard for Hungary as he said a ban would be difficult for Latvia as well.

15:55 Olivia Stringer

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has stressed the importance of moving away from Russian fossil fuels.

Speaking ahead of the EU council meeting, she said: "It is very important and in the Union we agree that we need to get out of fossil fuels from Russia. First, it is bad for our climate but secondly and much more importantly it fills Putin’s war chest and therefore we have to do everything to get rid of the fossil fuels from Russia.

"This means on the one hand we have to be independent, on the other sanctions against fossil fuels. We have already done so when it comes to coal, we are now working on oil, but above all else find other reliable providers worldwide. For this we are building a common purchasing platform, which is a good thing.

"And the most important topic: massive investments in renewable energy. It is the future, makes us independent, creates good jobs here in Europe and they are good for the climate."

15:43 Olivia Stringer

Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda has suggested using the assets of sanctioned Russian oligarchs to pay for the rebuilding of Ukraine.

He added that the EU must use "all the instruments in our hands" to stop Putin.

He said he hopes the EU will come to an agreement on the current package of sanctions today and can move on to the seventh package.

15:29 Olivia Stringer

Finnish PM Sanna Marin has said that the EU needs to be united over Russian sanctions and said it is important that Russian sanctions are hard enough that they affect Russia's economy.

She added that Finland is on board with all of the sanctions the EU has proposed.

15:23 Olivia Stringer

The EU is getting too bogged down with the problem of Russian oil imports and is forgetting the bigger picture, Latvia's Prime Minister has said.

Speaking ahead of today's EU summit Krišjānis Kariņš said:" “We're getting a little bogged down in all of the details and we're forgetting the big picture,” he said. “The Ukrainian people are fighting for their independence.”

“What we’re dealing with is not normal politics, each country's self-interest: We are in a situation where a European country is being attacked.”

15:11 Olivia Stringer

The EU will find a compromise on the proposed embargo on Russian oil,Luxembourg's Prime Minister Xavier Bettel said on Monday.

Speaking to reporters ahead of today's European council summit, he said: "We will always find a compromise. There are still talks going on. As long as there are talks, I am hopeful.

15:07 Olivia Stringer

Good afternoon, I'm Olivia Stringer and I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the EU council summit for the next eight hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: olivia.stringer@reachplc.com

Twitter: @Livstringer_

14:46 Francesca Edwards

Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins criticised leaders saying the EU is "forgetting the big pictures".

NR Karins"It's only money, the Ukrainians are paying with their lives. "We can and we must support them, if only out of self-interest because only when Russia is defeated can we in Europe feel safe."

14:39 Francesca Edwards

Asked what the future will look like with a Russian oil ban, Olaf Scholz said "you shouldn’t count your chickens before they hatch."

The German Chancellor added: It looks like everybody is discussing this constructively and well with each other.. but what I perceive is that there are talks which are led with the willingness to come to an understanding and this is a good thing."

14:32 Francesca Edwards

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said it is "important" for him that today marks a "special fund" being formed for the German Armed forces.

He said: " It is a good thing that we are all coming together here in Brussels to do what we have been showing in the past weeks, which is to act united and to discuss our policies together which we are developing against the Russian aggressions, against the Russian attack on Ukraine.

"This is a good sign that Europe has so far managed to stand together like this and I am very confident that we will continue to do this in the future.

"Something that is especially important for me is that today will also be the day on which it can be said that in Germany a special fund for our Bundeswehr is formed

14:23 Francesca Edwards

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has blamed the "irresponsible behaviour of the commission" for the issues surrounding banning Russian oil imports.

Mr Orban said leaders are in a "difficult position" blaming the bloc.

"What is a problem for us, and why we have to fight today, is that if something happens to the Russian oil coming by pipeline... if there is no oil coming, then we should have the right for purchases by sea," Orban said. "This is the guarantee we need."

14:10 Francesca Edwards

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said he expects the European Union to reach a consensus on an oil embargo against Russia, but did not give a time frame when it might happen.

"Everything I hear sounds like there could be a consensus - and sooner or later there will be", he told reporters as he arrived for an EU summit in Brussels.

He added: "I strongly believe that we will be able to discuss a good solution together today or tomorrow. I have already reported that everything here points to us coming together, nobody can predict whether this will in fact be the case but everything I can hear points to there possibly being agreement and sooner or later there will be agreement."

14:07 Francesca Edwards

European leaders are "not there yet" on reaching an agreement for the sixth package of sanctions against Russia, Ursula von der Leyen said.

The European Commission President said the bloc has "one success and this is the solidarity of the European Union".

Speaking at the EU summit Ms von der Leyen said they have "basically solved all the issued but one" citing the issues surrounding banning Russian oil.

She added "I have not too high expectations that we're going to solve within the next 48 hours, but they're after my call is very clearly on the member states. The key to success was and is solidarity with Ukraine and unity in the European Union."

13:49 Francesca Edwards

European Union member states should be able to reach an agreement on an import ban for Russian oil under certain conditions on Monday, Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov said, several hours before the start of the summit.

"I think it will pass with certain derogations", Petkov said about plans for an embargo on Russian oil imports.

"Overall it should pass, depending on some individual characteristics and criteria that member states may have."

13:28 Francesca Edwards

European leaders have arrived in Brussels for the two-day summit.

The member states are aiming to reach an agreement on banning Russian oil.

"The European Council agrees that the sixth package of sanctions against Russia will cover crude oil, as well as petroleum products, delivered from Russia into Member States, with a temporary exception for crude oil delivered by pipeline," the latest draft conclusions, seen by Reuters, said.

"The European Council therefore urges the Council to finalise and adopt it without delay, ensuring fair competition and a level playing field in the EU Single Market, and solidarity among Member States in case of sudden interruptions of supply," the draft said.

13:00 Francesca Edwards

Spain is breaking EU ranks as one of its MEPs has tabled an "alternative plan" that could deal a hammer blow to Vladimir Putin.

Spanish MEP Luis Garicano has put a plan forward to punish Moscow.

He claims his plan is more effective than wasting time mulling over tactics to try and get Hungarian President Viktor Orban on board.

Mr Garicano slammed the EU in an op-ed for Politico entitled “Putting an end to Europe’s hide-and-seek: the oil tariff”, arguing that the bloc is “prolonging Putin’s war”.

READ MORE HERE.

12:36 Francesca Edwards

Volodymyr Zelensky will directly address EU leaders on Monday.

It comes amid his continued calls for the bloc to impose more sanctions on Russia and expand its military support to Ukraine.

Over the weekend the Ukrainian president said the country's success "depends on the partners, on their readiness to provide Ukraine with everything necessary to defend freedom".

He continued: "And I expect good news on this already next week".

12:19 Francesca Edwards

Ukraine accused the EU of "hypocrisy to a great extent" over its failure to agree on more sanctions against Russia.

A senior official said the EU should return to its core roots and principles.

“Basically what we are doing is we are now bringing the EU back to where it started as a peace project,” the senior Ukrainian diplomat said. “So to generate peace, to generate security, in a broader sense, they [should] take responsibility.”

Ukraine continues to call for more sanctions against Russia and for the EU to provide military support.

12:00 Francesca Edwards

European leaders will not decide on imposing a cap on gas prices on Monday, the European Commissioner for Economy said.

"If this is agreed among member states, the Commission will act very quickly to analyse this possibility," Paolo Gentiloni told reporters at the Foreign Press Association in Rome.

He said it would be difficult to make any predictions regarding the timing of a decision.

11:55 Francesca Edwards

Good afternoon I'm Francesca Edwards, I’ll be bringing you all the latest developments on the EU Summit for the next eight hours. Please feel free to get in touch with me as I work if you have a story or tips to share! Your thoughts are always welcome.

Email: francesca.edwards@reachplc.com

Twitter: @FrankieLEdwards

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220530ei5u002mq


EU agrees Russia oil embargo, gives Hungary exemptions; Zelenskiy vows more sanctions
761 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 20:58 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) -European Union leaders have agreed an embargo on Russian crude oil imports that will take full effect by end-2022, but Hungary and two other landlocked Central European states secured exemptions for the pipeline imports they rely on.

The ban, agreed overnight after weeks of wrangling, aims to halt 90% of Russia's crude imports into the 27-nation bloc by year-end.

It is the toughest sanction yet on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, and one that will itself affect the EU, where energy prices have spiked and inflation is running at close to a double-digit clip.

Russia accounted for just over a quarter of EU oil imports in 2020, while Europe is the destination for nearly half of Russia's crude and petroleum product exports.

"The sanctions have one clear goal: To prompt Russia to end this war, to withdraw its troops, and to agree a sensible and fair peace with Ukraine," German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said.

The oil embargo follows an earlier ban on Russian coal and allows the bloc to impose a sixth round of sanctions that includes cutting Russia's biggest bank, Sberbank, off from the SWIFT international transaction system.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said that once the sixth round was in place "we'll immediately start preparing the seventh" round. He predicted the embargo would strip Russia of tens of billions of Euros.

"In the end there should be no meaningful economic relations left between the free world and the terrorist state," he said in a late night address on Tuesday.

Zelenskiy had earlier criticised what he called an "unacceptable" delay of more than 50 days since the EU's previous package.

French President Emmanuel Macron said nothing could be ruled out regarding further sanctions, although other leaders rejected the idea of banning purchases of Russian gas, on which Europe heavily depends.

EU countries will have six months to stop imports of seaborne Russian crude and eight months for refined products.

That timeline will start once the sanctions are formally adopted, which EU states aim to do this week.

HUNGARY EXEMPT

The deal was reached only after the EU's other leaders agreed to give Hungary a free pass.

Two-thirds of the Russian oil imported by the EU comes by tanker and the rest through the Druzhba pipeline.

Poland and Germany are among the pipeline importers, but have pledged to stop buying Russian oil by the end-2022.

Landlocked Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic all get their Russian oil from Druzhba and account for the 10% of imports temporarily exempted from the embargo.

Bulgaria said it had also secured an exemption until end-2024, since its refinery is designed to receive only Russian crude. Oil prices rose after the agreement, adding to inflation, which already hit a record 8.1% year-on-year in euro zone countries this month.

GAS NEXT?

Ursula von der Leyen, head of the bloc's executive commission, said the package would also ban EU firms from insuring or reinsuring ships carrying Russian oil.

Several countries already want to start work on a seventh round, but Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer said it could not include Russian gas, which covers a third of EU needs.

"Russian oil is much easier to compensate for ... gas is completely different," Nehammer said.

Russian analysts and traders said the phasing-in of the embargo gave Moscow time to find new customers in Asia.

"Although the measures announced by the European Union look threatening, we don't see a crippling impact on the Russian oil sector - neither imminent, nor in six months," analysts at Sinara Investment Bank said.

EU leaders also asked the commission to explore options to tackle soaring energy prices. These include "temporary import price caps", which should be explored with international partners, their conclusions said.

They also endorsed a commission plan to wean the EU off all Russian fossil fuels within years through a faster rollout of renewable energy, improvements in saving energy, and more investments in energy infrastructure.

And they called for better EU-wide contingency planning in case of further gas supply shocks. Moscow on Tuesday cut gas supplies to the Netherlands for rejecting its gas-for-roubles scheme, having already cut off Poland, Bulgaria and Finland.

(Additional reporting by Gabriela Baczynska, Sabine Siebold, John Chalmers, Bart Meijer, Robin Emmott and David Ljunggren; Writing by Ingrid Melander, Kate Abnett; Editing by John Chalmers, Tomasz Janowski and Grant McCool)

Released: 2022-5-31T20:58:49.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220531ei5v0161x


UPDATE 6-EU agrees Russia oil embargo, gives Hungary exemptions; Zelenskiy vows more sanctions
822 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日 20:58 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
* Embargo aims to hit Russian ability to finance war

* Will be phased in over 6-8 months

* Ban gives carveout to Hungary, Slovakia, Czech Republic

* Countries split on more EU sanctions targeting Russian gas

* Leaders explore ways to mitigate soaring energy prices (Adds fresh comments by Ukrainian president)

By Kate Abnett, Jan Strupczewski and Ingrid Melander

BRUSSELS, May 31 (Reuters) - European Union leaders have agreed an embargo on Russian crude oil imports that will take full effect by end-2022, but Hungary and two other landlocked Central European states secured exemptions for the pipeline imports they rely on.

The ban, agreed overnight after weeks of wrangling, aims to halt 90% of Russia's crude imports into the 27-nation bloc by year-end.

It is the toughest sanction yet on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, and one that will itself affect the EU, where energy prices have spiked and inflation is running at close to a double-digit clip.

Russia accounted for just over a quarter of EU oil imports in 2020, while Europe is the destination for nearly half of Russia's crude and petroleum product exports.

"The sanctions have one clear goal: To prompt Russia to end this war, to withdraw its troops, and to agree a sensible and fair peace with Ukraine," German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said.

The oil embargo follows an earlier ban on Russian coal and allows the bloc to impose a sixth round of sanctions that includes cutting Russia's biggest bank, Sberbank, off from the SWIFT international transaction system.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy said that once the sixth round was in place "we'll immediately start preparing the seventh" round. He predicted the embargo would strip Russia of tens of billions of Euros.

"In the end there should be no meaningful economic relations left between the free world and the terrorist state," he said in a late night address on Tuesday.

Zelenskiy had earlier criticised what he called an "unacceptable" delay of more than 50 days since the EU's previous package.

French President Emmanuel Macron said nothing could be ruled out regarding further sanctions, although other leaders rejected the idea of banning purchases of Russian gas, on which Europe heavily depends.

EU countries will have six months to stop imports of seaborne Russian crude and eight months for refined products.

That timeline will start once the sanctions are formally adopted, which EU states aim to do this week.

HUNGARY EXEMPT

The deal was reached only after the EU's other leaders agreed to give Hungary a free pass.

Two-thirds of the Russian oil imported by the EU comes by tanker and the rest through the Druzhba pipeline.

Poland and Germany are among the pipeline importers, but have pledged to stop buying Russian oil by the end-2022.

Landlocked Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic all get their Russian oil from Druzhba and account for the 10% of imports temporarily exempted from the embargo.

Bulgaria said it had also secured an exemption until end-2024, since its refinery is designed to receive only Russian crude. Oil prices rose after the agreement, adding to inflation, which already hit a record 8.1% year-on-year in euro zone countries this month.

GAS NEXT?

Ursula von der Leyen, head of the bloc's executive commission, said the package would also ban EU firms from insuring or reinsuring ships carrying Russian oil.

Several countries already want to start work on a seventh round, but Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer said it could not include Russian gas, which covers a third of EU needs.

"Russian oil is much easier to compensate for ... gas is completely different," Nehammer said.

Russian analysts and traders said the phasing-in of the embargo gave Moscow time to find new customers in Asia.

"Although the measures announced by the European Union look threatening, we don't see a crippling impact on the Russian oil sector - neither imminent, nor in six months," analysts at Sinara Investment Bank said.

EU leaders also asked the commission to explore options to tackle soaring energy prices. These include "temporary import price caps", which should be explored with international partners, their conclusions said.

They also endorsed a commission plan to wean the EU off all Russian fossil fuels within years through a faster rollout of renewable energy, improvements in saving energy, and more investments in energy infrastructure.

And they called for better EU-wide contingency planning in case of further gas supply shocks. Moscow on Tuesday cut gas supplies to the Netherlands for rejecting its gas-for-roubles scheme, having already cut off Poland, Bulgaria and Finland.

(Additional reporting by Gabriela Baczynska, Sabine Siebold, John Chalmers, Bart Meijer, Robin Emmott and David Ljunggren; Writing by Ingrid Melander, Kate Abnett; Editing by John Chalmers, Tomasz Janowski and Grant McCool)

Released: 2022-5-31T21:58:44.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220531ei5v01d5h


Ukraine
EU agrees gradual Russian oil embargo, Hungary exempt
AFP/Reuters
905 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日
RTE.ie
RTEI
英文
Copyright 2022. RTE
European Union leaders have agreed an embargo on Russian oil imports that will start kicking in towards the end of the year and which exempts, for now, pipeline imports that Hungary and two other landlocked central European states rely on.

The toughest sanction yet on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, agreed overnight after weeks of wrangling, aims to remove 90% of Russia's crude imports into the 27-nation bloc by year-end, senior officials said.[https://www.rte.ie/news/2022/0530/1301915-ukraine-russia/]

"The purpose is to stop Russia's aggressive war," Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karins said.

Two-thirds of the Russian oil imported by the EU comes via tanker and one third through the Druzhba pipeline.

The ban on the seaborne imports will be imposed with a phase-in period of six months for crude oil and eight months for refined products, a European Commission spokesperson said.

This means the target for refined products is effectively early 2023 rather than at the end of this year, since that timeline would kick in once the sanctions are formally adopted, with EU states aiming to do this week.

The target to cut 90% of all Russian imports by the end of 2022 includes seaborne deliveries as well as Poland and Germany stopping their own imports of Russian oil via pipeline by then, which they have pledged to do.

The remaining 10% would be temporarily exempt from the embargo so that landlocked Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have access to Russian oil from the Druzhba pipeline.

Oil prices extended a bull run after the EU's agreement, stoking concern about inflation, which ran at a record high of 8.1% year-on-year in euro zone countries this month[https://www.rte.ie/news/business/2022/0531/1302170-euro-zone-inflation/], Eurostat has said.

Tony Connelly, Europe Editor, discusses EU Leaders' agreement to ban imports of Russian oil to the EU.[//www.rte.ie/bosco/components/player/iframe.html?clipid=22103675&autostart=false]

Energy prices

With energy prices soaring, leaders will ask the EU's executive Commission to explore ways to curb them, such as through temporary price caps, according to draft conclusions for their summit.

The draft, which could change before it is adopted, would also task Brussels with working on potential reforms to Europe's electricity market - a move backed by countries including Spain and Greece but which countries including Germany have opposed.

Leaders are also set to endorse a Commission plan to wean itself off Russian fossil fuels within years through a faster rollout of renewable energy, improvements in saving energy, and more investments in energy infrastructure.

And they will call for better EU-wide contingency planning in case of further gas supply shocks.

Last Wednesday Russia cut gas supplies to the Netherlands for refusing to comply with a demand to pay for gas in roubles, having already cut off Poland, Bulgaria and Finland.

European Union leaders have agreed an embargo on Russian oil imports that will start kicking in towards the end of the year[//www.rte.ie/bosco/components/player/iframe.html?clipid=22104149&autostart=false]

Read more:

Ukrainian official says 'massive' sanction blow against Russia needed[https://www.rte.ie/news/politics/2022/0531/1302312-committee-ukraine/]

Russia controls 'most' of Severodonetsk in eastern Ukraine[https://www.rte.ie/news/ukraine/2022/0531/1302127-ukraine-russia/]

Latest Ukraine stories[https://www.rte.ie/news/ukraine/]

The oil embargo deal follows an earlier ban on Russian coal and allows the bloc to impose a sixth round of sanctions that includes cutting Russia's biggest bank, Sberbank, from the SWIFT international system.

But while several countries already want work to begin on a seventh round of sanctions, Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer said: "Gas can't be part of next sanctions."

Europe is heavily dependent on Russian gas, which explains why it has been left out of EU sanctions so far.

The EU this month agreed a law requiring countries to fill gas storage to reach at least 80% ahead of next winter, in a bid to create a buffer against supply disruptions.

EU gas storage is currently 46% full.

"Russian oil is much easier to compensate...gas is completely different, which is why a gas embargo will not be an issue in the next sanctions package," Mr Nehammer said.

Seaborne exports of oil and petroleum products makes up around two thirds of Russian oil imports.

Germany and Poland have also agreed to phase out piped Russian oil by the end of the year, so this should mean 90% of imports will be embargoed.

"Families can sleep peacefully tonight, we kept out the most hair-raising idea," Mr Orban said in a video message posted on his Facebook page.

"We have reached an agreement that states that countries that receive oil through pipelines can continue to operate their economies under the previous conditions," he said.

However, Hungary will be prohibited from re-exporting Russian crude oil and refined products that it has received via the pipeline.

Sanctions 'not enough'

Meanwhile, a senior official in the Ukrainian president's office has said the latest sanctions on Russia are "not enough" and the pace of sanctions so far has been too slow.

"If you ask me, I would say far too slow, far too late and definitely not enough," Ihor Zhovkva, deputy head of President Volodymyr Zelensky's office, said.

Last night's breakthrough agreement paves the way for the adoption of the sixth set of sanctions against Russia for its invasion, which will include removing Russia's largest bank from the Swift international payments system.

Additional reporting: Tony Connelly

Micheál Martin speaks to the media on the second day of a special EU leaders summit at the European Council headquarters in Brussels, Belgium[https://img.rasset.ie/001bd31a-800.jpg]

RTE Commercial Enterprises Limited

文件 RTEI000020220531ei5v0008d


EU Agrees Gradual Russian Oil Embargo, Gives Hungary Exemptions
Asharq Al-Awsat
732 字
2022 年 5 月 31 日
Asharq Al-Awsat
ASHAL
英文
© 2022, Asharq Al-Awsat (English Edition), All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
European Union leaders have agreed an embargo on Russian crude oil imports that will take full effect by the end of the year, but Hungary and two other landlocked Central European states secured exemptions for the pipeline imports they rely on.

The ban, agreed overnight after weeks of wrangling, aims to halt 90% of Russia's crude imports into the 27-nation bloc by year-end, officials said.

It is the toughest sanction yet on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, and one that will itself affect the EU, where energy prices have spiked and inflation is running at close to a double-digit clip.

Russia accounted for just over a quarter of EU oil imports in 2020, while Europe is the destination for nearly half of Russia's crude and petroleum product exports.

"The sanctions have one clear goal: To prompt Russia to end this war, to withdraw its troops, and to agree a sensible and fair peace with Ukraine," German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said.

Ukraine said they would deprive the "Russian military machine" of tens of billions of dollars.

French President Emmanuel Macron said nothing could be ruled out regarding further sanctions, although other leaders poured cold water on the idea of banning purchases of Russian gas, on which Europe heavily depends.

EU countries will have six months to stop imports of seaborne Russian crude and eight months for refined products, the European Commission said.

That timeline will start once the sanctions are formally adopted, which EU states aim to do this week.

Hungary exempt

The deal was reached only after the EU's other leaders agreed to give Hungary a free pass, having failed to win Prime Minister Victor Orban over in weeks of talks.

Two-thirds of the Russian oil imported by the EU comes by tanker and the rest through the Druzhba pipeline.

Poland and Germany are among the pipeline importers, but have pledged to stop buying Russian oil by the end of the year.

Landlocked Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic all get their Russian oil from Druzhba and account for the 10% of imports temporarily exempted from the embargo.

Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov said his country had also secured an exemption until the end of 2024, since its refinery is designed to receive only Russian crude.

Oil prices rose after the EU's agreement, adding fuel to inflation, which already hit a record 8.1% year-on-year in euro zone countries this month.

Gas next?

The oil embargo follows an earlier ban on Russian coal and allows the bloc to impose a sixth round of sanctions that includes cutting Russia's biggest bank, Sberbank, off from the SWIFT international transaction system.

Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said the package would also ban EU firms from insuring or reinsuring ships carrying Russian oil.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy welcomed the latest sanctions but criticized what he called an "unacceptable" delay of more than 50 days since the EU's previous package.

Several countries already want to start work on a seventh round, but Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer said it could not include Russian gas, which covers a third of EU needs.

"Russian oil is much easier to compensate for ... gas is completely different, which is why a gas embargo will not be an issue in the next sanctions package," Nehammer said.

Russian analysts and traders said the phasing-in of the embargo gave Moscow time to find new customers in Asia.

"Although the measures announced by the European Union look threatening, we don't see a crippling impact on the Russian oil sector - neither imminent, nor in six months," analysts at Sinara Investment Bank said.

Beyond the sanctions, EU leaders asked the bloc's executive to explore options to tackle soaring energy prices. These include "temporary import price caps", which should be explored with international partners, their conclusions said.

They also endorsed a Commission plan to wean the EU off all Russian fossil fuels within years through a faster rollout of renewable energy, improvements in saving energy, and more investments in energy infrastructure.

And they called for better EU-wide contingency planning in case of further gas supply shocks. Moscow on Tuesday cut gas supplies to the Netherlands for rejecting its gas-for-roubles scheme, having already cut off Poland, Bulgaria and Finland.

Saudi Research and Marketing

文件 ASHAL00020220601ei5v00009


EU leaders back ban on Russian oil
Chen Weihua in Brussels
744 字
2022 年 6 月 1 日
China Daily
CHNDLY
11
英文
Copyright 2022, China Daily Multimedia Co. Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Though compromise excludes piped supply, Brussels highlights unity

European Union leaders agreed in principle on Monday to ban most Russian oil imports by the end of the year, with the common ground reached in talks that went late into the night in paving the way for the sixth package of sanctions against Russia.

The ban will target only seaborne oil imports, while exempting pipeline imports in a compromise that accommodates the demands of Hungary and several other member states.

"These are very strong signals sent today because (in) the recent hours and recent days there were speculations about the risks of lack of unity, European Union unity," European Council President Charles Michel told a news conference in the early hours of Tuesday after the first day of a two-day EU summit in Brussels.

"I think that we're able to be strong, able to be firm, and we're able to be tough in order to defend our values, to defend our interests."

The sixth round of sanctions, which was first unveiled about four weeks ago by European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, also excludes Russia's largest bank, Sberbank, from the SWIFT payments system and suspends three additional Russian state-run media outlets from broadcasting in EU.

While Michel first tweeted that the ban will cover two-thirds of Russian oil imports, von der Leyen said 90 percent would be covered. They later explained that the 90 percent included commitments by Poland and Germany to phase out oil imports through the Druzhba pipeline by the end of the year. The Druzhba, meaning friendship, is the world's longest oil pipeline carrying oil to Ukraine, Hungary, Poland, Germany, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Austria.

"It's a big step forward what we did today," said von der Leyen, admitting that it was a difficult undertaking after the regional bloc decided in April to phase out Russian coal by August.

The EU is the largest buyer of Russian oil, each day taking on average some 2.2 million barrels of crude, along with 1.2 million barrels of refined products, according to figures before the Russia-Ukraine conflict started on Feb 24.

The details covered by the political agreement reached on Monday will have to be finalized by ambassadors of the 27 member states before the oil embargo takes effect.

Member states including Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Bulgaria had earlier voiced objections or concerns to the original plan, arguing that it would have had devastating effects on their economies.

Monday's agreement is seen as a huge win for Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who led the opposition in the past weeks.

Exemption secured

Besides securing an exemption for pipeline oil imports, Hungary has secured the right to import Russian oil by sea if the country's pipeline deliveries are cut off.

"We have defended the utility cost reduction program ... Hungarian families can sleep peacefully tonight," Orban said.

Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte expressed his understanding of the concerns of these countries. "They are in a difficult position. In this sense, they have a point," he said, referring to their refineries' ability to use only Russian crude.

But he said that when the EU plans a seventh round of sanctions, it should have an upfront debate about the technicality issue before starting to discuss the actual sanction package.

Rutte's words came as Russian gas company Gazprom said that it was cutting its supply to the Netherlands from Tuesday after Dutch wholesaler GasTerra refused to pay in roubles, as Russia demanded, for fear of breaching EU sanctions.

Guntram Wolff, director of the Brussels-based economic think tank Bruegel, said that it is great that the EU agreed on an oil embargo.

"But the agreement is not ideal. It will take many months until implemented, months during which prices will be high and Russian revenues will increase, rather than decrease," he said in a tweet on Tuesday.

He pointed out that Russia can easily find new buyers for the oil that would have gone to Europe by sea, but the supply going by pipelines can't be redirected.

Oil prices jumped after the EU announced its agreement. US crude futures for July rose 3.19 percent to $118.69, while Brent crude futures rose 1.52 percent to $123.52 during Asian trading on Tuesday, CNBC reported.

chenweihua@chinadaily.com.cn

China Daily Multimedia Co. Ltd.

文件 CHNDLY0020220601ei6100009


Gas embargo remains a contingency sanction if Russian aggression escalates even more - expert
Inese Trenča
552 字
2022 年 6 月 1 日 10:52 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2022 LETA .
RIGA, June 1 (LETA) - A gas embargo remains a contingency sanction if Russian aggression escalates even more, according to Aldis Austers, a researcher at the European Policy Research Institute, commenting to LETA about the latest rounds of EU sanctions against Russia.

At a summit earlier this week, European Union (EU) member states agreed on a sixth package of sanctions that would ban more than two-thirds of Russian oil imports, but did not include oil imports via pipelines due to Hungarian objections. Sanctions were also not made in connection with Russian gas imports.

Austers noted that the partial ban on Russian oil imports is an important step forward in the area of sanctions, as evidenced by the difficult negotiations between member states for almost a month. For some members of the bloc, this is a relatively difficult step, especially for those who cannot access oil by sea.

"90 percent of the oil coming from Russia is planned to be phased out from the European market by the end of the year. This is the amount of oil that Member States receive from Russia by sea. Oil from the Druzhba pipeline is not subject to sanctions. Oil through this pipeline is transported to the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria and Hungary," the researcher explained.

Speaking about the possibility of imposing sanctions on Russian gas, Austers said that he was not optimistic about the issue, given how difficult it was for member states to negotiate an embargo on Russian oil. Some countries, including Germany, have stated that they will not permit any sanctions in the gas sector. According to some analysts, Germany could relatively well survive a gas embargo, but politically the national government is not ready to impose such a ban, for fear of possible consequences for industry and the quality of life of the population.

"If the situation continues to escalate early next year, member states could talk about the remaining 10 percent embargo on Russian oil imports. But the gas embargo will not be on the bloc's agenda for some time," Austers said.

Asked why the negotiations on the sixth sanctions package were so difficult, the researcher pointed out that, first of all, they are also economic factors related to countries' desire to avoid severe economic shocks.

There are also political factors, such as Hungary's relations with the European Commission and other Member States, due to the anti-democratic behavior of the Hungarian Government. Hungary's relations with Ukraine have also not been very successful. Hungarians have less sympathy for Ukraine, unlike the Baltic states and Poland.

Speaking about what was left in the EU's arsenal to target Russia, Austers said there was a possibility of imposing sanctions on the immediate family of Russian President Vladimir Putin, some of whom are still unsanctioned. The gas embargo also remains in question, but something shocking needs to happen for EU Member States to agree on a Russian gas embargo.

"The strategic side must also be understood. If the EU uses all possible sanctions at once, they will immediately lose the deterrent effect. Therefore, sanctions are being implemented gradually to try to deter the aggressor and leave something important in reserve, such as gas," he said.

43304334443342352D383039462D3442

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020220601ei61001md


Hungary demands Patriarch Kirill be removed from EU’s sanction list - Bloomberg
90 字
2022 年 6 月 1 日 15:49 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
Hungary has demanded that Patriarch Kirill, of Moscow and All Russia, be removed from a proposed EU list of sanctioned individuals, Bloomberg quoted sources as saying.

According to the agency, Hungary’s representatives on Wednesday put forward more demands that "are holding up approval of the bloc’s sixth sanctions package against Russia."

Budapest demanded that "Patriarch Kirill … be removed from a proposed list of sanctioned individuals," said the officials.

Hungary also raised "minor technical issues linked to the oil ban."

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020220601ei610018p


World
EU states reach deal on boycott of Russian oil
Emily Rauhala and Quentin Aries
825 字
2022 年 6 月 1 日
The Australian Financial Review
AFNR
First
13
英文
Copyright 2022. Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited.
Brussels | European Union countries finally reached a deal to wean off Russian oil, their most significant effort yet to hit Russia's economy over the war in Ukraine, though the impact will be blunted by an exemption for pipeline oil - a concession to landlocked hold-outs, most notably Hungary.

After weeks of negotiations, the 27 countries agreed on Monday (Tuesday AEST) to end seaborne deliveries of Russian oil. Pipeline deliveries will continue to flow for now. Several countries will also get extensions or exemptions, according to EU officials and diplomats.

European Council president Charles Michel said the agreement would cover more than two-thirds of Russian oil imports, cutting off a "a huge source of financing for its war machine".

EU officials and diplomats will still have to agree on technical details in the coming days, and the sanctions must be formally adopted by all 27 countries.

Hungarian Prime Minister Victor Orban, a perennial EU spoiler and one of Russian President Vladimir Putin's closest allies in Europe, had obstructed a deal, insisting on more time and money to upgrade his country's oil infrastructure.

Mr Orban said a faster phase-out would be like dropping "a nuclear bomb on the Hungarian economy".

While there was sympathy for Hungary's position, some diplomats said Mr Orban used the situation to hit back after the EU withheld economic recovery money, and threatened to hold back billions in subsidies, for democratic backsliding in the country.

Although the compromise falls short of the full and immediate ban that Poland and the Baltic states demanded, and does not deal with Russian gas, it still marks a turnaround for the EU, which imported 35 per cent of its oil from Russia in 2020 and in March told the United States it was too dependent on Russian energy to join an embargo.

The oil phase-out is part of the EU's sixth round of sanctions, a package that will remove Russia's biggest bank, Sberbank, and two others from the SWIFT system for international transactions and ban three Russian state-owned broadcasters from the EU, according to the proposal.

European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said the bloc would also take aim at high-ranking military officers and others linked to possible war crimes in Ukraine. A full list of the people and entities targeted will be published when the deal is formally drawn up.

At the summit on Monday, EU leaders listened to a virtual address from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who pushed leaders on oil and appealed to European unity.

Since Russia invaded Ukraine, the EU has worked with the US and other allies to weaken Russia's economy, hitting Moscow with sanction packages, but at the same time continuing to buy Russian fossil fuels.

After photographs and footage of atrocities in the Ukrainian town of Bucha started circulating in April, EU officials announced a plan to phase out Russian coal. They vowed that oil would be next.

The Commission's original oil proposal in early May called for countries to phase out imports over six months and refined petroleum products by the end of the year. According to diplomats, it also granted extensions to at least two countries heavily dependent on Russian pipeline oil: Hungary and Slovakia.

In the weeks since, additional countries pushed for extensions. After a landslide election victory in Hungary, Mr Orban appeared bolder still, seeming to enjoy the leverage he held over the bloc and, some diplomats said, trying to use the situation to get his hands on frozen pandemic recovery money.

The exemption for pipeline oil allows continued supplies through the Druzhba network, which runs through Belarus to Poland and onto Germany, and through Ukraine to Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Hungary.

EU officials say pipeline oil accounts for a third of imports. But if Germany and Poland keep their pledges to phase out Russian oil by the end of the year, Russia will be sending less than that.

Because of rising prices, Moscow has continued to earn about the same amount of money from fossil fuel sales as it did before the invasion, according to estimates by the Wednesday Group, a team of experts tracking Russian energy sales. That adds up to about $US1 billion a day, and possibly $US1.5 billion a day, in revenue, the group found.

The EU's decision to forgo an immediate ban on all oil will give Moscow time to find alternative buyers, with Asia presenting the most promising markets.

It will be difficult for Russia to find buyers with enough appetite to replace the EU market, though. And reconfiguring its energy export system will take time and money.

THE WASHINGTON POST

Key pointsThe EU agreement will

cover more than two-thirds of Russian oil imports.

The compromise falls short of the full and immediate ban that some states wanted.

Fairfax Media Management Pty Limited

文件 AFNR000020220603ei610001h


After Russia’s invasion of Ukraine: Unity is good, but ambition is better
European Policy Centre (EPC) - Publications, 2022 年 6 月 1 日, 4527 字, (英文)
Executive summary Since the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, the EU’s policy priorities have been reshuffled: Security and defence, energy diversification and enlargement are now at the helm of the agenda. The changed geopolitical context ...

Viktor Orban wants Russian Patriach Kirill removed from EU sanction list to approve Russian oil sanctions
421 字
2022 年 6 月 2 日 05:56 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Hungary has blocked the approval of the sixth package of sanctions against Russia with a focus on cutting Russian oil imports to the block as Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban demanded removing the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill from the sanctions list.

EU leaders agreed in principle on Monday to impose an embargo on Russian oil by the end of the year and the sanctions against Russia were due to be finalised on Wednesday at a meeting of ambassadors before being published in the EU's official journal for entry into force, but Budapest has not given its approval.

The Hungarian prime minister and his cabinet members have previously spoken out against targeting the Russian religious leader saying: "Hungary will not support putting church leaders on a sanctions list. This affects the issue of religious freedom for communities in Hungary and this is sacrosanct," Orban said.

The EU’s "crazy" proposal would ban the patriarch from entering the bloc, isolating religious people from their spiritual leader, state secretary Tristan Azbej said earlier.

Kirill is considered a long-time ally of President Vladimir Putin and has become one of the main supporters of Russian military aggression against Ukraine.

The government did not comment on the press reports.

"Orban protects Patriarch Kyrill from being sanctioned by the EU. Kyrill blesses the war crimes the Russian dictator orders in Ukraine. Shame on you! One day the Kompromat by which the Russians keep you compliant will be revealed. What an embarrassment for freedom-loving Hungary, tweeted Michael Gahler", spokesperson for foreign affairs of the European People's Party.

Pro-government media celebrated the agreement reached at the EU summit, where leaders agreed on partial sanctions, banning Russian oil imports by sea, but giving temporary exemption for pipeline supplies.

The Huungarian government has opposed a sweeping oil embargo from the start as the landlocked country gets close to two-thirds of its oil from Russia via pipeline, and the country's main refinery is technically reliant on Russian crude.

Budapest warned that the ban on Russian oil would deliver a price shock to the country’s households and economy.

Hungary has no secure physical alternative to Russian oil supplies in the foreseeable future, state secretary for international communications and relations Zoltan Kovacs told CNN and BBC on June 1.

He said the "golden rule" was that Europe should not impose sanctions that hurt them more than they would hurt Russia.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220602ei62001xi


DEVELOPING Sources: EU accedes to Hungary, waives sanctions on Patriarch Kirill
135 字
2022 年 6 月 2 日 14:12 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Brussels (dpa) - The European Union gave in to pressure from Hungary on Thursday and will refrain from imposing sanctions on Russian Orthodox Church leader Patriarch Kirill in the latest round of punitive measures on Russia for its Ukrainian invasion, diplomatic sources confirm.

This latest compromise on the EU's sixth sanction package on Russia was hammered out at a meeting of EU ambassadors in Luxembourg on Thursday.

Hungary made the last-minute push to exempt Kirill, an avid supporter of Russian President Vladimir Putin, on Wednesday after EU leaders reached a political agreement on the package earlier this week at a special summit.

Now the capitals of the 27 member states have until early on Friday to back their ambassadors' green light in writing.

dpa dpu ncs

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220602ei620053d


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungary gets EU not to sanction Patriarch Kirill in exchange for unblocking oil embargo
91 字
2022 年 6 月 2 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
BRUSSELS, 2 (EUROPA PRESS)

In a meeting at ambassadorial level, the EU has finally adopted this new round of sanctions in response to the demands of Budapest not to include in the 'blacklist' the head of the Orthodox Church in Russia.

The Patriarch is a figure considered close to the Russian President, Vladimir Putin, and has been the subject of controversy since the invasion of Ukraine by not expressly condemning the offensive of the Russian Army.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220602ei6200cnp


1ST LEAD Sources: EU accedes to Hungary, waives sanctions on Patriarch Kirill By Ansgar Haase and Doris Pundy, dpa
424 字
2022 年 6 月 2 日 15:20 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Brussels (dpa) - The European Union gave in to pressure from Hungary on Thursday and will refrain from imposing sanctions on Russian Orthodox Church leader Patriarch Kirill in its latest round of punitive measures on Russia for its Ukrainian invasion, diplomatic sources confirm.

This latest compromise on the EU's sixth sanction package on Russia was hammered out at a meeting of EU ambassadors in Luxembourg on Thursday.

An EU diplomat, speaking on the condition of anonymity, told dpa there was "some frustration and disappointment with Hungary" because of the exclusion of Kirill, but that approving the package as a whole was more important.

Hungary made the last-minute push to exempt Kirill, an avid supporter of Russian President Vladimir Putin, on Wednesday, after EU leaders reached a political agreement on the package earlier this week at a special summit.

Kirill, who backed Russia's invasion of Ukraine in his religious sermons and blames NATO and the West for the war Putin ordered, was to be added to the EU sanctions list.

Hungary first objected to the inclusion of Russia's most senior cleric after his name was originally suggested, but EU leaders did not discuss the matter at the summit attended by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.

A spokesperson for Orbán tweeted on Thursday "[Hungary's] position on the patriarch 'had been known for long', and no one in the Brussels summit stood up against it."

Thursday's deal was clinched after heavily lobbying by Hungary and other landlocked countries against a proposed full EU embargo on Russian oil for nearly a month.

The compromise package targets Russian oil delivered by sea, but not that which moves via pipeline. This excludes the giant Soviet-era Druzhba pipeline, which connects Russia with several Eastern and Central European countries.

The sanctions package also expels Russia's largest bank, Sberbank, from SWIFT, an international financial communication system, bans three more Russian state-owned broadcasters and sanctions individuals responsible for war crimes in Ukraine.

Now the capitals of the 27 member states have until early on Friday to back their ambassadors' green light in writing.

In order for the new sanctions to enter into force, they must be published in the Official Journal of the EU, which could happen as early as Friday.

# Notebook

## Note to editors - Adds details on Kirill, adds tweet by Orban's spokesperson, adds details on sanctions package

## Internet links - [Tweet by Orban spokesperson](http://dpaq.de/Bz0Up[http://dpaq.de/Bz0Up])

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220602ei62006bt


‘Putin’s Altar Boy'—Russian Orthodox Church Leader—Dropped From EU Sanctions
Derek Saul, Forbes Staff
390 字
2022 年 6 月 2 日
Forbes.com
FBCOM
英文
© 2022 Forbes LLC
Topline

The European Union scrapped plans to sanction Patriarch Kirill of the Russian Orthodox Church, several[https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/war-in-ukraine-russian-church-leader-kirill-off-eu-sanctions-list-fm5gclvkn?utm_medium=Social&utm_source=Twitter#Echobox=1654180047-1] outlets[https://twitter.com/AFP/status/1532362094615617542] reported[https://www.nytimes.com/live/2022/06/02/world/russia-ukraine-war-news/4ff16aa7-5c70-5799-96c9-f7f0d8c732db?smid=url-share] Thursday, bowing to Hungarian objections to penalize the Russian religious leader over his support for Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Key Facts

The EU had included Patriarch Kirill in a sanctions proposal unveiled[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-pope-francis-europe-religion-european-union-99cf29b70263256d8a1520af87675a3f] May 4 that would have subjected him to a travel ban and asset freeze, but Hungary held up[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-06-01/eu-push-for-partial-russian-oil-ban-delayed-by-hungarian-demands] the sanctions package, which includes a partial embargo on Russian oil, over its objection to targeting the religious leader.

A long-time ally[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/21/world/europe/kirill-putin-russian-orthodox-church.html] of Russian President Vladimir Putin, Patriarch Kirill has been a key figure in rallying public support for the ongoing invasion of Ukraine, depicting[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/04/19/patriarch-kirill-orthodox-church-russia-ukraine/] it as a holy war.

Patriarch Kirill’s support for the war has prompted widespread criticism among religious leaders, including from Pope Francis, who warned Patriarch Kirill is turning into “Putin’s altar boy” in an interview[https://www.corriere.it/cronache/22_maggio_03/intervista-papa-francesco-putin-694c35f0-ca57-11ec-829f-386f144a5eff.shtml] with the Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera published last month.

Tensions over Patriarch Kirill’s support for the war led the Moscow-linked Ukrainian Orthodox Church to officially break[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/28/world/europe/ukraine-orthodox-church-moscow.html] from the Russian Orthodox Church last week.

Key Background

About 70% of Russians identify as Orthodox Christians, according to a March poll[https://interfax.com/newsroom/top-stories/76018/] by the state-owned Russian Public Opinion Research Center, and 78% of Ukrainians, according to a 2015 Pew survey[https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2019/01/14/split-between-ukrainian-russian-churches-shows-political-importance-of-orthodox-christianity/]. The shared religious background was a crucial link between the neighboring countries, but increasing tensions between Russia and Ukraine in recent years had led to religious schisms. The newly formed​​ Orthodox Church of Ukraine was granted independence[https://www.bbc.com/news/world-europe-46768270] from the Russian Church in 2019 following Russia’s forcible annexation of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014 and occupation of parts of eastern Ukraine.

Crucial Quote

“May the Lord help us all in this difficult time for our Fatherland to unite, including around the authorities,” Patriarch Kirill said[https://news.yahoo.com/top-russian-cleric-accused-of-crimes-by-fellow-orthodox-leaders-for-sanctioning-invasion-of-ukraine-182606573.html] in a sermon in April, according to Yahoo. The Russian leader also said he supported Russia’s “ability to repel external and internal enemies.”

Further Reading

Russian Orthodox leader backs war in Ukraine, divides faith[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/04/18/russian-orthodox-church-ukraine-war/] (Washington Post)

Putin’s Powerful Orthodox Church Ally Helps Cement Russian Support for War[https://www.wsj.com/articles/putin-orthodox-church-ally-kirill-russian-support-for-war-11653495434] (Wall Street Journal)

Pope Francis warns pro-war Russian patriarch not to be 'Putin's altar boy'[https://www.cnn.com/2022/05/04/europe/pope-francis-patriarch-kirill-ukraine-invasion-intl/index.html] (CNN)

Forbes Media LLC

文件 FBCOM00020220602ei6200132


Russian Orthodox head escapes EU sanctions thanks to Orban
By SAMUEL PETREQUIN
Associated Prses
445 字
2022 年 6 月 2 日 17:32 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS (AP) — Thanks to the insistence of Hungary, the head of the Russian Orthodox Church has been removed from the latest round of European Union sanctions to punish Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, four EU diplomats told The Associated Press.

The sixth package of sanctions, which includes an embargo on most Russian oil imports into the 27-nation bloc by the end of the year, was approved by ambassadors Thursday following a political deal reached earlier this week by EU leaders.

The diplomats spoke on the condition of anonymity because the identity of the new individuals sanctioned has yet to be published. The sanctions will be adopted Friday by the EU Council.

Patriarch Kirill of the Russian Orthodox Church had been initially included in individuals the bloc wanted to sanction but the proposal needed to be approved unanimously. It was removed at the insistence of Hungary, which is perceived as Moscow's closest ally within the bloc.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban threatened to derail the whole package of sanctions at the leader's summit unless he got guarantees that his country would not immediately be affected by the oil embargo. Hungary is more heavily dependent on Russian energy than most EU nations.

The Hungarian government said sanctioning Kirill would have been inappropriate on grounds of respect for religious freedom.

Kirill, the head of one of the largest and most influential churches in Eastern Orthodoxy, has justified Russia’s invasion on spiritual grounds, describing it as a “metaphysical” battle against the West and its “gay parades.”

If sanctioned, Kirill would have faced travel bans and an asset freeze.

Kirill has echoed Putin’s unfounded claims that Ukraine was engaged in the “extermination” of Russian loyalists in the Donbas, the eastern region of Ukraine where Russian-backed separatists have been fighting Ukrainian forces since 2014.

According to the French presidency of the Council, those who will be sanctioned Friday include members of Russia's security and military apparatus, particularly those linked to massacres in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha.

Also being sanctioned are industrial and technological entities “linked to Russian aggression” and “oligarchs and actors of Russian propaganda and their family members."

Russia’s biggest bank, Sberbank, will now be excluded from SWIFT, the major global system for financial transfers from which the EU previously banned several smaller Russian banks. Among other sanctions, three Russian media outlets accused of propaganda will be prevented from distributing their content in the EU.

___

Follow the AP’s coverage of the war at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: With AP Photos. Adds picture

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220602ei6200koh


Russian Orthodox head escapes EU sanctions thanks to Orban
Samuel Petrequin
The Associated Press 
137 字
2022 年 6 月 2 日 17:33 GMT
The Canadian Press - Broadcast wire
BNW
英文
(c) 2022 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved.
BRUSSELS — The head of the Russian Orthodox Church has been removed from the latest round of European Union measures to punish Russia’s invasion of Ukraine at the insistence of Hungary. Patriarch Kirill had been initially included in the list of individuals the bloc wanted to sanction but the proposal needed to be approved unanimously. It was removed at the insistence of Hungary,  Moscow’s closest ally within the bloc. Kirill, the head of one of the largest and most influential churches in Eastern Orthodoxy, has justified Russia’s invasion on spiritual grounds, describing it as a “metaphysical” battle against the West and its “gay parades.” The Hungarian government said sanctioning Kirill would have been inappropriate on grounds of respect for religious freedom.

The Canadian Press

文件 BNW0000020220602ei6200jah


EU drops idea of sanctions against Patrairch Kirill due to Hungary’s stance - agency
142 字
2022 年 6 月 2 日 16:25 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
The European Union has avoided imposing sanctions against Patriarch Kirill, of Moscow and All Russia, because of Hungary’s position, the DPA news agency said on Thursday, citing diplomatic sources in the EU.

According to the DPA sources, the sixth package of sanctions against Russia envisages step-by-step reduction of oil import from Russia, but does not include the originally planned measures against the patriarch. The other EU states’ original intention was to include Patriarch Kirill in the EU sanction list because of his support for Russia's special military operation in Ukraine. However, Hungary objected to the imposition of sanctions.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said recently his position stemmed from "the religious freedom of the Hungarian religious communities." In his opinion, it is "sacrosanct and inalienable."

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020220602ei620018m


Ukraine crisis - Szijjarto: Sixth EU sanction package passes
200 字
2022 年 6 月 2 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, June 2 (MTI) - The European Union 's sixth package of

sanctions on Russia has passed, Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto

noted on Thursday, after the ambassadors of EU member states

approved the final draft of the text.

In a Facebook post, Szijjarto said "it was a long fight but it

was worth ... [resisting] pressure and the mainstream's demand that

we abandon our national interests, and it was worth enduring the

false accusations of many European politicians and journalists."

The package exempts pipeline deliveries of Russian oil from the

embargo, which will ensure Hungary's energy security, Szijjarto

said. "Had we not fought the way we did, supplying Hungary with

crude oil would have become impossible and the economy would have

ground to halt."

Meanwhile, Hungary also succeeded in having Patriarch Kirill ,

the head of the Russian Orthodox church, removed from the sanctions

list, he said. "This was a matter of principle for us as we insist

on protecting religious freedom as much as national interests," he

said.

"It would be terrible to imagine the processes launched by

sanctioning the leader of one of the largest Christian churches in

Europe," he said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220602ei620018h


EU bows to Hungary's pressure to delist Russian orthodox leader from sanctions list
600 字
2022 年 6 月 3 日 03:48 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
The EU’s sixth sanction package against Russia can finally come into force a month after it was first proposed, after Russian Orthodox Church leader Patriarch Kirill was removed from the EU’s sanctions list on the demand of Hungary.

EU ambassadors agreed to drop the Russian religious leader from the list of people penalized after a threat of a veto by Budapest a day earlier. This would have meant the end to the whole sanctions package after an compromise on oil sanctions was reached earlier this week at the EU summit following weeks of haggling. The vote required unanimity from all 27 member states.

Patriarch Kirill, a long-time ally of Vladimir Putin, has been a key figure in rallying public support for the ongoing invasion of Ukraine, depicting it as a holy war. The sanctions would have led to freezing his assets abroad and a travel ban to EU countries.

Hungary's position on possible European Union sanctions against the head of the Russian Orthodox Church has long been well known, and nobody took issue with that stand at an EU summit earlier in the week, Prime Minister Viktor Orban’s cabinet said in a statement on Thursday.

"For us, this was a matter of principle, because – similar to national interests – we insist on freedom of religion," argued Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Peter Szijjarto.

Hungary’s insistence on blocking the deal has met sharp criticism from top EU politicians. "Solidarity is not a one-way street," EC Vice-President Frans Timmermans said at a forum.

"Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban apparently believes he can deal with the EU and the member states as he pleases. He got a feeling that he can do whatever he wants, and they'll accept everything," he added.

EPP politician Michael Gahler hinted that Russia may have compromising material (kompromat) against the Hungarian premier, which is why he blocked sanctioning Patriarch Kirill. He called Orban's actions to veto a shame and an "embarrassment for freedom-loving Hungary" in a tweet.

Hungary’s radical rightwing government is celebrating the success of a long and arduous fight to extend the exemption for pipeline deliveries of Russian oil. EC President Ursula von der Leyen first announced plans for the latest round of sanctions on Russia with a focus on banning crude oil and refined products a month ago and hoped to seal an agreement by May 9, Victory Day.

"We fought a long battle, but it was worth it. It was worth standing up to the pressure, going against the mainstream that demanded we give up our national interests, and enduring the lying accusations of a number of European politicians and journalists", Szijjarto said.

The Orban government argued that the cut-off from pipeline delivery would threaten the country’s energy security and lead to a price shock. Since the agreement, it agreed with Croatia to boost supplies through the Adria pipeline if necessary.

"Croatia is ready to expand the capacity of the pipeline in the direction of Hungary and ensure appropriate delivery capacity for the long term, too," Szijjarto said after meeting with Croatian energy minister Davor Filipovic this week.

The Adria pipeline could be an alternative route for Hungary, which gets 65% of its oil from Russia.

A $200mn upgrade of the pipeline would be needed to expand its capacity from 10.8mn tonne to 13.2mn, Hungarian oil and gas giant MOL said, adding it would still fall short of its refining needs by some 1mn tonnes.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220603ei630005l


MTI news roundup
422 字
2022 年 6 月 3 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, June 3 (MTI) - See MTI's main stories from the previous

day below:

SIXTH EU SANCTION PACKAGE PASSES

The European Union's sixth package of sanctions on Russia has

passed, Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto noted on Thursday, after

the ambassadors of EU member states approved the final draft of the

text. In a Facebook post, Szijjarto said "it was a long fight but

it was worth ... [resisting] pressure and the mainstream's demand

that we abandon our national interests, and it was worth enduring

the false accusations of many European politicians and

journalists."

ORBAN: HUNGARY'S STANCE ON SANCTIONING RUSSIAN ORTHODOX LEADER

'WELL KNOWN'

Hungary's views on EU plans to sanction Patriarch Kirill, head

of the Russian Orthodox Church, have been "well known for a long

time", Prime Minister Viktor Orban said on Thursday, adding that

Hungary's position had not been challenged at this week's summit of

EU leaders. Hungary will keep to the agreement reached at the

European Council summit, as it is binding for everyone, Orban's

press chief cited the prime minister as saying.

SZIJJARTO URGES PRAGMATIC APPROACH TO ENERGY SECURITY

The issue of energy security requires a pragmatic approach and

"common sense" instead of philosophical and ideological debates,

Péter Szijjarto, the minister of foreign affairs and trade, said in

Baku on Thursday. Energy security is the most critical issue on the

international political stage today, but the topic is now

"absolutely over-politicised" and being turned into an ideological

question, Szijjarto told the 27th Baku Energy Forum.

PRESIDENT NOVAK GREETS ELIZABETH II ON PLATINUM JUBILEE

President Katalin Novak on Thursday greeted Elizabeth II in a

video message on her Platinum Jubilee, the 70th anniversary of her

ascension to the throne. In a video also uploaded to her Facebook

page, Novak said: "Your Majesty took the throne when Hungary was

going through some of the darkest years of her history." Novak said

that during her rein, the Queen "witnessed our fight for freedom"

against Communist rule, and saw the final collapse of the Iron

Curtain.

JOBBIK: WIND FARMS VITAL TO CREATING ENERGY SECURITY

The opposition Jobbik party is calling on the government to

lift the ban on building wind farms, arguing that wind power would

be a vital component of Hungarian energy security. Jobbik's deputy

group leader Koloman Brenner told an online news briefing that

ruling Fidesz had made Hungary totally dependent on Russian energy

supplies and missed opportunities to replace them with cheap and

secure sources of energy, he said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220603ei630002t


Pyrrhic victory for Hungary as EU approves sanctions targeting Russian oil and Sberbank]]
Alexandra Brzozowski
539 字
2022 年 6 月 3 日 06:25 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
EU ambassadors on Thursday (2 June) gave their final approval to the sixth sanctions package on Russian seaborne oil and top bank Sberbank, after much wrangling with Hungary over the removal of Russian Orthodox leader Patriarch Kirill from the EU sanctions list.

After several weeks of drawn-out negotiations, EU leaders agreed to a partial embargo[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-leaders-back-partial-russian-oil-ban/] on crude oil imports by sea that will take full effect by the end of 2022.

To win Budapest over, other EU countries agreed to water it down by exempting oil delivered by the Druzhba pipeline going to landlocked Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic.

The sixth round of sanctions also included cutting Russia’s biggest bank, Sberbank, off the SWIFT international transaction system and an immediate ban on insuring ships carrying Russian oil elsewhere, while existing contracts will be phased out over six months.

EU leaders back partial ban on Russian oil imports into the bloc[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-leaders-back-partial-russian-oil-ban/]

After several weeks of drawn-out negotiations mostly stalled by Hungary, EU leaders on Monday (30 May) struck a political compromise to ban seaborne imports of Russian oil by the end of the year, but fell short of a full embargo.

However, at the last minute, Hungary had demanded that EU ambassadors meeting to finalise the legal text on the EU’s sanction package remove the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill, from the list of sanctioned individuals.

The EU’s sixth sanctions package will enter into force as soon as it is published in the official journal of the EU, probably on Friday morning.

Patriarch Kirill, a close Putin ally, was included in the proposed list of people to be sanctioned in the bloc’s sixth round of sanctions against Russia over his support of Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.

EU diplomats, however, vented frustration with Hungary after the issue only came up after the EU summit on Monday and Tuesday had sealed a deal on the sanctions.

According to EU diplomats contacted by EURACTIV, Hungary has given “no valid reason” for its insistence on the personality matter.

One EU diplomat called Budapest’s move an “unnecessary stunt”, while Lithuania’s ambassador to the EU, Arnoldas Pranckevičius, took to Twitter saying he found it “very disappointing and hardly acceptable that the agreement reached by European leaders was not fully respected by some”.

“We will not retreat. I suggest to name 7th package #KGB: Kirill, Gas & Banks,” he tweeted[https://twitter.com/APranckevicius/status/1532370500164403200?s=20&t=Y8xCXE7upWv71u7cl6XX7A].

But with Hungary’s objection track record of holding up punitive measures for a month, the next sanctions round might be even more challenging to find unanimity for.

While many have become fed up with Orbán’s obstruction attempts, another EU diplomat suggested that some other member states were happy to shelter privately behind Hungary.

Because ultimately, the EU’s partial embargo on Russia’s oil exports falls short of what European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen initially said must be a “complete ban.”

No date has been announced for when the temporary exemption will end, but the matter could be addressed this month when EU leaders meet for their last regular summit before the summer break.

[Edited by Alice Taylor]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220603ei630000p


Hungary This Week - June 3, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 6 月 3 日, 9400 字, (英文)
Rising energy bills push Hungary's trade deficit to €1.1bn in Q1Hungary's trade balance showed a deficit for the ninth month in a row in March, the Central Statistics Office (KSH) confirmed in a second reading of data released on Thursday.

Concessions to Hungary on sanctions 'not acceptable', Luxembourg's PM says
227 字
2022 年 6 月 3 日 15:28 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
DUBLIN (Reuters) - Hungary's success in removing a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin from the European Union's latest round of sanctions was "not acceptable," Luxembourg's Prime Minister Xavier Bettel said on Friday.

The EU on Thursday gave its final approval to a new package of sanctions as punishment for Russia's invasion of Ukraine - including a phased embargo on Russian oil imports - after much wrangling with Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban's government.

Hungary and two other landlocked Central European states secured exemptions for the pipeline imports they rely on, while Budapest also insisted that the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill, a close Putin ally, not be blacklisted despite plans to sanction him.

Hungary's opposition blocked the necessary EU unanimity.

"I have to tell you I'm really upset. I'm sorry to tell you that yesterday we found an agreement about the sanctions because we said to Viktor Orban, 'OK, we take Patriarch Kirill off the list'. This is not acceptable," Bettel said to applause at a conference of the pan-European ALDE group.

"He was on the list and afterwards they threaten to refuse everything because of the presence of Kirill."

(Reporting by Padraic Halpin; Editing by Hugh Lawson)

Released: 2022-6-3T15:28:39.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220603ei63024up


Russian patriarch removed from latest EU sanctions list after Hungary’s objection
03.06.2022
503 字
2022 年 6 月 3 日
Anadolu Agency
ANATOL
英文
© Copyright Andolu Ajansi
- Bloc officially adopts 6th sanctions package against Russia after changes to meet Hungary’s demands

By Agnes Szucs

BRUSSELS (AA) – The leader of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill, was excluded from the latest EU sanctions list after Hungary’s objection.

The European Union on Friday officially adopted the sixth sanctions package against Russia.

The blacklist targeting individuals with a travel ban and asset freeze does not include Patriarch Kirill, contrary to the original proposal.

It was Hungary that requested the removal of Patriarch Kirill from the sanctions list, the country’s Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto announced.

In a Facebook post, Szijjarto explained: “It was a matter of principle for us because we insist on the freedom of religion just like we stick to our national interests.

“I don’t even want to think about the consequences of adding the leader of one of the biggest Christian churches to the sanctions list,” he added.

The draft package aimed to sanction Patriarch Kirill for amplifying Russian President Vladimir Putin’s messages during his sermons and other public remarks.

“Patriarch Kirill is therefore responsible for supporting or implementing actions or policies which undermine or threaten the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, as well as stability and security in Ukraine,” the rejected draft said.

Hungary has also achieved a main concession during the negotiations on the latest sanctions package by getting an exemption for pipeline oil under the bloc’s embargo.

According to Szijjarto, they managed to save the landlocked country’s petrol supply and “avoided an economic breakdown” by opposing the original draft.

After a month of stalled negotiations, the EU leaders reached a political agreement on the sixth set of restrictive measures at their summit on late Monday night.

The package includes a ban on Russian pipeline oil imports that is supposed to cut 92% of Russia’s oil trade into the bloc by the end of this year and excludes, among others, Russia’s biggest bank, Sberbank, from the SWIFT international payment system.

Members of the military administration, other personalities supporting the war, and leading business people and their family members, as well as Kremlin officials, are also added to the sanctions list, imposing a travel ban and asset freeze.

The new package complements the previous sanctions targeting Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, among others, as well as banning the export of luxury goods and coal imports, and excluding Russian and Belarusian banks from using the SWIFT system.

The EU has allocated €2 billion ($2.15 billion) in military aid to Ukraine and mobilized more than €4 billion ($4.30 billion) in macro-financial assistance, humanitarian aid, and support to the EU countries hosting refugees from Ukraine since the war began on Feb. 24.

The bloc is also set to allocate another €9 billion ($9.66 billion) credit to Ukraine.

Russian patriarch removed from latest EU sanctions list after Hungary’s objection[https://cdnuploads.aa.com.tr/uploads/Contents/2022/06/03/thumbs_b_c_759e9b42a2935f6fbdef12add362a3df.jpg]

Anadolu Agency

文件 ANATOL0020220604ei6300020


Russian invasion of Ukraine
RUSSIA; Member States’ ambassadors to EU approve sixth package of sanctions
321 字
2022 年 6 月 3 日
Bulletin Quotidien Europe
AGEU
3
12964
英文
Copyright 2022. Agence Europe All Rights Reserved
Brussels, 02/06/2022 (Agence Europe) – On Thursday, 2 June, the Member States’ ambassadors to the EU approved the sixth package of sanctions against Russia (see EUROPE B12963A20). The package will be adopted by written procedure, which will be concluded this Friday at 9 am, in preparation for publication in the Official Journal later that day. In order to gain Hungary’s approval, the ambassadors decided not to sanction Patriarch Kirill , who is, however, a strong supporter of the Russian military invasion of Ukraine (see EUROPE B12945A1). According to Budapest, sanctioning him would be an attack on religious freedom.

“With the exemption for oil arriving by pipeline and the removal of Patriarch Kirill ’s name, the package is now in line with Hungary’s national security interests”, indicated Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó .

This sixth package of sanctions includes a two-stage oil embargo (see EUROPE B12961A1); the disconnection of three Russian banks, including Sberbank , and one Belarusian bank from the SWIFT system; a ban on three Russian media outlets involved in spreading propaganda; and the extension of bans on exports to Russia, including on chemicals and high-tech goods. Providing services to the Russian oil sector and providing consulting services for Russian operators will also be prohibited.

Furthermore, measures will be taken against members of [Russia’s] security and military apparatus who have been linked in particular to the Bucha massacres, oligarchs, propagandists and their family members, and entities in the industrial and technology sectors, according to the French Presidency of the Council of the EU. The initial proposal suggested sanctioning 58 individuals and 17 entities.

In addition, President of the European Parliament Roberta Metsola announced, with immediate effect, that representatives from Russian companies were no longer allowed to enter European Parliament buildings (see other news). (Original version in French by Camille-Cerise Gessant)

Agence Europe SA

文件 AGEU000020220603ei630000b


Slovak refiner Slovnaft warns of impending fuel shortage in Central Europe]]
Michal Hudec
295 字
2022 年 6 月 6 日 06:23 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Slovak oil refiner Slovnaft says it cannot guarantee fuel supplies to its traditional export destinations in Central Europe under the terms of the EU’s new Russia sanction package, the company has said.

Last week EU leaders agreed[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-leaders-back-partial-russian-oil-ban/] on a Russian oil embargo for oil coming via the Druzhba pipeline, a condition pushed for by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and backed by  Slovak Economy Minister Richard Sulík who argued that the two country’s need more time to adjust because of their high dependence on Russian imports.

However, according to the embargo’s full text published on Friday (3 June), the three-year exemption will not cover exports to other EU countries.

While Slovnaft, a subsidiary of Hungarian fossil fuel giant MOL, can continue refining Russian oil it cannot be exported to other member states after February 2023, though exports to Czechia can continue until December 2023.

According to the company’s leadership, this will force Slovnaft to import its oil from other countries from next year if its refinery is to run at full capacity, which will have radical negative effects on fuel supplies in the region.

“We will not be able to guarantee market supply in the Central European region. The current wording of the sanctions will not allow us to export key products to our traditional markets such as the Czech Republic, Austria and Poland,” said Slovnaft spokesman Anton Molnár.

“The current sanctions proposal does not give Slovnaft the originally requested three-year timeframe to make technological adjustments and logistical support for the import and processing of alternative crude oil. We are not aware of the reasons for changing the three-year period to eight months,” Molnár added.

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220606ei660000n


Sanction fatigue the next obstacle in fighting Putin
The Financial Express
695 字
2022 年 6 月 7 日
Financial Express
AIWFIE
英文
Copyright 2022 Indian Express Online Media Pvt. Ltd.
The momentum behind Western sanctions against Vladimir Putin is flagging. Even as the EU toasts its toughest restrictions yet against the Russian war machine, concessions are mounting—from exempting pipeline crude to removing Putin’s favorite cleric from the sanctions list. Hungary’s Viktor Orban, an admirer of Putin, is playing a big role in splintering the united front. But the risk of fatigue goes well beyond Budapest. The cost of hitting Putin where it hurts—energy—is preying on many leaders’ minds at a time of high inflation and economic slowdown, as is Russia’s advance regaining momentum after 100 days of fighting.

Along with differences of opinion percolating inside and outside the EU over what an endgame might look like, this doesn’t bode well for the near term. Estonian PM Kaja Kallas, who now must reassemble her governing coalition after its collapse last week, is keen to keep tightening the screws on Moscow. But she acknowledges everything will get more “difficult” from here—with little chance of a gas embargo in the next raft of restrictions. It’s time for a different approach—or a “pause,” as Kallas’ Belgian counterpart, Alexander De Croo, puts it.

The “financial weapon” is an imperfect tool that is prone to patchy enforcement and unintended consequences. The unprecedented scale of sanctions against Putin’s inner circle, as well as Russia’s financial system, airlines and trade, will contribute to an estimated 10% decline in Russian GDP this year. But it has not deterred or dislodged Putin. Worse, there have also been some counterproductive effects. The rising price of energy has lined Putin’s pockets while impoverishing importers. Russia’s oil-and-gas revenue will be about $285 billion this year, according to Bloomberg Economics estimates. Throw in other commodities, and that more than offsets $300 billion in Russian foreign reserves frozen as part of the sanctions. And while seizing the yachts and villas of wealthy oligarchs feels good, it’s jarring to see Western firms leaving Russia sell assets to those billionaires who are effectively too big to be sanctioned.

Even if the long-term answer here will be to go harder and faster against Russia, it will be vital to shore up economic defences at home first. Barclays Plc estimates a full embargo on Russian natural gas may reduce euro-area GDP by 4% compared to a baseline scenario; without extra economic support for households, the rhetoric of Orban will spread. A YouGov survey from April found European public opinion somewhat conflicted: More than 30% of respondents in seven countries advocated investing in trade and diplomacy with Russia, rather than defence and security.

Without light at the end of the economic tunnel, the public mood might turn. If this war drags on and becomes a test of morale, the West and the EU have the advantage in terms of resources and human capital, as Miguel Otero Iglesias of the Elcano Royal Institute has noted. But that comes with a need to protect the most vulnerable in society; fiscal support should be “inevitable,” he rightly adds.

Pandemic-style support measures should inspire Europe’s next policy steps, whether via the joint borrowing structure of the EU’s recovery fund or “SURE” loans offered to member states to protect employment. Unity really will be strength at a time of rising interest rates and fragile public finances. It is easy to assume, as some have, that the dividing line in this conflict is between those who want to accommodate Putin and those who are on Ukraine’s side. This is neither accurate nor helpful. Italy’s case is especially instructive: Before Putin’s invasion, Mario Draghi was mulling deeper gas ties with Russia. He has since supported an oil ban and backed sending heavy weapons to Ukraine despite domestic resistance.

Yet he has also called for a common response to rising energy costs and urged the US to think “carefully” about what a ceasefire might look like. With sanctions fatigue threatening to set in, it’s Draghi’s approach that should inform the West.

Russian President Vladimir Putin[https://www.financialexpress.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/putin-Reuters-Image-1.jpeg]

Indian Express Group

文件 AIWFIE0020220607ei6700002


Ukraine fears a long war might cause West to lose interest
By COLLEEN BARRY and YURAS KARMANAU
Associated Press
1069 字
2022 年 6 月 10 日 15:29 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
KYIV, Ukraine (AP) — As Russia’s invasion of Ukraine grinds into its fourth month, officials in Kyiv have expressed fears that the specter of “war fatigue” could erode the West's resolve to help the country push back Moscow's aggression.

The U.S. and its allies have given billions of dollars in weaponry to Ukraine. Europe has taken in millions of people displaced by the war. And there has been unprecedented unity in post-World War II Europe in imposing sanctions on President Vladimir Putin and his country.

But as the shock of the Feb. 24 invasion subsides, analysts say the Kremlin could exploit a dragged-out, entrenched conflict and possible waning interest among Western powers that might lead to pressuring Ukraine into a settlement.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy already has chafed at Western suggestions he should accept some sort of compromise. Ukraine, he said, would decide its own terms for peace.

“The fatigue is growing, people want some kind of outcome (that is beneficial) for themselves, and we want (another) outcome for ourselves,” he said.

An Italian peace proposal was dismissed, and French President Emmanuel Macron was met with an angry backlash after he was quoted as saying that although Putin's invasion was a “historic error,” world powers shouldn’t “humiliate Russia, so when the fighting stops, we can build a way out together via diplomatic paths.” Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said such talk “can only humiliate France and every other country that would call for it.”

Even a remark by former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger that Ukraine should consider territorial concessions drew a retort from Zelenskyy that it was tantamount to European powers in 1938 letting Nazi Germany claim parts of Czechoslovakia to curb Adolf Hitler's aggression.

Kyiv wants to push Russia out of the newly captured areas in eastern and southern Ukraine, as well as retaking Crimea, which Moscow annexed in 2014, and parts of the Donbas under control of Kremlin-backed separatists for the past eight years.

Every month of the war is costing Ukraine $5 billion, said Volodymyr Fesenko, political analyst with the Penta Center think tank, and that “makes Kyiv dependent on the consolidated position of the Western countries.”

Ukraine will need even more advanced weaponry to secure victory, along with Western determination to keep up the economic pain on Russia to weaken Moscow.

“It is obvious that Russia is determined to wear down the West and is now building its strategy on the assumption that Western countries will get tired and gradually begin to change their militant rhetoric to a more accommodating one,” Fesenko said in an interview with The Associated Press.

The war still gets prominent coverage in both the United States and Europe, which have been horrified by images of the deaths of Ukrainian civilians in the biggest fighting on the continent since World War II.

The U.S. continues to help Ukraine, with President Joe Biden saying last week that Washington will provide it with advanced rocket systems and munitions that will enable it to more precisely strike key targets on the battlefield.

In a New York Times essay on May 31, Biden said, “I will not pressure the Ukrainian government — in private or public — to make any territorial concessions.”

Germany, which had faced criticism from Kyiv and elsewhere for perceived hesitancy, has pledged its most modern air defense systems yet.

“There has been nothing like it, even in the Cold War when the Soviet Union appeared most threatening,” said Nigel Gould-Davies, senior fellow for Russia and Eurasia at the International Institute for Strategic Studies.

While he doesn’t see a significant erosion in the “emphatic support for Ukraine,” Gould-Davies said “there are hints of different tensions over what the West’s goals should be. Those have not yet been clearly defined.”

Europe's domestic concerns are nudging their way into the discourse, especially as energy prices and raw materials shortages start to take an economic toll on ordinary people who are facing higher electricity bills, fuel costs and grocery prices.

While European leaders hailed the decision to block 90% of Russian oil exports by the end of the year as “a complete success,” it took four weeks of negotiations and included a concession allowing Hungary, widely seen as the Kremlin’s closest EU ally, to continue imports. Weeks more of political fine-tuning are required.

“It shows that unity in Europe is declining a bit on the Russian invasion,’’ said Matteo Villa, an analyst with the ISPI think tank in Milan. “There is this kind of fatigue setting in among member states on finding new ways to sanction Russia, and clearly within the European Union, there are some countries that are less and less willing to go on with sanctions.’’

Wary of the economic impact of further energy sanctions, the European Commission has signaled it won't rush to propose fresh restrictive measures targeting Russian gas. EU lawmakers are also appealing for financial aid for citizens hit by heating and fuel price hikes to ensure that public support for Ukraine doesn’t wane.

Italy’s right-wing leader Matteo Salvini, who has been seen as close to Moscow, told foreign journalists this week that Italians are ready to make sacrifices, and that his League supports the sanctions against Russia.

But he indicated that backing is not unlimited, amid signs the trade balance under sanctions has shifted in Moscow’s favor, hurting small business owners in northern Italy who are part of his base.

“Italians are very available to make personal economic sacrifices to support Ukraine’s defense and arrive at a cease-fire,’’ Salvini said.

“What I would not like is to find us back here in September, after three months with the conflict still ongoing. If that is the case, it will be a disaster for Italy. Beyond the deaths, and saving lives, which is the priority, economically, for Italy, if the war goes on, it will be a disaster,” he said.

____

Barry reported from Milan. Angela Charlton in Paris, Lorne Cook in Brussels, Justin Spike in Budapest, Hungary, and Aya Batrawy in Dubai contributed.

___

Follow AP’s coverage of the Ukraine war at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: Minor edits to paragraph 2 and summary.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220610ei6a006pp


Don’t be a Dory, Don’t Forget to Check
604 字
2022 年 6 月 11 日
Budapest Business Journal
WBBJ
英文
© 2022 Budapest Business Journal, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Whether it is the European Union’s compromise deal over oil imports for its sixth sanction package directed at Russia following its invasion of Ukraine (page four), a survey into the digital readiness of Hungarian SMEs (page seven), or the issue of gender diversity on boards of directors (page 10), there is a lot of “meat” on the “bones” of this issue. And that is before you even get to our Special Report dedicated to the local legal market.

I generally find that what sticks with me from one edition to another can seemingly be generated quite randomly. Sometimes it is the “big issues,” sometimes the “big interviews.” There is no surprise about the latter, in particular. I got into journalism more than three decades ago because I was curious (I still rate that as the single most important trait a journalist can have) about the world in general, and people in particular. What makes them tick, what makes them successful, and what did they get wrong and learn most from?

For all that, sometimes a story simply resonates with you. This week, my favorite news item is a brief report that Hungary, which famously won’t send weapons to Ukraine, did dispatch 500 liters of communion wine. In a sense, it is a typically Hungarian story: the various governments of Viktor Orbán have worked hard to carve out a niche as defenders of the Christian faith.

The article from this issue that I keep coming back to is our piece about sanctions compliance on pages 16 and 17. There are several reasons for this, and perhaps none are obvious. It is a story related to the war in Ukraine, but it has none of the human drama of the frontline reporting, or that great six-million strong sea of displaced people, or the more than 620,000 refugees the United Nations estimates have lapped up on Hungary’s borders (according to recent official Hungarian data, only around 20,000 have applied for “temporary protection” to stay here).

What it does demonstrate are the destabilizing ripple effects the war (now mainly in the east of Ukraine and so some distance from Hungary) can have on business. Life is complicated enough without having to try and establish who the ultimate owner of a company you do business with is so you can make sure you are not inadvertently sanction-busting. You would expect to go through a due diligence process if you were buying a company, but not necessarily to vet a business partner. And yet, that is precisely what is expected.

And not only that but, as one of our early placeholder headlines for the article put it, you have to “Keep on Checking” (a phrase I can only hear in the voice of Dory, the forgetful fish from “Finding Nemo,” but perhaps that’s just me). To be more precise, here’s the quote that sums it up. I like this because, although it comes from a lawyer, it is unusually pithy and to the point.

“To wrap up, not just the business partner but also the goods and services must equally be checked. Furthermore, before you effectuate any transactions with possibly affected business partners, make sure you conduct a thorough internal verification process. Do not skip this, not even a single time. Everything must always be checked and, most importantly, constantly monitored after the fact. Never take shortcuts and keep checking.”

Robin Marshall

Editor-in-chief

This editorial was first published in the Budapest Business Journal print issue of June 3, 2022.

Business Publishing Services Kft

文件 WBBJ000020220610ei6b000rt


Orban: Hungary against proposals threatening impoverishment of families
406 字
2022 年 6 月 16 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, June 16 (MTI) - Prime Minister Viktor Orban has written

a letter to 44 MEPs who recently approached him in an open letter

concerning the war in Ukraine, Bertalan Havasi, the PM's press

chief, told MTI on Thursday.

In his letter, Orban voiced support for peace and assistance to

Ukraine, but also rejected "remarks offending Hungary", sanctions

against religious leaders and "sanction proposals that go against

common sense", Havasi said.

Concerning the war in Ukraine, Orban said Hungary condemned

Russia's attack on Ukraine's territorial sovereignty and violation

of the Budapest Memorandum. Hungary wants peace, the prime minister

said. The armed conflict must end and disputes must be settled

through negotiations, he added.

Orban also called for efforts to help Ukraine and people

fleeing the country. He noted that Hungary had so far accommodated

nearly 800,000 refugees, providing shelter, food, medical aid,

schooling for children and jobs for adults. Tens of thousands of

Hungarians have opened their homes to refugees, raised funds or

worked as volunteers, while the government sent money, food, fuel,

and medicines to war-stricken Ukraine, he said. For all its efforts

Hungary "deserves appreciation and gratitude rather than offensive

and lecturing remarks", Havasi quoted the prime minister as saying.

The Hungarian government protects religious freedoms, therefore

it will never support sanctions against church leaders or isolating

them from members of their church, Orban said, adding that peace

could not be achieved without the active participation of churches.

In his letter, Orban also insisted that the Hungarian

government had done everything to support the six sanctions

packages approved so far in the interest of European unity. Hungary

backed the sanctions even though it became increasingly difficult

to maintain the earlier consensus that the sanctions should not

hurt the EU more than they hurt Russia, he said.

According to Orban, the European Council takes unanimous

decisions under the bloc's basic treaty, therefore a veto "cannot

be interpreted as there is no decision without consensus".

Orban said that in the interest of Europe he reserved Hungary's

right to fight proposals that went against common sense and

threatened the impoverishment of Hungarian and European families.

The prime minister said he was certain that he would find "more and

more partners" among his letter's recipients in this endeavour.

This is not only in the interest of Hungary but of Europe, also, he

said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220616ei6g000b5


Gulyas: Embargo on Russian gas would threaten Europe's supply
186 字
2022 年 6 月 17 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, June 17 (MTI) - Hungary's government will continue to

back only those sanctions which don't hurt Hungary and Europe more

than they hurt Russia, the prime minister's chief of staff said on

Friday, adding that an embargo on Russian gas imports would

threaten the entire continent's gas supply.

Concerning next week's summit of European Union leaders,

Gergely Gulyas told a regular press briefing that the government

maintained the position that the unity of the bloc is important,

but Hungary would only support decisions and sanctions that did not

hurt Hungary and Europe more than they hurt those the EU wants to

sanction.

The decisions taken by Brussels so far have contributed to the

record-high inflation rate, he said, adding that the imposition of

a gas embargo would put the energy supply of the whole of Europe at

risk.

Meanwhile, Gulyas also said the Hungarian government did not

support the introduction of a global minimum tax, a position which

the finance minister would hold firm on at Friday's Ecofin meeting.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220617ei6h000gp


News
Hungary’s EU ambassador steps down two weeks after blocking the extension of sanctions to Patriarch Kirill
435 字
2022 年 6 月 20 日 05:08 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Hungary’s permanent representative to the EU, Tibor Stelbaczky, has stepped down from his post, according to local media, citing various sources. A spokesman for the Hungarian Embassy in Brussels refused to confirm or deny the report. Stelbaczky is expected to accompany Prime Minister Viktor Orban to next week’s summit in Brussels.

The 50-year-old diplomat, who begin his carrier in 1997, found himself in an awkward position two weeks ago when he had to block the adoption of the sixth round of sanctions against Russia, after EU leaders had agreed on the deal on the previous day.

Hungary refused to sign off on the oil embargo, citing the detrimental impacts on its economy. Eventually, pipeline delivery of oil was exempted from the sanctions and Budapest was given an unlimited period to switch from Russian gas to new alternatives. At the end of the summit on May 31, it seemed that the sixth EU sanction package would be approved, but Hungary unexpectedly torpedoed the deal to the dismay of EU ambassadors.

Prime Minister Viktor Orban said he would approve the package at the European Council meeting on the condition that Patriarch Kirill, a long-time ally of Vladimir Putin, was delisted from the sanctions list. Hungary's position on EU sanctions against the head of the Russian Orthodox Church has long been known, and nobody took issue with that stand at an EU summit, he said later to state media.

The EU agreed to delist the religious leader from the sanctions list to secure Hungary’s vote, as it required a unanimous vote.

Orban's stance has put the EU in a dilemma over whether to give in to the semi-authoritarian premier or double down, leading to paralysis in the EU council and potentially pushing Hungary towards the EU exit.

The repeated and prolonged use of Hungary's veto by Orban has triggered a petition by MEPs, who are calling for the end of the unanimous vote.

The petition call on change.org shows the photo of the Hungarian premier and the caption: Stop Orban’s blackmailing of the EU.

The signatories include Daniel Freund (Greens – Alliance for a Free Europe), Sven Simon (EPP) and Guy Verhofstadt, former Belgian Prime Minister and leader of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.

"The veto is not democratic. It prevents united action in Europe. It has very concrete negative effects on all of us. It must be stopped!" according to the petition.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220620ei6k000xd


Emerging Europe Monitor - Central Europe & Baltic States
Political Risk Analysis - Backsliding Continues In Hungary With A Swathe Of New Measures
1539 字
2022 年 6 月 20 日
Emerging Markets Monitor
EMDN
英文
© 2022 Fitch Solutions, Inc
Core View

* We believe new measures introduced in Hungary on June 17 indicate the continued deterioration of the business environment in Hungary and will put Hungary further at odds with the European Union (EU).

* We believe Hungary will fail to unblock additional EU funding despite its efforts to achieve concessions from the bloc.

* While financial markets failed to react to the news, we note a significant repricing of Hungarian risk assets since the start of the year.

On June 17, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban's chief of staff, Gergely Gulyas, and Minister Tibor Navracsics, whose portfolio covers EU fund dispersals, confirmed a plethora of measures and updates (see table below). We believe the new measures indicate the continued deterioration of the business environment in Hungary and will put Hungary further at odds with the European Union (EU). We are presently maintaining Hungary's long-term political risk index score of 68.8, having recently decreased the characters of polity component score from 69.0 to 64.2 (higher score means lower risk) based on our view for Hungary's business environment to deteriorate in the coming 1-2 years. Hungary's risk score is beginning to slip compared to the regional average index score of 77.0.

June 17 Brought A Swathe Of New Measures
 Source: Fitch Solutions
 Subject               Minister                          Update
 Price caps            Gergely Gulyas                    Core foodstuff and motor fuel caps are to be extended, now to expire on October 1 from July 1 previously. Loan moratorium and mortgage rate caps are to be extended, now to expire on December 31 from June 30 previously.
 Extra Profit Tax      Gergely Gulyas                    Announcement that the state was launching an investigation into airline Ryanair as the firm indicated they would pass on Hungary's new 'extra profit' tax onto consumers. Gulyas advised Hungarians to opt to travel with different airlines.
 Sanctions on Russia   Gergely Gulyas                    Confirmation of the government's stance of only joining sanctions efforts against Russia that would harm Russia more than they would harm the EU and Hungary, concluding an embargo on Russian gas threatens all of Europe's gas supply.
 Relations with EU     Gergely Gulyas/Tibor Navracsics   Gulyas affirmed Hungary's opposition to an EU global minimum tax, a stance which effectively blocks the proposal (which must be passed unanimously) from entering EU legislation. Navracsics confirmed that Hungary is willing to compromise with the EU over the EU's corruption allegations, which have resulted in the EU launching rule of law proceedings against Hungary.
The extension of price caps affirms our view of the continued deterioration of the business environment in Hungary. Use of the caps, whose costs are covered by firms, pushes the cost of supporting the population amid a potential cost of living crisis onto firms as the government now lacks the fiscal resources to extend support having provided a favourable fiscal backdrop in the run up to April 3 elections. Extension of the caps implies the continued erosion of profit margins for petrol retailers (typically small, often family owned, operations) and petrol wholesalers (government backed MOL group dominates the market), and increases the risk of undersupply as retailers continue to close down amid loss of profitability. The motor fuel cap will also continue to be a possible area of conflict with the EU. Legislation was introduced on May 27 to block non-Hungarian vehicles from refuelling at cheaper Hungarian prices (clashing with the EU's single market for goods). Capped foodstuffs will likely continue to see shortages, leading to continued panic buying of capped non-perishable items such as cooking oil.

Even so, the impact of price cap extensions on inflation remains unclear. Motor fuel caps will prevent an estimated 57.7% climb in fuel prices (the capped price is HUF480/litre compared to a global average of HUF757/litre according to globalpetrolprices.com). On the real estate market, the continuation of mortgage caps will prevent rising interest rates from reducing new home purchases and increasing the proportion of consumer's salary that is spent on mortgage payments as variable rates jump. Rates will continue to be capped at October levels, shielding consumers from 600 basis points (bps) of rate hikes from the Hungarian National Bank (MNB). For now, we are maintaining our 2022 average inflation forecast of 10.0%, but highlight a high degree of uncertainty due to price caps and their unclear implications for demand.

Caps Cloud Inflation Projections

Hungary - Inflation, % chg y-o-y (LHS), & Inflation Components, May 2022, % chg y-o-y (RHS)

Note: Fuel price inflation constrained by domestic energy caps. Other goods and food constrained by motor fuel and core foodstuff caps. e/f = Fitch Solutions estimate/forecast. Source: Hungarian Central Statistical Office, Fitch Solutions

We believe potential legal action against Ryanair risks weighing on future investment in Hungary as legislative uncertainty increases and the prospect of being unable to pass on costs to customers becomes evident. Indeed, Gulyas made it clear that any firm passing on the new 'extra profits' tax to consumers would be investigated and the Hungarian state would take action. While the new tax was introduced to fund a domestic energy cap, we believe it marks a continuation of Orban's campaign for over 50% domestic ownership in major sectors throughout the economy. This was broadly achieved in the banking, insurance, and energy sectors as multinationals left the market throughout the 2010s due to unfavourable new tax legislation and price caps. This allowed domestic firms to increase their market share, which favoured firms with close ties to the government, according to opposition politicians and non-profit Hungarian investigative journalist centre Direkt36. We believe such action will weigh on investment in Hungary, especially as firms can access Central and Eastern Europe markets with similar characteristics, such as Poland, whose relations with the EU have improved greatly in recent months. This suggests inward investment into Hungary will fall in the coming years, which adds to our bearish long-term view on growth. We forecast average growth over the next ten years of 2.3% compared to an average 2.8% in the 2010s.

We believe Hungary will fail to unblock additional EU funding. The government's continued divergence with the EU regarding sanctions on Russian gas is part of a wider strategy of achieving concessions from the bloc as Hungary-EU relations deteriorate. Such concessions would either be an exemption of Hungary from the sanctions, direct transfer of funds to cover the cost of the sanction from the EU to Hungary, or a lifting of the EU's rule of law proceedings against Hungary (and subsequent dispersal of RRF funds). Indeed, such manoeuvring was clear from Hungary as the EU moved to impose sanctions on Russian oil. Hungary confirmed its opposition to oil sanctions, indicating a large transfer of funds from the EU would be required to adapt Hungary's refinery infrastructure to process non-Russian oil. The EU eventually implemented a solution which exempted Hungary from applying the sanctions as they only applied to shipped oil (Hungary is landlocked). We do not anticipate a direct transfer of funding nor a withdrawal of rule of law proceedings as the European Commission must be seen to address perceived bad behaviour in the bloc.

 Hungary Slips Down Regional Risk Rankings
 CEE - Long-Term Political Risk Index Comparison

<TD>Note: Higher STPRI score implies lower risk. Source: Fitch Solutions

Hungary's announcement of its willingness to compromise with the EU over rule of law proceedings on the same day it announced several combative policies indicates it is seeking concessions. Specifically, we believe Hungary is seeking funding dispersals, especially the currently withheld RRF funding. We do not believe earnest steps towards backtracking on perceived erosions to bloc values will be forthcoming as incentives for Orban and his Fidesz party remain significantly tilted towards a continuation of Hungary's present fractious stance. Therefore, we do not expect the EU to stop rule of law proceedings against Hungary. In response, we expect Hungary to seek to delay EU legislation indiscriminately. Indeed, Hungarian opposition to EU tax legislation signalled Hungary's willingness to paralyse the bloc, with French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire confirming all technical issues with the law had been resolved. This suggests Le Maire's view that Hungary's veto was strictly political.

Risk Premia In Hungary Continue To Rise

Hungary - Financial Market Indicators

Source: Bloomberg, Fitch Solutions

The reaction in financial markets to the news was muted as monetary policy announcements from the US Federal Reserve, Bank of England, Swiss National Bank, and an emergency meeting for the European Central Bank pushed markets to trade wildly. Further clouding the picture was a 50 bps surprise hike from the MNB, which failed to boost the Hungarian forint (HUF) comfortably off the all-time low of HUF400/EUR. Even still, rising risk premia since the start of the year in Hungary are evident, owing to a confluence of political, geopolitical, and economic factors which have pushed credit default swaps up 113bps, spreads over bonds up 213bps in the year-to-date, while the forint depreciated 8.7% over the same period.

Fitch Solutions Inc.

文件 EMDN000020220625ei6k0000p


Features
CEE inflation spreading across whole region, set to last for years
Ben Aris in Berlin
1282 字
2022 年 6 月 22 日 11:36 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Inflation is being driven up by the food crisis[https://www.intellinews.com/ebrd-2022-food-security-in-times-of-crisis-244052/] and disrupted supply chains, first during the pandemic and now due to the war in Ukraine, leading to fears of stagflation[https://www.intellinews.com/subbed-but-hold-global-red-warning-lights-are-flashing-as-stagflation-looms-246910/] for the whole world. Inflation forecasts have been constantly revised upwards in the first half of this year, as the chart[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1maXKMoqKBF82Wvf7ZGKRwqyAqqBx1k7B/view?usp=sharing] shows, as central banks struggle, and largely fail, to play catch up with aggressive rate hikes.

“Central and Eastern European economies are experiencing their worst bout of inflation since the late 1990s as surging food and energy prices have added to strong core price pressures across a broad range of goods and services. Monetary tightening cycles are likely to continue with interest rates rising to 8% or so over the next few months and we think that rates will remain above neutral for several years,” said Liam Peach, an emerging market economist with Capital Economics, in a note.

Inflation rates have jumped to levels not seen since the 1990s. The headline inflation in Czechia surged from 11.1% year on year in February to 16.0% y/y in May – its highest level since 1993. Poland is also losing control of the battle to control prices rises after the headline rate jumped from 8.5% to 13.9% in the same period. And in Hungary inflation was up a similar amount from 8.3% to 10.7%.

“These rates have come in far above expectations and are now at their highest since the 1990s. In the Baltic States, inflation is close to 20% y/y,” Peach said.

Surging food and energy prices are the main culprits, accounting for 85% of the rise in Poland since February, and 70-75% in Czechia and Hungary, Capital Economics calculated.

Food inflation has surged to rates of 15-20% y/y, in large part due to supply disruptions that have been exacerbated by the war in Ukraine, and is broad-based: inflation of grains and vegetable oils has unsurprisingly accelerated, meat inflation in Poland is at its highest rate since the 1990s, and dairy inflation in Hungary is running at its highest in at least two decades, Capital Economics reports.

The war, and especially the attempt to sanction Russian oil and gas exports, has also lifted energy prices, feeding through into higher inflation in most countries of the world. That has pushed up motor fuels and utility bills up sharply.

Fuel inflation is more than 30% y/y in Czechia and Romania. Gas CPI inflation ranges from 50% y/y in Poland and Czechia to 85% y/y in Romania and the more extreme 200% y/y in Estonia, Capital Economics reports. In Poland, coal prices have surged and the contribution to inflation from “solid fuels” is now twice that of gas.

“While energy prices have increased across the region, government support has been effective at shielding households in a few countries. Gas inflation is less than 20% y/y in Croatia and Slovakia. Hungary’s government has capped utility bills since 2014 and introduced a fuel price cap in November – inflation in May was 2 percentage pts lower than where it otherwise would have been without the latter cap,” says Peach.

“Looking ahead, we think food and energy inflation will rise further this year. Motor fuel inflation should peak soon if, as we expect, oil prices fall steadily from $113 per barrel now to $100 per barrel by year-end. But this will be more than offset by higher food and utilities inflation,” Peach added.

Food inflation is less likely to taper off in the meantime, as the reduced supplies of grain affect the whole food complex. While the price of grain and vegetable oils will obviously increase after Ukraine’s supplies are cut off from the market by Russia’s embargo of Ukrainian ports, the role of grain as an animal feed means that the cost of meat and poultry will also rise. Pork prices in Poland look set to surge, says Peach, who says he expects food inflation to climb to 20-25% y/y soon.

While prices are being driven up by all these shocks to the system, underneath these extraordinary effects regular inflationary pressures are also at work, adding to the upward pressure on prices, says Capital Economics.

“Eurostat’s measure of the Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices (HICP), excluding food and energy, has surged to multi-decade highs of 9% y/y in Poland and Hungary and 12% y/y in Czechia,” says Peach.

These pressures are broadening out, with the prices of most goods and services growing at their fastest rates since the 1990s. Goods inflation is particularly strong in Czechia and Hungary, while services inflation is hotter in Poland, likely due to its tighter labour market, reports Capital Economics.

“Even so, inflation of “sticky” items such as housing rentals has risen everywhere, which is particularly worrying, as it suggests the presence of more lasting price pressures even though interest rates have risen by 500bp since mid-2021,” says Peach.

Just how persistent inflation will be remains a topic of hot debate. Ironically it was the Eastern European countries that were early to raise the alarm after Ukraine became the first to reverse its easing of monetary policy with a rate hike in April last year, shortly followed by CBR Governor Elvia Nabiullina in May. Nabiullina, dubbed the world’s “most conservative central banker”, warned from the start that she believed inflationary pressures were larger and more persistent than the consensus, and she has been proved right in the meantime. Thanks to their early start, both the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU) and the CBR are thought to be at, or close to, the end of their tightening cycle, whereas most of the other central banks in CEE are still in the early stages of theirs.

Peach predicts that the pressure will come off next year as the global economy adjusts to the new realities. For example, while Russia and Ukraine together account for some 30% of the global trade in grain, they only account for just under 1% of global grain production – a point that Russian President Vladimir Putin is fond of making to downplay Russia’s culpability in pushing up the price of grain this year – so that as farmers are expected to step up the amount of grain sown next year, the pressure on supply is anticipated to fall sharply.

“Easing supply shortages should drag goods inflation down next year, but services inflation is likely to stay strong and we think inflation will remain above 10% well into 2023,” says Peach.

In the meantime, the countries of Central and Southeast Europe, which have found themselves behind the tightening curve in the effort to fight inflation – most of the countries in the region are sporting deeply negative real interest rates – will have to continue to hike rates and will probably cause a pan-regional recession as a result.

“We think central banks will tighten policy further, with rates rising to 8% in Hungary and Poland and 7% in Czechia over the coming months. Our inflation and interest rate forecasts generally lie above the consensus,” says Peach.

“Once these price shocks pass through, we think the shift will turn to rate cuts from mid-2023. But there’s a risk that, with inflation expectations so high, second-round effects become stronger and inflation becomes entrenched at high rates. The upshot is that we think central banks will keep policy tight for a few years by keeping interest rates far above their estimated neutral levels through to at least 2024,” Peach concludes.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220622ei6m001up


No more EU sanctions on Russia needed, negotiations better option -Hungary
484 字
2022 年 6 月 23 日 21:24 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union should stop adding sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine and instead push for a ceasefire and the start of negotiations, a senior aide to Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said on Thursday.

Speaking on the sidelines of a summit of EU leaders which granted Ukraine the status of a candidate to become a member of the EU, the aide said the more sanctions the EU adopted the more they hurt the bloc, while Russia survived.

"At the end of the day Europe will be on the losing side of this war because of the economic problems. Our recommendation would bee that we should stop the sanction process," Balazs Orban, not related to the prime minister, told Reuters in an interview.

Hungary is one of the most pro-Russian EU countries, heavily dependent on Russian gas and oil. Russia is also building a nuclear reactor for Hungary. Budapest had held up the latest package of sanctions against Moscow that included a ban on Russian oil imports until it negotiated an exemption for itself.

"Right now what we experience is that the more sanctions we accept, the worse shape we are in. And the Russians? Yes, it hurts them as well, but they survive. And what is even worse, they proceed in Ukraine," Balazs Orban said.

Since the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24, the 27-nation European Union has agreed on six packages of sanctions that include asset freezes and visa bans on Russian oligarchs and officials, export controls, freezing central bank assets, disconnecting banks from the SWIFT messaging system and a ban on imports of Russian coal and oil.

But some officials argue that individual oligarchs can live without some of their yachts or Western villas, have probably already moved liquid assets outside the EU and export controls might be circumvented by China and others.

The freeze on the Russian central bank reserves is made less painful by the billions of dollars Russia gets every day for its oil and gas still flowing to Europe, they say. Once the EU stops buying Russian oil next year, the crude can be sold and shipped by tankers to China or India, some officials say.

Others argue the sanctions are working, but it will take time before their full impact on the Russian economy shows.

Orban, however, said the EU should change its tactics.

"We reached a point when we realise that we followed the strategy for four months, we have some achievements, but if it continues like this, according to reasonable thinking, it will end up in a bad way for Europe. So we have to think about something. Negotiations, ceasefire, peace. Diplomacy. That's our solution," Orban said.

(Reporting by Jan Strupczewski; editing by Grant McCool)

Released: 2022-6-23T21:24:04.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220623ei6n03qyd


Hungarian official urges to step away from sanctions, start negotiations with Russia
255 字
2022 年 6 月 24 日 02:51 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
The Hungarian prime minister’s advisor for political affairs, Balazs Orban, believes that the European Union should step away from the policy of sanctions and engage in talks with Moscow about a ceasefire in Ukraine.

"At the end of the day Europe will be on the losing side of this war because of the economic problems. Our recommendation would be that we should stop the sanction process," he said. "Right now what we experience is that the more sanctions we accept, the worse shape we are in."

"So we have to think about something. Negotiations, ceasefire, peace. Diplomacy. That's our solution," Orban added.

In his view, sanctions turned out to be unable to seriously hurt Russia and stop the conflict in Ukraine.

On February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a special military operation in Ukraine in response to a request from the leaders of the two Donbass republics. The Russian leader stressed that Moscow had no plans to occupy Ukrainian territories but that the goal was to demilitarize and denazify the country.

The West responded with sweeping sanctions against Russia. Also, Western countries have so far supplied billions of dollars worth of arms and military equipment to Kiev. Some Western politicians have acknowledged that an economic war is being waged against Russia. Putin said in March the West’s policy of sanctions on Moscow had been showing all signs of aggression, with its containment of Russia being a long-term strategy.

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020220624ei6o0008f


Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - June 24, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 6 月 24 日, 14146 字, (英文)
Brussels opens in-depth investigation into MOL's acquisition of OMV SlovenijaThe European Commission has opened an in-depth investigation to assess the proposed acquisition of OMV Slovenija by Hungary’s energy group MOL under the EU merger ...

Hungary This Week - June 24, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 6 月 24 日, 8306 字, (英文)
Hungary’s jobless rate inches down to 3.5% in MayThe jobless rate in Hungary fell to 3.5% in May from 3.9% a year earlier and from 3.6% in April, the Central Statistics Office (KSH) said on June 23. At the end of May, there were168,500 ...

Turkey This Week - June 24, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 6 月 24 日, 15891 字, (英文)
Turkish consumer confidence plunges to all-time lowCrushed by rampant inflation, Turkish consumers’ confidence has officially sunk to its lowest level on record.

Halting Ukraine war ‘only chance’ to avoid economic crisis, Hungary tells EU
Henry Foy in Brussels
745 字
2022 年 6 月 24 日 19:00 GMT
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
英文
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.
Budapest urges partners in bloc to rethink approach and promote ceasefire to avoid recession

Hungary has called for immediate peace talks to end the war between Ukraine and Russia, warning that a prolonged conflict will fuel an economic crisis that will imperil governments across Europe.

A swift ceasefire in the four-month-long war is Europe’s “only chance” to avoid a crippling recession, said Balázs Orbán, political director for Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orbán, forecasting that other EU governments will shift from backing Ukraine militarily towards “rationality” and a rapid end to the conflict in the next few months.

Budapest has long been Moscow’s closest partner inside the EU and has provoked frustration in Brussels since the war began for its reluctance to sever all ties with Russia and declare unequivocal support for Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

Some of Hungary’s EU partners were too eager for a fight with Russian president Vladimir Putin that is dragging the continent into crisis, Balázs Orbán said, warning that they should abandon that strategy or see the resulting economic pressures destroy public support for their military backing of Kyiv.

“They want to fight the war. They see that they can beat Putin, they can occupy the Kremlin and that’s their goal,” said Orbán. “At the beginning of the conflict, at least in the media, that was the mainstream opinion.

“But I would make a bet with you [on] how it will look in four months’ time . . . more rationality will come up,” he said.

“The realities of utility cost prices, energy, political destabilisation, the suffering of the middle class, it will just be an everyday [problem],” said Orbán, who is no relation of the prime minister. “In Portugal or in Spain, people will not accept the fact they are at war because they are far away . . . So it will cause political tension for sure.”

The comments clash with the rhetoric coming from almost all Nato and EU capitals in support of Kyiv’s military campaign to fight back against invading Russian troops, and the shipment of billions of dollars in weapons since the war began.

But a proliferation of dire economic warnings and recession forecasts from governments and central banks on the potential economic damage caused by the conflict has sparked talks between EU leaders on how the bloc should respond. Some economists are advocating extreme measures such as energy rationing and price caps.

Orbán said Budapest condemned Russia’s invasion but, in contrast to other EU states agitating for Putin’s defeat, added that “right now is the time to sit down, to relax . . . our main target should be in the upcoming months, negotiations, peace, ceasefire, peace”.

“We’re not being a troublemaker. But if you try to do politics without realities, you will just lose the people’s confidence,” he said. “And that is the fear we have right now, that if we look around there are no honest discussions about the current situation.”

Since Viktor Orbán began his second period as prime minister in 2010, Hungary has been a prominent voice within the EU calling for better relations with the Kremlin as Putin’s reputation in the west soured over the 2014 annexation of Crimea, attempts to meddle in western elections and the brutal suppression of opposition politicians.

Last month Budapest succeeded in watering down EU sanctions aimed at curtailing purchases of Russian oil, and vetoed efforts to sanction the head of the Russian Orthodox Church. It has also refused to allow its territory to be used to transfer weapons to Ukraine, with which it shares a 137km border.

Viktor Orbán and Zelenskyy clashed publicly in the early weeks of the war. Zelenskyy confronted Orbán during an EU summit for “hesitating” over the sanctions against Russia, while Orbán said the Ukrainian leader was a political “opponent.” Budapest, however, offered prominent backing for Ukraine’s bid for EU membership.

Balazs Orbán said it was “hard” to predict the nature of the EU’s future relationship with Putin’s government, and that discussions would be required on how to deal with Russia after the war.

“What we did in the last 12 years is not sustainable any more because the circumstances changed,” he said. “So right now we minimise the contact. Then we wait until the end of the war, and then sit down and figure out what to do.”

The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)

文件 FTCOM00020220624ei6o0050l


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungary receives Russian gas again via TurkStream, after week of technical stoppage
285 字
2022 年 6 月 28 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Budapest, June 28. Hungary receives from today Russian gas through the TurkStream pipeline, after they have finished the maintenance work that kept a week interrupted the supply, announced today the Foreign Minister, Péter Szijjártó.

"On Monday night, gas transport was resumed on the pipeline that reaches Hungary via Russia, Turkey, Bulgaria and Serbia," the Hungarian minister said in a statement.

Szijjártó assured that "there is no danger from the point of view of gas supply security".

Hungary is one of the European countries most dependent on Russian gas, since 85% of the gas it uses comes from there, and it is totally opposed to the European Union imposing an embargo on imports of that fuel as a sanction for the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

"Hungary has already filled its gas tanks to 23% of total capacities, while the other EU countries only to 15%," Szijjjártó added.

On June 21, the Russian gas consortium Gazprom announced that it is suspending pumping via TurkStream for maintenance work.

The TurkStream, which runs along the bottom of the Black Sea, can transport up to 31.5 billion cubic meters of gas annually.

Bulgaria, Greece, Serbia, Romania, Hungary and North Macedonia are supplied by this route.

Russia announced last week two consecutive reductions in gas supplies to Europe through the Nord Stream pipeline, first one of 40% and then an additional 33%, which Gazprom justified by problems with technical revisions of turbines from the German company Siemens.

The turbines are currently in Canada, from where they cannot be returned due to sanctions imposed on Russia for its attack on Ukraine. EFE

mn/as/mah

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220628ei6s00bdz


Emerging Europe Monitor - Central Europe & Baltic States
Political Risk Analysis - Backsliding Continues In Hungary With A Swathe Of New Measures
1538 字
2022 年 7 月 12 日
Emerging Markets Monitor
EMDN
英文
© 2022 Fitch Solutions, Inc
Core View

* We believe new measures introduced in Hungary on June 17 indicate the continued deterioration of the business environment in Hungary and will put Hungary further at odds with the European Union (EU).

* We believe Hungary will fail to unblock additional EU funding despite its efforts to achieve concessions from the bloc.

* While financial markets failed to react to the news, we note a significant repricing of Hungarian risk assets since the start of the year.

On June 17, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban's chief of staff, Gergely Gulyas, and Minister Tibor Navracsics, whose portfolio covers EU fund dispersals, confirmed a plethora of measures and updates (see table below). We believe the new measures indicate the continued deterioration of the business environment in Hungary and will put Hungary further at odds with the European Union (EU). We are presently maintaining Hungary's long-term political risk index score of 68.8, having recently decreased the characters of polity component score from 69.0 to 64.2 (higher score means lower risk) based on our view for Hungary's business environment to deteriorate in the coming 1-2 years. Hungary's risk score is beginning to slip compared to the regional average index score of 77.0.

June 17 Brought A Swathe Of New Measures
 Source: Fitch Solutions
 Subject               Minister                          Update
 Price caps            Gergely Gulyas                    Core foodstuff and motor fuel caps are to be extended, now to expire on October 1 from July 1 previously. Loan moratorium and mortgage rate caps are to be extended, now to expire on December 31 from June 30 previously.
 Extra Profit Tax      Gergely Gulyas                    Announcement that the state was launching an investigation into airline Ryanair as the firm indicated they would pass on Hungary's new 'extra profit' tax onto consumers. Gulyas advised Hungarians to opt to travel with different airlines.
 Sanctions on Russia   Gergely Gulyas                    Confirmation of the government's stance of only joining sanctions efforts against Russia that would harm Russia more than they would harm the EU and Hungary, concluding an embargo on Russian gas threatens all of Europe's gas supply.
 Relations with EU     Gergely Gulyas/Tibor Navracsics   Gulyas affirmed Hungary's opposition to an EU global minimum tax, a stance which effectively blocks the proposal (which must be passed unanimously) from entering EU legislation. Navracsics confirmed that Hungary is willing to compromise with the EU over the EU's corruption allegations, which have resulted in the EU launching rule of law proceedings against Hungary.
The extension of price caps affirms our view of the continued deterioration of the business environment in Hungary. Use of the caps, whose costs are covered by firms, pushes the cost of supporting the population amid a potential cost of living crisis onto firms as the government now lacks the fiscal resources to extend support having provided a favourable fiscal backdrop in the run up to April 3 elections. Extension of the caps implies the continued erosion of profit margins for petrol retailers (typically small, often family owned, operations) and petrol wholesalers (government backed MOL group dominates the market), and increases the risk of undersupply as retailers continue to close down amid loss of profitability. The motor fuel cap will also continue to be a possible area of conflict with the EU. Legislation was introduced on May 27 to block non-Hungarian vehicles from refuelling at cheaper Hungarian prices (clashing with the EU's single market for goods). Capped foodstuffs will likely continue to see shortages, leading to continued panic buying of capped non-perishable items such as cooking oil.

Even so, the impact of price cap extensions on inflation remains unclear. Motor fuel caps will prevent an estimated 57.7% climb in fuel prices (the capped price is HUF480/litre compared to a global average of HUF757/litre according to globalpetrolprices.com, June 20 2022). On the real estate market, the continuation of mortgage caps will prevent rising interest rates from reducing new home purchases and increasing the proportion of consumer's salary that is spent on mortgage payments as variable rates jump. Rates will continue to be capped at October levels, shielding consumers from 600 basis points (bps) of rate hikes from the Hungarian National Bank (MNB). We forecast average inflation of 11.2% y-o-y, but highlight a high degree of uncertainty due to price caps and their unclear implications for demand.

Caps Cloud Inflation Projections

Hungary - Inflation, % chg y-o-y (LHS), & Inflation Components, May 2022, % chg y-o-y (RHS)

Note: Fuel price inflation constrained by domestic energy caps. Other goods and food constrained by motor fuel and core foodstuff caps. e/f = Fitch Solutions estimate/forecast. Source: Hungarian Central Statistical Office, Fitch Solutions

We believe potential legal action against Ryanair risks weighing on future investment in Hungary as legislative uncertainty increases and the prospect of being unable to pass on costs to customers becomes evident. Indeed, Gulyas made it clear that any firm passing on the new 'extra profits' tax to consumers would be investigated and the Hungarian state would take action. While the new tax was introduced to fund a domestic energy cap, we believe it marks a continuation of Orban's campaign for over 50% domestic ownership in major sectors throughout the economy. This was broadly achieved in the banking, insurance, and energy sectors as multinationals left the market throughout the 2010s due to unfavourable new tax legislation and price caps. This allowed domestic firms to increase their market share, which favoured firms with close ties to the government, according to opposition politicians and non-profit Hungarian investigative journalist centre Direkt36. We believe such action will weigh on investment in Hungary, especially as firms can access Central and Eastern Europe markets with similar characteristics, such as Poland, whose relations with the EU have improved greatly in recent months. This suggests inward investment into Hungary will fall in the coming years, which adds to our bearish long-term view on growth. We forecast average growth over the next 10 years of 2.3% compared to an average 2.8% in the 2010s.

We believe Hungary will fail to unblock additional EU funding. The government's continued divergence with the EU regarding sanctions on Russian gas is part of a wider strategy of achieving concessions from the bloc as Hungary-EU relations deteriorate. Such concessions would either be an exemption of Hungary from the sanctions, direct transfer of funds to cover the cost of the sanction from the EU to Hungary, or a lifting of the EU's rule of law proceedings against Hungary (and subsequent dispersal of RRF funds). Indeed, such maneuvering was clear from Hungary as the EU moved to impose sanctions on Russian oil. Hungary confirmed its opposition to oil sanctions, indicating a large transfer of funds from the EU would be required to adapt Hungary's refinery infrastructure to process non-Russian oil. The EU eventually implemented a solution which exempted Hungary from applying the sanctions as they only applied to shipped oil (Hungary is landlocked). We do not anticipate a direct transfer of funding nor a withdrawal of rule of law proceedings as the European Commission must be seen to address perceived bad behaviour in the bloc.

 Hungary Slips Down Regional Risk Rankings
 CEE - Long-Term Political Risk Index Comparison

<TD>Note: Higher STPRI score implies lower risk. Source: Fitch Solutions

Hungary's announcement of its willingness to compromise with the EU over rule of law proceedings on the same day it announced several combative policies indicates it is seeking concessions. Specifically, we believe Hungary is seeking funding dispersals, especially the currently withheld RRF funding. We do not believe earnest steps towards backtracking on perceived erosions to bloc values will be forthcoming as incentives for Orban and his Fidesz party remain significantly tilted towards a continuation of Hungary's present fractious stance. Therefore, we do not expect the EU to stop rule of law proceedings against Hungary. In response, we expect Hungary to seek to delay EU legislation indiscriminately. Indeed, Hungarian opposition to EU tax legislation signalled Hungary's willingness to paralyse the bloc, with French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire confirming all technical issues with the law had been resolved. This suggests Le Maire's view that Hungary's veto was strictly political.

Risk Premia In Hungary Continue To Rise

Hungary - Financial Market Indicators

Source: Bloomberg, Fitch Solutions

The reaction in financial markets to the news was muted as monetary policy announcements from the US Federal Reserve, Bank of England, Swiss National Bank, and an emergency meeting for the European Central Bank pushed markets to trade wildly. Further clouding the picture was a 50bps surprise hike from the MNB, which failed to boost the Hungarian forint (HUF) comfortably off the all-time low of HUF400/EUR. Even still, rising risk premia since the start of the year in Hungary are evident, owing to a confluence of political, geopolitical, and economic factors which have pushed credit default swaps up 113bps, spreads over bonds up 213bps in the year-to-date, while the forint depreciated 8.7% over the same period.

Fitch Solutions Inc.

文件 EMDN000020220723ei7c00002


A preview of EU’s seventh sanctions package on Russia, to be agreed by next week]]
Alexandra Brzozowski
982 字
2022 年 7 月 14 日 07:00 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The EU is preparing to unveil and approve a new round of sanctions on Russia within a week, which is expected to ban Russian gold imports and close existing loopholes, EURACTIV has learnt.

Preparations by EU ambassadors for the new, seventh package are to resume this Thursday and Friday (14 and 15 July), and are likely to be approved by member states by mid-next week, several EU diplomats told EURACTIV.

This so-called implementation package would include a ban on importing Russian gold, which represents the country’s biggest non-energy export.

The move was agreed at a G7 summit last month by EU members France, Germany and Italy with their counterparts from the US, Canada, Japan and the UK.

Biden urges G7 to stay together as leaders target Russian gold, oil price[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/biden-urges-g7-to-stay-together-as-leaders-target-russian-gold-oil-price/]

US President Joe Biden told allies “We have to stay together” against Russia on Sunday as G7 leaders gathered for a summit dominated by war in Ukraine and its impact on food and energy supplies and the global economy.

Industry analysts say the ban could be largely symbolic, as previous punitive measures imposed on Moscow have effectively already managed to close off European and US markets, including trading centres in London and Zurich.

It will also widen a list of dual-use goods banned for export to Russia and include more listings of individuals and entities tied to Russia’s President Vladimir Putin’s wider circle, several EU diplomats told EURACTIV.

Furthermore, the new sanctions package would aim to include closing loopholes to previously approved punitive measures, such as by adding certain products to the list of banned goods.

It also could include a reference to the recently published European Commission clarification of sanctioned goods’ transit[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/eu-clarifies-kaliningrad-sanctions-application-in-attempt-to-defuse-tensions/] to Kaliningrad in Russia, some EU diplomats suggested.

The ‘Hungary factor’

Since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on 24 February, the EU has agreed on six packages of sanctions that include asset freezes and visa bans on Russian oligarchs and officials, export controls, freezing central bank assets, disconnecting banks from the SWIFT messaging system and a ban on imports of Russian coal and oil.

The sixth package had been the most laborious one, when after much wrangling the EU imposed amongst others a partial embargo of Russian crude oil imported by sea by the end of the year, albeit with a carve-out for Hungary, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic to receive oil transported by pipeline, and excluded one of the last big Russian banks from the SWIFT system.

However, at the last minute, Hungary had demanded that EU ambassadors meeting to finalise the legal text on the EU’s sanction package remove the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill, from the list of sanctioned individuals, which left a bad aftertaste with many around Brussels over the way the issue was handled.

Pyrrhic victory for Hungary as EU approves sanctions targeting Russian oil and Sberbank[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/pyrrhic-victory-for-hungary-as-eu-approves-sanctions-targeting-russian-oil-and-sberbank/]

EU ambassadors on Thursday (2 June) gave their final approval to the sixth sanctions package on Russian seaborne oil and top bank Sberbank, after much wrangling with Hungary over the removal of Russian Orthodox leader Patriarch Kirill from the EU sanctions list.

Although there is no expectation among officials and diplomats that Hungary would block the seventh sanctions package proposal this time around, many EU diplomats wonder where this leaves the prospects for potential subsequent upcoming packages after this one.

The majority of EU member states argue the sanctions are working, but it will take time before their full impact on the Russian economy shows.

But Hungary says the EU should stop adding sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine and instead push for a ceasefire and the start of negotiations.

Asked what Budapest thinks the way forward with subsequent sanctions packages will be, a senior aide to Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán told EURACTIV on the sidelines of the June summit the EU might have reached ‘peak unity’ on the issue.

“We reached the limit where it is very obvious that that sanctions can hurt more the European economy than the Russian economy and then if you realize that, then we have to rethink our strategy,” Balazs Orbán, not related to the prime minister, then said.

Energy ‘off the table’ for next packages

Some member states, notably from Eastern Europe, continue pushing to add more measures on energy to the next packages before they are presented to member states for approval.

According to the more hawkish among them, this should include a total ban on crude oil imports as well as more measures on gas.

Other EU diplomats, however, stress there is no chance for such option, as a number of European countries remain highly dependent on Russian energy imports, especially gas.

EU solidarity tested as Hungary bans gas exports in emergency move[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/eu-solidarity-tested-as-hungary-bans-gas-exports-in-emergency-move/]

Hungary on Wednesday (13 July) declared a “state of energy emergency”, announcing it would halt gas exports to neighbouring countries in a move aimed at securing the country’s energy supply amid dwindling gas deliveries from Russia.

“What is definitely problematic is to include energy into the sanctions, because a rule must be observed that the sanctions must have a greater impact on Russia than on the countries imposing the sanctions,” Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala told Reuters on Wednesday (13 July).

The Czech Republic, which took over the EU’s rotating six-month presidency on 1 July, is one of those countries, dependent on Russia for almost all of its gas needs.

Ukrainian officials in the past months lobbied for the EU’s seventh sanctions package to include the blocking of all Russian banks that have not yet been hit by the bloc’s punitive measures, an option which according to EU diplomats could be considered for the next rounds of sanctions.

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220714ei7e0000e


Report: EU to prepare new sanctions package on Russia by next week
838 字
2022 年 7 月 14 日 11:39 GMT
Prime News
PRTASS
英文
© 2022. JSC PRIME. All rights reserved.
MOSCOW, Jul 14 (PRIME) -- The EU is preparing to unveil and approve a new round of sanctions on Russia within a week, which is expected to ban Russian gold imports and close the existing loopholes, EURACTIV reported on Thursday.

Preparations by the E.U. ambassadors for the new, seventh package are to resume this Thursday and Friday, and are likely to be approved by member states by mid-next week, several EU diplomats told EURACTIV.

This so-called implementation package would include a ban on importing Russian gold, which represents the country’s biggest non-energy export.

The move was agreed at a G7 summit last month by EU members France, Germany and Italy with their counterparts from the U.S., Canada, Japan and the UK.

Industry analysts say the ban could be largely symbolic, as previous punitive measures imposed on Moscow have effectively already managed to close off European and U.S. markets, including trading centres in London and Zurich.

It will also widen a list of dual-use goods banned for export to Russia and include more listings of individuals and entities tied to Russia’s President Vladimir Putin’s wider circle, several EU diplomats told EURACTIV.

Furthermore, the new sanctions package would aim to include closing loopholes to previously approved punitive measures, such as by adding certain products to the list of banned goods.

It also could include a reference to the recently published European Commission clarification of<sanctioned goods’ transit>to Kaliningrad in Russia, some EU diplomats suggested.

The ‘Hungary factor’

Since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on 24 February, the E.U. has agreed on six packages of sanctions that include asset freezes and visa bans on Russian oligarchs and officials, export controls, freezing central bank assets, disconnecting banks from the SWIFT messaging system and a ban on imports of Russian coal and oil.

The sixth package had been the most laborious one, when after much wrangling the EU imposed amongst others a partial embargo of Russian crude oil imported by sea by the end of the year, albeit with a carve-out for Hungary, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic to receive oil transported by pipeline, and excluded one of the last big Russian banks from the SWIFT system.

However, at the last minute, Hungary had demanded that the E.U. ambassadors meeting to finalise the legal text on the E.U.’s sanction package remove the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill, from the list of sanctioned individuals, which left a bad aftertaste with many around Brussels over the way the issue was handled.

Although there is no expectation among officials and diplomats that Hungary would block the seventh sanctions package proposal this time around, many E.U. diplomats wonder where this leaves the prospects for potential subsequent upcoming packages after this one.

The majority of E.U. member states argue the sanctions are working, but it will take time before their full impact on the Russian economy shows.

But Hungary says the E.U. should stop adding sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine and instead push for a ceasefire and the start of negotiations.

Asked what Budapest thinks the way forward with subsequent sanctions packages will be, a senior aide to Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban told EURACTIV on the sidelines of the June summit the E.U. might have reached ‘peak unity’ on the issue.

“We reached the limit where it is very obvious that that sanctions can hurt more the European economy than the Russian economy and then if you realize that, then we have to rethink our strategy,” Balazs Orban, not related to the prime minister, then said.

Energy ‘off the table’ for next packages

Some member states, notably from Eastern Europe, continue pushing to add more measures on energy to the next packages before they are presented to member states for approval.

According to the more hawkish among them, this should include a total ban on crude oil imports as well as more measures on gas.

Other E.U. diplomats, however, stress there is no chance for such option, as a number of European countries remain highly dependent on Russian energy imports, especially gas.

“What is definitely problematic is to include energy into the sanctions, because a rule must be observed that the sanctions must have a greater impact on Russia than on the countries imposing the sanctions,” Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala told Reuters on Wednesday.

The Czech Republic, which took over the E.U.’s rotating six-month presidency on 1 July, is one of those countries, dependent on Russia for almost all of its gas needs.

Ukrainian officials in the past months lobbied for the E.U.’s seventh sanctions package to include the blocking of all Russian banks that have not yet been hit by the bloc’s punitive measures, an option which according to E.U. diplomats could be considered for the next rounds of sanctions.

End

JSC PRIME

文件 PRTASS0020220714ei7e003pd


World
Hungary: Is this the beginning of the end of Orban's model?
1267 字
2022 年 7 月 15 日 17:20 GMT
DW English
DEUEN
英文
© 2022. DW
Hungarian leader Orban looks increasingly isolated —his pro-Putin stance has cost him most of his allies in the EU; the bloc could end up blocking all funds. And, there are protests at home for the first time in years.

For more than a decade, Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban has proved to be a major headache to the EU. Brussels has failed to find a way to effectively sanction his anti-democratic transformation of Hungary, getting bogged down instead in discussions about whether to do so and how. Meanwhile, Orban has succeeded in stalling the EU with tactical games or by blackmailing it with vetoes on various foreign policy or budget issues.

But Orban's regime, which now faces headwinds on all fronts, has now come to a turning point. With his Putin-friendly positioning, the prime minister has isolated Hungary within the EU, even falling out with his closest ally Poland. So far, Brussels has remained unexpectedly tough and has not paid out COVID-19 recovery fund money because of allegations of corruption. Furthermore, a decision on whether to impose sanctions on the country as part of the bloc’s new rule of law mechanism is expected in the coming months. A recent new ruling concluded that Brussels would have the option of cutting off all funds to Hungary — cutting off access to billions that the country needs more urgently than ever.

On top of this, there are problems on the home front. It is already clear that Hungary faces a severe economic crisis and that Orban's costly social model, with which he has kept large sections of society in line, is no longer sustainable. Though the prime minister and his Fidesz party won a historic election victory in April, the current international and domestic situation might spell the beginning of the end of the Orban model.

Failure to condemn the Russian war in Ukraine

Unlike all the other governments in the EU, Orban and his government have yet to unequivocally condemn Russia's war against Ukraine. Moreover, by wildly distorting the facts, Orban seems to believe that it is the West that is actually responsible for the war.

Just a few days ago, he said in a speech that it was perhaps time for Western Europe to understand that the goal should not be to win a war against Russia but to finally achieve peace.

He has repeatedly accused the EU of financing war rather than peace, saying that there are "business circles" at work in the West who are "warmongers," symbolized by US billionaire George Soros. He has also spoken out against the EU sanctions imposed on Russia. The Hungarian government also successfully vetoed an EU attempt to slap sanctions on Patriarch Kirill, the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, who has glorified war crimes.

Poland distances itself from Hungary

Jaroslaw Kaczynski, Poland's deputy prime minister and the leader of the ruling national-conservative Law and Justice (PiS) party, blew his top a long time ago because of this Putin-friendly attitude, recommending that if his erstwhile staunch ally Orban was blind to Russian war crimes in Ukraine, he should get his eyes tested.

Like in Poland, Orban's Putin-friendly stance could also lead to a realization in Brussels and other individual EU member states, that it is no longer possible to conduct constructive, fruitful negotiations with the Hungarian prime minister, with regard to democracy, rule of law, and fundamental EU values.

That could have consequences for Hungary when the European Commission and the bloc’s member states decide in the coming months on whether funds should be withdrawn from Budapest because it has violated rule of law regulations. So far, the country had been able to rely on the support of certain individual member states. That is no longer certain.

All EU funds could be cut

The EU triggered a rule of law mechanism procedure against Hungary at the end of April — the first time that it had done so against an EU member state since the mechanism came into force at the start of 2021. The so-called budget conditionality procedure makes it easier to sanction EU members for breaching the rule of law. Whereas in other procedures, member state unanimity is required, this procedure requires the agreement of a qualified 55% majority of members, representing at least 65% of the bloc’s population.

Last week, a new rule of law report assessing the potential amount of financial sanctions against member states was published in Brussels. It concluded that it would be justified and necessary to stop all EU funding to Hungary because its violations of the rule of law are so serious, longstanding, and systematic that it is not certain that even one euro would be safe from corruption and abuse.

Merkel did not show enough political will

Though it was the German MEP Daniel Freund who commissioned the report, it was approved by all major factions in the European Parliament, including the Greens, Social Democrats, Liberals, and even the conservative European People's Party (EPP), which Fidesz belonged to until March 2021.

"This report sends out a strong legal signal that there is nothing standing in the way of cutting funding to Hungary entirely," Freund told DW. "Now, the question is whether the Commission will have the political will to implement it." Freund sounded doubtful as he meted out some harsh criticism of European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen: "Several European Parliament resolutions have accused her of inaction, which is quite exceptional and speaks for itself," he said.

Kim Lane Scheppele, a political scientist at Princeton University in the US and one of the authors of the report, told DW that the EU already had the legal instruments for sanctioning Orban a long time ago. "But the political will was not there and one of the biggest obstacles was former German Chancellor Angela Merkel […]" she said.

"Now, the Commission has to understand that without exception all state institutions are under Orban's political control, and that unless money is taken away from him, he will continue as before."

Social protests break out in Hungary

In a blogpost, Hungarian government spokesperson Zoltan Kovacs commented: "This new round of bullying on the part of the liberal rabble in the European Parliament is simply political spite and only serves their own political agenda on the margins."

Orban in a speech said that Hungary had been attacked in the European Parliament in scenes akin to "intifada and vivisection." He also indirectly accused the Hungarian opposition of treason for taking part in the procedure, pointing out that EU funding was also used for wage increases for Hungarian doctors and teachers.

This harsh rhetoric is not coincidental. The financial stakes are high for Orban and his government. For years, Hungary has implemented generous social and fiscal policies to keep Fidesz voters on board. Before the parliamentary elections in April, the government handed out tax breaks and financial aid. But this has apparently come to an end.

In the past days, the same government hastily withdrew social measures and tax breaks. It seems that drastic austerity measures are likely to follow.

Angry people have already taken to the streets in the first major social protests in years, prompting daily Nepszava newspaper to write: "These are the signs of the fall."

This article was originally written in German

Billions in EU funds could be withheld from Hungarian President Orban due to his democratic backsliding (KENZO TRIBOUILLARD/AFP/Getty Images)[https://static.dw.com/image/61991585_401.jpg]

Deutsche Welle

文件 DEUEN00020220715ei7f000ma


Opinion
Democracy needs to be fought for every day; Triple lock of free elections, an independent judiciary and a free press are no guarantee against populism
973 字
2022 年 7 月 20 日
The Irish Times
IRTI
10
英文
© 2022, The Irish Times.
The rise of populism in Europe and the Americas over the last decade has led some to speculate that we are witnessing a rerun of the European politics of the 1930s.

If so, Russian president Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine, an attack on a democratic country by a dictatorship, suggests that we may have arrived at September 1939, echoing Hitler's invasion of Poland, a trigger for the second World War.

But history doesn't repeat itself; events may chime with the past, but comparisons offer only limited use.

The reasons for the surge in nativism differ slightly in each case but, collectively, they have given rise to that most terrifying conceit: the post-truth era.

How can those of us who remember the sacrifice to rescue democracy made by our forebears, 80 years ago, resist this seemingly relentless assault on our values today?

One obvious contrast to the 1930s is that populism is infecting countries with long-established traditions of democracy, including America and the United Kingdom, nations that fought so hard to resist the Nazis and later forging the backbone of Nato, an alliance of democratic states resisting the then communist empire.

So why doesn't the triple lock of free elections, an independent judiciary and a free press make those same three bulwarks of democracy impregnable?

The answer lies with the law, or more precisely the application of the law. Populism, a misnomer as it seldom represents the majority, shows scant regard for the law; its ideology is based on fear: fear of change, fear of being usurped, and fear of losing power.

The very laws designed to protect democratic freedoms are abused, in order to dismantle them.

The judiciary is assailed, politicised and replaced with compliant judges. Poland and Hungary have been so determined to stack the judiciary that they are now barely democratic countries.

The super-majority of extreme conservatives on the US supreme court now makes that institution little more than a cudgel for the Republican party.

So afraid was the EU of pushing Poland and Hungary into Putin's sphere that the breach of the EU's rule of law by both countries has not been effectively challenged by Brussels which completely misread their historical relationship with Russia.

Poland is finally being fined €1 million per day for implementing a controversial mechanism for disciplining judges, a fine it has refused to pay.

I wonder, with the pressing need to bolster Poland's resistance to Russia, whether all will be forgotten. Hungary, on the other hand, seems to slide by any threat of EU sanction.

Bars refugees Immigration is the single issue that binds together all populist movements. In Hungary, Viktor Orbán's government bars refugees seeking asylum on its borders; fewer than 2,000 refugees from the Middle East have been allowed entry. Orban has also given Hungarian citizenship to ethnic Hungarians living in neighbouring countries to boost his electoral constituency.

His Fidesz party is greatly funded by Russian money and his constituents are bribed with EU subsidies, blatant breaches of EU law. For all of Poland's heroics in sheltering some two million Ukrainian refugees, it shamefully keeps hundreds of refugees from Syria in a no man's land between Belarus and its own border, preventing them from claiming asylum.

Unlike the Ukrainians, those refugees are not Christian and have a different skin colour. Poland is not sanctioned.

The UK government is paying Rwanda to take refugees applying for asylum in Britain, breaking several international treaties (the Northern Ireland protocol is but one of many agreements Boris Johnson has broken); a policy that does nothing to deter the people-smugglers, simultaneously condescends to the asylum seekers, the Rwandans and anyone who has ever successfully found refuge in the UK previously (including my family). I cannot remember a UK policy that is quite so racist since the incarceration of German Jews on the Isle of Man as enemy aliens, during the last war.

In Ireland, which has so far resisted the siren call of populism, a recent poll has suggested a majority here want a cap on the number of Ukrainian refugees entering the country.

Recently, Sinn Féin TD Pádraig Mac Lochlainn deliberately conflated the mica compensation issue with the money being spent by the Government on housing Ukrainian refugees.

Alarmingly, populism in Ireland looks to be one general election away. A caveat to the electorate: populists are much easier to elect than remove.

The attack on the process of free elections is the most dangerous threat to democracy.

The British Vote Leave campaign was found to have broken campaign finance rules and was fined £7,000.

Russian money had corrupted a freely held election but the result of the election was not challenged; the Department of Public Prosecutions was too scared to challenge "the will of the people" who had cast their vote.

Fragile condition If we are to save liberal democracy from this unprecedented heave against it, then we must understand that democracy, by its very nature, is a fragile condition; that it needs constant maintenance, reform and protection.

An independent judiciary is the keystone. But democracy needs to be fought for every day, even in countries where it has existed for decades or even centuries.

Ninety years ago next year, the Nazis swept away the Weimar Republic, the most sophisticated democracy in Europe. Within six years its Jewish citizens had been stripped of all their basic rights and were being murdered with impunity.

For a number of years, my mother, a Holocaust survivor from Poland has told me that she sees her life coming full circle. I wonder if we can afford not to believe her.

Itronics Limited

文件 IRTI000020220720ei7k00013


Hungary interested in getting more natural gas from Russia - foreign minister (Part 2)
256 字
2022 年 7 月 21 日 14:47 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS Business and Financial Newswire
DAIBN
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
MOSCOW. July 21 (Interfax) - Hungary is interested in having the amount of gas it receives from Russia increased and its energy security ensured within the coming months, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said.

"Above all, I would like to talk about how to make energy supply to Hungary safer in the coming months," Szijjarto said at the start of a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Moscow on Thursday.

"This is one of the most important aspects of our bilateral cooperation," Szijjarto said.

"In the current international situation, the most important thing for us is to ensure Hungary's energy security. Therefore, I would like to talk and reach an agreement today on increasing the current volume of gas delivered to Hungary from Russia," he said.

"My government has authorized me to hold negotiations on this account, and this is chiefly why I am here, in Moscow, today," he said.

Lavrov said, "Despite the complex international situation, despite the intention of some of our partners to increase the sanction pressure, our interaction is continuing, and we managed to overcome a slump in our trade turnover and see its growth by more than 25%."

"We acknowledge the mutual determination [...] of the leaderships of our countries to promote our interaction and partnership, including the implementation of major joint projects in the energy, transport, and other sectors," Lavrov said.

va kp kl

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DAIBN00020220721ei7l006mx


GAS; Hungary interested in getting more natural gas from Russia - foreign minister
558 字
2022 年 7 月 22 日 14:09 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS Energy Daily
PEREP
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
MOSCOW. July 21 (Interfax) - Hungary is interested in having the amount of gas it receives from Russia increased and its energy security ensured within the coming months, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said.

"Above all, I would like to talk about how to make energy supply to Hungary safer in the coming months," Szijjarto said at the start of a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Moscow on Thursday.

"This is one of the most important aspects of our bilateral cooperation," Szijjarto said.

"In the current international situation, the most important thing for us is to ensure Hungary's energy security. Therefore, I would like to talk and reach an agreement today on increasing the current volume of gas delivered to Hungary from Russia," he said.

"My government has authorized me to hold negotiations on this account, and this is chiefly why I am here, in Moscow, today," he said.

Lavrov said, "Despite the complex international situation, despite the intention of some of our partners to increase the sanction pressure, our interaction is continuing, and we managed to overcome a slump in our trade turnover and see its growth by more than 25%."

"We acknowledge the mutual determination [...] of the leaderships of our countries to promote our interaction and partnership, including the implementation of major joint projects in the energy, transport, and other sectors," Lavrov said.

"The Hungarian government has decided that we want to buy an extra 700 million cubic meters of gas to make sure that our country is in absolute safety from the standpoint of gas supply," Szijjarto said following negotiations with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.

"We see clearly, whether we like it or not and whether we want it or not, that it's impossible to buy an extra 700 million cubic meters [of gas] without Russian sources," he said.

"You can dream and you can blow up various balloons, but the physical reality will remain the physical reality. Without Russian sources, it's simply impossible to buy such an amount of additional gas in Europe," Szijjarto said.

Hungary "is steadily pumping gas into underground storage facilities," and the level of gas there is currently 27.3%, while this figure in Europe on average is only 13%, he said.

"In normal times, this would be enough, and this would give us enough security. But we all know that we're not living in quite normal times, and therefore, we need to guarantee our country's energy supply," Szijjarto said.

"Today our colleagues expressed the interest of the Hungarian government to buy an additional quantity of gas in the current year. This request will be passed on and considered forthwith," Lavrov said at a press conference after talks with his Hungarian counterpart.

"Of course, our practical cooperation is being hampered by the blatant Russophobic policy pursued by Washington and the EU's Brussels, which involves the unstoppable ramping up of sanctions with no sensible analysis of the consequences for the very countries that impose them; but nor are we, surely, interested in this sort of thing hampering our cooperation. And we will look for and find solutions to make our interaction in all areas not dependent on these sorts of whims and attempts at punishment, so to speak," Lavrov said.

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 PEREP00020220722ei7m0002u


EU commissioner rebukes Hungary's Orbán after 'mixed-race' speech
269 字
2022 年 7 月 27 日 12:52 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Brussels (dpa) - Recent comments by Hungary's president decrying a "mixed-race" world due to migration drew a rebuke from a European Commission vice president on Wednesday.

"We must never let our wordings betray the most fundamental tenet of our existence: we are all equally human," EU Migration Commission Margaritis Schinas wrote on Twitter on Wednesday.

"Hatred has no place on our lips nor in our societies," he added.

Schinas was referring to Orbán's overtly racial comments in a speech to an annual forum of supporters in Romania that has yet to receive a major response from the EU institutions.

"There is a world in which European peoples are mixed together with those arriving from outside Europe. Now that is a mixed-race world," Orbán said.

In contrast, people in Hungary and other countries in the Carpathian Basin from Central Europe are "willing to mix with one another, but we do not want to become peoples of mixed-race," he said.

The remarks drew criticism from Romanian Foreign Minister Bogdan Aurescu as well as condemnation from a leader of Hungary's Jewish community.

Despite Schinas not addressing Orbán directly in his social media message, the commission vice president's staff confirmed his social media message was referring to the Hungarian prime minister's speech.

The widely criticized remarks railed against the European Union's sanction policy on Russia for invading Ukraine and criticized the West for not heeding Moscow's concerns before the start of the war.

# Notebook

## Internet links - [EU Commissioner Schinas' tweet](http://dpaq.de/FvB1m[http://dpaq.de/FvB1m])

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220727ei7r006k5


Hungary's Orban defends 'cultural standpoint' in race remark row
462 字
2022 年 7 月 28 日 13:15 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Hungary's nationalist Prime Minister Viktor Orban on Thursday defended his comments against creating "peoples of mixed-race", saying they represented a "cultural" standpoint.

"It happens sometimes that I speak in a way that can be misunderstood... the position that I represent is a cultural... standpoint," Orban told reporters during a visit to neighbouring Austria.

Orban sparked a storm of criticism after he warned against mixing with "non-Europeans" in a speech in Romania's Transylvania region, home to a Hungarian community, on Saturday.

Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer said in a joint press conference with Orban that the issue had been "resolved... amicably and in all clarity", adding his country "strongly condemned... any form of racism or anti-Semitism".

The International Auschwitz Committee has urged the European Union -- and Nehammer specifically -- to distance themselves from "Orban's racist undertones".

Austria is the first EU country to host Orban for talks since he won a fourth straight mandate in an April landslide.

Besides the race row, the two leaders discussed migration and energy security amid tensions over Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Vienna sees itself "as an honest broker" and is anxious not to sideline Hungary, an Austrian official told AFP on condition of anonymity.

Jewish community representatives voiced alarm after Orban, an ultra-conservative known for his anti-migrant policy and virulent rhetoric, said that "we do not want to become peoples of mixed-race".

The 59-year-old also seemed to allude to the Nazi German gas chambers when criticising a Brussels plan to reduce European gas demand by 15 percent following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Hungary was the only EU member to oppose the plan, which passed on a majority vote this week.

An adviser to Orban, Zsuzsa Hegedus, resigned on Tuesday, slamming his speech as "a pure Nazi text".

In response, Orban stressed his government's "policy of zero tolerance when it comes to anti-Semitism and racism", according to a letter made public.

"I am proud of the results which Hungary achieved against racism in recent years," Orban told reporters on Wednesday.

Both Orban and Nehammer said they would not support any embargo on Russian gas, on which their countries are heavily dependant, with Orban describing any such embargo as a "wall".

"My advice to the European Union is not to hit this wall," said the Hungarian, who recently slammed the EU's sanction policy against Russia as "Europe shooting itself in the lungs".

He added that he wished Brussels would come up with a new "strategy that is good for the Ukrainians, good for us, good for the European economy and good for the households that have to pay the price of energy".

pmu-jza/kjm

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220728ei7s00a6p


"Only open anti-immigration politician in EU", says Orban
345 字
2022 年 7 月 28 日 13:50 GMT
APA News Service
APANSE
英文
© 2022 APA NEWS SERVICE
Vienna - During his visit in Vienna the controversial statement on "race mixing" and gas chambers of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban was addressed. "I am the only open anti-immigration politician in the EU", Orban said. This was "not an issue of race, but of culture", he said after meeting Chancellor Karl Nehammer (Conservative People's Party, VP) on Thursday.

Nehammer made it clear "that we in Austria reject in the strongest possible terms any form of trivialisation and relativisation of racism and anti-Semitism".

His critique on migration was "not a racist, but cultural question". He does not want migration to intensify, Orban said.

In a speech in Romania on Saturday, Orban had given a heavily criticised rejection of "race mixing". He also caused outrage with a joke alluding to the Nazi gas chambers.

"It happens that I sometimes formulate things in a misleading way. However, Hungary's position in this regard is "not a biological one, but a civilizational one".

Orban and Nehammer both emphasised the joint fight against illegal migration.

Nehammer critiqued the EU Commission for tardiness regarding the joint gas purchase by EU countries. "A joint energy platform would be more important than ever", Nehammer said - then EU countries would not compete with each other.

The EU member states have laid the path for a decision-making procedure for an emergency plan to curb gas consumption. The plan was aimed at reducing the risks which could result from a total stop of Russian gas deliveries.

Orban criticized the EU sanction strategy against Russia in general as a means to the war in Ukraine. Nehammer was confident that the sanctions against Russia would sooner or later have an effect.

Orban also warned of future war economy and recession. A mandatory rationing of natural gas "is the first sign of a war economy", Orban said after meeting Nehammer. If the war did not end soon, this would lead to a recession and in consequence to mass unemployment in Europe, Orban warned.

apo

DIS0009-20220728

APA - Austria Presse Agentur eG

文件 APANSE0020220728ei7s000m9


CIS, BALTIC and international NEWS; Hungary interested in getting more natural gas from Russia - foreign minister
562 字
2022 年 8 月 1 日 07:52 GMT
Interfax: Kazakhstan Oil & Gas Weekly
KAZOIL
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
MOSCOW. July 21 (Interfax) - Hungary is interested in having the amount of gas it receives from Russia increased and its energy security ensured within the coming months, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said.

"Above all, I would like to talk about how to make energy supply to Hungary safer in the coming months," Szijjarto said at the start of a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Moscow on Thursday.

"This is one of the most important aspects of our bilateral cooperation," Szijjarto said.

"In the current international situation, the most important thing for us is to ensure Hungary's energy security. Therefore, I would like to talk and reach an agreement today on increasing the current volume of gas delivered to Hungary from Russia," he said.

"My government has authorized me to hold negotiations on this account, and this is chiefly why I am here, in Moscow, today," he said.

Lavrov said, "Despite the complex international situation, despite the intention of some of our partners to increase the sanction pressure, our interaction is continuing, and we managed to overcome a slump in our trade turnover and see its growth by more than 25%."

"We acknowledge the mutual determination [...] of the leaderships of our countries to promote our interaction and partnership, including the implementation of major joint projects in the energy, transport, and other sectors," Lavrov said.

"The Hungarian government has decided that we want to buy an extra 700 million cubic meters of gas to make sure that our country is in absolute safety from the standpoint of gas supply," Szijjarto said following negotiations with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov.

"We see clearly, whether we like it or not and whether we want it or not, that it's impossible to buy an extra 700 million cubic meters [of gas] without Russian sources," he said.

"You can dream and you can blow up various balloons, but the physical reality will remain the physical reality. Without Russian sources, it's simply impossible to buy such an amount of additional gas in Europe," Szijjarto said.

Hungary "is steadily pumping gas into underground storage facilities," and the level of gas there is currently 27.3%, while this figure in Europe on average is only 13%, he said.

"In normal times, this would be enough, and this would give us enough security. But we all know that we're not living in quite normal times, and therefore, we need to guarantee our country's energy supply," Szijjarto said.

"Today our colleagues expressed the interest of the Hungarian government to buy an additional quantity of gas in the current year. This request will be passed on and considered forthwith," Lavrov said at a press conference after talks with his Hungarian counterpart.

"Of course, our practical cooperation is being hampered by the blatant Russophobic policy pursued by Washington and the EU's Brussels, which involves the unstoppable ramping up of sanctions with no sensible analysis of the consequences for the very countries that impose them; but nor are we, surely, interested in this sort of thing hampering our cooperation. And we will look for and find solutions to make our interaction in all areas not dependent on these sorts of whims and attempts at punishment, so to speak," Lavrov said.

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 KAZOIL0020220808ei810000l


Foreign
Orban at CPAC brings the 'far-right international' into focus
By Ishaan Tharoor
1226 字
2022 年 8 月 4 日
Washington Post.com
WPCOM
英文
Copyright 2022, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved.
You're reading an excerpt from the Today's WorldView newsletter. Sign up to get the rest free , including news from around the globe and interesting ideas and opinions to know, sent to your inbox every weekday.

"The globalists can go to hell," thundered Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban. "I have come to Texas."

He was delivering what was essentially the opening keynote of the four-day Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in Dallas — the preeminent convening organization of the American right-wing movement. The conference Orban helped kick off will conclude in part with a speech from former president Donald Trump. And the message the Hungarian leader sent was one that united Republican anger at "liberal hegemony" with his own narrative of illiberal triumph.

In his remarks, Orban laid out the clearest platform yet for what some analysts have dubbed "the far-right international," a notional alliance between far-right and ultranationalist parties on both sides of the Atlantic. He trumpeted his hard-line stances against immigration, his staunch Christian nationalism, his opposition to "gender ideology" and his indifference to those who view his quasi-autocratic rule as a threat to democracy in the heart of Europe.

Orban made no bones about his contempt for U.S. Democrats and the supposed liberal media. "They hate me and slander me and my country as they hate you and slander you," Orban said of Democrats at CPAC. "We should unite our forces."

"We must take back the institutions in Washington and Brussels … we must coordinate the movements of our troops because we face the same challenges," Orban added, gesturing to the upcoming U.S. midterm and presidential elections and European parliamentary elections in 2024. "These two locations will define the two fronts in the battle being fought for Western civilization. Today, we hold neither of them. Yet we need both."

Orban chose to gloss over the outcry that followed a major speech he made last month. Just across the border in neighboring Romania, in a picturesque town home to a considerable ethnic Hungarian population where Orban delivers an annual address, he warned, among other things, that Europeans must not "become peoples of mixed race."

From his perch in Transylvania, Orban summoned the spectral menace of racist ideologies that have long haunted Europe. One long-term Orban adviser, Zsuzsa Hegedus, tendered her resignation with a letter that described Orban's speech as "a pure Nazi text worthy of Goebbels," and the "racist" culmination of an increasingly "illiberal turn." (She later backtracked, appearing to echo Orban's defenders that his remarks were misconstrued. You can read an English translation of his speech here.)

Orban supporters say that he was speaking principally about simply limiting migration and preserving European "civilization." Even then, he used hopelessly bad historical analogies to make his claim, styling Hungary as a modern-day bulwark against Muslim encroachment as it was in supposedly fending off the Ottoman Empire at the gates of Vienna in 1683. In truth, the Ottoman army had myriad Christians in its camp, including thousands of Hungarian peasants marshaled by the Hungarian Protestant nobleman Imre Thokoly.

Whatever the case, Orban's rhetoric now is a sign of an ideologue who is increasingly unrestrained on the world stage. "It's one thing for Orban to drop words such as 'replacement' into his speeches — a dog whistle to white supremacists and their 'Great Replacement Theory,' but seemingly innocuous to other people," wrote Andreas Kluth for Bloomberg Opinion. "It's another to give speeches that sound like passages of the Nuremberg Race Laws of 1935."

Was it "an accidental slip?" Kluth pondered. "Or a sign of growing confidence, signaling a clearer line in future?"

No matter the geopolitical feebleness of Hungary in its own right, Orban and his allies see themselves as standard bearers for an illiberal future. "We do hope that you can learn from us the political mind-set how to be a successful conservative, as we also learn from you, and from Ronald Reagan," Miklos Szantho, director of the Center for Fundamental Rights, a Hungarian think tank believed to be funded by Orban's government, said at a CPAC gathering organized in Budapest in May. "As he put it so many years ago, 'We win, they lose.' That is what the Hungarian right has done."

Big elections are around the corner — from the United States to Italy, where a party whose origins are rooted directly in Italy's fascist past may soon lead a new governing coalition, to Brazil, where embattled far-right President Jair Bolsonaro is already echoing Trump's falsehoods over the threat of a stolen election.

In February, Bolsonaro visited Orban in Hungary and celebrated the "affinities" they shared and "values ​​that we represent, which can be summarized in four words: God, homeland, family and freedom." That motto, noted Brazilian newspaper Folha de S. Paulo, echoed the slogans of Italian fascists in the 1920s and '30s, which were imported by their Brazilian counterparts and also given voice by the right-wing Portuguese dictatorship of António de Oliveira Salazar.

None of these observations or criticisms seem to check Orban and his ilk. On Thursday, he returned the favor, casting the West's "liberal progressives" as the successors of totalitarian communism. "We have seen what kind of future the globalist ruling class has offered," he said. "But we have a different future to offer."

What is that future? I explored that in a three-part series earlier this year on Orban's political impact on U.S. Republicans, many of whom admire his dismantling of Hungary's media establishment, his war on LGBT rights and his aggressive attempts at boosting his country's birthrates. They are quieter about — though possibly still supportive of — his bending of the country's judiciary and erosion of European democratic norms.

"This is the desire to build an 'illiberal international': a world shaped by the kind of politics that eschews the rules-based international order, liberal democratic norms, and transparency; institutions, and norms that currently make it possible for the European Commission to sanction Orban's government and for the West to sanction Putin's Russia," wrote Andras Toth-Czifra, a Hungarian expert at the Center for European Policy Analysis.

"By hitching themselves to someone who has put himself forward as a post-liberal intellectual, I think American conservatives are starting to give themselves permission to discard liberal norms," Lauren Stokes, a historian at Northwestern University, told the New Yorker for a lengthy piece on Orban's American appeal published in June.

"When a Hungarian court does something Orban doesn't like — something too pro-queer, too pro-immigrant — he can just say, 'This court is an enemy of the people, I don't have to listen to it,' " she added. "I think Republicans are setting themselves up to adopt a similar logic: if the system gives me a result I don't like, I don't have to abide by it."

"In order to win, it is not enough to know what you're fighting for," Orban told the CPAC crowd on Thursday. "You should also know how you should fight: My answer is play by your own rules." That's a message the Republicans appear to be hearing loud and clear.

Washington Post

文件 WPCOM00020220804ei84005xx


Ukraine halted oil flows to Europe over payment issue, Russia's Transneft says
828 字
2022 年 8 月 9 日 16:18 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
MOSCOW (Reuters) -Ukraine has suspended Russian oil pipeline flows to parts of central Europe since early this month because Western sanctions prevented it from accepting transit fees from Moscow, Russian pipeline monopoly Transneft said on Tuesday.

International benchmark Brent crude jumped by $2 per barrel to trade near $98 as the news added to energy supply concerns, but turned negative later in the day. [O/R]

Europe is heavily reliant on Russian crude, diesel, natural gas and coal. Energy prices have rallied this year on short supply as Europe scrambles to replace Russian energy with alternative sources.

Flows along the southern route of the Druzhba pipeline have been affected while the northern route serving Poland and Germany remains uninterrupted.

The suspension of pipeline flows on Tuesday will hit countries such as Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic, which all rely heavily on Russian crude and have limited ability to import alternative supply by sea.

The fact that refiners have to import seaborne oil on such short notice will make the job to secure alternative supply even more difficult in an already tight oil market, traders said.

Hungarian energy firm MOL and Slovak pipeline operator Transpetrol confirmed flows have been halted for a few days over the payment of transit fees.

MOL said it had reserves for several weeks and was working on a solution. MOL's oil refiner Slovnaft said that it initiated discussions with Ukraine and Russian partners on possible payment of the transit fee by Slovnaft or MOL.

Hungary is one of the most reliant countries on Russia oil and its government has been lobbying hard to get exemption from wider EU sanctions on Moscow.

Hungary can import oil via Adria pipeline that connects the Omisalj oil terminal in Croatia to its Duna refinery in Hungary, but the capacity of the route is limited and shipments are much more expensive than via Druzhba.

Slovakia's options for alternative oil imports are even more limited as it has to import oil via Hungary.

Poland's PKN Orlen, which controls refiner Unipetrol in the Czech Republic, may secure alternative supplies from Trieste in Italy via the Transalpine (TAL) pipeline, though the route is operating close to its limited capacity and might not be enough to fulfil feedstock needs, traders said.

The Czech Republic's pipeline company MERO has operative oil stocks that can last at least until the second half of August, and the government is not currently planning to tap its near 90-day strategic reserve, Industry Minister Jozef Sikela said on Tuesday.

MERO said it expected Russian oil supplies through the Druzhba pipeline to the Czech Republic to restart within several days.

Russia's Transneft said it made payments for August oil transit to Ukrainian pipeline operator UkrTransNafta on July 22, but the money was returned on July 28 as the payment did not go through.

It said the shipments were halted from Aug. 4.

Transneft said in a statement that Gazprombank, which handled the payment, told it the money was returned because of European Union restrictions.

SANCTION RULES

Under the new sanctions, European banks have to receive approval from a relevant government authority instead of deciding by themselves whether to allow a transaction, Transneft said.

It said European regulators had yet to decide on algorithms for all the banks, which complicates the dealings.

Transneft is considering alternative payment systems, but had sent a request for the transaction to be allowed, the pipeline monopoly said.

MOL and Unipetrol are the main buyers of oil via the Druzhba route, also known as the Friendship pipeline, while Russia's Lukoil, Rosneft and Tatneft are the main suppliers of oil.

UkrTransNafta did not respond to a request for comment.

Since March, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have relied extensively on supplies of Russian Urals crude via the Druzhba pipeline and reduced purchases of maritime crude.

A decline in European demand for Russian oil since Russia invaded Ukraine at the end of February has pushed the value of seaborne Urals, used to price Druzhba deliveries, to the widest discount in history against the dated Brent benchmark.

Moscow refers to the invasion as a "special military operation".

Russia normally supplies about 250,000 barrels per day (bpd)via the southern leg of the Druzhba pipeline. If the supplies remain suspended Russian oil exporters will have to divert volumes to sea ports, traders said.

Russian oil loadings from its western ports of Primorsk, Ust-Luga and Novorossiisk were set at 8.74 million tonnes in August.

Russia, the world's second biggest oil exporter and leading gas exporter, has already reduced gas pipeline flows to many EU members, citing problems with turbine maintenance on the Nord Stream 1 pipeline as well as sanctions against some buyers Moscow describes as "unfriendly".

(Reporting by Reuters; editing by Barbara Lewis, Jason Neely and Jane Merriman)

Released: 2022-8-9T16:18:21.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220809ei8901qqd


Ukraine Halted Oil Flows to Europe over Payment Issue, Russia’s Transneft Says
Asharq Al-Awsat
808 字
2022 年 8 月 9 日
Asharq Al-Awsat
ASHAL
英文
© 2022, Asharq Al-Awsat (English Edition), All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Ukraine has suspended Russian oil pipeline flows to parts of central Europe since early this month because Western sanctions prevented it from accepting transit fees from Moscow, Russian pipeline monopoly Transneft said on Tuesday.

International benchmark Brent crude jumped by $2 per barrel to trade near $98 as the news added to energy supply concerns, but turned negative later in the day.

Europe is heavily reliant on Russian crude, diesel, natural gas and coal. Energy prices have rallied this year on short supply as Europe scrambles to replace Russian energy with alternative sources.

Flows along the southern route of the Druzhba pipeline have been affected while the northern route serving Poland and Germany remains uninterrupted.

The suspension of pipeline flows on Tuesday will hit countries such as Slovakia, Hungary and the Czech Republic, which all rely heavily on Russian crude and have limited ability to import alternative supply by sea.

The fact that refiners have to import seaborne oil on such short notice will make the job to secure alternative supply even more difficult in an already tight oil market, traders said.

Hungarian energy firm MOL and Slovak pipeline operator Transpetrol confirmed flows have been halted for a few days over the payment of transit fees.

MOL said it had reserves for several weeks and was working on a solution. MOL's oil refiner Slovnaft said that it initiated discussions with Ukraine and Russian partners on possible payment of the transit fee by Slovnaft or MOL.

Hungary is one of the most reliant countries on Russia oil and its government has been lobbying hard to get exemption from wider EU sanctions on Moscow.

Hungary can import oil via Adria pipeline that connects the Omisalj oil terminal in Croatia to its Duna refinery in Hungary, but the capacity of the route is limited and shipments are much more expensive than via Druzhba.

Slovakia's options for alternative oil imports are even more limited as it has to import oil via Hungary.

Poland's PKN Orlen, which controls refiner Unipetrol in the Czech Republic, may secure alternative supplies from Trieste in Italy via the Transalpine (TAL) pipeline, though the route is operating close to its limited capacity and might not be enough to fulfil feedstock needs, traders said.

The Czech Republic's pipeline company MERO has operative oil stocks that can last at least until the second half of August, and the government is not currently planning to tap its near 90-day strategic reserve, Industry Minister Jozef Sikela said on Tuesday.

MERO said it expected Russian oil supplies through the Druzhba pipeline to the Czech Republic to restart within several days.

Russia's Transneft said it made payments for August oil transit to Ukrainian pipeline operator UkrTransNafta on July 22, but the money was returned on July 28 as the payment did not go through.

It said the shipments were halted from Aug. 4.

Transneft said in a statement that Gazprombank, which handled the payment, told it the money was returned because of European Union restrictions.

Sanction rules

Under the new sanctions, European banks have to receive approval from a relevant government authority instead of deciding by themselves whether to allow a transaction, Transneft said.

It said European regulators had yet to decide on algorithms for all the banks, which complicates the dealings.

Transneft is considering alternative payment systems, but had sent a request for the transaction to be allowed, the pipeline monopoly said.

MOL and Unipetrol are the main buyers of oil via the Druzhba route, also known as the Friendship pipeline, while Russia's Lukoil, Rosneft and Tatneft are the main suppliers of oil.

UkrTransNafta did not respond to a request for comment.

Since March, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic have relied extensively on supplies of Russian Urals crude via the Druzhba pipeline and reduced purchases of maritime crude.

A decline in European demand for Russian oil since Russia invaded Ukraine at the end of February has pushed the value of seaborne Urals, used to price Druzhba deliveries, to the widest discount in history against the dated Brent benchmark.

Moscow refers to the invasion as a "special military operation".

Russia normally supplies about 250,000 barrels per day (bpd) via the southern leg of the Druzhba pipeline. If the supplies remain suspended Russian oil exporters will have to divert volumes to sea ports, traders said.

Russian oil loadings from its western ports of Primorsk, Ust-Luga and Novorossiisk were set at 8.74 million tons in August.

Russia, the world's second biggest oil exporter and leading gas exporter, has already reduced gas pipeline flows to many EU members, citing problems with turbine maintenance on the Nord Stream 1 pipeline as well as sanctions against some buyers Moscow describes as "unfriendly".

Saudi Research and Marketing

文件 ASHAL00020220810ei8900001


Politics & Law
Hungary's MOL takes initiative to restart Russian oil flux
202 字
2022 年 8 月 10 日 19:11 GMT
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
英文
Copyright 2022. Xinhua News Agency. All rights reserved.
BUDAPEST, Aug. 10 (Xinhua) -- Major Hungarian oil and gas company MOL has tried to restart the flow of crude oil to Hungary by paying a transit fee to Ukraine, the company said on Wednesday. The oil will arrive in Hungary on Thursday.

Following negotiations with the Ukrainian and Russian parties on the resumption of the Druzhba (Friendship) pipeline, MOL transferred the transit fees for the use of the Ukrainian section of the pipeline.

The payment provided a quick solution to the problem of crude oil delivery, MOL said, which had been halted on August 4 due to technical obstacles with banks. Before that, Russia's crude oil arrived in Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic via the southern section of the Druzhba pipeline.

Local news portal Telex said that Russian oil exporter Transneft had sent the transit fee to Ukraine's accounts held in European banks, but the latter refused the payment from Russia, not wanting to break the European Union's economic sanction rules against Russia.

MOL also said that its subsidiary in Slovakia had made a payment in order to enable the resumption of the flux to Slovakia.

Enditem

News and Information Center Xinhua News Agency

文件 XNEWS00020220810ei8a00dyt


Echoes Of Demand For Civilisational Rather Than National Boundaries
The Arabian Post Network
1076 字
2022 年 8 月 14 日
The Arabian Post
ARAPO
英文
© The Arabian Post
By James M Dorsey[https://thearabianpost.com/?s=James+M+Dorsey]

When Prime Minister Victor Orban recently spelled out his vision of Hungary’s frontiers, he joined a club of expansionist leaders such as Russia’s Vladimir Putin, China’s Xi Jinping, and members of the Indian power elite who define their countries’ borders in civilisational rather than national terms.

Speaking on Romanian territory in the predominantly ethnic Hungarian town of Baile Tusnad in Transylvania, a onetime Austro-Hungarian possession home to a Hungarian minority, Orban echoed the worldviews of Xi and Putin.

Those views are on display in the South China Sea and Ukraine, as well as in statements by the Russian leader about other former Soviet republics. It’s a worldview also embraced by members of India’s Hindu nationalist elite that endorses a country’s right to expand its internationally recognized borders to lands inhabited by their ethnic kin or territories and waters that historically were theirs.

Unlike the Russian and Chinese leaders, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been careful to avoid public support for the civilisationalist concept of Akhand Bharat embraced by his ideological alma mater. The concept envisions an India that stretches from Afghanistan to Myanmar and encompasses nuclear-armed Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, Sri Lanka, and the Maldives.

Modi’s silence hasn’t prevented Mohan Bhagwat, head of the powerful ultra-Hindu nationalist Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) from recently predicting that Akhand Bharat would become a reality within 15 years. Modi has been a member of the RSS since the late 1960s. However, he is believed to have last referred to the Akhand Bharat concept in an interview in 2012 when, as Chief Minister of Gujarat, he suggested that “Hindustan, Pakistan, and Bangladesh should rejoin.”

However, in contrast to his more recent silence, Modi has approached Indian Muslims, the world’s largest minority and its largest Muslim minority, in much the same way that Orban envisions a racially and religiously pure Hungary. The Hungarian prime minister sparked outrage in his July speech when he rejected a “mixed-race world” defined as a world “in which European peoples are mixed together with those arriving from outside Europe.”

Orban asserted that mixed-race countries “are no longer nations: They are nothing more than conglomerations of peoples” and are no longer part of what he sees as “the Western world.” Orban stopped short of identifying those countries, but the United States and Australia would fit the bill.

Romanians may be more concerned about Orban’s racial remarks than his territorial ambitions, described by one Romanian Orban watcher as a “little man having pipe dreams.”

They may be right. Orban’s ability to militarily assert his claims is far more restricted than those of his Russian and Chinese counterparts. Nevertheless, one underestimates at one’s peril.

Orban shares Putin and Xi’s resentment of perceived historical wrongs that need to be rectified irrespective of international law and the consequences of a world whose guardrails are dictated by might rather than the rule of law. His speech seems to promise to reverse what he sees as an unjust diktat. His revanchism may explain why Russia’s alteration in Ukraine of national boundaries by force doesn’t trouble him.

Orban left no doubt that his definition of the Hungarian motherland included Transylvania and other regions in the Carpathian Basin beyond Hungary’s borders that ethnic Hungarians populate. Insisting that the world owed Hungary, which eventually would call in its debt, Orban asserted that his country was driven by the notion “that more has been taken from us than given to us, that we have submitted invoices that are still unpaid… This is our strongest ambition.”

Orban implicitly suggested a revision or cancellation of the 1920 Treaty of Trianon, which deprived Hungary of much of its pre-World War I territory.

Two months earlier, Hungarian President Katalin Novak ruffled diplomatic feathers when she posted a picture of herself climbing a mountain peak in Romania’s Alba County, standing by a disputed milestone painted in Hungarian colours. At the time, Ms. Novak advised Romanian Foreign Minister Bogdan Aurescu that it was her duty to represent “all Hungarians, regardless of whether they live inside or outside the borders” – a claim Romania rejected.

Orban’s grievance and racially driven nationalism may be one reason the Hungarian leader has been Europe’s odd man out in refusing to sanction Russia for its invasion of Ukraine fully. In a break with European Union policy, Hungary’s foreign minister Péter Szijjarto met his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov in Moscow on the eve of Orban’s speech to request additional gas supplies.

In contrast to the EU, which wants to remove Russia as a supplier of its energy, Orban insisted that “we do not want to stop getting energy from Russia, we simply want to stop getting it exclusively from Russia.”

Orban’s speech is unlikely to ease the task of Tibor Navracsics, Hungary’s regional development minister and a former EU commissioner. Navracsics arrived in Brussels this week to persuade the EU to release €15 billion in covid recovery funds amid an unprecedented disciplinary process that could lead to the suspension of EU funding because of Hungarian violations of the rule of law.

So far, Orban’s support of Russia has isolated him in Europe with the de facto demise of the Visegrad 4 or V4 in its current form in the wake of the invasion of Ukraine and the threat of an economic recession.

Grouping the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and Slovakia, the Visegrad 4 were united in their opposition to EU migration and rejection of what the Hungarian leader termed Europe’s “internal empire-building attempts,” a reference to the European Commission’s efforts to stop moves that hollow out Central European democracy.

Leaving Orban isolated, Slovakian Prime Minister Eduard Heger has pledged to use his current six-month presidency of the European Council to return the Visegrad 4 to the roots of its founding in 1991 as the four countries emerged from communism: respect for democracy and a commitment to European integration. If successful, Heger’s V4 will likely be a V3 with Hungary on the outs.(IPA Service)

By arrangement with the Arabian Post

The post Echoes Of Demand For Civilisational Rather Than National Boundaries[https://ipanewspack.com/echoes-of-demand-for-civilisational-rather-than-national-boundaries/] first appeared on IPA Newspack[https://ipanewspack.com/].

IPA News[https://ipanewspack.com/echoes-of-demand-for-civilisational-rather-than-national-boundaries/?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=echoes-of-demand-for-civilisational-rather-than-national-boundaries]

via Echoes Of Demand For Civilisational Rather Than National Boundaries[https://thearabianpost.com/echoes-of-demand-for-civilisational-rather-than-national-boundaries/]

The Arabian Post

文件 ARAPO00020220814ei8e0002t


World
The cost of Orban's pro-Russian policy offers nothing to win but much to lose
1203 字
2022 年 8 月 18 日 10:56 GMT
DW English
DEUEN
英文
© 2022. DW
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban is determined to maintain good relations with Moscow, at times making himself the Kremlin's mouthpiece. The price for Hungary is high, says Zsuzsanna Vegh in a guest column.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban gave a speech in the Romanian resort of Baile Tusnad this past July that caused widespread outrage. In his speech, he criticized the mixing of European and non-European races. In his view, this would lead to the displacement of peoples in Western Europe and the formation of "mixed" countries in a "post-Western" world.

This terminology, which was reminiscent of Nazi language, sparked international controversy. Orban's remarks about Russia and the Russian war against Ukraine, on the other hand, caused less of a stir. Nevertheless, they deserve at least as much attention.

In Baile Tusnad, Hungary's prime minister made himself the Kremlin's mouthpiece. He called understandable Russian security concerns about Ukraine's possible NATO membership, yet noting that this does not justify aggression. He also echoed Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov's threats that Russia would shift the combat front further west.

Disregard for Ukraine's sovereign rights

Orban not so subtly suggested that it was the West — and in particular the United States — that was responsible for the war because it had ignored Russia's concerns, and he called for immediate peace negotiations. In his view, however, these negotiations would not take place between Russia and Ukraine, rather between Russia and the United States. According to Orban, this is because it is the latter that can address Moscow's concerns.

Even if the Hungarian premier effectively stopped short of excusing Russia's aggression, such calls — and the complete disregard for Ukraine's sovereign right to pursue membership of the security alliance of its preference — reject Ukraine's agency, thereby embracing Russia's line of argument at the expense of those values and international commitments upon which Hungary's very own alliances are based.

Threat to veto sanctions against Russia

Giving preference to Russia's narrative is right in line with the policy the Hungarian government has pursued since Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February; namely, to prioritize good relations with Moscow and vocally challenge the EU's sanctions policy.

In June, it went so far as to threaten to veto the adoption of the sixth sanction package just to have Russian Patriarch Kirill removed from the EU's sanction list, even after successfully lobbying for an exemption from the EU's embargo on Russian oil.

What's more, while the EU called for a reduction in the bloc's dependence on Russian gas, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto met his Russian counterpart in July to negotiate the delivery of an additional 700 million cubic meters of gas to Hungary.

It is important to note, however, that during his February visit, Orban himself had already discussed with Putin the delivery of an additional 1 billion cubic meters on top of the annual 4.5 billion cubic meters that had already been agreed, hoping — but failing — to strike a deal before the Hungarian parliamentary elections.

Orban's social policy at risk

Although Orban expected an agreement before the end of the summer, the deal seems to be falling short of expectations as of mid-August. The secured additional amount for August only amounts to 52 million cubic meters — although negotiations are allegedly ongoing. Moreover, Russia is not delivering the previously contracted volume due to restrictions on deliveries that would arrive through Austria.

This puts Orban's social policy of capping energy and utility costs for the Hungarian population at risk. During his visit to Moscow at the beginning of February, he stated that permanently low supply prices would be guaranteed if Russian gas supplies were secured.

So although the benefits to Hungary of Orban's pro-Russian stance are highly questionable, all of the above indicates it is unlikely that Hungary's stance on Russia will move any closer to that of its increasingly frustrated Western allies.

And quite apart from the usual criticism from EU institutions and the United States about rule of law issues that have already cemented Hungary's image as the EU's problem child, the Hungarian government's stance on Russia is costing it its most important ally, the Polish Law and Justice (PiS) government.

Deteriorating relations in Visegrad Group

According to Polish Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, the paths of the two countries have diverged. Even Orban is now talking about saving cooperation for after the war.

Hungary's other two Visegrad allies, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, were already turning away from the Hungarian government before the war; the latter's pro-Russian stance has only served to exacerbate their differences.

The breakdown of relations between Poland's PiS and Orban's Fidesz also undermines Orban's ambition to build a new radical right-wing alliance across the EU. Yet Fidesz is set to continue cultivating these ties across various European countries regardless, carrying forward its hope that these parties will one day rise to power together.

Cooperation among right-wing forces

In fact, Orban's opening speech at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in Texas on August 4, where he expressed support for former President Donald Trump and hope that he would return to power in 2024, demonstrates that he is committed to the long-term international cooperation of right-wing forces.

Putting all his eggs into one basket, so to speak, suggests that Orban is abandoning any attempts to improve ties with the current US administration. This attitude, which also characterizes his approach to the European mainstream, foreshadows further entrenchment of Hungary's conflict with its Western allies and a frosty time ahead for diplomatic relations, at a moment when unity is more important than at any time since the end of the Cold War.

Undermining Hungary's position

Although leaving the EU and in particular NATO is not in the cards for Hungary (because it is not in the government's interest), Orban's lamentations about the fall of the West and his recurrent gestures to its challengers — primarily Russia, but also China — will remain part of Hungary's toolkit. This is something the country's Western partners need to be prepared for.

While Orban seeks to enlarge Hungary's room to maneuver, in reality he is doing the exact opposite: Having undermined the country's position as a credible partner in the West, his politics have relegated Hungary to the role of a useful pawn for external challengers who seek to weaken its alliances.

Zsuzsanna Vegh is a scientific associate at the Faculty of Social and Cultural Sciences at the European University Viadrina, and a nonresident visiting fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States. The views and opinions expressed in this article are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of the institutions where she works.

Edited by: Aingeal Flanagan and Keno Verseck

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban (right) has maintained close ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin (left) (Kremlin Press Office/Anadolu Agency/picture alliance)[https://static.dw.com/image/60614179_401.jpg]

Deutsche Welle

文件 DEUEN00020220818ei8i0008j


Hungary This Week - August 19, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 8 月 19 日, 11222 字, (英文)
The economic war with Russia has already cost the West $380bnThe economic war that the West launched against Russia in the days following the invasion of Ukraine has already cost developing nations $379bn, analysts estimate.

China and the World
Hungarian dance
678 字
2022 年 8 月 26 日
Week in China
WEEKIC
英文
Copyright 2022. ChinTell Limited
CATL unveils electric battery factory in Debrecen

At first glance Debrecen in eastern Hungary is a quiet town with a pretty central square, seemingly untroubled by geopolitical vicissitudes. Yet through the centuries this once-Catholic, once-Protestant city has seen it all – from the fall of the Holy Roman Empire to invasions by the Ottomans, the Nazis and the Soviets. Today war rages in Ukraine, whose border is only a hundred kilometres away. Hungary also treads a potentially provocative line as a European Union member with a government that seems to want closer ties with China, and, until recently, Russia as well.

Some of these political undercurrents have delivered something positive for Debrecen, however, in the shape of a huge investment by Chinese battery maker CATL.

The plan for a €7.3 billion lithium-ion plant comes as Hungary woos wider investment from China, under the leadership of Prime Minster Victor Orbán, who is serving his fourth consecutive term in office. “As a nation, we historically link ourselves to Asia, often describing ourselves as the most Western Eastern nation and the most Eastern Western nation,” the Hungarian ambassador to China told the Global Times last December.

The new plant will become CATL’s second in Europe, following an initial factory in Thuringia, Germany. The facility in Debrecen will be some 10 times larger, however, churning out 100 GWh of batteries a year over an area of 220 hectares.

The plant will help CATL – already the world’s largest maker of batteries for electric vehicles – to better supply clients in Europe including Mercedes-Benz, BMW and Volkswagen.

In recent years Debrecen has refashioned itself as a centre of high-tech manufacturing, attracting the likes of American test equipment manufacturer NI and German automotive parts producer Continental. BMW, which has promised that 50% of its vehicles will be electric by 2030, is also building a plant in the city.

Building a second factory in Europe allows Fujian-based CATL to diversify further from the Chinese market, where the subsidies that have helped sales in the EV market grow are being scaled back.

Mercedes-Benz has also announced it will be the first customer to buy battery cells from CATL's Hungarian plant as it bids to grow sales of its new range of EVs. However, critics of the deal are concerned about Hungary’s deepening ties with Chinese companies, with CATL joining a long list of other firms with operations in the central European nation, including controversial telecommunication equipment company Huawei.

Orbán has pursued investment from China under his Eastern Opening Policy, which he first instituted in 2010. In 2015 it was the first European Union country to join the Belt and Road Initiative, as well as the first to administer Chinese-made Sinopharm vaccines to its population once Covid struck. It has also announced plans to manufacture the same Covid-19 vaccine under licence from China this year.

Budapest’s “iron brother” relationship with Beijing gets mixed reviews from Hungarians and has occasionally sparked outright opposition – such as the demonstrations when the government closed the George Soros-founded Central European University and borrowed €1.5 billion from Chinese sources to build a new campus for Shanghai’s Fudan university.

EU officials in Brussels have also been frustrated by Hungary’s ability to veto statements criticising Beijing. Even in cases when Hungary supports a more critical stance, its position is nuanced. A few days after reluctantly backing a vote to sanction Chinese officials for alleged human rights abuses in Xinjiang, foreign minister Peter Szijjarto described the punitive measures as “harmful” and “pointless”.

After Debrecen was selected as the site for CATL’s new plant the Global Times queried why Hungary had won the race for such a massive investment. The question was a loaded one, of course, with the Chinese tabloid claiming that the answer was simple. “Budapest is rational and pragmatic. It does not follow others blindly and it doesn’t allow its national interests to be kidnapped by others,” the newspaper explained.

ChinTell Limited

文件 WEEKIC0020220826ei8q00006


Russia This Week - August 26, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 8 月 26 日, 50350 字, (英文)
Rosatom gets green light from Hungarian nuclear watchdog to built Paks nuclear plantHungary’s nuclear authority OAH gave the implementation license for the extension of the country’s sole nuclear power plant Paks, with an added capacity of ...

Hungary okays construction of Russian nuclear reactors
334 字
2022 年 8 月 26 日 18:01 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Hungary said Friday that the 12.5-billion-euro construction of two new nuclear reactors by Russia's Rosatom would begin in the coming weeks after a regulatory approval was issued.

The war in Ukraine hasn't deterred Hungary's interest in the project to add to the four reactors already operating at the Paks site outside of Budapest.

The fact that it is moving forward is another indication of the close ties between Hungary's nationalist Prime Minister Viktor Orban and Russian President Vladimir Putin.

"This is a big step, an important milestone," said Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on his Facebook account after the national regulator issued Thursday a permit following numerous delays.

"We can now move from planning stage to construction. You'll see that at the Paks site in the coming weeks," said Szijjarto.

He added it is "realistic" the new reactors could enter service by 2030.

The 2014 deal to build two 1,200 megawatt reactors at the plant in Paks, 100 kilometres (60 miles) south of Budapest, will more than double its capacity.

Built with Soviet-era technology in the 1980s during Hungary's communist period, the plant is the sole nuclear facility in the EU member, and currently provides around 40 percent of its electricity needs.

"In this manner we will ensure Hungary's energy security in the long term and protect Hungarians from wild swings in energy prices," said Szijjarto.

Russia is financing most of the project with a 10-billion-euro ($10-billion) loan to Hungary, which is paying for the remaining 2.5 billion euros.

Fellow EU member Finland cancelled a similar Russian nuclear power plant project in May over Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Hungary has bucked EU efforts to isolate and sanction Russia.

Whereas its EU partners are trying to quickly wean themselves off of Russian oil and gas, Hungary has obtained exceptions and has negotiated extra deliveries of natural gas.

bur-anb/rl/raz

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020220826ei8q00gfp


Hungary breaks ranks as Russia to begin building two nuclear plants in country
Antony Ashkenaz
659 字
2022 年 8 月 27 日 16:32 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
HUNGARY has broken EU ranks once again after announcing that Russia will begin constructing two new nuclear power plants in the country.

Hungary’s foreign minister announced that Rosatom, Russia’s state-backed nuclear energy company, will begin construction work on two new nuclear reactors in the coming weeks. Hungary, an EU member, struck a deal with Russia in 2014 in a bid to expand its existing Paks nuclear plant. Despite Vladimir Putin’s bloody invasion of Ukraine, the EU has not sanctioned Russia’s nuclear industry.

Related articles

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has maintained a strong relationship with Putin and has said that Hungary will stay out of the war happening in its neighbouring country Ukraine.

The country has expressed a lot of resistance to the EU’s plans to sanction Russian oil and gas exports.

Last year, Hungary signed a 15-year agreement with Russia to buy 4.5 billion cubic metres a year.

Earlier this week, Orban was awarded for his close ties to Putin, as Hungary announced that it will receive additional gas supplies from Russia after a trade agreement was negotiated last month.

A Hungarian ministry official has said that the Russian state-owned gas company Gazprom has started to deliver more gas to Hungary than it was contractually obligated to.

By the end of August, Russia will be supplying Hungary with an additional 2.6 million cubic metres a day.

Under the nuclear deal, Russia will build two new nuclear reactors at the Pax site, which generates 40 percent of Hungary’s electricity.

Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto wrote in a Facebook post: "Let the construction begin!"

Once completed, the nuclear power station, which currently has four Soviet-built reactors, will see its capacity more than double thanks to the two new reactors.

READ MORE: Britain boosts North Sea gas and deals Putin hammer blow

Mr Szijjarto was quoted by AFP saying: "This is a big step, an important milestone.

"In this manner, we will ensure Hungary's energy security in the long term and protect Hungarians from wild swings in energy prices."

He added that the additional two nuclear reactors are expected to be ready for service by 2030.

The controversial £10.6billion project is largely financed by Russia.

As the US, UK and the EU look to end their reliance on Russia and its energy exports, Hungary’s deepening relations with Moscow have sparked fury online.

DON'T MISS:

NASA baffled as new 'mini-moon' spotted in space at the edge [INSIGHT]

Putin reeling as EU to SLASH his cash with new Cyprus gas [REVEAL]

NASA’s James Webb makes stunning discovery of CO2 on alien world [REPORT]

Freeyourmind888, a pro-Ukrainian page tweeted: “Why is Hungary even in the EU?

“Hungary has become a vassal state of Russia!!”

Earlier this month, Hungarian official Tamas Menczer said that Russia has begun to deliver gas supplies to Hungary "above the already contracted quantities."

Mr Menczer, who is a member of Viktor Orban’s Fidesz party, posted on Facebook that it was his government’s duty "to ensure the country's safe supply of natural gas, and we are living up to it."

In July, Mr Szijjártó travelled to Moscow to negotiate the purchase of an additional 700 million cubic meters of gas.

Mr Mencer wrote about the trade deal: "In light of what is known about the current European market conditions, it is clear that the acquisition of such a large amount is impossible without Russian sources."

Related articles We need more UK gas! Brexiteer slams green project over low ouput British Gas hands energy lifeline to millions of Britons to SLASH bill Solar storm warning as planet-sized sunspot aimed DIRECTLY at Earth UK power outage MAPPED: Hundreds left without electricity in FIVE area Energy bills lifeline: Brits earning £45k to see support as Boris v...

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220827ei8r0038s


News
Hungary rubs hands over fuel deal with Putin and vetoes Russian travel ban
James Crisp; Arthur Scott-Geddes;James Warrington
714 字
2022 年 9 月 1 日
The Daily Telegraph
DT
1; National
13
英文
The Daily Telegraph © 2022. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Budapest opposes EU calls to sanction gas by signing new contract with Moscow to ensure winter supply

HUNGARY boasted it had signed a new gas contract with Vladimir Putin as it celebrated blocking Ukraine's call for a ban on Russian tourists in the EU.

Several European governments, including Germany, have vowed to wean themselves off Russian gas and many are rationing energy in case the Kremlin turns off the taps.

"Hungary's energy supply is safe," said Zoltan Kovacs, a cabinet minister and prime minister Viktor Orban's spokesman, yesterday after the deal with state-owned Gazprom was signed.

Mr Orban had previously angered Kyiv after blocking an EU embargo on Russian oil until he secured his country a carve-out from the sanctions meant to cut funds to Mr Putin's war machine.

Hungary is about 85 per cent dependent on Russian gas. The new contract will bring up to 5.8 million cubic metres of natural gas a day to Hungary from this month on top of a 15-year deal signed last year for 4.5 billion cubic metres of gas annually.

Budapest has consistently opposed EU sanctions on gas, which require unanimous support from all 27 member states, and refused Western govern ments permission to ship arms to Ukraine through its territory.

In the latest sign of EU divisions over

Russia, the bloc's foreign ministers failed to agree to the blanket ban on Russian tourists some member states had called for at a meeting in Prague.

They did agree to make it harder and more expensive for Russian tourists by suspending a 2007 visa facilitation agreement. Peter Szijjarto, Hungary's foreign minister, said Budapest had opposed a Russian visa ban, which would need unanimity to pass.

Germany and France had also argued against the blanket ban, warning it could estrange future generations of Russians who did not deserve to be punished for Mr Putin's actions.

Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Finland, which all have land borders with Russia, backed the move.

The five said the suspension of the EU's visa facilitation deal with Moscow was a "necessary first step" but warned more had to be done to "drastically limit" the numbers and said they could introduce their own national measures.

"This has become a security risk for these neighbouring states," Josep Borrell, the EU's foreign policy chief, said. "In addition to that, we have seen many Russians travelling for leisure and shopping as if no war was raging in Ukraine."

More than one million Russians have entered the EU through land border crossing points since the beginning of the Ukraine invasion in February, most of them through Finland and Estonia, the bloc's border agency Frontex said.

Earlier, Ukraine's foreign minister had said the EU visa ban would be "an appropriate response to Russia's genocidal war of aggression".

Kremlin-controlled Gazprom yesterday halted supplies through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to Germany for the next three days, ostensibly for maintenance work. The move has fuelled fears that Mr Putin may not resume supplies when the work is complete.

A dispute over gas supplies between Engie and Gazprom also escalated as the Russian company prepared to halt all deliveries to its French contractor from today, citing missing payments.

German manufacturers are already shutting factories to cope with soaring energy prices, despite efforts to slash their gas consumption, Robert Habeck, the economy minister, said He told the Financial Times some had "stopped production altogether" - a move he called "alarming".

Bavaria's Evangelical Lutheran Church, which owns around 2,000 churches and chapels, is considering smaller alternative venues for services to reduce heating costs this winter.

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz ended a two-day cabinet retreat without securing a plan to bring down surging energy costs, which have been behind inflation in the eurozone, which rose to another record high in August.

Germany and France also warned a ban could estrange future generations of Russians who did not deserve to be punished for Mr Putin's actions 'We have seen many Russians travelling for leisure and shopping as if no war was raging in Ukraine'

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

文件 DT00000020220901ei910001k


Russian Press Review - TASS World Service
1548 字
2022 年 9 月 2 日 07:05 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
Izvestia: IAEA visits Zaporozhye nuclear plant

The IAEA, whose fact-finding mission arrived at the Zaporozhye Nuclear Power Plant (ZNPP) on September 1, plans to ensure its permanent presence at the facility. This idea was supported by Moscow. According to its representatives, this will contribute to stopping the shelling of the nuclear power plant, Izvestia writes. The local military-civilian administration told the newspaper that the permanent mission could include three people who would work on a rotating basis.

Negotiations on the IAEA’s visit to the Zaporozhye plant continued throughout August. By the end of the month, the inspectors received safety guarantees from Russia and Ukraine. The mission left Kiev early in the morning on August 31, and by the middle of the day it had reached Zaporozhye with the intention of visiting the plant on September 1. The inspectors had to pass through many checkpoints, cross the line of contact, and reach Russian territory. Another round of escalation occurred in Zaporozhye on this day.

The Ukrainian side anticipated that the Russian army, which was gathering in the vicinity of Kherson, would not have time to respond to a sudden landing, and that the plant, once in Kiev's hands, would become a Ukrainian foothold. No one would have attempted to storm it, and the IAEA mission would have been met by Ukrainian delegates, military expert Dmitry Boltenkov explained to Izvestia.

It took the inspectors just over three hours to inspect the station on the first day. Part of the delegation, together with the Director General of the NPP, left, and a few IAEA employees remained there. The mission will stay at the Zaporozhye plant area until September 3. They plan to release their findings at a later date.

The head of the IAEA confirmed that he plans to establish a permanent agency presence at the ZNPP. "[The concept of the IAEA having a permanent presence at the ZNPP] seems positive and encouraging," Chairman of the Federation Council Committee on Foreign Affairs Grigory Karasin told Izvestia.

Kommersant: Obscure Hungary-linked company expects to get Shell's share in Russian JV

A little-known shipping company, Wellnord, is claiming Shell's stake in the Salym Petroleum Development joint venture with Gazprom Neft, sources told Kommersant. Its owners were not revealed, but according to open-source information, Wellnord's services are used by a significant oil business on the Black Sea and the Caspian. According to Kommersant's sources, this is a structure with Russian and Hungarian participation. Salym Petroleum has already been re-registered in Russian jurisdiction, and Shell has distanced themselves from the company's management and reset its share valuation to zero.

According to sources familiar with the company's plan, Wellnord is ready to buy out a stake for 150 mln euro. According to one of Kommersant's sources, the deal was negotiated with Russian officials, who are interested in international investors’ attraction to sanction-hit Russian assets.

Despite the sanctions, Hungary is attempting to maintain contacts with Russia, including calls for no limits on oil and gas. As a result, the country has been exempted from EU sanctions against Russian oil, and it is also the only member of the bloc to receive gas in full under a contract with Gazprom.

According to independent analyst Dmitry Kasatkin, Wellnord's cooperation might help Gazprom Neft enter new sales markets. He cannot rule out the possibility that Wellnord’s stockholders are connected to Russian oil and gas players, such as Gazprom Neft, which has experience in Hungary. Considering the relationship between Russia and Hungary, he feels the partner's participation may be a loophole in drawing new investments to Russia.

Kommersant: Poland seeking $1.3 trillion in damages from Germany for WWII-era Nazi occupation

The damage inflicted by Nazi Germany on Poland during World War II amounts to 6.22 trillion Polish zlotys ($1.32 trillion), according to the leader of Poland's ruling Law and Justice Party Jaroslaw Kaczynski. On September 1, 1939 (the date of the German attack on Poland), he presented a report with calculations to a commission of his fellow party members - Sejm members. According to Kaczynski, this is a conservative estimate, and the figure might go up. Experts interviewed by Vedomosti noted that Germany considers the issue to be long settled and may grow irritated if the claims continue.

The German Foreign Ministry said on September 1 that the issue of reparations to Poland had been resolved when Poland and the USSR back in 1954 rejected additional reparations, and that the German government was not going to consider it again.

According to Alexander Kamkin, a German studies expert, Berlin considers the subject of reparations to be long closed. According to him, Germany will not take Poland's claims for further damages seriously because all territorial and financial disputes have already been settled and there are no legal channels for collecting new reparations.

The demand for more reparations is not a mainstream Polish view, but is part of the political course of the national conservatives from Law and Justice, Stanislav Kuvaldin, a researcher at the European Union Research Sector at IMEMO RAS told the newspaper. The idea of reparations is politically advantageous for the ruling party, but claims against Germany are unusual in and of themselves.

The reparation talk can be fairly harmless as long as it exists solely within Poland's domestic political arena. If the leaders of Law and Justice continue to seek money from Germany, they will receive only annoyance from Berlin, and relations between the neighboring nations will weaken, according to the expert.

Nezavisimaya Gazeta: Russia refuses to sell oil under ‘non-market conditions’

G7 finance chiefs will unveil a plan to implement a price cap for Russian oil on Friday, September 2. The scheme is to keep the price of Russian oil between $40 and $60 in exchange for legal transportation and insurance. On Thursday, Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak stated that Russia would simply refuse to sell its oil at non-market prices. Experts told Nezavisimaya Gazeta that they believe that the American plan to exert pressure on Moscow is more likely to fail because heavyweight importers are hesitant to join it. Furthermore, the suspension of Russian oil supplies raises the prospect of sending world prices sky high.

The initiative has caused serious division within the G7, with European officials unconvinced that it will have a big impact on prices. Analysts believe there is no chance of convincing China and India to follow through on the proposal. "The key questions are the list of nations that can join the agreement and the control method. If China and India do not join, the likelihood of such an agreement being implemented is quite low," Director of the Center for Economic Analysis at the Higher School of Economics Marcel Salikhov told the newspaper.

Implementing this strategy, even if it is approved by the G7, will not have any substantial impact on the volume of Russian oil and petroleum product exports, the expert added.

"These two countries [India and China] can receive Russian oil at a discount through direct agreements with Russian suppliers. They do not need to coordinate their actions with the G7," leading expert at the Financial University Stanislav Mitrakhovich added.

"So far, we're only talking about seven countries that don't buy Russian oil anyway," expert in Total Research's strategic research department Nikolay Vavilov believes.

Izvestia: How high can EU electricity prices go?

By the end of the year, electricity in Europe may rise in price 12-15 times higher than in January 2022, according to a forecast by the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Based on data from the Nord Pool exchange, in January the average price of electricity in Europe was about 90 euro per MWh, and in August in some areas that figure rose to around 1,000 euro. In December 2022, it could reach 1,500 euro, according to experts. Izvestia noted that the driving factors of such rates include rising gas prices, a scarcity of coal supply from Russia due to sanctions, and inadequate efficiency in generating renewable energy sources (such as solar panels and wind farms). Experts do not rule out that many enterprises may close down due to significant price hikes in Europe.

"The high cost of gas and the potential decline in Russian gas supplies in winter are the drivers of the surge in electricity prices in Europe. It is worth recalling the scenario with the repair of turbines for Nord Stream 1, since Germany and Canada themselves cannot figure out the mechanism for enforcing the sanctions," Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Reliable Partner Association Andrey Romanchuk said.

The price of electricity is directly related to the price of the energy resources required for its generation - most thermal power plants in EU countries operate on gas, as they gradually abandoned coal consumption, taking into account the ESG agenda, analyst at Freedom Finance Global Vladimir Chernov noted. The generation of electricity at European coal-fired thermal power plants that have stayed active or will be reopened is also growing more expensive, according to the expert.

/TASS is not responsible for the material quoted in these press reviews./

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020220902ei92000gw


Hungary said to block sanctions against Russians Usmanov, Aven and Rashnikov
273 字
2022 年 9 月 7 日 19:31 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Ahead of the September 15 deadline to renew the EU sanctions on Russian nationals, Hungary is attempting to block extending the sanctions against billionaires Alisher Usmanov, Petr Aven and Viktor Rashnikov, Politico reported citing two unnamed diplomats.

The government of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has previously been critical of EU's sanctions for Russia's military invasion of Ukraine, has been slowing down the adoption of sanction packages, all the while securing stable energy supplies from Russia.

Reportedly, Budapest has now asked for the three Russian nationals to be removed from the EU's sanctions list, a move that “has infuriated other EU countries”, according to Politico. It is not immediately clear from the report why Hungary would insist on lifting sanctions on these three Russian billionaires in particular.

"The EU sanctions lists are constantly under review, and there are concerns time and again that the inclusion of certain persons or entities on the sanctions list is not sufficiently justified," Hungarian government spokesman Zoltan Kovacs tweeted.

Pyotr (Peter) Aven and his partner Alfa Group’s Mikhail Fridman were among the first Russian oligarchs sanctioned by the UK and the EU for Russia's military invasion of Ukraine in March 2022. Victor Rashnikov is the former chairman and major shareholder of MMK metals major.

Uzbek-born Russian billionaire Alisher Usmanov is head of USM Group with major investments in tech and industry. He previously told[https://www.forbes.com/sites/kenrapoza/2022/07/01/sanctioned-russian-billionaire-usmanov-doubles-down-on-uzbekistan/?sh=c037fce3aaf8] Forbes that the sanctions imposed against him by the US, EU, UK and Switzerland following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, were based on “unjust and unsubstantiated accusations”.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220907ei9700335


Brutal inflation, energy shortage can bring Europe to its knees: Hungarian premier
Mehmet Yilmaz |
185 字
2022 年 9 月 8 日
Anadolu Agency
ANATOL
英文
© Copyright Andolu Ajansi
11,000 sanctions against Russia are in effect and if EU does not change its policy difficulties will worsen, says Orban

BUDAPEST

The Hungarian prime minister said on Thursday that the European Union (EU) sanction policy is not working, instead causing brutal inflation and energy shortage that could bring Europe to its knees.

Viktor Orban said in a statement that the EU's sanctions policy against Russia has so far been ineffective and that he fears an energy shortage in Europe if the EU continues to sanction Moscow over the Ukraine war.

Some 11,000 sanctions against Russia are in effect, he said, warning that if the EU does not change its strategy, the difficulties will worsen.

He said the war is still continuing and that efforts to weaken Russia have been unsuccessful.

He did, however, ensure that there will be no energy shortage in Hungary because the country has enough natural gas and electricity.

*Writing by Gozde Bayar

Brutal inflation, energy shortage can bring Europe to its knees: Hungarian premier[https://cdnuploads.aa.com.tr/uploads/Contents/2022/09/08/thumbs_b_c_b4ca5dbd93f0fd73c5aab108c2fec88e.jpg]

Anadolu Agency

文件 ANATOL0020220909ei980001c


Hungary This Week - September 9, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 9 月 9 日, 16894 字, (英文)
Hungarian inflation jumps to 24-year high in AugustHungary’s annualised CPI accelerated to 15.6% from 13.7% in July (chart), the highest since May 1998, driven by higher food and consumer durable prices, according to data from the Central ...

Szijjarto calls EC proposal on Russian gas price cap 'absurd'
338 字
2022 年 9 月 9 日
MTI - EcoNews
MTIE
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, September 9, 2022 (MTI-ECONEWS) - Minister of Foreign

Affairs and Trade Peter Szijjarto said the European Commission's

proposal to put a price cap on Russian gas delivered to Europe is

"absurd" after a meeting of European Union energy ministers in

Brussels on Friday.

Mr Szijjarto said the proposed price cap would raise prices and

put Hungary's energy supply at risk, adding that Gazprom had

clearly indicated that gas deliveries would cease if the price cap

is rolled out. He noted that gas accounts for 40pc of the country's

energy consumption.

He said the proposed price cap is "nothing more than a

sanction" labelled a commercial measure to avoid the condition of

unanimity required to push through a sanction.

Hungary will not accept a "political" measure that would leave

its citizens lacking heat, gas to cook with or warm water, he added.

Mr Szijjarto said the proposal "flies in the face of European

interests", adding that he had put the question to EC members of

how long they plan to continue their sanctions policy.

He said altogether nine member states were opposed to or

expressed reservations concerning the gas price cap at the meeting

of energy ministers.

Mr Szijjarto said Hungary has enough gas in reserves to cover

38pc of consumption, well over the 22pc average ratio for the EU as

a whole.

He added that the country is getting almost 5.8m cubic metres

of gas a day from Russia in addition to the amount in its long-term

contract with Gazprom.

Mr Szijjarto said other proposals by the EC discussed at the

meeting were "of a technical nature" and "could be acceptable with

minor adjustments". They included a proposal on saving electricity,

that Hungary will only accept if savings are voluntary, another on

limiting revenue of companies that generate electricity using

resources other than gas, one on a "solidarity contribution" by

fossil fuel companies, and one on improving energy market

liquidity, he added.

MTVA

文件 MTIE000020220909ei99001jl


Domotor: EU sanctions harming Europe
250 字
2022 年 9 月 11 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, September 11 (MTI) - The European Union's sanctions

against Russia are harming Europe itself, Csaba Domotor, a cabinet

parliamentary state secretary, told public Kossuth Radio on Sunday.

"The sanctions are mighty but they don't hit where they

should," he said, adding that they "are placing increasingly

unbearable burdens on Europe's economy". He insisted that the

largest price hikes had not been triggered by the outbreak of the

war, but by "the flaunting and adoption of the sanctions".

"There's nobody in Europe left unaffected by an ill-advised

sanctions policy, from high public utility bills through transport

to agriculture," he said. Domotor called the sanctions "runaway

means of economic self-destruction" and called for a change.

While Europe's economy is significantly slowing and

unemployment is on the increase, and the euro is weakening against

the dollar, Russia's economic recession will not be as great as

expected, while it has posted the second largest current account

surplus in the world, the state secretary said. Russia had even

been able to increase its energy revenues while selling less gas to

Europe, he said, adding that energy company Gazprom had accrued 85

percent more revenues than before sanctions were imposed.

Europe depends on Russian gas, he said. "But instead of

changing direction, the EU is planning a price cap on Russian gas,

which would be a sanction disguised as a trade regulation ...

presenting a serious risk that Russia would stop gas deliveries,"

he said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220911ei9b000dx


MTI news roundup
586 字
2022 年 9 月 12 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, September 12 (MTI) - See MTI's main stories from the

previous three days below:

PRESIDENT ANNOUNCES 'ALLIANCE OF FAMILY-FRIENDLY PRESIDENTS'

Hungarian President Katalin Novak announced to set up a network

of family-friendly presidents after talks with her Serbian

counterpart Aleksandar Vucic on Friday. The network will comprise

"family-centered, family-friendly heads of state", she told a joint

press conference in Belgrade. Novak praised Vucic for showing "how

important families are for him, as a person and as a president."

PM EXPRESSES CONDOLENCES TO TRUSS ON QUEEN'S DEATH

Prime Minister Viktor Orban sent a telegram to his UK

counterpart, Liz Truss, expressing his sympathies to her and the

people of the United Kingdom over the death of Queen Elizabeth II,

the PM's press chief said on Friday. Orban said he was "shaken and

saddened" to hear of the Queen's passing. "Her commitment and

service sets an example to us all. The Queen's visit to Hungary (in

1993) remains a fond memory which further strengthened ties between

our countries," Orban said.

PM:'SECURITY STARTS AT BORDER'

"Security starts at our borders, thus Hungary's security will

start with its border patrollers," Prime Minister Viktor Orban told

a ceremony inaugurating the border patrol unit in Budapest on

Friday. He told the new patrollers that the country "respects your

commitment, your courage, and that you have agreed to do this task

and we will appreciate the service you do for your homeland".

"Hungary must not give up its goal to become Europe's safest

country", he said, adding that eliminating risks arising from

illegal migration was a top priority.

FM: HUNGARY NOT TO SUPPORT EUROPEAN GAS PRICE CAP PROPOSAL

Hungary will in "no way" support a proposal to introduce a cap

on the price of gas in Europe, Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto

said in Brussels on Friday, adding that such a measure would be a

"sanction in disguise" leading to further increasing energy prices

and serious challenges in terms of the security of supplies.

PM'S POLITICAL DIRECTOR: TRANSPARENCY IN USE OF EU MONIES

SHARED INTEREST

Transparency in the use of EU monies is a shared interest of

Hungary and the EU, the prime minister's political director said

ahead of an annual civic event held in Kotcse, in western Hungary,

on Saturday. Balazs Orban told journalists in response to a

question concerning plans to set up a Hungarian anti-corruption

board that Brussels and the Hungarian government were continually

monitoring the use of EU funds. There is no dispute with Brussels

in this area and the government welcomes all proposals, he added.

FINMIN: SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIA 'INEFFECTIVE'

Sanctions against Russia are not working, Finance Minister

Mihaly Varga said on Saturday after a meeting of EU finance

ministers in Prague. The EU's sanctions policy has not come up to

expectations, Varga told MTI, noting that Europe was now paying an

exorbitant price for Russian energy. "Brutal inflation and energy

shortages linked to sanctions are bringing Europe to its knees," he

said.

FINMIN: HUNGARY BACKS EU FINANCIAL AID FOR UKRAINE

Hungary, like other European Union member states, is prepared

to support with guarantees the disbursement of EU aid to Ukraine,

Finance Minister Mihaly Varga said after a meeting of EU finance

ministers in Prague on Friday. Hungary has so far provided over 28

billion forints (EUR 70.5m) worth of aid to Ukraine and has taken

in more than 900,000 refugees from its north-eastern neighbour, he

said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220912ei9c0002t


Szijjártó Calls EC Proposal on Russian Gas Price Cap 'Absurd'
338 字
2022 年 9 月 12 日
Budapest Business Journal
WBBJ
英文
© 2022 Budapest Business Journal, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó said the European Commission's proposal to put a price cap on Russian gas delivered to Europe is "absurd" after a meeting of European Union energy ministers in Brussels on Friday, according to a report by state news wire MTI.

Szijjártó said the proposed price cap would raise prices and put Hungary's energy supply at risk, adding that Gazprom had clearly indicated that gas deliveries would cease if the price cap is rolled out. He noted that gas accounts for 40% of the country's energy consumption.

He said the proposed price cap is "nothing more than a sanction" labeled a commercial measure to avoid the condition of unanimity required to push through a sanction.

Hungary will not accept a "political" measure that would leave its citizens lacking heat, gas to cook with, or warm water, he added.

Szijjártó said the proposal "flies in the face of European interests", adding that he had put the question to EC members of how long they plan to continue their sanctions policy.

He said altogether nine member states were opposed to or expressed reservations concerning the gas price cap at the meeting of energy ministers.

Szijjártó said Hungary has enough gas in reserves to cover 38% of consumption, well over the 22% average ratio for the EU as a whole.

He added that the country is getting almost 5.8 million cubic meters of gas a day from Russia in addition to the amount in its long-term contract with Gazprom.

Szijjártó said other proposals by the EC discussed at the meeting were "of a technical nature" and "could be acceptable with minor adjustments". They included a proposal on saving electricity, that Hungary will only accept if savings are voluntary, another on limiting revenue of companies that generate electricity using resources other than gas, one on a "solidarity contribution" by fossil fuel companies, and one on improving energy market liquidity, he added.

Business Publishing Services Kft

文件 WBBJ000020220912ei9c00002


EU lawmakers raise pressure to cut funds for Hungary over graft woes
495 字
2022 年 9 月 15 日 12:13 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - A large majority of European Union lawmakers voted on Thursday to condemn damage to democracy in Hungary under veteran Prime Minister Viktor Orban, stepping up pressure on the bloc to cut funding for the ex-communist country.

Citing corruption risks, the European Commission is expected to recommend later this week suspending billions earmarked for Budapest from the bloc's 1.1 trillion euro ($1.1 trillion) shared budget for 2021-27.

That would be the first such EU move under its new financial sanction dubbed "cash for democracy" and agreed two years ago precisely in response to Orban, as well as his allies in Poland, rowing back on liberal democratic tenets inside the bloc.

On Thursday, the European Parliament voted 433 in favour and 123 against to adopt a report declaring the "existence of a clear risk of a serious breach by Hungary of the values on which the (European) Union is founded".

"The situation has deteriorated such that Hungary has become an 'electoral autocracy'" rather than a democracy, the chamber said in a statement.

In response, Orban's ruling Fidesz party said the EU parliament was more interested in bashing Hungary than tackling an economic crisis caused by surging energy costs aggravated by by Russia's war in Ukraine and Western sanctions against Moscow.

"It is astounding that even in the current crisis the leftist majority of the European Parliament keeps busy only with attacking Hungary," Fidesz said in a statement.

"The left in Brussels wants to punish Hungary over and over again and withhold the funds due for our country."

Orban has been locked for years in acrimonious feuds with the EU, which Hungary joined in 2004, over the rights of migrants, gays and women, as well as the independence of the judiciary, media and academia.

The self-styled illiberal crusader denies, however, that Hungary is any more corrupt than other nations in the 27-nation bloc.

The European Commission has already blocked some 6 billion euros due for Budapest from the bloc's separate COVID economic stimulus package, citing insufficient anti-graft safeguards in Hungary's public procurement.

Funds worth as much as a tenth of Hungary's GDP could be at stake should other EU members approve the expected recommendation by the Commission, a prospect that has weighed on the Hungarian forint, central Europe's worst-performing currency.

Budapest has come under pressure in recent weeks to strike a deal with Brussels and unlock funding for Hungary's ailing economy, and Orban's government has promised to create a new anti-graft agency.

Member countries have three months to decide on the Commission's recommendation and they could limit the punishment if they found Budapest's actions in the meantime convincing.

($1 = 1.0021 euros)

(Reporting by Gabriela Baczynska; Additional reporting by Gergely Szakacs; Editing by Mark Heinricb and Tomasz Janowski)

Released: 2022-9-15T12:13:58.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220915ei9f01xty


CE Noticias Financieras English
European Parliament downgrades Hungary's status to 'electoral autocracy
574 字
2022 年 9 月 15 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The European Commission voted Thursday (15) to condemn the damage to democracy in Hungary, passing a resolution calling ultraconservative nationalist Viktor Orbán's government an "electoral autocracy" and pressing the bloc to cut funding to the former communist country.

Citing corruption risks, the European Union Parliament is expected to recommend later this week the suspension of billions earmarked for Budapest from the bloc's shared €1.1 trillion budget for 2021-27.

This would be the EU's first move under a sanction agreed two years ago precisely in response to Orbán, as well as his allies in Poland. Under the "conditionality mechanism for access to EU funds," each country in the bloc could only receive resources for its post-pandemic recovery if it respected the rule of law internally.

Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orbán at a meeting of conservatives in Texas, USA - Brian Snyder - 4.Aug.22/Reuters The resolution passed on Thursday by 433 votes to 123 against is a non-binding document declaring the "existence of a clear risk of a serious breach by Hungary of the values on which the [European] Union is based."

"The situation has deteriorated so much that Hungary has become an 'electoral autocracy,'" the Commission said in a statement.

The 48-page document "deeply regrets that the lack of decisive action" by the EU has allowed Hungary to reach this point and calls on European institutions to "pay more attention to the systemic dismantling of the rule of law" in the country.

MEPs also called on the European Commission "to make full use of the instruments available to address the clear risk of a serious breach by Hungary of the values on which the Union is based."

The European Parliament press service stressed that "Hungary can no longer be considered a full democracy."

In response, Orbán's ruling Fidesz party said the EU Parliament is more interested in attacking Hungary than tackling an economic crisis caused by rising energy costs exacerbated by the Ukraine War and Western sanctions against Russia.

"It is surprising that even in the current crisis, the leftist majority in the European Parliament remains busy only attacking Hungary," Fidesz said in a statement. "The left in Brussels wants to punish Hungary repeatedly and withhold the funds owed to our country."

In power since 2010, Orbán has for years starred in bitter disputes with the EU, which Hungary joined in 2004, over the rights of immigrants, gays and women and the independence of the judiciary, media and academia.

In 2018, the European Parliament had already opened a case against Hungary for "risk of major violation of European values."

China, land of the middle Get China's big issues explained and contextualized in your email; exclusive to subscribers

. Loading...

The European Commission had also previously blocked Budapest's access to some €6 billion of a separate post-Covid economic stimulus package, citing a lack of anti-corruption guarantees in Hungary's public procurement.

Orbán denies that Hungary is more corrupt than other nations in the 27-nation bloc, but has promised to create a new anti-corruption agency.

Member countries have three months to decide on the Commission's resolution and can limit the punishment if they find Budapest's actions convincing.

Funds worth up to one-tenth of Hungary's GDP could be at stake if other EU members approve the recommendation.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220915ei9f008og


CE Noticias Financieras English
VIDEO: MEPs denounce Hungary as a "hybrid autocratic regime" and criticize EU-27 inaction
653 字
2022 年 9 月 15 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Orbán government urges MEPs to focus on effects of "failed sanctions" against Russia

Brussels to propose this Sunday to freeze funds to Hungary

BRUSSELS, 15 (EUROPA PRESS TELEVISION)

The plenary of the European Parliament has denounced Thursday that Hungary has become a "hybrid regime of electoral autocracy", in which elections are held but democratic standards are not respected, while accused Member States of inaction for not moving forward in the Council with the procedure to sanction partners who put at serious risk the rule of law.

The report adopted with 433 votes in favor, 123 against and 28 abstentions recalls that four years ago the European Parliament itself initiated the procedure that activates Article 7 of the EU Treaty and warns that during this period the situation of fundamental rights in Hungary has deteriorated by the "deliberate and systemic efforts of the government" of Viktor Orbán.

Among the main areas of concern to MEPs are the functioning of the constitutional and electoral systems, the independence of the judiciary, corruption and conflicts of interest and freedom of expression, including pluralism of information.

Thus, the plenary meeting in Strasbourg (France) criticizes the lack of measures on the part of the Twenty-Seven to which it stresses that they can move forward in the Article 7 procedure without the need for unanimity, since this level of consensus is only necessary to decide on possible sanctions at the end of the analysis of the rule of law by this mechanism.

They also demand that Budapest's anti-democratic drift should have consequences for its access to European funds, for example by excluding from financing cohesion programs that contribute to the misuse of EU funds or to violations of the rule of law.

In the view of MEPs, Hungary's recovery plan should also not be approved until the country fully complies with all the recommendations of the European Semester and implements all relevant rulings of the EU Court of Justice and the Court of Human Rights.

Hungary's response has come from government spokesman Zoltan Kovacs, who urged the European Parliament to "focus" on the rising energy prices resulting from the "failed sanctions" against Russia.

"Because of sanctions, Europeans are poorer and Russia is making huge profits," Kovacs said on Twitter. "When Brussels passed the sanctions, this was not what it promised the European population," he has added.

FREEZE COHESION FUNDS

Precisely this Sunday, the European Commission plans to adopt a proposal to freeze "billions of euros" in cohesion funds to Hungary because of the risk that the Orbán government will use them in programs that jeopardize the rule of law in the country, EU sources have indicated.

The draft proposal to which Europa Press had access and which was drafted last July by the Commissioner for Budgets, Johannes Hahn, estimated that given the seriousness of the threat should be blocked around 70% of three Community programs, including one of energy.

Although the document of the Community Executive did not put a figure on the value of the funds that could be suspended, the Hungarian press has estimated their value at around 8.8 billion euros.

However, the Community sources warn that the percentage that Brussels finally proposes to freeze will be lower than the one included in the draft in view of the reforms that Budapest has promised in the last contacts with the Community services, including measures to reinforce the fight against corruption.

In any case, the last word will be of the Twenty-seven that once received the proposal to be adopted by the College of Commissioners will have one month to make a decision, although it can extend the deadline to three months, so the measure will not be immediate.

IMAGES AVAILABLE ON EUROPA PRESS TELEVISION

DOWNLOAD URL:

CONTACT TELEPHONE NUMBER 91 345 44 06

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220915ei9f009o6


CE Noticias Financieras English
European Parliament says Hungary "no longer a full democracy".
611 字
2022 年 9 月 15 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The plenary of the European Parliament denounced this Thursday that Hungary became a "hybrid regime of electoral autocracy", in which elections are held but democratic standards are not respected. At the same time, he accused Member States of "inaction" for not moving forward in the Council with the procedure to sanction partners who put the rule of law at serious risk.

The report adopted with 433 votes in favor, 123 against and 28 abstentions, recalls that four years ago the European Parliament itself initiated the procedure that activates Article 7 of the EU Treaty and warns that during this period the situation of fundamental rights in Hungary has deteriorated by the "deliberate and systemic efforts of the government" of Viktor Orbán.

Among the main areas of concern to MEPs are the functioning of the constitutional and electoral system, the independence of the judiciary, corruption and conflicts of interest, and freedom of expression, including media pluralism.

They also warn of threats to academic freedom, freedom of religion and association, the right to equal treatment, including the rights of LGBTIQ people, the rights of minorities and the situation of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees.

As such, the plenary meeting in Strasbourg (France) calls for a lack of action on the part of the 27 founding states, reminding them that they can move forward in the Article 7 procedure without the need for unanimity, as this level of consensus is only necessary to decide on possible sanctions at the end of the analysis of the rule of law by this mechanism.

In addition, they ask that the anti-democratic drift of Budapest has consequences in its access to European funds, for example, excluding from funding cohesion programs that contribute to the misuse of EU funds or violations of the rule of law.

In the view of MEPs, Hungary's recovery plan should also not be approved until the country fully complies with all the recommendations of the European Semester and implements all relevant rulings of the EU Court of Justice and the Court of Human Rights.

Viktor Orbán's Hungary All European Union member countries except Hungary called on the UN human rights body to condemn Russia for repression of the press, arbitrary arrests, restrictions on freedom of expression and other rights violations since President Vladimir Putin ordered the invasion of Ukraine, diplomatic sources said Thursday.

With their negotiations in the backroom of the Human Rights Council, 26 EU countries hope to give more teeth to efforts to monitor rights violations in Russia, for example by appointing an expert to work on the issue. A UN-backed team of investigators is looking into abuses committed in the Ukrainian war.

Efforts to draft a resolution, led by Luxembourg, would lead to the appointment of a special "rapporteur'' on Russia to record and denounce all rights violations, be they arbitrary detentions, arrest of civil society members, closure of NGOs and independent press organizations, said a Western diplomat who spoke on condition of anonymity.

Two Western diplomats said Hungary, whose government led by Prime Minister Viktor Orban resisted EU attempts to sanction Russia over the war, did not join efforts to draft a resolution.

The Russian government took steps to limit domestic dissent over the war. Russia was a member of the 47-nation council until a few months ago, when it suspended its participation of its own volition as the General Assembly was about to strip it of its council membership because of the war.

The council's four-week fall session began Monday and voting on resolutions will take place in the final days.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220915ei9f00aag


News
Hungary 'is no longer a full democracy' and the EU 'must bring it back in line with European values', European Parliament declares
Akhtar Makoii For Mailonline
808 字
2022 年 9 月 15 日 16:14 GMT
Mail Online
DAMONL
英文
Copyright 2022
* Lawmakers declared Hungary as a 'hybrid regime of electoral autocracy'

* The resolution is a powerful vote against Viktor Orbán's government

* The vote is largely symbolic and doesn't change the course of EU decision making

Hungary is no longer a 'full democracy' and the EU needs to do everything to bring it back into line with European values, members of European Parliament declared today.

The country should be considered a 'hybrid regime of electoral autocracy' where elections are regularly held but without respecting democratic norms.

'There is increasing consensus among experts that Hungary is no longer a democracy,' the lawmakers said.

Thursday resolution is considered to be a powerful vote against Viktor Orbán's government which has been in office since 2010 and held a two-thirds parliamentary majority for much of this time.

European lawmakers have also raised concerns about a long list of fundamental rights they believe to be under threat.

Including the electoral system, the independence of judiciary, privacy, freedom of expression, media pluralism, academic freedom, LGBTIQ rights and the protection of minorities and asylum seekers.

With their vote, the EU lawmakers roundly adopted a parliamentary report that said Hungary has been backsliding on democratic and fundamental rights since 2018 through the 'deliberate and systematic efforts of the Hungarian government'.

The report said lack of action by EU institutions, including the commission which is tasked as 'guardian' of the EU treaties enshrining democratic standards, had exacerbated the degradation.

This is believed to be the first time an EU institution declares a member state is not a proper democracy.

'The situation in Hungary has dramatically degraded. Everywhere, we have degradation and it has become now that [the country] is no more a democracy,' Delbos-Corfield a French MEP told Euronews. [https://www.euronews.com/]

Citing corruption risks, the European Commission is also expected to recommend later this week suspending billions earmarked for Budapest from the bloc's 1.1 trillion euro (£957 million) shared budget for 2021-27.

That would be the first such EU move under its new financial sanction dubbed 'cash for democracy' and agreed two years ago precisely in response to Orban, as well as his allies in Poland, rowing back on liberal democratic tenets inside the bloc.

The European Commission has already blocked some 6 billion euros due for Budapest from the bloc's separate COVID economic stimulus package, citing insufficient anti-graft safeguards in Hungary's public procurement.

Funds worth as much as a tenth of Hungary's GDP could be at stake should other EU members approve the expected recommendation by the Commission, a prospect that has weighed on the Hungarian forint, central Europe's worst-performing currency.

While EU countries are treading a careful line around Hungary because of the need to win its assent on major decisions, diplomats privately are frustrated with Orban's cosy relationship with the Kremlin and his blocking of further sanctions on Moscow.

The commission has likewise been careful to avoid overt criticism, but unease over Hungary's swerve away from rule of law, particularly in failing to curb corruption, is becoming more evident.

Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said Wednesday, in her State of the European Union address to the European Parliament, that the EU 'must fight for our democracies'.

She said her EU executive would work to protect the member states 'from the external threats they face, and from the vices that corrode them from within,' notably calling out corruption although not naming Hungary directly.

The vote is largely symbolic and does not change the course of EU decision making, which requires unanimity of all 27 member states - including Hungary - to adopt major issues, such as sanctions on Russia.

In theory, the mechanism can lead to Hungary losing its right to vote in the Council of the EU, where member states adopt decisions affecting the bloc.

In response, Orban's ruling Fidesz party said the EU parliament was more interested in bashing Hungary than tackling an economic crisis caused by surging energy costs aggravated by Russia's invasion of Ukraine and Western sanctions against Moscow.

'It is astounding that even in the current crisis the leftist majority of the European Parliament keeps busy only with attacking Hungary,' Fidesz said in a statement.

'The left in Brussels wants to punish Hungary over and over again and withhold the funds due for our country.'

Orban has been locked for years in acrimonious feuds with the EU, which Hungary joined in 2004, over the rights of migrants, gays and women, as well as the independence of the judiciary, media and academia.

The self-styled illiberal crusader denies, however, that Hungary is any more corrupt than other nations in the 27-nation bloc.

DMG Media Limited

文件 DAMONL0020220916ei9f0026b


Hungary Sends Mixed Messages on Ukraine, Says Goodbye to Gorbachev
675 字
2022 年 9 月 17 日
Budapest Business Journal
WBBJ
英文
© 2022 Budapest Business Journal, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Hungary will have enough gas this winter to supply its households and the economy, State Secretary Tamás Menczer at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade told TV news channel M1 on September 5. “Gas is flowing to Hungary, where people will be able to heat their homes during the cold winter months, and the Hungarian industry and economy will remain functional,” Menczer said.

The news came in light of the indefinitely suspended closure of the Nord Stream pipeline last week, completely cutting off the supply of Russian gas to that region of Europe. The pipeline is owned and operated by Nord Stream AG, whose majority shareholder is the Russian state-owned company Gazprom, which said the connection would be closed for maintenance until the company could receive supplies currently under sanction.

This closure comes on the heels of a deal brokered by Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó with Gazprom on August 31, which he said would provide an additional 5.8 million cubic meters of natural gas per day for Hungary throughout September and October. Szijjártó said Gazprom delivered up to 2.6 million cubic meters of gas per day in August, in addition to the volume stipulated in the long-term contract.

The additional volumes contribute to the safety of Hungary’s energy supply, he said, citing Eurostat data that reserves in Hungary’s gas storage facilities exceeded 36.5% of annual average consumption, compared to the EU average of 21.5%.

While Russia continues its gas deliveries to Hungary, Budapest proceeds to make deliveries of its own to Ukraine. Some 41,000 doses of the Pfizer COVID vaccine were delivered to Transcarpathia, in the west of Ukraine, Szijjártó said in a video message posted on his Facebook page on September 6.

In addition to the medical support, the Hungarian Reformed Church (MRSZ) announced that it had donated HUF 81 million (EUR 200,000) to the Transcarpathia Reformed Church (KRE) to support the creation of bomb shelters. The donation will be used to set up and equip shelters in four secondary schools in the region and an elderly care home operated by KRE in Berehove.

The MRSZ had already contributed HUF 21 mln to cover the utility costs of 76 congregations over three months. The charity has also collected non-perishable food items worth HUF 41 mln, which will be delivered to Transcarpathia to help communities there in the coming months.

Yet, even as Hungary continues to provide support for Ukraine, it also seems willing to try to lessen sanctions against Russia. According to four anonymous European Union diplomats and officials, Hungary requested that three Russian nationals be removed from the EU’s sanctions list, Politico reported. Two of the diplomats identified the Russian businessmen concerned as Alisher Usmanov, Petr Aven and Viktor Rashnikov.

Another example of mixed Russo-Hungarian messages came when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán led a Hungarian delegation paying final respects to former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev at a public funeral ceremony held on September 3 in Moscow, according to Radio Free Europe. Curiously, he was one of the relatively few world leaders to attend. Many Western countries such as Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States were represented by their ambassadors.

Gorbachev was not afforded a state funeral; his legacy and reputation are viewed in quite a different light in Moscow. Russian President Vladimir Putin did not go but attended the coffin in private in the hospital where the last Soviet leader died. Despite the liberation of millions of people from communist oppression, the fall of the Iron Curtain, the reunification of Germany, and greater EU integration, the reforms enacted by the final Soviet premier led to the collapse of the Soviet Union. Putin has described that as a “disaster.” Hungary, however, is now ranked 13th on this year’s Global Peace Index, according to the Institute for Economics and Peace.

This article was first published in the Budapest Business Journal print issue of September 9, 2022.

Business Publishing Services Kft

文件 WBBJ000020220916ei9h000ul


In a first, EU seen moving to cut money for Hungary over damaging democracy
520 字
2022 年 9 月 18 日 08:04 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) - The European Union executive is expected to recommend on Sunday suspending billions of euros in funds for Hungary over corruption, the first such case in the bloc under a new "cash for democracy" sanction meant to better protect the rule of law.

The EU introduced the new financial punishment two years ago precisely in response to what it says amounts to the undermining of democracy in Poland and Hungary, where Prime Minister Viktor Orban subdued courts, media, NGOs and academia, as well as restricting the rights of migrants, gays and women during more than a decade in power.

The bloc has also long denounced Hungary's public procurement laws for insufficient anti-graft safeguards that return an excessive rate of single bidders and feed corruption.

The Brussels-based European Commission was meeting from 0630 on Sunday and expected to approve a proposal to suspend as much as a tenth of Hungary's economy worth of funds from the bloc's shared budget for 2021-27 worth a total of 1.1 trillion euros.

The proposal would go to EU member countries and they would have up to three months to decide on it in a majority vote, meaning no single country can block the punishment as was the case under the bloc's previous, ineffective democratic policing.

Orban, who calls himself a "freedom fighter" against the world view of the liberal West, denies that Hungary - an ex-communist country of some 10 million people - is any more corrupt than others in the EU.

He has long refused to amend his laws but now came under pressure to struck a deal with Brussels to secure money for his ailing economy and forint, the worst-performing currency in the EU's east.

CORRUPTION

The Commission is already blocking some 6 billion euros in funds envisaged for Hungary in a separate COVID economic recovery stimulus, saying the money would otherwise be at risk of being misused.

Reuters documented in 2018 how Orban channels EU development funds to his friends and family, a practice human rights organisations say has immensely enriched his inner circle and allowed the 59-year-old to entrench himself in power.

Hungary had irregularities in nearly 4% of EU funds spending in 2015-2019, according to the bloc's anti-fraud body OLAF, by far the worst result among the 27 EU countries. OLAF said in 2016 that Budapest should repay more than 280 million euros spent on Budapest metro due to "fraud and possible corruption".

But complex procedures and political wrangling allowed Hungary to avoid major financial punishment since joining the bloc in 2004, something that may no longer be given as the EU tests its new preemptive sanction.

Orban has also rubbed many in the bloc the wrong way by cultivating continued close ties with President Vladimir Putin and threatening to deny EU unity needed to impose and preserve sanctions on Russia for waging war against Ukraine.

here[https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/hungary-orban-balaton/]

(Reporting by Gabriela Baczynska; editing by David Evans)

Released: 2022-9-18T08:04:05.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220918ei9i009st


EU moves to cut money for Hungary over breaches of rule of law”
David
487 字
2022 年 9 月 18 日
The Sun
TSUNE
英文
© 2022, The Sun, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
(Reuters)

The European Union executive recommended on Sunday suspending some 7.5 billion euros in funding for Hungary over corruption, the first such case in the 27-nation bloc under a new sanction meant to better protect the rule of law.

The EU introduced the new financial sanction two years ago precisely in response to what it says amounts to the undermining of democracy in Poland and Hungary, where Prime Minister Viktor Orban subdued courts, media, NGOs and academia, as well as restricting the rights of migrants, gays and women during more than a decade in power.

“It’s about breaches of the rule of law compromising the use and management of EU funds,” said EU Budget Commissioner Johannes Hahn. “We cannot conclude that the EU budget is sufficiently protected.”

He highlighted systemic irregularities in Hungary’s public procurement laws, insufficient safeguards against conflicts of interest, weaknesses in effective prosecution and shortcomings in other anti-graft measures.

Hahn said the Commission was recommending the suspension of about a third of cohesion funds envisaged for Hungary from the bloc’s shared budget for 2021-27 worth a total of 1.1 trillion euros.

The 7.5 billion euros in question amounts to 5% of the country’s estimated 2022 GDP. EU countries now have up to three months to decide on the proposal.

Hahn said Hungary’s latest promise to address EU criticisms was a significant step in the right direction but must still be translated into new laws and practical actions before the bloc would be reassured.

Read also: Strong earthquake hits southeastern Taiwan, building collapses[https://www.sunnewsonline.com/strong-earthquake-hits-southeastern-taiwan-building-collapses/]

CORRUPTION

Orban’s government proposed creating a new anti-graft agency in recent weeks as Budapest came under pressure to secure money for the ailing economy and forint, the worst-performing currency in the EU’s east.

Orban, who calls himself a freedom fighter against the world view of the liberal West, denies that Hungary – an ex-communist country of some 10 million people – is any more corrupt than others in the EU.

The Commission is already blocking some 6 billion euros in funds envisaged for Hungary in a separate COVID economic recovery stimulus over the same corruption concerns.

Reuters documented in 2018 how Orban channels EU development funds to his friends and family, a practice human rights organisations say has immensely enriched his inner circle and allowed the 59-year-old to entrench himself in power.

Hungary had irregularities in nearly 4% of EU funds spending in 2015-2019, according to the bloc’s anti-fraud body OLAF, by far the worst result among the 27 EU countries.

Orban has also rubbed many in the bloc the wrong way by cultivating continued close ties with President Vladimir Putin and threatening to deny EU unity needed to impose and preserve sanctions on Russia for waging war against Ukraine.

The Sun Publishing Ltd.

文件 TSUNE00020220918ei9i000e1


In a first, EU moves to cut money for Hungary over damaging democracy
663 字
2022 年 9 月 18 日 13:33 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2022 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS/BUDAPEST (Reuters) - The European Union executive recommended on Sunday suspending some 7.5 billion euros in funding for Hungary over corruption, the first such case in the 27-nation bloc under a new sanction meant to better protect the rule of law.

The EU introduced the new financial sanction two years ago precisely in response to what it says amounts to the undermining of democracy in Poland and Hungary, where Prime Minister Viktor Orban subdued courts, media, NGOs and academia, as well as restricting the rights of migrants, gays and women during more than a decade in power.

"It's about breaches of the rule of law compromising the use and management of EU funds," said EU Budget Commissioner Johannes Hahn. "We cannot conclude that the EU budget is sufficiently protected."

He highlighted systemic irregularities in Hungary's public procurement laws, insufficient safeguards against conflicts of interest, weaknesses in effective prosecution and shortcomings in other anti-graft measures.

Hahn said the Commission was recommending the suspension of about a third of cohesion funds envisaged for Hungary from the bloc's shared budget for 2021-27 worth a total of 1.1 trillion euros.

The 7.5 billion euros in question amounts to 5% of the country's estimated 2022 GDP. EU countries now have up to three months to decide on the proposal.

Hahn said Hungary's latest promise to address EU criticisms was a significant step in the right direction but must still be translated into new laws and practical actions before the bloc would be reassured.

Development Minister Tibor Navracsics, in charge of negotiations with the EU, said Hungary would meet all 17 of its commitments made to the European Commission to stave off the loss of any EU funding.

"Hungary did not make commitments to befuddle the Commission," Navracsics told a news conference. "We have made commitments that we know can be implemented... therefore, we will not be facing a loss of funds."

CORRUPTION

Orban's government proposed creating a new anti-graft agency in recent weeks as Budapest came under pressure to secure money for the ailing economy and forint, the worst-performing currency in the EU's east.

Orban, who calls himself a "freedom fighter" against the world view of the liberal West, denies that Hungary - an ex-communist country of some 10 million people - is any more corrupt than others in the EU.

Navracsics said Orban's government would submit laws to parliament on Friday to establish a new independent anti-graft authority to monitor the public procurement of EU funds, with the body to be launched by the second half of November.

Hungary has also pledged to implement several other anti-corruption safeguards, including tighter rules on conflicts of interest, extending the scope of financial statements and broadening the power of judges to pursue suspected corruption.

Navracsics expressed hope that the Commission would be reassured by the implementation of the reforms and withdraw its proposed sanctions against Hungary by Nov. 19.

The Commission is already blocking some 6 billion euros in funds envisaged for Hungary in a separate COVID economic recovery stimulus over the same corruption concerns.

Reuters documented in 2018 how Orban channels EU development funds to his friends and family, a practice human rights organisations say has immensely enriched his inner circle and allowed the 59-year-old to entrench himself in power.

Hungary had irregularities in nearly 4% of EU funds spending in 2015-2019, according to the bloc's anti-fraud body OLAF, by far the worst result among the 27 EU countries.

Orban has also rubbed many in the bloc up the wrong way by cultivating continued close ties with President Vladimir Putin and threatening to deny EU unity needed to impose and preserve sanctions on Russia for waging war against Ukraine.

here[https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/hungary-orban-balaton]

(Reporting by Gabriela Baczynska; editing by David Evans)

Released: 2022-9-18T13:33:45.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020220918ei9i009hp


EU set to hold back €7.5bn from Hungary over rule of law violations
Alice Hancock in Brussels and Marton Dunai in Budapest
767 字
2022 年 9 月 18 日 15:41 GMT
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
英文
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.
Move by European Commission follows lack of progress from Budapest in allaying officials’ concerns

Brussels has said it plans to withhold €7.5bn in funding from Hungary over rule of law violations involving corruption in the awarding of public contracts.

The European Commission on Sunday recommended member states vote to suspend about a third of Hungary’s cohesion funding, which is provided to less economically developed parts of the EU.

Budapest is due to receive €22bn in cohesion funds during the current round of EU budget spending, which lasts until 2027. It is also separately seeking to unlock an extra €7bn of grants and billions more in loans under the EU’s Covid-19 recovery fund, which the commission said could also be affected if Hungary did not address rule of law issues.

The decision to withhold the funds must be approved by a majority of the EU’s member states, excluding Hungary, within a month but the deadline could be extended by a further two months “in exceptional circumstances”, the commission said.

Johannes Hahn, EU budget commissioner, said on Sunday the measures were designed to address what Brussels sees as risks to the bloc’s budgetary procedures resulting from Budapest’s lack of transparency in awarding public contracts, shortcomings in Hungary’s efforts to tackle corruption, and weaknesses in prosecuting those who misused European funds.

“Our ultimate objective under this mechanism is that the budget is no longer at risk and we hope to achieve this as soon as possible through the adequate reforms in Hungary,” Hahn said.

About 50 per cent of public procurement contracts awarded in Hungary have only one bidder, the commission said.

Hahn noted that in August Hungary proposed 17 ways to fix the problems including the establishment of an independent “integrity authority”, which he welcomed “even if they were at a late stage”.

But he said: “To consider these remedial measures to be adequate the commission needs to be able to conclude they will put an end to risks to the union budget and the EU’s financial interests.”

Tibor Navracsics, a European affairs minister and a key ally of prime minister Viktor Orbán, told reporters on Sunday that the 17 changes would be presented to parliament next week.

“The last thing the government wants is not to honour its commitments,” he said. “The government is not out to mislead the commission, which expects obligations to be met. We will honour our commitments so there will be no lost funds.”

Budapest plans to create an anti-corruption task force, broaden the scope and control of wealth declarations, and expand ways to prosecute crimes involving public funds.

The suspension of funds proposed on Sunday follows months of talks with Orbán’s government over rule of law breaches first triggered by Brussels in April this year. The €7.5bn amounts to 65 per cent of money allocated under three particular cohesion funding streams. In an internal paper in July, Hahn proposed that 70 per cent of the funding to these programmes be suspended.

Officials in Brussels have been keen to underline that Hungary’s application for money from the recovery fund is independent from suspension of the cohesion money. However, if Budapest does not make notable changes to tackle graft its application for the recovery fund could also be hampered.

Daniel Freund, negotiator for the European Parliament’s Green group on budgetary matters, said that “what the EU commission is selling as a success is less impressive at closer inspection” given that Hungary will still receive the majority of its EU funds. “It is fatal that Viktor Orbán can still avert these sanctions before the end of the year with a few pseudo-reforms,” he added.

Hungary has also provoked anger from other EU capitals for continuing to engage with Russia in order to secure gas supplies, despite EU efforts to sanction Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine. Budapest has also criticised western sanctions as counterproductive.

Hahn said the commission would “gently ask” the council to extend the month-long period allowed for Hungary to prove it was making progress to “the max possible”. That maximum period would give Hungary until November 19 to change the laws necessary to comply with the EU’s wishes.

Budapest would make all the necessary changes and inform the commission by November 19, Navracsics said.

Budapest has said it will table a string of new laws to address the commission’s remaining concerns next week.

The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)

文件 FTCOM00020220918ei9i000xd


Rule of law: Budapest appears confident it can prevent €7.5 billion cut in EU funds
1127 字
2022 年 9 月 19 日
Euronews
EURONEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Euronews All Rights Reserved
Budapest was confident on Monday that it would be able to prevent a reduction in EU funds as called for by the Commission over rule of law concerns.

The EU's executive on Sunday urged the Council to approve a €7.5 billion cut in cohesion funds to Hungary.

This, the Commission said, is the next step in the conditionality mechanism procedure it triggered against Hungary in April.

But Brussels also left the door open to a compromise, adding that if Budapest proceeds as scheduled with the 17 remedial measures it negotiated with the Commission the procedure could be stopped.

The measures include efforts to strengthen the process of awarding public contracts, eradicate conflict of interest among government officials and address weaknesses in the investigation and prosecution of cases regarding EU funds.

Tibor Navracsics, Hungarian Minister for Regional Development, told reporters that "this means, first of all, that no new negotiations are needed"to end the conditionality mechanism procedure against the country.

"And it also means that if Hungary fulfills the agreements and commitments reached in the negotiations, the Council's decision to sanction will not be adopted,"he added.

'About time'

In Brussels, however, reactions were somewhat more cautious.

Swedish MEP Malin Björk (The Left) told Euronews that "it was about time that the Commission takes resolute action against the corruption and dismantling of democracy in Hungary."

"I welcome this proposal from the Commission, which is in line with the European Parliament´s call to stop EU funding until Hungary no longer violates article 2 of the Treaty,"she added.

The Socialists and Democrats group told Euronews they also "welcome the suspension of one-third of the amount originally foreseen for Hungary."

"It is imperative that cohesion money is spent following the European rules. With the level of corruption and nepotism we see in Hungary, it is clear for us that any disbursement of cohesion money is more than risky,"German S&D MEP Constanze Krehl said.

"Just last week, the European Parliament stated that the Hungarian government has no respect for democratic norms and standards. In addition, Hungary is not supporting the European Public Prosecutor's Office."

But their Greens/EFA colleague from Germany, Daniel Freund, said the Commission "should have frozen all the European funds for now because we know that all programmes and all budget lines are targets of corruption of Orban, his friends and family."

"And then of course what we need is an ambitious plan to repair the rule of law, to repair the spending of money in Hungary so there is no more corruption. But also there are huge issues with democracy and free media. So we finally need a decisive action from the Commission to make sure that Hungary becomes a democracy again,"he also told Euronews.

For the punitive measure to go through, it first needs to be approved at the Council level by a qualified majority.

Although a much easier threshold to attain than unanimity — Poland and Hungary have in the past protected each other from possible EU sanctions — it remains unclear whether most member states would vote to punish Budapest.

Portuguese MEP José M. Fernandes from the EPP Group took to Twitter after the Commission's announcement on Sunday to state that "respecting the rule of law is not an option: it is an obligation"and to offer his "congratulations to the European Commission."

"Let's hope the Member States don't block it!"he went on.

"The Council must decide without delay. Be reminded that, for the proposal of the Commission to be approved, only qualified majority is needed. So now we will find out who effectively stands up for the rule of law."

'The outlook isn't good'

Diplomats from several member states have told Euronews that while there is some evidence that the Hungarian government is now taking the threat from Brussels seriously, they remain "cynical."

"We have to see how solid these changes are - I’ve no doubt they’ll be able to impose a whole slew of reforms; the Orban regime has full control over parliament, the judiciary, the public sector - so it’s relatively easy to do this, but will they be permanent, and will they be effective?"one diplomat said.

"One thing we can say is that we've found the pressure point for Orban, I fully subscribe that Hungary is taking this seriously now, because the Hungarian economy is in the tank and he needs the money."

This comes as Budapest and Brussels are in the middle of negotiations over the country's recovery plan.

Hungary is the only member state not to have had its plan approved by the Commission to receive a share of the €809 billion pot at member states' disposal to make their economies more sustainable.

Plans have to be approved before the end of the year and there is growing frustration in the EU that the government of Prime Minister Viktor Orban is using "obstructionist"policies to hinder progress in several areas, particularly relating to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, in order to secure concessions from Brussels.

"There's a whole host of issues where Hungary is preventing important decisions, there was the oil embargo on the sixth sanctions package, the removal of Patriarch Kirill from the sanctions list, the refusal to support a rise in EU corporate tax,"said a diplomat.

Patriarch Kirill, the head of Russia's Orthodox Church and a strong supporter of Russian President Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine, was excluded from the last package of EU sanctions against Russia after Hungary's objection.

In recent days, the Hungarian government refused to support an EU call for a UN Human Rights Council investigation into war crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine.

The other 26 member states will coordinate the call as individual countries, rather than a formal EU resolution.

Whether this will impact the way member states vote on the punitive measure envisaged by the Commission remains to be seen.

Poland has already stated it will stick by Orban. Hungary may also be able to rely on the far-right government in Italy under Giorgia Meloni, if she is elected on 25 September.

But one official from a member state told Euronews that "overall, the outlook isn’t good. It’s not limited to just corruption - the backsliding had been going on for years now, but I won't lose hope that we can protect the EU from these autocrats."

Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban arrives to a round table meeting at an EU summit in Brussels, Oct. 22, 2021. (John Thys, Pool Photo via AP)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/07/02/78/58/800x450_cmsv2_af5013e1-c3a4-5102-b80a-a73c7a6a9b1d-7027858.jpg]

Click to view video (euronews)[https://video-partners.euronews.com/mp4/1080p/EN/E3/BX/22/09/19/en/220919_E3BX_48287916_48288011_118000_163502_en.mp4?feed=2bd244b0-b2a1-11e9-a2d5-f18485a8fd67]

Euronews

文件 EURONEN020220919ei9j0005t


Insight EU monitoring - Your Daily Premium Digest
3177 字
2022 年 9 月 19 日
Insight EU Monitoring Daily (IEU-M)
IEUD
英文
Copyright 2022. Comecon Media GmbH
A full-text overview of today's most important posts on our Insight EU portal

DAILY DIGEST

PREMIUM

www.ieu-monitoring.com[http://www.ieu-monitoring.com]

* Hungarian Justice Minister hails “constructive talks” with EC

* Orbán in Belgrade: The EU sanctions policy must be placed on a reasonable basis

* MEPs: Hungary can no longer be considered a full democracy

* SPD-Abgeordnete Barley: “Den Antidemokraten Orbán zur Verantwortung ziehen”

* Ungarn: CSU-Haushaltskontrolleurin Hohlmeier zum Vorschlag der EU-Kommission

* Hungary: EU Commission asks EU Council to suspend parts of Hungarian EU budget

Hungarian Justice Minister hails “constructive talks” with EC[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/hungarian-justice-minister-hails-constructive-talks-with-ec/387237/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

SEP 16, 2022

The justice minister said it is crucial that Hungary’s partners get a better understanding of the country’s stance on the rule-of-law procedures, the war in Ukraine and the energy sanctions imposed on Russia.

Justice Minister Judit Varga said Hungary had conducted talks with the European Commission aimed at boosting the transparency of public procurements “in a constructive spirit” over the summer. The justice minister said European partners have recognised this. She said it is also crucial that Hungary’s partners get a better understanding of the country’s stance on the rule-of-law procedures, the war in Ukraine and the energy sanctions imposed on Russia.

Following talks with French President Emmanuel Macron’s Europe advisor and Laurence Boone, France’s state secretary for European affairs, Minister Varga told MTI that Hungary had put forward several proposals in its response letter to the European Commission late last month, and was in agreement with its negotiating partners at the talks in Brussels that the transparent utilisation of EU funds was as much in the interest of EU citizens as it was in that of Hungarian taxpayers. “It is a shared interest for which the Hungarian government has been able to provide far-reaching guarantees,” the minister said. “We have done everything the EU has asked, so we await the positive evaluation,” she added. Varga praised the “constructive, positive and solution-oriented tone” of the talks between the EC and Hungary.

“We’re working to maintain this positive mood and conduct with the European Commission, which right now is part of the solution,” she said. “It’s good if the powerful European countries keeping up with the talks between the European Commission and Hungary know all this.” Concerning Hungary’s proposals, the minister noted that Hungary will reduce the share of public procurement procedures with a single bidder to below 15%, ensure legal remedy against the prosecutor’s decisions in corruption cases, set up an authority to oversee and guarantee the regularity of public procurements at the highest level and develop performance measurement systems that will also assess the cost-effectiveness of public procurements.

Minister Varga’s talks in Paris also touched on the EU’s sanctions imposed on Russia. She said the war and associated sanctions had caused Europe’s economic hardships such as inflation, sky-high food and energy prices, and unstable energy supplies, adding that Hungary’s standpoint on energy-related sanctions was based on facts on the ground rather than being ideologically motivated. “New energy sanctions would prove fatal for central Europe for historical, geographical and physical reasons, while Europe’s interests wouldn’t be served either,” she said. The emphasis should be on working for peace instead of enhancing “wartime sanctions”, she said, adding that it should be recognised that sanctions “are more damaging to the side that enforces them than to their target”. Varga said the French were “very pragmatic”. “The notion of the European community projected by President Emmanuel Macron is crucial for the future of Europe,” she said, noting points of commonality in Hungarian and French positions.

Minister Varga travelled on to Madrid to discuss the upcoming Spanish-Belgian-Hungarian EU presidency. Spain takes over the presidency in July next year before handing it over to Belgium in December. In the second half of 2024, Hungary will take over. She said the Hungarian presidency would play a decisive role in the establishment of a new European Commission and Council after the European Parliament elections. “Hungary always backs European solutions that do not ignore people’s interests,” she said.

Source – Hungarian Government[https://abouthungary.hu/news-in-brief/justice-minister-hails-constructive-talks-with-ec]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/hungarian-justice-minister-hails-constructive-talks-with-ec/387237/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Orbán in Belgrade: The EU sanctions policy must be placed on a reasonable basis[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/orban-in-belgrade-the-eu-sanctions-policy-must-be-placed-on-a-reasonable-basis/387234/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

SEPTEMBER 16, 2022

Belgrade. – “We would like the EU sanctions policy to change and be put on a more reasonable basis” – Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in Belgrade. He saw that the nature of sanctions is that they are usually decided in places that are safe and far from the country against which they are imposed.

“It is easy to implement sanctions policy from Paris, Brussels, Madrid, but maybe even from Berlin,” he said, adding: “however, we are closer to the sanctioned country, Russia.”

He believed that those who are closer “always suffer more”, so there is nothing surprising in the fact that the Hungarian point of view is radically different from the one in Brussels. Moreover, the strong used to impose sanctions against the weak, but now “we Europeans, who are energy dwarfs, are imposing sanctions on an energy giant”, which is a completely unusual phenomenon in history, he explained.

The prime minister emphasized: “these sanctions are causing us very serious damage, they are bad, painful for us, they cost a lot of money, and they threaten to eat up a considerable part of our successes that we have achieved in the last ten years”. Because with the skyrocketing energy prices, “our foreign trade balance will deteriorate”, and then “the balance of payments will also deteriorate” –

So the sanction that “the Westerners invented” today does not serve Hungary’s interest, “in fact, it poses an extremely serious danger for us”. And the most worrying thing about the whole thing is that “while we are entering an increasingly serious economic crisis”, it is quite obvious that if the sanctions were repealed, the situation would immediately improve – he opined.

He added: so it’s not just that we are “suffering through a large, painful series of measures”, but that this could be reversed with a single move. Viktor Orbán stated: “Therefore, he will always argue in favor of the European Union not applying sanctions that hurt more here in Central Europe than the person they are applied to.

Source – Hungarian Government – kormany.hu (translated by Google Translate):

https://kormany-hu.translate.goog/hirek/ha-a-szankciokat-hatalyon-kivul-helyeznek-a-helyzet-azonnal-javulna[https://kormany.hu/hirek/ha-a-szankciokat-hatalyon-kivul-helyeznek-a-helyzet-azonnal-javulna]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/orban-in-belgrade-the-eu-sanctions-policy-must-be-placed-on-a-reasonable-basis/387234/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

MEPs: Hungary can no longer be considered a full democracy[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/meps-hungary-can-no-longer-be-considered-a-full-democracy/387232/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Strasbourg, 15 September 2022

* The situation has deteriorated such that Hungary has become an “electoral autocracy”

* EU inaction exacerbated the backslide; recovery funds should be withheld until the country complies with EU recommendations and court rulings

* Lack of progress in the Article 7 process would amount to a rule of law breach by the Council

Parliament condemns the “deliberate and systematic efforts of the Hungarian government” to undermine European values and demands results in the Article 7 process.

The lack of decisive EU action has contributed to the emergence of a “hybrid regime of electoral autocracy”, i.e. a constitutional system in which elections occur, but respect for democratic norms and standards is absent, MEPs say.

The report adopted on Thursday, with 433 votes for, 123 against, and 28 abstentions, builds on the one with which Parliament triggered the Article 7 procedure[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/doceo/document/TA-8-2018-0340_EN.html] in 2018, to provide an overview of developments in Parliament’s 12 areas of concern[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20180906IPR12104/rule-of-law-in-hungary-parliament-calls-on-the-eu-to-act]. It thereby demonstrates how the values enshrined in Article 2 of the EU Treaties[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/treaty/teu_2012/art_2/oj], including democracy and fundamental rights in the country have further deteriorated since 2018, through the “deliberate and systematic efforts of the Hungarian government”, and exacerbated by EU inaction.

EU institutions need to act and must also be held accountable

Parliament deplores the inability of the Council to make meaningful progress to counter democratic backsliding. MEPs emphasise that Article 7(1)[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A12012M007] does not require unanimity among member states to identify a clear risk of a serious breach of EU values, nor to issue concrete recommendations and deadlines. They say any further delay in acting under Article 7 rules to protect EU values in Hungary would amount to a breach of the principle of the rule of law by the Council itself.

MEPs urge the Commission to make full use of all tools at its disposal and, in particular, the budget conditionality[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220304IPR24802/rule-of-law-conditionality-commission-must-immediately-initiate-proceedings] regulation. At a time when EU values are especially under threat by the Russian war against Ukraine and its anti-EU actions, they also call on the Commission to:

* refrain from approving the Hungarian RRF plan[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20211001IPR14015/hungary-and-poland-plans-should-be-approved-only-if-concerns-are-addressed] until Hungary has fully complied with all relevant European Semester recommendations and implemented all the relevant judgements of the EU Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights;

* exclude from funding those cohesion programmes contributing to the misuse of EU funds or to breaches of the rule of law; and

* apply the Common Provisions Regulation and the Financial Regulation more stringently in order to tackle any misuse of EU funds for political motives.

Independence of the judiciary, corruption and human freedoms remain key EP’s concerns

Four years after the report that started the Article 7 process, MEPs remain concerned about several political areas concerning democracy and fundamental rights in Hungary. Some of the main areas are the functioning of its constitutional and electoral system, the independence of the judiciary, corruption and conflicts of interest and freedom of expression, including media pluralism. Academic freedom, freedom of religion, freedom of association, the right to equal treatment, including LGBTIQ rights, the rights of minorities, as well as those of migrants, asylum seekers and refugees, are also problematic.

Quote

Gwendoline Delbos-Corfield (Greens/EFA, FR)[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/meps/en/197531/GWENDOLINE_DELBOS-CORFIELD/home#detailedcardmep], Parliament’s rapporteur on the situation in Hungary, said: “The conclusions of this report are clear and irrevocable: Hungary is not a democracy. It was more urgent than ever for the Parliament to take this stance, considering the alarming rate at which rule of law is backsliding in Hungary. Beyond acknowledging Fidesz’s autocratic strategy, the large majority of MEPs supporting this position in the European Parliament is unprecedented. This should be a wake-up call for the Council and Commission.”

Further information and linkssteady-paywall

* Adopted text (15.09.2022) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/plenary/en/texts-adopted.html]

* Video recording of the debate (14.09.2022) [https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/event_20220914-0900-PLENARY_vd?start=20220914114240&end=20220914134219]

* Press conference (14.09.2022) with Gwendoline DELBOS-CORFIELD (Greens/EFA,FR), rapporteur, Isabel WISELER-LIMA(EPP, LU), Bettina VOLLATH (S&D, AU), Ramona STRUGARIU (Renew, RO) and Malin BJÖRK (The Left, SV) [https://multimedia.europarl.europa.eu/en/webstreaming/press-conference-by-gwendoline-delbos-corfield-rapporteur-isabel-wiseler-lima-bettina-vollath-ramona_20220914-1530-SPECIAL-PRESSER]

* Hungary: member states have an obligation to end attacks on EU values (13.07.2022) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220711IPR35008/hungary-member-states-have-an-obligation-to-end-attacks-on-eu-values]

* Procedure file [https://oeil.secure.europarl.europa.eu/oeil/popups/ficheprocedure.do?lang=en&reference=2018/0902R(NLE)]

* MEPs demand more EU action to protect common values in Hungary and Poland (05.05.2022) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20220429IPR28226/meps-demand-more-eu-action-to-protect-common-values-in-hungary-and-poland]

* Rule of law in Hungary: MEPs conclude three-day trip to assess the situation (01.10.2021) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20210930IPR13942/rule-of-law-in-hungary-meps-conclude-three-day-trip-to-assess-the-situation]

* European Parliament vehemently opposed to Hungarian anti-LGBTIQ law (08.07.2021) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20210701IPR07502/european-parliament-vehemently-opposed-to-hungarian-anti-lgbtiq-law]

* Parliament demands a legally binding, effective mechanism to protect EU values (07.10.2020) [https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/press-room/20201002IPR88432/parliament-demands-a-legally-binding-effective-mechanism-to-protect-eu-values]

* Rule of law concerns: how the EU can act (infographic)[https://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/eu-affairs/20180222STO98434/rule-of-law-concerns-how-the-eu-can-act-infographic]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/meps-hungary-can-no-longer-be-considered-a-full-democracy/387232/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

SPD-Abgeordnete Barley: “Den Antidemokraten Orbán zur Verantwortung ziehen”[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/spd-abgeordnete-barley-den-antidemokraten-orban-zur-verantwortung-ziehen/387226/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

18. September 2022

VON KATARINA BARLEY

Haushaltskommissar Johannes Hahn hat heute bekannt gegeben, dass die EU-Kommission Ungarn EU-Gelder kürzen will, aufgrund von Korruption und Verstößen gegen den Rechtsstaat.

Katarina Barley, Vize-Präsidentin des EU-Parlaments:

“Seit Orban vor über 12 Jahren an die Macht gekommen ist, konnte er Unsummen an EU-Geldern stehlen. Nun hat sich die Kommission nach langem Ringen endlich dazu entschlossen, die EU-Mittel für Budapest deutlich zu kürzen. Fraglich, ob das ohne den Druck des Europäischen Parlaments überhaupt passiert wäre.

Ich begrüße den Schritt, den Antidemokraten Orban für seine Korruption zur Verantwortung zu ziehen. Kommission und Rat müssen jetzt zeigen, dass sie es ernst meinen mit dem Schutz der Rechtsstaatlichkeit. Zu oft hat die Kommission jedes noch so kleine Reförmchen als Feigenblatt genommen, um das eigene Einknicken vor dem Regime Orban zu kaschieren. Das hat nur zu immer schlimmeren Entwicklungen geführt. Dieses Mal muss das Signal der EU klar und deutlich sein – Schluss mit Korruption und Abbau von Rechtsstaatlichkeit!”

Die EU-Kommission wird ihre Empfehlung nun dem Ministerrat vorlegen, der über die Kürzung der Mittel final entscheiden muss.

Quelle – Europa-SPD (via E-Mail)

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/spd-abgeordnete-barley-den-antidemokraten-orban-zur-verantwortung-ziehen/387226/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Ungarn: CSU-Haushaltskontrolleurin Hohlmeier zum Vorschlag der EU-Kommission[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ungarn-csu-haushaltskontrolleurin-hohlmeier-zum-vorschlag-der-eu-kommission/387223/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brüssel, 18 September 2022

Zum Vorschlag der Kommission, EU-Haushaltsmittel gegenüber Ungarn zurückzuhalten, erklärt Monika Hohlmeier (CSU), Vorsitzende des Haushaltskontrollausschusses des Europaparlaments:

“Die Kommission hat die Zeit genutzt, die sie sich zur erstmaligen Anwendung des Haushalts-Konditionalitätsmechanismus bei der Beurteilung der Rechtstaatlichkeit in Ungarn genommen hat. Zusammen mit den weiterhin zurückgehaltenen Mitteln aus dem EU-Corona-Wiederaufbaufonds sind die heute vorgeschlagenen 7-8 Milliarden keine Peanuts, sondern eine substantielle Summe, die der ungarischen Regierung vor Augen führen sollte, dass die Bedenken schwerwiegend sind und dass sie sich bewegen muss.

Die letzten Signale aus Budapest deuten zumindest daraufhin, dass man dort bereit für Veränderungen ist. Die ungarischen Regierung sollte durch rasche Maßnahmen sicherstellen, dass die für Ungarn vorgesehenem Gelder tatsächlich der breite der Bevölkerung zugutekommen und nicht trickreich in regierungsnahen “Family and Friends”-Strukturen verschwinden. Ob die auf den Weg gebrachten Reformen ausreichend sind, muss die Kommission sehr genau bewerten. Eine rein oberflächliche Umsetzung der geforderten Maßnahmen gegen die eklatanten Defizite im ungarischen Staatswesen hinsichtlich Korruptionsbekämpfung, Interessenskonflikte und insbesondere bei öffentlichen Ausschreibungen ist nicht tragbar. Wir brauchen glaubhafte und tiefgreifende Veränderungen in Ungarn, damit EU-Mittel dort nicht weiterhin zur Bereicherung einiger weniger regierungsnaher Unternehmen und Personen missbraucht werden.

Der Rat muss nun in ein bis drei Monaten entscheiden, ob er der heutigen Entscheidung der Kommission folgt. Im Gegensatz zum blockierten Artikel-7 Verfahren gilt hier die qualifizierte Mehrheit, die Hürden sind somit geringer.”

Quelle – EVP/CSU (via E-Mail)

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/ungarn-csu-haushaltskontrolleurin-hohlmeier-zum-vorschlag-der-eu-kommission/387223/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Hungary: EU Commission asks EU Council to suspend parts of Hungarian EU budget[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/hungary-eu-commission-asks-eu-council-to-suspend-large-parts-of-hungarian-eu-budget/387217/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

Brussels, 18 September 2022

EU Commission proposes measures to the Council under the conditionality regulation:

* A suspension of 65% of the commitments for three operational programmes under cohesion policy

* A prohibition to enter into legal commitments with the public interest trusts for programmes implemented in direct and indirect management

The European Commission has today proposed budget protection measures to the Council under the conditionality regulation. This is to ensure the protection of the EU budget and the financial interests of the EU against breaches of the principles of the rule of law in Hungary.

Regarding today’s decision, Commissioner Johannes Hahn in charge of Budget and Administration said:

“Today’s decision is a clear demonstration of the Commission’s resolve to protect the EU budget, and to use all tools at our disposal to ensure this important objective.”

This step builds on an intensive dialogue between the Commission and the Hungarian authorities in the past months, which has resulted in Hungary proposing a range of remedial measures to address the concerns identified by the Commission when the process was formally launched on 27 April this year.

It follows the letter that the Commission sent to Hungary, outlining the measures it intended to propose to the Council, and the remedial measures submitted by Hungary in the letter of 22 August, complemented by additional clarifications in a letter on 13 September.

The Commission has thoroughly assessed the Hungarian reply, looking in particular into whether the remedial measures adequately address the Commission’s initial findings. For the measures to qualify as adequate, they would need to put an end to the breaches of the principles of rule of law and/or to the risks they create for the EU budget and the Union’s financial interests.

The Commission’s conclusion is that the proposed remedial measures could in principle address the issues at hand, if they are correctly detailed in relevant laws and rules, and implemented accordingly.

Pending the fulfilment of the key implementation steps, the Commission considers that a risk for the budget remains at this stage. This explains today’s decision and the proposed measures, which also take into account the remedial action that Hungary has presented.

At this stage, the Commission proposes the following measures:

* A suspension of 65% of the commitments for three operational programmes under cohesion policy

* A prohibition to enter into legal commitmentswith the public interest trusts for programmes implemented in direct and indirect management

The Council has now one month to decide whether to adopt such measures, by qualified majority. This period could be extended by a maximum of further two months in exceptional circumstances.

In the meantime, the Commission will monitor the situation and keep the Council informed of any relevant element which may have an effect on its present assessment. Hungary has committed to fully inform the Commission about the fulfilment of the key implementation steps by 19 November.

Background and PDF document of today’s EU Commission decision:

steady-paywall

TheRegulation on a general regime of conditionality for the protection of the Union budget[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.LI.2020.433.01.0001.01.ENG&toc=OJ:L:2020:433I:TOC]ensures protection of the EU budget in cases when breaches of the rule of law principles affect or seriously risk affecting its sound financial management or the protection of the EU financial interests in a sufficiently direct way. It applies since January 2021. Ever since, the Commission has been monitoring the situation across the EU countries and collecting relevant information.

On 2 March 2022, European Commission adoptedits guidelines on the general regime of conditionality[https://ec.europa.eu/info/files/guidelines-application-rule-law-conditionality-regulation_en]. The guidelines explain in detail how the Commission will apply the regulation, including how the rights of the final recipients and beneficiaries of EU funding will be protected.

The procedure in the case of Hungary is the first one under the regulation. The Commission continues to monitor information from all relevant sources, to identify possible relevant breaches of the principles of the rule of law.

Proposal for a COUNCIL IMPLEMENTING DECISION on measures for the protection of the Union budget against breaches of the principles of the rule of law in Hungary

com_2022_485_1_en_act

Further links:

College decision of 18 September 2022[https://ec.europa.eu/info/files/proposal-council-implementing-decision-measures-protection-union-budget-against-breaches-principles-rule-law-hungary_en]

Guidance on the conditionality mechanism[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_22_1468]

Rule of law conditionality regulation on the web[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/eu-budget/protection-eu-budget/rule-law-conditionality-regulation_en#guidelines]

Read in browser »[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/editorial/hungary-eu-commission-asks-eu-council-to-suspend-large-parts-of-hungarian-eu-budget/387217/?utm_source=ieu-portal]

You are receiving this e-mail because you have signed up for the premium version of our Insight EU Monitoring Digest.

Please, do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have any problems in receiving or opening this mail, or if you are interested in other services we offer.

You find more information about us on our FAQ page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] and on our subscription page[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/subscribe/]. Or simply contact our publisher[mailto:j.weidemann@ieu-monitoring.com?subject=Letter%20to%20the%20publisher].

Important note

Please do not hesitate to reach out if you need tailored regulatory monitoring services, focusing on certain policy fields, institutions, or issues. See also our FAQs[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/faq/] for further information.

Last, but not least, here are some more useful deep links:

* Free Daily Insight EU Digest Basic: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-daily-digest/]

* Insight EU Agenda Weekly: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-agenda/]

* Insight EU Premium: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/insight-eu-premium]

* Specialised Insight EU monitoring issues: portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/[https://portal.ieu-monitoring.com/ieu-store/]

Comecon

文件 IEUD000020220919ei9j00004


EU braces for revolt as Poland vows veto on cuts to Hungary in latest attack on VDL
Alessandra Scotto di Santolo
852 字
2022 年 9 月 20 日 10:46 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
The Polish Prime Minister broke the silence on his country's alliance with Hungary after six months of cooler relations over the war in Ukraine.

The European Union is facing a revolt from within as Poland slams planned cuts to Hungary's funding. Last week, the EU Commission proposed to suspend €7.2billion of funds allocated to Hungary over corruption fears. The Commission also set out requirements for Hungary to keep access to the funding, including new legislation, which Budapest said it would meet.

Related articles

Coming out in defence of Viktor Orban's government, Polish leader Mateusz Morawiecki said on Sunday: “Poland will oppose in the strongest terms any action by the European institutions that intends to unlawfully deprive any member state of funds, in this case Hungary in particular."

The two countries had been locking horns over Mr Orban's alliance to Russian President Vladimir Putin and Budapest's reluctance to provide military support to Ukraine.

But at the beginning of this month, Mr Morawiecki announced his intention to return to normal cooperation with Hungary within the Visegrad Group of nations.

On Monday, Hungary's government has submitted the first of several anti-corruption bills to parliament in a bid to avoid losing billions of euros from the EU.

Justice Minister Judit Varga said on her Facebook page that she had submitted the first bill to parliament as the government "will focus on drafting and implementing the commitments in coming weeks and months".

EU break-up now inevitable - Hungary and Poland won’t be bossed by Brussels JONATHAN SAXTYIn 2020, Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte asked, perhaps slightly tongue-in-cheek, whether they might have an EU without that troublesome duo of Hungary and Poland? It was a telling moment, hinting at frustration in western Europe with what many there see as recalcitrant ex-communist states, writes Jonathan Saxty.

Is the EU at risk of breaking apart over internal tensions? Find out HERE.

"Hungary could enter the year 2023 without losing any EU funds," Ms Varga said.

The bill modifies legislation relating to Hungary's cooperation with the EU anti-fraud office OLAF, ensuring that OLAF gets support from Hungarian tax authority officials in its investigations of EU-funded projects and gets access to data and documents on the scene.

In addition, it changes rules governing state asset management foundations, obliging them explicitly to issue public procurement tenders for projects and tightening conflict of interest rules in their management.

Hungary's case is the first in the EU under a new sanction meant to better protect the rule of law and combat corruption in the 27-nation bloc.

READ MORE:

Queen puts Biden and other leaders in their place one last time

Mr Orban, in power since 2010, has clashed with Brussels repeatedly over his policies that it sees as eroding democracy in Hungary.

However, with big challenges over rising energy costs and double-digit inflation, a weak forint and a slowing economy, the veteran prime minister looks willing to fulfil EU demands to finally create institutions that would cut corruption risks in EU-funded projects.

"The latest developments in Brussels certainly come at a bad time for Orban, who is struggling with a swath of political and economic problems brought about by both global issues, most notably rising energy prices, so he is likely to go further to satisfy Brussels' demands," said Mujtaba Rahman, Managing Director Europe at Eurasia Group.

He said Budapest would likely secure the pending deal but that would not resolve all the outstanding disagreements over other chunks of EU funds.

DON'T MISS:

Boris stopped from queue jumping ahead of Theresa May with former PMs

[VIDEO]

Liz Truss pledges to carry on supporting Ukraine

[INSIGHT]

'More defeats will finish him!' Putin ally warns power crumbling

[ANALYSIS]

Related articles

"The bigger problem for Orban is the money tied up in the Recovery Fund, because the Commission has more discretion over whether it gives that the green light or not," Mr Rahman added.

Like most EU countries, Hungary last year submitted its blueprint on how it would use EU grants to make its economy more environmentally friendly and high-tech after the COVID-19 pandemic. It has yet to receive approval on that as well.

If Budapest does not get the EU funds, the forint - which has lost 8 percent this year - will almost certainly fall further, complicating efforts to curb inflation and exposing Hungarian assets to any negative shift in global sentiment.

Development Minister Tibor Navracsics, in charge of negotiations with the EU, said on Sunday that Hungary would meet all 17 of its commitments made to the commission to stave off the loss of any funding.

Related articles ‘Archie was best little boy ever, just perfect’ mum tells mourners 'UK are taking action' as gas prices fall Ukrainian soldiers snatch back Luhansk in blow for Russia Russian soldier tells of plan to flee Ukraine Mourners watch Queen’s funeral on phones due to travel disruption

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220920ei9k002v1


EXTRA Orbán wants Russia sanctions lifted by end of year
198 字
2022 年 9 月 22 日 07:26 GMT
dpa International Service in English
DPAEN
英文
Copyright 2022. dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur
Budapest (dpa) - Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is demanding the lifting of EU sanctions imposed on Russia for its war against Ukraine by the end of the year at the latest.

According to the pro-government daily Magyar Nemzet, the right-wing populist said that the punitive measures targeting Moscow had been "forced on the Europeans by the Brussels bureaucrats."

Orbán was speaking at a caucus meeting of the ruling Fidesz party in the Balatonalmádi resort on Lake Balaton on Wednesday evening. "The sanctions are causing economic problems, the energy crisis and inflation," he continued, according to the statement.

Orbán maintains a good relationship with Russian President Vladimir Putin. So far, he has supported the EU sanctions on Russia. At the same time, he was able to negotiate an exemption for his country from the oil embargo.

The EU's sanction decisions require unanimity among the member states. Hungary has been a member of the EU since 2004. 

# Notebook

## Internet links - [Magyar Nemzet report, in Hungarian](http://dpaq.de/1cJKs[http://dpaq.de/1cJKs])

## Locations - [Fidesz meeting](Hunguest BAL Resort, Bajcsy-Zsilinszky ut 14, 8220 Balatonalmadi, Veszprem, Hungary)

dpa gm xxde wjh

dpa Deutsche Presse-Agentur GmbH

文件 DPAEN00020220922ei9m00105


CE Noticias Financieras English
Judit Varga, Hungary’s Minister of Justice: ‘We Receive Disproportionate Attention Because We Have Succeeded in Our Conservative Policies’
2579 字
2022 年 9 月 22 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
JUDIT VARGA is Hungary’s Minister of Justice and one of the best-known members of the cabinet. She has been the architect of Hungary’s strong defense of the country’s — and EU’s — borders. She had a meeting with journalists in the Hungarian embassy in Madrid where she spoke with me and José Antonio Fúster of La Gaceta about Europe, the war in Ukraine, the refugee crisis, and Viktor Orbán.

What is the current status of the negotiations with the European Commission?

We engaged in a very constructive, very positive negotiating procedure. It was a lot of work, but I have to say that all of the remedial measures that Hungary proposed at the end of this time were agreed upon with the Commission services. They requested guarantees from Hungary, and we gave them all the guarantees. In the next days and weeks, we will introduce new laws and amendments to comply with the requirements of the European Commission, so there will be no reason for more blockades. Now, it is in the hands of the Commission to decide [NOTE: the agreement between the two parties was officially announced on Sunday]. The conditionality procedure should really be a tool for prevention, not for sanction purposes, and can not be the hostage of certain political agendas. We also see that the European Parliament wants to be part of the problem, not the solution, but Hungary, the Commission and the member states are part of the solution.

So, there is a change in the Commission, because they have said before that the dialogue, on their part, was closed. Why do you think there has been this change in the Commission’s attitude?

I think we had an election time, a very sensitive period, and what we manage after elections is to decouple ideological issues from professional and pragmatic issues. I do not know what was the trigger for this change, but the conditionality mechanism is very clear and the Commission has to be very precise in what they ask for Hungary, and this is how we went truly down to the practical details. And I do hope that we can come to a very positive conclusion together.

A new resolution against Hungary was passed in the European Parliament; do you think this could affect the Commission’s decision? What price will Hungary have to pay for this resolution?

I think there is no price at all, because there is a common interest in having a very good improvement. It is true that many voices in the European Parliament, especially the German conservatives, did not want this to happen. But I am confident that the professionalism of the Commission can also reassure many of the criticisms. If the measures are approved by the Commission, the European Parliament has nothing to say.

You remember the reaction of George Soros the last time that the European Union gave funds to Hungary.

Yes, they are frustrated. The Parliament was a big part of the problem and the bigger these networks are, the bigger their frustration is because they feel that we have finally managed to get to the bottom of the issue and be very precise and professional. Of course, they have a very strong voice in the media, but member states and Commission services do not decide by what the media say.

The point is that this procedure has to end. Two years ago, Hungary showed solidarity with the rest of Europe, but all countries were able to use these recovery funds except Hungary and Poland. This is a moral issue, all the more so with the war in Ukraine and the need to free ourselves from Russian energy dependence. These funds are needed to finance our energy infrastructure. We have learned to be European and Hungarian at the same time, although it is sometimes difficult. But I am happy to see the light at the end of the tunnel.

After the EU’s support for Poland and Lithuania in the migration crisis, has there been any change regarding the Hungarian wall, and have funds been made available from Brussels?

Not yet. They have only provided 1-2% of the cost of the wall and hiding the fact that the money is to finance the defence of the border. They cannot say this openly because it goes against their principles. However, I can assure you that from the Hungarian side we will stand strong on our migration policy. S

o far this year there have been 175,000 attempts to cross the border illegally, and for us this is a red line. Before the war, the Baltic countries and Poland faced the same challenge, so reality has knocked at the door and put pressure on European politicians to rethink their position. We accept what other countries decide on migration issues, but we also expect those countries to respect our point of view. We do not believe that mass migration is good for Europe or for the future of Europeans. We want to include in the Treaty that family policy matters and that the EU has to finance not only migration and integration, but also families having children. This is the Hungarian model.

Hungary spends 5% of its GDP on family policies. In 2010, our birth rate was at 1.21, now it is at 1.56. It is still not enough, because we have to reach 2.1, but we are on the right track. Moreover, many Hungarians, who left their country for economic reasons, are returning home.

Do you think Brussels will be able to understand Hungary’s value? Time is proving Fidesz (the government party in Hungary) right, but for the moment you are alone.

Yes, but the world is always changing. Now we have a very cold winter coming, with rising food and fuel prices, and I think this will bring politicians closer to their own reality. What is not normal is that in parliament they are talking about Hungary instead of debating their own problems. Look at the protests in some countries or what has happened in Sweden, this should shake up those who live in the bubble.

I am not naïve, I know that there are strongly rooted structures in society that follow the model of the elite, and that deny the truth through the media. But citizens’ issues can counteract this, especially when we see the trend: Italy, Sweden, even in France, where there has been a change in the National Assembly. Or America, where in November there may be a conservative change in Congress. For us, our main policy is to always tell the truth and not to change, regardless of whether we have friends or not. We now have such a strong democratic legitimacy that whatever comes, we will overcome it.

We give a simple answer to the great challenges of the 21st century, such as migration or gender, and this answer is shared by the majority of Hungarian society. In the elections, Fidesz won more than 50% of the votes, but in the referendum on child protection, which argued that it is up to parents to educate their children, 700,000 additional people voted in favor of the government’s measures, i.e. they were opposition voters. This is a question of cultural identity: are you in favour of the traditional family? Do you want to live in your country with your compatriots? Politicians in other countries will have to answer these questions, and today the answers are to be found on the right.

Just a week ago Fidesz won a local election in a district of Budapest, a city that votes overwhelmingly left-wing.

Yes, in the Buda Castle district. It is a small victory in a traditionally left-wing area and does not allow us to win Budapest back yet, but it is proof that the citizens understand that the rising prices are not the fault of the government, but of the war and the sanctions. It is as simple as that. Our task is to make that clear. The existential threat caused by the war means that citizens are more concerned about the electricity bill than about politicians, which is why the opposition, which only peddles ideology, is becoming less and less popular.

Do you think that one of the consequences of this war, of this clash with reality, is the end of green policies in Europe?

This must serve to ensure that decisions in Europe are taken as a whole, decisions to the challenges of this war must be taken from the bottom up, not imposed on the member states. For example, with the oil embargo, the members were not consulted beforehand. Or in the case of gas, in Central Europe it is not a question of ideology or buying cheaper; it is about having gas at all. It is a question of geography. Look at the map: as much as Western countries want or wish to supply us with gas, they can’t do it. There are no pipelines between Spain and Hungary, or between Belgium and Hungary, and if we want to be realistic and show solidarity we have to think about the interests of all members. When 80% of the gas comes from Russia, even if it comes from an interconnector in Austria or Romania, it is still Russian gas.

In the last ten years we have invested in interconnections with our neighbouring countries, but nothing changes if these countries buy gas from Russia. There was a European project which, unfortunately, has failed so far and now winter is coming, and we cannot get rid of this dependence on Russian gas. These are the facts. Green policies are all very well if a country decides to follow them, but at the negotiating table in Brussels, they have to understand other points of view.

The war in Ukraine is driving a wedge between Hungary and its partners in Visegrad, what can Hungary do to remedy this situation?

V4 cooperation has always been very pragmatic and even with governments with different ideologies. Of course, some media have tried to exaggerate the differences with the Russian issue. Differences that are not ideological, but practical, because we have to secure our gas supply.

The Poles have understood that this is a practical problem, but when it comes to an existential threat or a security issue, we send our fighters to defend the airspace of the Baltic countries. We did this before the war because we understand the nature of this threat, and it has always been the case. And despite what the media say, we always find good common ground. I believe that the future of Europe lies in Central Europe because with our policy of investment and local exception we can offer a different economic policy to get out of the crisis, and our model works.

Your economic model works, is that the key?

There is a good phrase from the prime minister, a good recipe for how to succeed in conservative policies: the truth doesn’t matter if you don’t have power. We are aware of our capabilities, we are a country of ten million people, but we are given disproportionate attention because we have succeeded in our conservative policies. It’s very nice to talk about family and national culture, but if you don’t succeed economically then nothing matters. It is a sine qua non to succeed economically.

In Hungary, we opted for the family instead of migration, we opted for choices that are not those offered by the liberals. That is how the term “illiberal” came about, which has nothing to do with civil liberties and which for us means that it is not in accordance with the liberal recipe. An “illiberal” democracy means that democracy can be different, it doesn’t have to be only liberal democracy, it can be national conservative, it can be Christian democratic. This is the key to understanding the economic and social recipe that Hungary has successfully followed, and which could be dangerous for liberals in Europe because, if it works and succeeds, it could be copied by others. Conservative economic policies can succeed, create jobs, and support families.

Is there going to be any change in the abortion law?

No, there is not going to be any change. Listening to the baby’s heartbeat is a practice that was already being carried out and which has been formalized in a decree of the Ministry of Health, but which has served to start another hate campaign. The truth is that nothing has changed. In Hungary, we have many preventive plans against abortion, and many family support NGOs that offer their services so that mothers have an alternative to abortion, through financial support or adoption.

Viktor Orbán is one of the most popular politicians in Spain among conservatives. You know him, what is Viktor Orbán like?

Viktor Orbán is a politician who has consistently led popular support for twelve years, and his personal credibility is greater than that of the party. It is not just about charisma; he is a politician with more than thirty years of career who was a freedom fighter against dictatorship and rallied against Soviet troops. He is a true Hungarian with a big heart and love for his country.

Even those who hate him in Hungary say they believe in him during a crisis because they know he is the only one who can save the country. His proven ability to lead the country is widely accepted by society, and this is democracy. I have known him since I entered politics and every choice he makes is guided by a very simple logic: What is good for the country? And he has the capacity to think three or four steps ahead of the majority. It is as simple as that, he is a person who loves his job and his country, and he is a great strategist.

There is a Hungarian card game called “ulti” and he is a great player, and he always says that politics is like “ulti” because every game is unexpected and different, and you need a combination of rational thinking and intuition. He also says that if you make many decisions in a day and 60% of them are correct, you can be satisfied.

Is the big difference with most European politicians that Orbán thinks about what Hungary will be like in 20 or 30 years’ time?

Yes, Orbán has a vision, and he has a lot of experience in politics, because he has been in opposition for 16 years and in government for 16 years. Along with Rutte, he is the politician who has served the longest in the European Council.

In the face of this crisis that diverts our attention in many directions, as conservatives or national-conservatives, we cannot lose sight of our goals. Even at this time, we must continue to take decisions, such as investing in modernizing our army or defending our borders. And at the same time, we have received a million Ukrainian refugees, a real humanitarian catastrophe that has nothing to do with mass migration. These are real refugees who want to return to their country when the war is over, and Hungary is doing everything it can to help them.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220922ei9m00b3n


Hungary’s premier calls for lifting EU sanctions on Russia by end of this year
Agnes Szucs |
404 字
2022 年 9 月 22 日
Anadolu Agency
ANATOL
英文
© Copyright Andolu Ajansi
Restrictive measures cause ‘global economic war,’ inflation, says Viktor Orban

BRUSSELS

The Hungarian prime minister has called for lifting EU sanctions on Russia by the end of this year, saying restrictive measures cause inflation and economic crisis, local media reported on late Wednesday.

Speaking at a meeting of the Hungarian governing party in Balatonalmadi, Viktor Orban called on all members of the Fidesz party to “do everything possible to make the EU withdraw sanctions (against Russia) by the end of the year,” according to the Magyar Nemzet daily.

According to Orban, Brussels-based EU officials “forced” the sanctions on Europe earlier this year, turning a “local conflict” into a “global economic war."

The sanctions ended up causing economic problems, including energy crisis and inflation, he further said.

If sanctions were lifted, the inflation would drop by 50%, the prime minister added.

Orban's speech implies that Hungary might block the adoption of a new EU sanction package that EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell announced on Thursday following an extraordinary meeting of EU top diplomats on the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York.

Without revealing details, Borrell confirmed that the EU prepares new economic measures against Moscow and will increase its military support to Ukraine in response to the partial mobilization in Russia.

EU ambassadors are expected to discuss the proposal on Friday.

Since the beginning of Russia’s war on Ukraine, the bloc has provided a total of €2.5 billion ($2.5 billion) in military aid, including lethal weapons, as well as personal protective gear, first aid kits, and fuel.

It has also imposed seven sanctions packages, targeting, among others, Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, banning gold, oil, and coal imports, and the export of luxury goods and high-tech technology, as well as excluding Russian and Belarusian banks from the international payment system SWIFT.

In the spring, Hungary blocked for weeks the adoption of the sixth sanctions package because of its prohibition of Russian oil imports.

As a compromise, the country was given an exception for pipeline oil imports, but it nevertheless vetoed imposing sanctions of travel ban and asset freeze against the leader of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill.

Hungary’s premier calls for lifting EU sanctions on Russia by end of this year[https://cdnuploads.aa.com.tr/uploads/Contents/2022/09/22/thumbs_b_c_b87d74ec22fed560145c582099ec3734.jpg]

Anadolu Agency

文件 ANATOL0020220923ei9m0002g


Hungary: Ruling Fidesz wants national consultation on energy sanctions against Russia
351 字
2022 年 9 月 22 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
PM Orban calls sanctions harmful to EU, urges Fidesz MPs to work for their removal

Hungary could use result of national consultation as political tool, Fidesz faction leader says

Ruling Fidesz MPs have asked the government to organise a national consultation on the EU energy sanctions against Russia, Fidesz faction leader Mate Kocsis announced at a press conference. The faction meeting was opened by PM Viktor Orban who reportedly called the EU sanctions harmful. Orban said that the sanctions should not be renewed, saying that there is a chance for their removal in November and urging Fidesz MPs to work in this direction. Orban argued that winding down the sanctions would bring energy prices down and tame the strong price growth.

There are currently around 11,000 sanctions against Russia and it will not be possible to hold a national consultation on all of them so Fidesz wants to concentrate on the energy sanctions, Kocsis stated. Energy sanctions cause economic damage to the EU not to Russia, he explained the particular focus on this aspect. The Hungarian government will be the first in the EU to consult the voters about the sanctions and this could be used as a political tool later, he added. The consultation will be both online and paper-based, he said.

We note that Hungary has consistently rejected energy sanctions on Russia, saying this would jeopardise the energy security of the country. Currently, the EU has agreed on a coal sanction against Russia while and oil sanction will take effect as of next year but Hungary will not be affected because of an exemption on oil transported through pipelines. Fidesz has used the tool of national consultations frequently in the past several years, mostly on issues that are conflicting with the EU. We believe that the government can use the result of the national consultation to defend its anti-sanction policy on EU institutions but the ultimate goal could be rather to put pressure on the EC for compromises on the EU funds for the country.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220923ei9m0000d


Hungary This Week - September 23, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 9 月 23 日, 8389 字, (英文)
Hungary’s jobless rate edges up in AugustHungary's jobless rate in August edged up to 3.6% in August from 3.5% in the previous month but fell from 4% a year ago, with the labour market remainiong near full employment, the Central Statistics...

UPDATE - Szijjarto: Hungary, US relations 'best-ever' during Trump administration - Fox News Digital (adds details)
492 字
2022 年 9 月 23 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
New York, September 23 (MTI) - Hungary had the "best-ever

political relationship" with the United States during the

administration of former President Donald Trump, Foreign Minister

Peter Szijjarto told Fox News Digital in an interview in New York

on Friday.

"Definitely, we work together with those who are elected here

in the US," Szijjarto said. "Well, but we have to be honest: If you

look at the relationship, the political relationship under

conservative or Republican administration and under Democratic

administration, there's a big change," he said.

Szijjarto said the two countries had enjoyed "the best-ever

political relationship", "the best-ever relationship," under the

Trump administration, adding he was "pretty sure" the same "best"

relationship between the US and Hungarian governments would resume

if the former US president runs and wins in 2024.

Szijjarto deflected claims by western foreign nations that

after winning his fourth term as Hungary's prime minister in the

spring, Viktor Orban is eroding democracy. The European Union only

defines democracy as "in case the liberals are governing," the

minister said.

"Since this is not the case in Hungary, because we are a

patriotic centre-right, Christian democratic government, definitely

against the liberal mainstream, they hate us and you know, since we

are successful, we are a kind of proof that it's not only the

liberal mainstream which can be progressive and successful. A

conservative political strategy can be successful as well. And they

hate this fact," Szijjarto said.

The minister referred to "revolutionary changes" to the

automotive industry such as establishing electric battery

manufacturing in Hungary – one of the "five biggest investments in

Europe" over the past decade – as well as being the first EU

country to approve the Paris Climate Agreement.

Szijjarto expressed agreement with other leaders who addressed

the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) this week that it is

"not a question" that climate crisis is "among top priorities". He

noted that Hungary reduced its emissions in a bid to go

carbon-neutral by 2050 while expanding its GDP.

"It's a very important issue for us, though we approach this

matter on a pragmatic basis," Szijjarto said. "So, for us, economy,

competitiveness and environmental protection must go hand in hand.

If this balance between the two is broken, then it endangers the

credibility of the efforts.

In connection with sanctions on Russia, the minister said "the

sanctions are more harmful to us, Europeans than to the Russians".

"The security of energy supply in Europe is just basically gone.

There is a crisis of energy supply, not only from the perspective

of price, but from the perspective of volume as well, not to speak

about inflation, not to speak about the food prices …," he said.

"So the sanction policy has not delivered those results, which

were expected by the European Union and the institutions in

Brussels," he said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220923ei9n001rx


跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
Hungary not to support anti-Russia sanctions in energy, nuclear sectors - foreign minister
250 字
2022 年 9 月 23 日 19:36 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
Budapest will not support anti-Russian sanctions that may cause harm to Hungary’s energy security, including in the nuclear sector, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said in an interview with TASS on Friday on the sidelines of the high-level week of the UN General Assembly.

"As we have never given our consent to any sanction on energy, which would have harmed our interests we will not give our consent to such kind of sanctions in the future either," he said when asked if Budapest would support a new package of EU sanctions.

"So when it comes to nuclear, we definitely not agree. We will definitely not agree with any sanctions on nuclear because again that would harm our national energy security. And to be honest, I still don’t see why it would be better for Ukraine if our energy security would be gone. I don’t see that," Szijjarto stressed.

"From this perspective, I am not very happy that the public discourse in Europe is now going on about another sanction package because the experience so far was that the more sanctions we introduced the more harmful it was for ourselves. But in order not to break the European unity so far we always gave one consent, except for when it was about energy, because energy supply and the safety of supply of energy to Hungary is a red line for us," he added.

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020220923ei9n001e8


News; International
Recession Fears Drive US Stocks Toward June Lows; UK Government Bets Heavily On Tax Cuts And Borrowing; Hungary Tests European Unity On Russian Sanctions; Army Issues Warning As Iranians Protest Women's Death; Fiona Intensifies As It Barrels Towards Canada; Hong Kong Ends Quarantine Requirement For International Travelers. Aired 3-4p ET
Paula Newton, Matt Egan, Anna Stewart, Nick Paton Walsh
8295 字
2022 年 9 月 23 日
CNN International: Quest Means Business
CNNQMB
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[15:00:24]

PAULA NEWTON, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: Not a pretty picture we have for you today, a volatile day on Wall Street. The Dow now below 30,000, you see it there, amid fears about rising rates and inflation.

A reminder: We are now touching the lows, we have seen the lowest levels we've seen throughout the day. Those are the markets and these are the main events.

The British pound savaged after the new government announced historic tax cuts. Prime Minister Liz Truss defended her plan to CNN.

The Hungarian Foreign Minister tells Richard Quest why Budapest wants to lift sanctions on Russia.

And voting is underway in a sham referenda in Russian occupied areas of Ukraine.

Live from the CNN Center in Atlanta. It is Friday, September 23rd. I'm Paula Newton. She was not Liz Truss, she was Liz Truss, and I too, mean business.

So tonight, US stocks are flirting with, as I was telling you, new bear market lows. Yes, new bear market lows as the Wall Street sell off just deepens. There was nothing that could really lift this market, it seems today. Those recession fears have put the Dow on track to close below 30,000 points for the first time since June 17th, and it is down as you can see now nearly 800 points. As I was saying, we are touching those session lows.

The S&P 500 and NASDAQ also deep in the red. The markets turned on Wednesday after the US Federal Reserve raised interest rates by three quarters of a percent and warned that monetary policy was only likely to get tighter.

Matt Egan is at the New York Stock Exchange for us. A difficult Friday, glad you are there for us, a bruising day, right, by any measure? It seems to me that, you know people are only beginning to take on board what Jay Powell said earlier in the week, it's starting to sink in, right?

Now, besides perhaps a likely recession already priced in, what is weighing on investors?

MATT EGAN, CNN REPORTER: Well, Paula, this really is all about the Federal Reserve's war on inflation. You know, this summer, there were hopes that maybe there could be some sort of a truce here, that perhaps inflation would calm down enough to allow the Fed to stop lobbying these massive interest rate hikes that are hitting the economy and the market and those hopes, they drove stock prices sharply higher throughout much of the summer.

Now, of course, that turned out to be wishful thinking the Fed has made clear, including this week, that they are nowhere near ready to declare victory on inflation. In fact, they are picking up the pace of these interest rate hikes and that is obviously not sitting well with investors.

It's a big negative for two reasons. One, this is driving up Treasury rates and that is stealing some thunder from the stock market right. I mean, these soaring Treasury rates, that tends to depress the valuation of the stock market. And the other issue, of course, is the one that impacts all of us is a potential recession.

The concern is the Fed is going to overdo this and either accidentally took the economy into recession or do it on purpose, because that is what is required to get inflation under control. Either way, of course, it wouldn't be a good outcome, all of this explains why the Dow is down almost 800 points and on track to join the S&P 500 and the NASDAQ in a bear market.

NEWTON: You know, Matt, September is never a good month on the markets. And yet, perhaps many people had said that investors were far too optimistic in the summertime, but how they've now priced in too much doom and gloom.

EGAN: Maybe, you know, in talking to some of the traders here on the floor, they are pretty somber right now. One trader told me, you know, there is just nowhere to hide and another one looked at the red on his screen and was just sort of at a loss for words for the wealth destruction here. But yes, maybe there is too much pessimism here.

I mean, market sentiment tends to go too much in one direction, which is what happened this summer and then maybe too much in another direction. I mean, there is still a chance that the Fed can pull this off, that maybe they can get inflation under control without taming inflation, and that chance is not zero.

But I do think that even the Fed is starting to acknowledge that the window to get this right without causing a recession, that that window is getting smaller.

NEWTON: Yes, and still inflation remains job one and they will get that down, no matter what they have to do.

Matt Egan for us. Glad to have you at the New York Stock Exchange as we continue to watch that market going into its closing hour.

[15:05:05]

Now, the UK's new government is betting that massive tax cuts and borrowing will jumpstart the British economy -- and get this -- investors, they don't like the odds of success there. The pound plunged more than three percent against the dollar. Look at that level, the exchange rate is now at its lowest since 1985. This is just eyewatering, folks.

The FTSE is down almost two percent and so are the markets in Frankfurt and Paris, all in reaction to the controversial what they're calling mini- budget unveiled by Parliament and by the Finance Minister.

The new Finance Minister, Kwasi Kwarteng. Now, it favors the UK's highest earners. It scraps a corporate tax increase and slashes a cap on bankers' bonuses. Now, before the announcement, Liz Truss, defended her economic direction to our own Jake Tapper.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JAKE TAPPER, CNN ANCHOR: Your government just unveiled a new tax proposal this week, that would reverse plans that to raise the corporate tax rate. You've also proposed lifting the cap on bonuses for bank executives.

In the US, President Biden is taking a very different approach, and obviously, he has a different view on economic measures such as the one you're proposing. He tweeted this week: "I am sick and tired of trickle- down economics, it has never worked. We're building an economy from the bottom up and middle out."

And so President Biden is in essence, saying that he thinks your approach doesn't work. The opposition in Parliament says you're running recklessly running up the deficit and turning your back on so-called compassionate conservatism.

LIZ TRUSS, BRITISH PRIME MINISTER: I don't. I don't really accept the premise of -- premise of the question at all. The UK has one of the lowest levels of debt in the G7, but we have one of the highest levels of taxes.

Currently, we have a 70-year high in our tax rates. What I am determined to do as Prime Minister and what the Chancellor is determined to do is make sure we are incentivizing businesses to invest and we are also helping ordinary people with their taxes. And that's why I don't feel it's right to have higher national insurance and higher corporation tax, because that will make it harder for us to attract the investment we need in the UK, it will be harder to generate those new jobs.

And I want the US economy to be successful as well. I want the European economy to be successful as well. I want free, freedom-loving democracies to succeed and one of the things that we're doing here in the UK is moving forward on our infrastructure programs, road building, broadband, mobile telephones.

And I know, that is what the administration in the US is doing as well. But of course, we all need to decide what the tax rates are in our own country. But my view is we absolutely needs to be incentivizing growth at what is a very, very difficult time for the global economy.

And we've also put in place a package of measures to support consumers with energy prices to make sure that nobody is having to pay more than 2,500 pounds on their bills, which is very important as well.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: Okay, you can see Jake Tapper's full interview with Prime Minister Liz Truss this Sunday on "State of the Union." But in the meantime, Anna Stewart joins me from London.

Anna, I'm going to confess to you I have not recovered from waking up this morning and seeing the value of that pound against the US dollar. How did we get there? This was supposed to be a much needed subsidy for households dealing with soaring heating bills. It now seems like some kind of economic experiment that really hasn't been attempted for decades.

ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: Aren't you pleased you don't live in the UK any more, Paula? Yes. Is it an experiment? I like to call this one a gamble because this is what the UK government calls a fiscal statement as opposed to a budget because normally when we have a budget that goes through the independent body, the Office of Budget Responsibility so they can assess what the impact would be on the economy. This one hasn't done that.

So, it's actually really hard to be able to assess and tell you whether this will work and what this impact will have. Will it do what the UK government wants? Which is essentially to generate growth.

Let's bring up some of the highlights from the budget. It went on and on. You'll see a lot of tax cuts there. A cap on bankers' bonuses, it is going to be abolished, and you'll also see energy bills being subsidized. The cost of all of that is huge.

So, the Treasury estimates that the tax cuts will cost 45 billion pounds by 2027. The energy freeze will cost 60 billion pounds over the next six months and that's of course, depending rather a lot on what wholesale energy prices will do.

Now, of course the plan has come under a huge amount of fire, not least in Parliament with the opposition party because so many, particularly of the tax cuts are really aimed at the highest earners in the UK and they're not the only ones.

[15:10:10]

We actually had a tweet from the Institute of Fiscal Studies, an independent economic body, and they said, today's measures mean that the richest tenth of households who are set to lose around five and a half thousands pounds a year on average, by 2025-2026, under the last government will now gain around 700 pounds a year, on average.

As you say, this new government was very much in place saying that they were going to bring down energy bills, I'm not sure anyone quite realized the impact their plan would have on the highest earners -- Paula.

NEWTON: Yes. And that's not going to sit well, because this isn't being paid for, of course, with spending cuts, which is how you would normally expect a Conservative government to do this.

So, one former adviser to the Bank of England today said, it seems like the UK economy is for the first time in decades being driven by a drunk driver. I know that's very harsh, but have you heard more about what the odds are that this will actually, you know have growth thrive in the UK, which is what Liz Truss believes?

STEWART: It has actually been hard to find at least an economist who would see this necessarily working. I think they are all waiting to have a proper assessment by the Office of Budget Responsibility. This is the go for growth strategy or go for broke strategy. This is trying to get GDP growth at two-and-a-half percent on average. It is currently flatlining.

The government plans, essentially to generate growth and hope that businesses will be able to invest more, hire more people and that will drag the UK out of a recession. Lots of people don't really agree with that.

I'd say some of the comments I've seen today have been pretty alarming, and some of them have been quite funny. But look at the UK gilts. This is the UK government bond, the 10-year, this week, it has risen by over half a percentage point.

Let's look at the pound again, because who doesn't want to see the bloodletting on this one, another multi-decade low today. And of course, we have been hitting fresh lows almost every week of recent weeks.

Listen, a higher yield, weaker currency, one economist pointed out, this is what you see for an emerging market. You know, he said, actually, which is also quite funny if it weren't such a grave situation and the fact that I'm a Brit, but he also said, if this were an emerging market, you would be reading it, it's last rites.

So, investors may no longer like the look of the UK and what does that do to this huge plan for borrowing? Potentially, it makes it completely unsustainable -- Paula.

NEWTON: Yes, no shortage of British wit today now, Anna. I have a good weekend, but just hang on here because I'm going to give you a history lesson because I know you don't know any of this history. You might know it. You just weren't alive for it.

The Truss tax cuts hearken back to a fiscal policy that emerged in the 1980s, Blondie and David Bowie, two of my favorites were dominating the radio. Hairstyles were big, yes, bigger than I have right now, and global inflation was even bigger as those economies struggled.

Now Margaret Thatcher, the era's Conservative Prime Minister tried a risky economic experiment. Does this sound familiar right now? She leaned on deregulation and tax cuts to try and spur growth, much like we're seeing Truss now.

Now, it is called trickle-down economics. The idea is to flood the top earners of the market with extra capital. The theory, those top earners will heat up the economy with more spending and more investment thus creating more jobs.

Sonali Punhani is the chief UK economist at Credit Suisse, and she joins me now from London. Quite a day to be in your role, and I just want you to weigh in here; What do you think will and can this work? Can it stimulate growth?

SONALI PUNHANI, CHIEF UK ECONOMIST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, I think it's quite a risky strategy for the UK government to engage in this.

I mean, I think the one part of the plan, which is to freeze energy bills, you know, is sensible in the sense that it does reduce the real income shock for consumers, which they would face over the winter if these bills were not frozen.

But on the other side, the other plank of this plan, which is tax cuts, I mean, you know, we've discussed that how they are more targeted towards the high-income individuals. Tax cuts usually have much lower multipliers than, you know, spending increases. And so, it basically means that a lot of the tax cuts could potentially be saved by high-income individuals and not really be, you know, earned and spent by them.

And the other important thing is that, you know, this plan actually ends up adding to inflationary pressures in the medium term, which would basically put a lot of pressure on the Bank of England to hike rates aggressively.

So, even if there is a small growth boost from this, I think that's going to be, you know, neutralized by the Bank of England, because they have -- you know, they have a target -- a target inflation at two percent and that's what they need to achieve.

NEWTON: Yes. And, Sonali, you just answered my next question, because as an economic student, I know what this means in terms of inflationary pressure, but I also want to get to the point of that pound, right? It sold off heavily today.

How concerning is it and how much more pressure could that put on the Bank of England? You know, we've had a lot of discussion on this side of the pond about that strong dollar, which in any case right now, we do not want to see a currency crisis and yet now, we have the pound that you know scratching, well, $1.08 against the US dollar.

[15:15:10]

PUNHANI: Yes. No, definitely, I think the lower pound puts more pressure on the Bank of England as well. I mean, you know, firstly, you know, a lower pound would mean higher inflation itself, because cost of imports would increase as a result of the lower pound. Secondly, I mean, it's just a question of credibility, right? Because I think now markets are questioning that the fact that the UK now has a massive current account deficit, now the fiscal deficit is going to go up. So, the overall twin deficits of the UK are continuing to rise.

And in the past, we've had, you know, external capital come into the country to fund this kind of deficit, and now, the markets are testing that assumption and are demanding a higher premium and higher yields in order to get, to actually fund this huge deficit.

So, I think this puts a lot of pressure on the Bank of England. I mean, we expecting them to turn hawkish in November with a 75 basis points rate hike, we are expecting rates to go to four percent potentially. You know, the risks are even to the upside.

So I think it really puts them in a difficult spot, because you have both the government and the Bank of England having to work in opposite directions.

NEWTON: Yes. It could not have been good news when they actually saw that, and as we pointed out, this was supposed to be helped, right, for those who are in an energy crisis in their own homes of their own energy bills.

Kwasi Kwarteng, who is the new Chancellor of the Exchequer, I will point out everyone now, has a PhD in Economic History. He could school us on trickle-down economics, absolutely.

What is different about this, though, in this economic environment? Is there -- I mean, I guess I'm asking you, what are we missing? Is there a chance that this could work?

PUNHANI: I mean, I'm struggling to figure out what that is, that could make it work, unfortunately. I mean, you know, I think some of the some of the reasoning given is that, you know, if you create -- reduce regulation and increase incentives for businesses to invest, you know, that could increase business investment as well.

But, you know, we've seen in the last few years that UK business investment has really underperformed, despite even some of the super allowances by the previous Chancellor. And people just find the UK an uncertain place to invest given the policies.

So, I'm not particularly sure exactly what path, you know, and how we actually generate, especially in a two-and-a-half percent trend growth that's been the projection or has been the sort of agenda of the government to achieve.

NEWTON: And we will leave it there for now. It has been an exhausting Friday for so many and still going strong here on this side of the pond to see how those markets end up.

Have a great weekend and I appreciate your analysis on this.

Now, tensions between the European Union and Hungary continue to grow, Richard Quest talks to Hungary's Minister of Foreign Affairs. You'll want to hear what he has to say, next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[15:20:35]

NEWTON: Hungary is testing Europe's unity by pushing back on sanctions against Russia. Now, while EU Ministers have been calling for tougher measures, Hungary argues the existing ones just aren't working.

Now tensions between Hungary and the EU have been growing for years now, the European Parliament said Hungary can no longer be considered a democracy. Brussels has threatened to cut billions of dollars in funding over alleged corruption as the divide between Budapest and Brussels deepens.

Richard Quest spoke to Hungary's Minister of Foreign Affairs. He asked Peter Szijjarto, why sanctions should be lifted.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PETER SZIJJARTO, HUNGARY MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS: Look, I think we are speaking about facts. If you impose sanctions against someone, then it should be more harmful on the targeted entity and not on yourself. And unfortunately, the sanction policy of the European Union in this regard has failed, because those sanctions, which were introduced against Russia are more harmful and more painful to Europe than to the Russian Federation. That's a fact, unfortunately.

And you know, the European economy is moving towards recession. That has not been the case for a very, very long time. The safe supply of energy is just a kind of memory for us in Europe. Inflation is skyrocketing. The prices of food and commodities have been increasing, utility costs are in the skies.

So, we definitely need a solution because the European people are not responsible for this war. So, that's why we should not force the European people to pay the price of this war. When it comes to Hungary --

RICHARD QUEST, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST.": Okay, but if -- if sanctions were to be lifted, and there will be those who do disagree with you, by the way, that it is not hurting Russia more than the EU at the moment. So, there will be -- because there are others who will say you're wrong on that point.

But for the purposes for moving forward, what would you have done instead then? Because there seems to be a view that Hungary is more on the side of Russia than on the side of the EU and its partners.

SZIJJARTO: But you know, this accusation must be rejected -- rejected very, very harshly, because, we, Hungarians have condemned the war from the very beginning and we have not vetoed any sanction regime so far.

So, all seven sanction regimes, which have been in place have been voted by unanimous decision in the European Union. So, had we not supported these packages of sanctions, they would not have been introduced and would not be enforced currently.

We have made it very clear, though, that we are not ready to put our safe supply of energy at risk, no way. You know, the energy supply in Europe, especially in Central Europe, is being determined by geography and by infrastructure. And currently, currently, physically, it's impossible to supply our country safely via oil and gas if we phase out the Russian sources of energy.

QUEST: So what would you do? So what would you do to bring the necessary force such as it is, you're not supplying weapons, you're not allowing transshipment through Hungary. You are now calling for a reduction or an elimination of sanctions. What would you do as Hungary to help prosecute against Russia in the case of Ukraine?

SZIJJARTO: You know, first I want to say -- I would like to say two things. First, I regret that the list was not continued, because in the meantime, we have been carrying out the largest ever humanitarian action of the country and we have received one-and-a-half million refugees from Ukraine already.

And for all those who are entering the territory of our country, we are giving all kinds of assistance and help including jobs and similar equal access to schooling and the healthcare like to our own citizens. This is number one.

Number two, what should have been done? Look, I think more much more efforts should have been done in order to create peace finally, because if you ask me, what is the ultimate solution for all the problems we have to be faced with because of the war and because of the sanctions, then the solution is one word, it is peace.

[15:25:15]

And here we are in New York, the United Nations --

QUEST: Minister, Minister -- that's no -- hang on a second. That's easy to say, Minister, the solution is peace. But you had the means to agreement. You had the various talks. You even had Emmanuel Macron and the UN Secretary-General going to Moscow and to Kyiv. In the real world, do you support Ukraine in its territorial integrity?

SZIJJARTO: Obviously, territorial integrity and sovereignty must be the basic principles of international politics and international law. There is no compromise. We definitely stand by Ukraine, we stand by their territorial integrity and sovereignty, but peace is needed.

So, that's why from the very, very beginning of this war, we have been advocating for immediate ceasefire and launching the peace talks. We have even offered, Hungary, as a location. A safe, fair location, ensuring level playing fields for all participants and stakeholders, but negotiations should be started.

And you know, here we are in New York, General Assembly is on. What would be the most appropriate? What would be the widest platform where such kind of negotiations could take place, if not the UN?

The UN was created, in order to ensure the possibility of discussion and dialogue between those countries and actors who are hostile to each other. So, why do not we enter into negotiations? Why do not we promote more the peace? And why do not we make more efforts in order to create peace finally? That could prevent thousands and tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands people from suffering and escaping from their homes.

It is heartbreaking to see those torn apart families who are entering Hungary, mother with the children without fathers. It's heartbreaking.

QUEST: Were you horrified by President Putin's comments yesterday, essentially threatening a nuclear option?

SZIJJARTO: Well, of course, I mean, all kinds of -- all kinds of decisions, all kinds of statements, which are going towards the escalation of this war constitute bad news. So you know, and that's why we say that we are in the 25th hour, so this statement that was made yesterday put us in the 25th hour --

QUEST: Hang on. You're not exactly -- Minister -- I have heard --

SZIJJARTO: And we have to finally, finally solve this crisis.

QUEST: I've had other Ministers, Foreign Ministers, the UK, US, et cetera roundly condemning the comments of President Putin as being a gross escalation. You're talking about it as being bad news. Like he's just giving you the bad weather forecast?

SZIJJARTO: Well, if you want me to say anyone -- anyone threatening with nuclear war, we definitely do condemn, no question. So, a nuclear war is something that we never want to experience and we want this planet to be preserved for our successors. No one would like to destroy that.

So, of course, threatening with nuclear war -- coming -- this threat from any side must be condemned in the harshest way.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: Okay, ahead for us. Sham referenda are underway in occupied regions of Ukraine, and NATO is warning Moscow, it could use the votes as a pretext to escalate the war.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[15:30:00]

NEWTON: Hello. I'm Paula Newton. And there's more QUEST MEANS BUSINESS in a moment when we'll discuss the sham referenda on whether to join Russia in Russian-occupied Ukraine and we'll speak to the CEO of toy company MGA and how they're getting ready for that all important holiday season. But before that, this is CNN and on this network the facts come first.

On state media aired video of pro-government marches Friday, with protests spreading right across the country. The army now says it's ready to "confront enemies" in order to maintain security. Now thousands of people have taken to the streets against the government since a young woman's death in police custody.

Hurricane Fiona has strengthened into a category four storm as it heads toward Canada's Atlantic coast. Nova Scotia Emergency Management Office says it will be a historic weather event. And it's telling residents to brace for damaging winds and storm surge. Starting Monday, Hong Kong will no longer make international travelers quarantine upon arrival. However, travelers will have to self monitor for three days and take a regular PCR test. Quarantine measures had been in place since the pandemic began 2-1/2 years ago.

Stage referenda are underway in occupied regions of Ukraine at this hour. The question of whether to join Russia. Now the votes are taking place in Donetsk and Luhansk and in Russian-controlled parts of Kherson in Zaporizhzhia in the South. Now the process dismissed by Kyiv and the West as a sham could pave the way for Russia to actually annex those areas. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg told our CNN's Julia Chatterley that the West shouldn't be prepared for Moscow to use the votes as a pretext to escalate the war.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JENS STOLTENBERG, NATO SECRETARY GENERAL: It is this combination of the votes in four regions of Ukraine combined with a partial mobilization that represents a serious escalation of the conflict. But these votes have no legitimacy. And of course, they don't change anything. This continues to be a war of aggression by Russia against the Ukraine.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

NEWTON: Nick Paton Walsh is in the city of Kramatorsk in the northern part of Donetsk, you know, these are stage votes. We've been saying it for days, they continue. And of course, we can already guess the outcome. I guess the issue is what would be the strategy. We just heard the NATO secretary general there, we had the map up of that Eastern region, but strategically on the ground, what will it allow Russia to claim?

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR: Well, it's possible that they will use this to say that these areas are effectively part of Russian territory, and therefore subject to the same rights of defense that what we now call Russia is subject to. And that may allow on the lower level perhaps Russia to send conscripts into this area to defend them or fight in this war. I have to say after the partial mobilization, they appear to have chucked out the window, or the previous rules for who they'll send where.

[15:35:01]

So it's really the higher end that I think concern people more which is does these areas being considered in Moscow's mind as being part of Russia, enable them to potentially use nuclear weapons or other weapons of mass destruction in their arsenal? Terrifying is that simply as an idea. Well, some officials below Putin have suggested that, in his speech, he sort of steered slightly away from that.

He didn't say it explicitly, while he said that freshly mobilized troops would be sent to defend these occupied areas. He didn't specify that when he referred to what nuclear weapons might be used to defend. So, that is still potentially something to be defined, but the threat and the possibility is certainly there. So, I think what it does do is enable Russia to claim an extra level of ownership of these areas.

That it's basically invaded and occupied by force and some degree bombard and intensely reduced to ruin in the months ahead, and then possibly escalate or increased pressure on Ukraine's Western allies to perhaps seek a political solution. Paula?

NEWTON: Yes. At this point, Russia doing all it can to make sure that it keeps maintains that hold on the occupied regions that it does hold. Nick Paton Walsh for us and Ukraine. Appreciate it. Now, despite the fighting in Ukraine, the country's largest poultry company intends to be operating at full capacity by the end of the year, full capacity. MHP says it's navigating the complex disruptions and its words caused by Russia's invasion, and it's managed to develop alternate export routes.

The company also continues to supply hundreds of tons of chicken every day to Ukrainians in need.

John Rich is the Executive Chairman of MHP. And he joins me now from Istanbul. And it's good to see you again. It's been several months since we've spoken. And given the turmoil of the last few months just give us a snapshot. Where are we now in terms of production? And what are some of the challenges you're still facing? Because they -- that number must be quite high right now still.

JOHN RICH, EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, MHP: Look, Paula, it's been a challenge. It's all been about logistics. And yes, it's been a few months since we've spoken. But frankly, things are far better now than they were when we last spoke. I think the key issue now with the opening of the grain corridor where approximately 4.3 million tons of grain of meat through this system since it happened and brokered by the Turks.

But I think it present of that around about half of its corn and about 30 percent approximately when it's moving out. And we expect probably two, maybe three million tons will go through this route. Whereas before when we lost back, it was just slowly dribbling across the borders. So a very, very big improvement.

NEWTON: Yes. No, slowly dripping, but also deep concern on your part. And this really was catastrophic for a little while until they did broker that Black Sea Initiative. You know, Russia has been -- I'll say little bit cagey about whether or not they want that initiative continue. What would it do to a company like yours, if that suddenly fell apart overnight?

RICH: Well, look, I think at present, we have not really exported much to that route. We have stored our grain, and all our oil has been basically moving across the E.U. border, as with other grains and poultry. So we're still using maybe 95 percent of our products are going across the E.U. border in present. So not -- wouldn't affect us greatly. However, in the future, when we need to export more grain and more oil towards the end of the year, it could have a major impact.

NEWTON: You know, at the beginning of the war, you were doing your best not only to keep your business going but crucially to get food, right? To get food to Ukrainians. Has that crisis abated? I mean, have you been able to get those supply lines in the country? So that, you know, Ukrainians do have the food that they need?

RICH: Yes, definitely. There's been a huge improvement in the logistics across the country at a time of war. And right now, there's only small amounts of Probono poultry going through into the into the areas that are really needed. So, a very big difference compared to when we spoke last were up to -- we were supplying, you know, enormous amounts of poultry every day to people. But right now, it's much better position than it was before.

NEWTON: Good to hear. But look forward for us, if you will. Many of us hoped that, of course, we wouldn't go through another winter of war, it looks highly unlikely. What are your biggest concerns when you look forward to the next few months?

RICH: Well, I think that the biggest concern, again, is a further escalation of the war. I was particularly worried about what was happening in the south and any major military escalation in that area will close the ports again. So it's very, very tenuous at present where -- we've been in a sweet spot where we haven't had a lot of military activity down there in the areas where We have to run the grind through the corridor.

[15:40:03]

But again, as you're well aware if there are major strikes on infrastructure electricity, water, et cetera that will have a major impact on Ukraine's economy and the ability of the companies within it to be able to export products out of the country.

NEWTON: Yes. And I guess as you said, although things have gotten better now, that is the unsettling worry that so many people have that will continue to escalate. John Rich again for us. Good to hear you and hear your insights about what's going on there. Appreciate it.

RICH: Thank you again, Paula. Good to talk.

NEWTON: Up next for us, toy stories. What's in stock and what's not for the holiday season. We speak to the CEO of MGA Entertainment.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

NEWTON: Throughout this week Call to Earth is looking at how to protect and conserve our planet by listening to it. Just listening. Today we have the story of our guests editor Michel Andre, a biologist who chose the theme of our coverage and his pioneering research uses sound as a scientific tool. And it's setting the tone for the future of conservation.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There is a well-known proverb that states no one is as deaf as the man who will not listen. Rolex Awards Laureate Michel Andre is more certainly not that man.

MICHEL ANDRE, FRENCH BIOACOUSTICS SCIENTIST: I would encourage everyone to start to listen. The sounds of nature can tell us so much about the health of the planet.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: A professor of bioacoustics at the Technical University of Catalonia Barcelona Tech. He would know. He's been relying on his ears for over 30 years.

ANDRE: I believe that transmission of information through sound is key for the conservation of the planet.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: As Michel describes it bioacoustics is the science of the sound of life. The study of which has revealed previously invisible ways humans are affected the natural balance.

ANDRE: We have made actions that are destroying the habitat.

[15:45:00]

This loss of biodiversity is a consequence of our lack of an understanding on how nature works. And nature works through sounds.

So this is a live connection to the Amazon at the moment where we have lots of birds and insects.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Here at the Laboratory of applied bioacoustics, also known as the LAB, Michel is quite literally tapped into the soundscape of the world.

ANDRE: We can go to the Amazon and we can go to India to the Arctic and to listen to what is going on.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: In 2007, they launched LIDO, short for listen to the deep environment. And the project intended to monitor the impact of manmade noise on marine life has evolved into this. A network with more than 150 acoustic observatories from all over the world. Many in hard to reach locations, from the deepest waters in the ocean, to the most remote to forest canopies.

ANDRE: What we're doing with this technology and all these network of sensors is providing the data in the way to manage nature through sounds and to help us to cohabitate with it.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Innovative and non-invasive. The system is powered by advanced artificial intelligence techniques that continuously analyze natural habitats in real time to detect potential threats like poaching and illegal logging.

ANDRE: They tell us about the identity of the different sources. They tell us about these interactions between human noises and biological sounds. We alert governments, we alert the operators about a specific issue that we can have. But we not only do that, we bring solutions. But LIDO is just one and a vast and varied portfolio of projects. The biotechnology engineer has spent his career building.

The catalysts for it all was a 1992 assignment in the Canary Islands, where Michel was working on preventing fatal collisions between ships and sperm whales.

ANDRE: This was a turning point in the research that we were conducting. Because we started to focus on how noise pollution could affect the marine mammals.

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: He developed the whale anti-collision system. First of its kind technology designed to alert ships of a whale's presence, instead of trying to deter the animal to move out of the way. The creation of the LAB in 2003 was a direct response to this newfound impact of noise pollution on so many ocean habitats. And it continues to be a place where pioneering technology is developed, tested and spun out for real world application.

ANDRE: In these band, the only thing that we don't know if the invertebrates will be sensitive to this very low frequency.

So we know that human actions and activity will always have an effect on the environment. The responsibility we have as scientists and as a society is to limit this effect to a minimum and this is how this terminology enters into action.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

NEWTON: Gorgeous shots there. Let us know what you're doing to answer the call with the #CallToEarth. And we will be right back with more news.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[15:51:00]

NEWTON: U.S. business activity fell for a third straight month in September. The S&P's PMI index showed the pace of decline slowed as global supply chains began to improve. Now toy and entertainment company MGA is gearing up for the holiday season and that's despite the challenges and of course, what we believe will be slower spending. It's all -- it's ready in fact to sell new ranges of its most popular brands.

Some of you know them including Little Tikes cars and the Bratz doll. And yes, it is even launching a new movie. Joining me now is Isaac Larian. He is the chief executive of MGA Entertainment. And it's good to see you and talk to you. And we have Christmas front and center, right? Please tell me what is going on with inventories? What are your sales expectations? And more broadly, what are you seeing in terms of demand from consumers?

ISAAC LARIAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE, MGA: Thank you. Thank you, Paula for having me. You know, toy business, I've been doing it for 43 years. So it is pretty much recession proof because families take from the -- their own leisurely expand and make sure they take care of the children. Whether the gift givers, parents, grandparents, et cetera. So, I think toy business is going to be fine.

There is the for sure some inventory at retail that slowly clearing up, but the business is about new and surprises. So, everybody loves a surprise. Adults like surprise, kids like surprise. And we have a lot of them. So these LOL mini sweet surprise, which is brand new just coming out to the market right now. And is selling incredibly well because we have partnered with Tez and other companies to do these. So we have a great product --

(CROSSTALK)

NEWTON: Yes. Innovation is a great thing. And I know -- I know you need it. I do want to -- I do want to talk about the supply train -- supply chain crunch though. Is it easing? Have you seen it ease? And what risk --

(CROSSTALK)

LARIAN: Yes. It has --

NEWTON: Go ahead.

LARIAN: Yes. So the supply chain definitely compared to last year. It has ease a lot because there is less imports coming to the USA ports of L.A. or Long Beach. Not necessarily toys, but other products. So the cost of containers have come down drastically last year. This time we were paying $22,000 container. This year is already down to about 4500. So supply chain is getting a lot better than before.

The inflation is hurting us a little bit. But we will grow. I think 2022 is going to be a transition year for the consumer goods industry. And especially for toys at 23 driven by innovation is going to really take it to the next level.

NEWTON: Wow. That is startling, though when you give us the price differential on certainly those containers and yet you say that you are still seeing some challenges there with supply chains or with inventories and inflation. Why inflation in particular? What is it in the supply chain that is still a challenge?

LARIAN: Yes, because you know, for example, this toy here, it's used to be at eight or $9.00, now is 11. And when the price goes up, you know, less people can afford it especially with the gas prices going through the roof and there is no more free money coming to the household. So, it's a challenge so when the pricing -- when inflation hits the pricing, the demand absolutely goes down.

NEWTON: Even though margins might continue to be healthy. I want to talk to you about this new movie, right? LOL Surprise! Winter Fashion Show. So it will be on Netflix.

[15:55:00]

Do you absolutely have to have that kind of a franchise attached to new toy concepts in order to be successful these days? I mean, this is quite you know branching out. This is quite ambitious when you're getting to a movie.

LARIAN: Yes, it is -- it is different. This is the seventh year of the launch of the franchise LOL Surprise! is one of the fastest growing toy brands out there. And kids like to be entertained. The LOL Surprise! winter movies that they have done in Netflix during the past two years, this is the third one. They have always been a top five overall on Netflix. There is definitely the demand for the children to watch this movie.

This movie is going to be the best of the best out of them. And we're very excited about it. It's launching on Netflix on October 22nd.

NEWTON: And obviously, it must drive demand for more of those toys. But I want to ask you about the competition with other screens. Just the way you see it as someone who's been in the business so long. Is there increased competition between, you know, the screens that kids are on all the time in whatever fashion they're on and the actual tactile toys that they have in front of them?

LARIAN: Yes, absolutely. There is a correlation. Definitely we see that and a quality of the content is very important. Yes. As you mentioned, there is a lot of content available for kids to watch on YouTube, Netflix and T.V. et cetera. But the quality of the entertainment, it's like the movie business. If you have a great movie, it will become a blockbuster and we think that's LOL Surprise! Winter Fashion Show will be a blockbuster.

But it's again, it's about the content and the quality that you have and of course that will also drive sales.

NEWTON: OK. We will leave it there for now. You've really given us some insights into what's going on with, you know, obviously not just the toy industry but in general with supply chains as we continue to grapple with this. Thanks so much. Really appreciate your time.

LARIAN: Thank you for having me, Paula. Thank you so much.

NEWTON: And we will be right back with a final look at those closing markets.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

NEWTON: Alright. So we do have some buying action here. Some traders diving in to check out those session lows. We are now clawing our way back though. The Dow recovered and it's still set to close though and this is key lower than 30,000. You see it there for the first time since mid-June. Now, all three indices though are down. They really did have a brutal week still down better than 1-1/2 percent for all of them.

[16:00:11]

And that does for us and for this week. "THE LEAD WITH JAKE TAPPER" starts now.

END

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNQMB0020220924ei9n00001


Anti-Russian sanctions hugely harm Europe - Hungarian minister
179 字
2022 年 9 月 24 日 03:19 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
Large-scale restrictive measures imposed by the European Union against Russia because of the situation around Ukraine cause great harm to Europe and Europeans, Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs Peter Szijjarto said in an interview with TASS on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly.

"If you look at the sanction policy of the European Union, not in an ideological not in a political but in a professional manner, then it's obvious that it is extremely painful to Europe, extremely painful. Inflation is skyrocketing, energy prices are in the skies, price for commodities food is increasing like hell. So this sanction policy is definitely extremely harmful to Europe and European people," he said.

Russian President Vladimir Putin said in a televised address on February 24 that in response to a request by the heads of the Donbass republics he had made a decision to carry out a special military operation in order to protect people "who have been suffering from abuse and genocide by the Kiev regime for eight years."

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020220924ei9o0008d


EXCERPT - Szijjarto: Peace is 'ultimate solution'
314 字
2022 年 9 月 24 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, September 24 (MTI) - Peace is the "ultimate solution" to

the problems posed by the war in Ukraine and sanctions, Foreign

Minister Peter Szijjarto said in an interview with CNN on Saturday.

Szijjarto said in the interview, conducted in English and

posted on his Facebook page, that "if you impose sanctions against

someone then it should be more harmful on the targeted entity and

not on yourself."

He added that the European Union's sanctions policy had failed

"because those sanctions which were introduced against Russia are

more harmful and more painful to Europe than to the Russian

Federation."

"The European economy is moving towards recession; that has not

been the case for a very, very long time. The safe supply of energy

is just a kind of memory for us in Europe. Inflation is

sky-rocketing, the prices of food and commodities have been

increasing. Utility costs are in the skies. So we definitely need a

solution. Because the European people are not responsible for this

war. So that's why we should not force the European people to pay

the price of this war," he said.

Szijjarto dismissed any suggestion that Hungary stands closer

to the side of Russia than to that of the EU and its partners.

"This accusation must be rejected, rejected very, very harshly.

Because we Hungarians have condemned the war from the very

beginning and we have not vetoed any sanction regimes so far. So

all seven sanction regimes which have been in place have been voted

by a unanimous decision in the European Union. Had we not supported

these packages of sanctions, they would not have been introduced

and would not be enforced currently," he said.

"We have made it very clear though that we are not ready to put

our safe supply of energy at risk, no way," he added.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220924ei9o0008d


Szijjarto terms EU sanctions policy 'total failure'
613 字
2022 年 9 月 25 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, September 25 (MTI) - European Union sanctions against

Russia have neither "forced Russia to its knees" nor brought peace

any closer, but they have harmed Europe, Foreign Minister Peter

Szijjarto said in an interview with public radio broadcast on

Sunday, calling the sanctions policy "a total failure".

Speaking on Kossuth Radio, Szijjarto blamed the EU's sanctions

for "sky high" inflation, bigger utilities bills and higher gas and

food prices, putting the continent's economy into a recession.

He noted that Brussels had "promised" at negotiations for the

first round of sanctions that the punitive measures would drain

Russia and advance efforts to achieve peace.

"This was a complete failure as it is now clearly apparent that

those sanctions hurt Europe much more than they did Russia, while

doing enormous damage to the EU economy," he said.

Szijjarto said that gas prices had started to rise after the

sanctions were cleared and some European politicians and officials

started to talk about extending the sanctions to gas. "The market

priced that in, causing gas prices to skyrocket," he added.

He said an agreement reached with EU leaders at a meeting in

New York days earlier on an eighth package of sanctions was a "move

in the wrong direction", but stressed that the meeting had failed

to produce even a proposal, say nothing about a final decision.

"We will not approve any decision that harms Hungary's national

interests. Security of our energy supply remains a red line. Any

sanction that puts our energy supply at risk is unacceptable for

us," he said.

Szijjarto noted that he had discussed the security of Hungary's

energy supply and the expansion of the Paks nuclear power plant

with his Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, at a meeting on the

sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in New York.

"I place value in dialogue, in negotiations, but it appears

that not everybody shares this view," he said, adding that he was

the only EU foreign minister to meet with Lavrov.

He said it was "unfortunate" that the UN General Assembly

failed to produce negotiations or talks that could have brought the

war in Ukraine closer to an end.

"I'm very disappointed. I don't understand those Western

colleagues of mine who think that dialogue is a bad idea. I think

that if we close communication channels, diplomatic channels, we

give up and lose the hope that there will be an end to this war,"

he added.

He said Russia's Gazprom is delivering a daily 5.8 million

cubic metres of gas to Hungary in addition to volumes stipulated in

the country's long-term contract. Hungary's reserves now contain

enough gas to cover 41 percent of annual consumption, well over the

comparative rate of 23 percent for Europe as a whole, he added.

With the issue of the implementation licence for the

construction of two more blocks at the Paks nuclear power plant,

Szijjarto said work on the Paks II project could be "stepped up",

adding that construction could start in the autumn of next year,

allowing the blocks to be finished by 2030.

Responding to the suggestion that the United States is

benefitting from the EU's sanctions policy, Szijjarto said "the

American economy is a winner because of these sanctions, without a

doubt". While the EU slips into recession, the US economy,

bolstered by cheap energy prices, among other factors, is becoming

more competitive, he added.

"I don't know who can tug EU officials out of this

extraordinarily unsuccessful and hypocritical policy, but one thing

is for sure, these sanctions are harming Europe," he said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220925ei9p0002t


Politics & Law
Hungarian chief diplomat calls Western sanctions "complete failure"
282 字
2022 年 9 月 25 日 17:20 GMT
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
英文
Copyright 2022. Xinhua News Agency. All rights reserved.
BUDAPEST, Sept. 25 (Xinhua) -- Sanctions on Russia are causing damage to Europe and it is a "complete failure," said Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Peter Szijjarto here on Sunday.

As a result of the European Union's (EU) sanctions imposed so far due to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, European inflation is skyrocketing, utility costs, natural gas prices, and food prices have risen, and the continent's economy has entered recession, Szijjarto told public radio channel MR1.

"This was a complete failure, as it is now clear that these sanctions have hurt Europe much more than Russia itself and are causing enormous damage to the EU's economy," he said.

Szijjarto labeled a potential eighth sanction package as a "wrong direction" but noted that there are no final decisions on the matter yet, and not even a formal proposal has been prepared so far.

"We will not give our consent to any decision that would harm the Hungarian national interest. The security of our energy supply remains a red line, for us any sanctions that would endanger our energy supply are unacceptable," he said.

Szijjarto also voiced his opinion about the United States gaining from the EU's sanctions policy. "It is beyond dispute that the American economy is winning with these sanctions, while the EU's economy is headed for recession," said the minister.

"I consider dialogue and negotiation to be a value, it seems that not everyone agrees on that," Szijjarto said.

"If we close the communication channels, the diplomatic channels, we will permanently give up and lose the hope that this conflict will ever end," he added.

Enditem

News and Information Center Xinhua News Agency

文件 XNEWS00020220925ei9p00899


Putin rubbing hands with glee as EU to delay oil sanctions amid bloc's furious bust-up
Jacob Paul
943 字
2022 年 9 月 26 日 15:59 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
The G7 had earlier agreed to impose a cap on the price of Russian oil imports, with the President responding with a threat to freeze Europe of supplies.

The EU looks set to avoid including a price cap on Russian oil and nuclear energy in its next sanctions as members continue to lock horns over the measure. It comes as the European Commission met with member states over the weekend as the bloc continues to ruminate over the policy with a renewed sense of urgency following Russian President Vladimir Putin's nuclear threats.

Related articles

While the bloc has agreed in a previous sanctions package to ban the export of Russia's oil to the EU, it did involve exemptions for countries that are overly reliant on Russia's pipeline oil, such as Hungary.

Now, as the 27-member union considers slapping a price cap on Russian oil to deal a blow to the country's economy in an effort to halt its war efforts in Ukraine, nations like Hungary and Cyprus are reportedly pushing back against the measure.

As the furious back-and-forth drags on, it risks delaying the floated proposal, which requires unanimous backing from all members of the bloc before any proposal can be turned into action.

But the proposal was, in fact, first agreed upon not by the Commission, but by the G7. However, following Russia's threat to use nuclear weapons in the war in Ukraine, the EU was prompted to bring forward proposals for its seventh sanctions package against Moscow that Commission officials had been earlier working on behind the scenes.

The EU’s foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said on Wednesday after Putin's nuclear threats: "Additional restrictive measures against Russia will be brought forward immediately, as soon as possible in cooperation with our partners."

But according to reports, the price cap on oil may not be included in the new package due to the internal backlash. This is despite the EU still proving to be the biggest market for Russian oil, although its comes bloc readying to ban imports of Russian crude from December to slash billions in revenue from Kremlin.

Some states had also called for Russian nuclear energy to have a cap imposed too, which will also reportedly be missing from the fresh sanctions package imposed on Moscow.

According to diplomats who were present at talks with the Commission over the weekend, the proposal to sanction Russian nuclear energy sparked concerns among certain member states over the maintenance of Europe’s nuclear power plant.

READ MORE: Energy crisis warning as Britons face 10 hour blackouts

A diplomat was quoted by EURACTIV saying the measure would have impacted “the construction of facilities or installation of equipment for, or the provision of services, equipment or technology for, activities related to power generation or electricity production both in Russia or abroad”.

They reportedly added the proposal to include a price cap on Russian oil exports was also not warmly welcomed by all countries in the bloc.

However, it is thought members may push to reach a preliminary deal ahead of an informal gathering of EU leaders in Prague on October 6.

But it remains unclear as to how the EU would be able to implement an oil cap alongside the import embargo agreed upon earlier this year. The bloc has also previously agreed on a measure to ban the services needed to ship Russian oil.

The EU’s economy chief Paolo Gentiloni has said the commission would attempt to get all nations of the EU to agree on the measure.

DON'T MISS

Do you support Liz Truss lifting the fracking ban? POLL [POLL]

Putin rubbing hands with glee as EU weakens sanctions amid dual crisis [REVEAL]

Scholz humiliated as UAE gas deal offers little end to Putin's grip [INSIGHT]

Related articles Putin dealt huge blow as Truss and Macron strike energy agreement NASA calls off Artemis Moon mission launch as storm crashes over US

But convincing some members, such as Hungary, remains a huge challenge. Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto has previously said: “If Russian supplies of natural gas and crude oil were to cease, then Hungary’s entire economy may stop working. That’s why it’s very important for us to have predictable supplies from Gazprom.”

It comes after Hungary delayed the earlier sanctions package in June that targeted crude oil. Budapest managed to exempt itself from the measure in the end, so the landlocked country could access Russia's pipeline oil, which is also crucial for other landlocked countries like Slovakia.

Now, following threats to put a cap on Russian oil imports, Putin has responded by threatening to tear up existing contracts and let Europe "freeze".

The Russian President said at the Eastern Economic Forum: “Will there be any political decisions that contradict the contracts? Yes, we just won’t fulfill them. We will not supply anything at all if it contradicts our interests. We will not supply gas, oil, coal, heating oil — we will not supply anything. We would only have one thing left to do: as in the famous Russian fairy tale, we would let the wolf’s tail freeze

Related articles Where does the UK's gas come from? Map shows 13 countries we rely on Truss handed plan to save cash after £450m heat pump scheme slammed UK ditches rules to boost oil and gas production No fracking chance unless King Charles III gives up property rights Fears EU's sanctions will spark anarchy as working classes suffering

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220926ei9q0046f


Magyarország Miniszterelnoke - Hungarian government is first in Europe to ask people about sanctions
Magyarország Miniszterelnoke published this content on 26 Sep 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 26 Sep 2022 17:18:06 UTC.
1757 字
2022 年 9 月 26 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://miniszterelnok.hu/hungarian-government-is-first-in-europe-to-ask-people-about-sanctions/]

Hungarian government is first in Europe to ask people about sanctions

The Hungarian government will be the first in Europe to ask the people about the sanctions introduced against Russia.

He said today the countries of Europe are paying a sanction surcharge for oil, natural gas and electricity; meanwhile, in the United States the prices of gas and electricity are a fraction of the European prices.

The Prime Minister pointed out that the EU frequently accuses Hungary of violating European values, notwithstanding the fact that democracy is the paramount European value. However, the sanctions were not adopted democratically; instead, Brussels bureaucrats and the European elites decided on them.

They did not consult the people despite the fact that the price of the sanctions is being paid by the citizens of Europe, he said, adding that the cabinet will seek to find out as part of a national consultation whether the people agree with the sanctions and whether they support further ones.

The Prime Minister asked the Hungarian people to state their opinion because the sanctions are affecting the life of every Hungarian family.

The Prime Minister expects to see a prolonged Russo-Ukrainian war; in his view, the countries of Europe have experienced severe, shock-like changes due to the drastic rise in energy prices.

He said there is a war under way East of Hungary, between Ukraine and Russia, and step by step, increasingly large parts of the world are becoming victims of the war.

He added that while the war between Ukraine and Russia is a local war, the western economic sanctions have turned it into a global economic war, "meaning that we are facing a local armed war and a global economic war all at once".

In Mr Orbán's view, we should expect a prolonged war. America and the EU are helping Ukraine with weapons and money, while Russia's reserves are limitless regarding both personnel and weaponry, he said.

We must prepare for the war in Hungary's immediate vicinity to continue this year and next year as well, he said, also indicating that the world economy is facing a threat of recession, while the European economy a threat of utter devastation.

He said in recent months the countries of Europe have experienced severe, shock-like changes due to the drastic rise in energy prices, the world economy is facing a threat of recession, while the European economy a threat of utter devastation, and "what is happening around us is determining our lives more dominantly than we're used to".

He stressed that Hungary's position is different from the majority western position, "today the West is on the side of war, while we are on the side of peace; instead of the continuation and escalation of the war, we demand an immediate ceasefire and peace talks".

He said in the economic war that has escalated to a global scale every country has its own interests, and for Hungary the number one priority is to protect our security as well as our economic and national sovereignty. This is why they set up a defence fund in the budget as over and above the normal budgetary resources, we must now spend extra funds on the development of the army, the protection of the borders and the strengthening of our national security services.

Mr Orbán said the war worries people, but families are being most directly affected by the economic consequences of the war. A rate of inflation not seen for forty years is galloping through the advanced countries, and inflation is the highest in Central Europe, he stated.

He took the view that also two years ago we survived an economic decline that was caused by the pandemic, but now in 2022 the cause of the economic ailments is the response given to the Russo-Ukrainian war, meaning the wartime sanctions and energy prices increasing manifold in consequence. These brutal energy prices are not being induced by economic processes; "it is not the economy that is responsible for the drastic rise in energy prices, but politics, or to be more precise, the political decisions made in Brussels," he pointed out.

He observed that it only makes sense to impose sanctions on sectors "in which we are stronger than those whom we seek to sanction," but in the field of energy "we're dwarves, while Russia is a giant". He said this is the first time he has seen "a dwarf imposing sanctions on a giant".

The Prime Minister also mentioned that energy prices have an impact on food prices as well. If the sanctions were lifted, prices would immediately drop to a half, and inflation, too, would halve. Without the sanctions, the European economy would swiftly recover and would be able to avoid the threat of recession, he said.

He further highlighted that "when at the beginning of the summer these sanctions were forced upon Europe in Brussels," this is not what the Brussels bureaucrats promised; they promised that these sanctions would hurt Russia, not the European people. Since then it has been revealed that the sanctions introduced are also causing Europe enormous losses; in fact, since the start of the war, Russia has gained revenues to the value of EUR 158 billion from increased energy exports, he pointed out.

He took the view that in consequence of the sanctions, the European people have become poorer, while Russia has not been brought to its knees. "This weapon has backfired, with the sanctions Europe has shot itself in the foot". In June in Brussels, the bureaucrats also promised that the sanctions would bring the war to an end. However, the end of the war is still not in sight, while energy bills have skyrocketed, he explained.

He highlighted that if we carry on like this, "the whole of Europe will be destroyed". In Europe, ever more people are angry, and the Brussels bureaucrats must understand that they cannot gamble with the fates of entire national economies and people in the millions because this is irresponsible.

He observed it is no wonder if - feeling deceived - angry people are replacing the governments of countries supporting the sanctions one after the other. "Glory to Italy," he added.

He also said the government is able to guarantee Hungary's energy supply.

The Prime Minister pointed out that there was enough natural gas, electricity and oil, too. The quantity now in storage in Hungary's gas reserves covers 41 per cent of the country's annual consumption, and they agreed on further supplies with Russia.

However, as Hungary relies on imports for 85 per cent of its gas needs and is as such unable to meaningfully control prices, consumption will have to be reduced, he said, asking the state, state-owned companies, institutions, families and businesses alike to reduce their consumption.

Mr Orbán said natural gas accounts for 35 per cent of Hungary's energy consumption; by the end of 2023, this will be reduced to 31 per cent and by 2025 to below 30 per cent. They have ordered an increase in the country's domestic gas exploitation, have ordered the re-commissioning of the Mátra Power Plant, will extend the lifespan of the Paks atomic power station and will also start the construction of Paks2, he listed.

He said the Hungarian government is providing the most significant assistance for families with energy prices in the whole of the European Union.

He said the government is helping families with six items of assistance: with reduced household energy prices, a firewood programme, a lignite programme, a petrol price cap, a food price cap and an interest rate cap. With the maintenance of reduced household energy prices, every Hungarian family is saving HUF 181,000 monthly on average, he laid down.

He said in a European comparison this means that while in Germany energy subsidies account for 20 per cent of a family's monthly income and in Austria for 6 per cent, in Hungary subsidies amount to 30 per cent.

The Prime Minister reported that the government had announced a programme worth HUF 200 billion for production and energy-intensive small and medium-sized businesses, adding that there will be a factory rescue programme and if necessary, there will also be a new job protection action plan.

He said at present state projects worth HUF 9,400 billion are under way in the country. These will be completed, but due to the uncertain economic situation, they will not start new state projects because they are unable to guarantee their completion.

In his view, today Hungary is stronger than at any time since the fall of communism, and while the sanctions are causing severe losses, there is a chance that the government will bring the country out of this crisis stronger than it was going in.

The Prime Minister said the government will "dictate a fast pace" in the coming months.

He indicated that even in the crisis management period of the next two years, the government will not surrender its strategic goals regarding the nation, will continue the development of transport networks, the family support programmes, the building of a development-based economy, the university development programme, the development of the defence forces and the programme for the unification of the nation. He promised the government would widen the available family support schemes; they will finalise the 2023 budget at the beginning of December, and that will also feature new family support measures.

Mr Orbán confirmed that despite the disputes with Brussels, Hungary continues to envisage its future as a member of the European Union. The Hungarian nation is a European nation, just as important a shade in the EU as any other Member State, and the EU will only be strong if it preserves and respects every one of its shades, he said, adding that "we're a proud nation," well aware that we have always given the world more than we have received from it.

* Original Link[https://miniszterelnok.hu/hungarian-government-is-first-in-europe-to-ask-people-about-sanctions/]

Disclaimer

Prime Minister of Hungary published this content on 26 September 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 26 September 2022 17:20:34 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020220926ei9q00ffm


CE Noticias Financieras English
The far right in Europe and Latin America
979 字
2022 年 9 月 26 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
In a few years Europe has gone a long way towards normalizing the far-right vote. A cooperative project between academics and journalists launched by The Guardian, called Popu-list, calculated that from 5% in 2004 support for far-right movements in Europe went to 15% in 2019.Today, with fascists in government in Italy, after the pandemic and the strength that movements like QAnon have gained, the figure is presumably much higher.

Let's start with the old guard. In April of this year Viktor Orbán won the elections in Hungary again for the fourth time in a row. He has been president of the country for 12 years, all of them leading a coalition of ultra-nationalist and Eurosceptic parties formed between the party he leads, Fidesz, and the Christian Democratic People's Party (KDNP).

Orbán has absolute control of Hungarian politics. His discourse is that of the ordinary ultra-right: against LGBTI rights, against feminists, against immigrants "who threaten the nation". In 2012 he changed, the Constitution to restrict same-sex marriage, incidentally he removed from the new magna carta an article establishing equal salaries for men and women. In 2015, during the refugee crisis he openly said that they did not want minorities with different culture in the country.

In 2018, the European Parliament sanctioned the Orbán government for silencing independent media, as well as for dismissing independent judges and repressing NGOs. About ten days ago the Brussels voted a Resolution declaring Hungary "a hybrid regime of electoral autocracy". An issue that in the country was qualified as a witch-hunt, due to Orbán's ambiguous stance regarding the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Although he condemned the conflict, he opposes sanctions against Russia and even managed to have the Patriarch of the Russian Orthodox Church excluded from the sixth sanctions package.

Poland, another bastion of the conservative and Catholic ultra-right in Europe. The coalition government is formed by Law and Justice (PiS) and Solidarity Poland (SP), both nationalist, authoritarian and united around traditional Christian values. In 2017, they changed the abortion law declaring unconstitutional the termination of pregnancy when the fetus presents physical malformations. This decision sparked massive protests inside and outside the country, which, however, did not change anything.

In 2017, the EU froze access to funds to Poland on the grounds that the Polish judiciary was not independent. However, only a few months ago, the president of the European commission, Ursula Von der Leyen, resolved it in Poland's favor. It is clear that they have corrected their judicial system in the last five years.

In Sweden elections were also held a few weeks ago and, oh surprise, the far right also won. So much so that it is going to form a coalition with right-wing parties and condition the country's policy.

The Sweden Democrats movement has become the second most voted force with more than 20% of support. This party was founded by a former SS volunteer from Nazi Germany and uses slogans similar to Trump's: "Sweden first" or "Make Sweden great again". That message seems to be gaining a lot of traction all over Northern Europe, even in countries like Denmark where, for the time being, the Social Democrats are governing but with a somewhat extreme right-wing agenda, a bit Nazi one might even say, already perfectly installed.

The Danish Social Democrats sent asylum seekers back to Syria. In 2016, they showed off by passing the controversial Jewelry Act, which agrees to confiscate refugees' valuable belongings "to pay for their stay in the country."" Luckily, they have not gone so far as to sanction having gold teeth pulled out, and in a fit of generosity even excluded wedding rings and jewelry "with sentimental value."

In Norway, something similar. Last year, the country's parliament approved the Progress Party's proposal to lengthen the citizenship waiting period from three to five years. Anders Breivik, the perpetrator of the massacre at Lake Utoya, who in 2011 murdered 77 people to defend his people and his religion.

In France, for decades the ultra-right has been associated with the National Front and the Le Pen family. Jean-Marie Le Pen ran in almost every presidential election from 1974 to 2007, with results always hovering around 15%. His daughter, Marine Le Pen, who in 2011 took over the leadership of the party from him, is having more success. In the April elections this year, she tried to moderate her discourse to be less scary and obtained 42% of the votes in the second round. For the second time she was losing to Macron. In 2019, the French considered her the most influential woman in society and it can be said that she enjoys quite a lot of support, even beyond France.

Earlier this year, Portugal also surprised, where during the general elections the extreme right, embodied in the Chega party, became the third force.

Finally, some data from Latin America, where the far right is also gaining ground. In Chile it was on the verge of coming to power, represented by José Antonio Kast, an avowed Pinochetista and supported by some directly neo-Nazi sectors who consider that people were well shot during the military dictatorship. In Argentina there is Javier Milei and sectors close to him, ultra-reactionaries who inspired a series of neo-Nazi groups. Now, they are being investigated for the attempted assassination of Cristina Kirchner.

In Brazil, the ultra-right has been ruling for four years and is likely to come to an end on October 3 when the presidential elections are held. Everything indicates that if Lula does not win in the first round, he will win in the second round. Thus, the main ultra-right-wing stronghold in Latin America will fall.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220926ei9q008ky


Hungarian chief diplomat calls Western sanctions 'complete failure'
446 字
2022 年 9 月 27 日
China Daily
CHNDLY
12
英文
Copyright 2022, China Daily Multimedia Co. Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
BUDAPEST - Sanctions on Russia are causing damage to Europe and it is a "complete failure", Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Peter Szijjarto said on Sunday.

As a result of the European Union's sanctions imposed so far due to the Russia-Ukraine conflict, European inflation is skyrocketing, utility costs, natural gas prices and food prices have risen, and the continent's economy has entered into a recession, Szijjarto told public radio channel MR1.

"This was a complete failure, as it is now clear that these sanctions have hurt Europe much more than Russia itself and are causing enormous damage to the EU's economy," he said.

Szijjarto labeled a potential eighth sanction package as a "wrong direction", but noted that there are no final decisions on the matter yet - not even a formal proposal has been prepared so far.

"We will not give our consent to any decision that would harm the Hungarian national interest. The security of our energy supply remains a red line. For us, any sanctions that would endanger our energy supply are unacceptable," he said.

Szijjarto also voiced his view about the United States gaining from the EU's sanctions policy. "It is beyond dispute that the American economy is winning with these sanctions, while the EU's economy is headed for recession," he said.

"I consider dialogue and negotiation to be a value, it seems that not everyone agrees on that. If we close the communication channels, the diplomatic channels, we will permanently give up and lose the hope that this conflict will ever end."

Trading accusations

Ukraine and Russia traded accusations on Sunday of attacks on civilians in southern Ukraine.

Ukraine's military said early on Sunday that Russian forces had launched dozens of missile attacks and airstrikes on military and civilian targets in the past 24 hours.

Russia denies deliberately attacking civilians. Its RIA news agency reported that Ukrainian forces bombed a hotel in the city of Kherson, killing two people.

Russia's defense ministry said Ukrainian forces continued attacks around the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant, including launching eight "kamikaze drones" at the facility.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in an interview broadcast on Sunday that Ukraine had received sophisticated air defense systems from the US.

It was the first acknowledgment that Ukraine had received the National Advanced Surface-to-Air Missile System, which was long sought by Kyiv. Its shipment was approved by Washington late last month.

Meanwhile, Japan has decided to ban exports of related chemical weapon goods to Russia in an additional sanction against Moscow, Japan's Chief Cabinet Secretary Hirokazu Matsuno said on Monday.

Xinhua - Agencies

China Daily Multimedia Co. Ltd.

文件 CHNDLY0020220927ei9r0000e


Viktor Orban says European countries paying energy 'sanctions surcharge'
410 字
2022 年 9 月 27 日 05:58 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
European countries are now paying a "sanctions surcharge" on oil, natural gas and electricity well above US electricity and gas prices, Prime Minister Viktor Orban said in a speech ahead of parliament's opening autumn session on September 26.

Drastic energy price hikes are owing to "political decisions in Brussels" rather than economic developments, he said. Orban accused the West of being pro-war while Hungary stood on the side of peace.

"We demand an immediate ceasefire and peace talks rather than prolonging and deepening the war," he said.

Viktor Orban, Vladimir Putin’s most loyal ally in the EU, has taken a neutral stance in the conflict. Before the war he defended the country’s cosying up with Russia, citing the dependence on cheap Russian energy, but as it turned out Hungary has been buying gas from Gazprom at or above the market price.

Orban said all countries have their own interests in the global economic war that has now become a global phenomenon. Hungary's priorities are "preserving its security and its economic and national sovereignty," he added.

Orban told lawmakers that he expects a prolonged war that will last until 2023, which risks crippling European economies.

Since the start of the war Orban has blamed the EU’s sanction with more or less intensity for soaring gas and oil prices, even as gas is not included in the EU sanctions list and prices have risen sharply well before the war. Furthermore Hungary also received an exemption from the fifth round of sanctions hitting Russian crude and refined oil deliveries.

The government has ramped up the rhetoric against Brussels and announced the launch of national consultation survey in an attempt to dominate public discourse and use the EU as a scapegoat for the unfolding cost of living crisis. Fidesz has also been downplaying the negative impact of sanctions on Russia, claiming that they are doing more harm to EU economies than to Russia.

Economists have expressed doubt about the prime minister’s claim that if sanctions were lifted, energy prices would immediately halve and inflation would fall and Europe would regain its strength.

Soaring energy prices are putting enormous burdens on the economy. Finance Minister Mihaly Varga acknowledged that the price tag of gas, oil and electricity will reach HUF8 trillion (€20bn) in 2022 compared to HUF1.8 trillion in 2019. The €15bn-16bn increase accounts for roughly 10% of GDP.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220927ei9r0012z


Hungary opposes EU sanctions on Russian nuclear sector
Admin
653 字
2022 年 9 月 27 日 07:32 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Hungary, which is highly dependent on Russian energy, said Monday (26 September) it staunchly opposed European Union sanctions on the Russian nuclear industry, following EU talks on the issue at the weekend.

Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto told a meeting in Vienna of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) that “some entities in the European Union are…continuously making attempts to put hurdles and obstacles in (the) way of nuclear investments.”

“I want to make it very clear here that we do consider all actions carried out… to put obstacles on the way of the construction of our nuclear power plants as attacks against our sovereignty.”

The landlocked central European country is exempted from the partial EU embargo on Russian oil and rejects calls for other sanctions on Russia’s energy industry, even indirect ones on areas such as construction, engineering or IT.

Sanctions on nuclear investments were a “red line” for Hungary and would be “a violation of European regulations”, Szijjarto told the United Nations nuclear watchdog.

“We would never support… any sanctions that would endanger our safe energy supply,” he said.

Next Russia sanctions package to tackle evasion, but nuclear, oil-price cap likely to stay out[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/next-russia-sanctions-package-to-tackle-evasion-but-nuclear-oil-price-cap-likely-to-stay-out/]

Nuclear energy and an EU oil-price cap are unlikely to find their way into the seventh sanction package proposal, several EU diplomats said after consultations for a seventh Russia sanctions package over the weekend left some more hawkish member states dissatisfied.

Hungary seeking EU green light for nuclear reactors

Hungary’s nationalist prime minister, Viktor Orbán, has sought close ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin in recent years and has frequently railed against EU sanctions against the Kremlin, arguing that they hurt Europe more than Moscow.

Hungary is due shortly to start construction of two new nuclear reactors with Russian conglomerate Rosatom at its Paks nuclear power plant. They will supplement Hungary’s four existing atomic reactors, which run on Russian fuel and supply around half the country’s electricity.

Hungary has also applied to the EU seeking approval for the extension of the lifespan of its current reactors, Szijjarto said Monday in a video posted on his Facebook page.

EU member states in favour of strong sanctions against Russia are pushing for an end to nuclear cooperation with Moscow. They include the Baltic states, Ireland and Poland.

But there is no consensus on the issue among the bloc’s 27 members, a European diplomatic source told AFP.

Bulgaria, which lost access to Russian gas supplies because the previous centrist government refused to pay in roubles, is also concerned about talk on widening the energy embargo.

Its one and only nuclear plant supplies about a third of the country’s power.

‘Europe is shooting itself in the foot’: Orbán

On Monday, Orbán again criticised the EU’s strategy.

“Europe is shooting itself in the foot,” he told parliament in Budapest. “A dwarf is imposing sanctions on a giant when sanctions can only work if it’s the other way round.”

At the same time, Orbán urged Brussels to release EU funds for energy investments, which are currently blocked by Brussels over rule-of-law concerns.

“If the Brussels bureaucrats do not give us this money, which Hungary is eligible for, then we will get the necessary funds from other financial sources,” Orbán said. “We have launched these talks with the European Union and other international partners.”

Hungary’s government has revised its long-term energy strategy and plans a raft of huge energy sector investments for which it is eligible for EU funding.

EU Commission proposes to cut €7.5 billion funding to Hungary[https://www.euractiv.com/section/economy-jobs/news/eu-commission-proposes-to-cut-e7-5-billion-funding-to-hungary/]

Citing worries over corruption in Hungary, the European Commission agreed on Sunday (18 September) to suspend one-third of the cohesion funds allocated to the country if its reform efforts remain insufficient in the coming two months.

[Edited by Frédéric Simon]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220927ei9r00007


Russia hopes to use Hungary to oppose Western sanctions - analysis
1285 字
2022 年 9 月 27 日
Jpost.com (The Jerusalem Post online edition)
JPSTEN
英文
© 2022, Jpost.com (The Jerusalem Post online edition), All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Russia has been trying to spotlight Hungary as the country that is breaking away from Europe in an effort to get Hungary on the Russian side.

Russia is counting on Hungary to help it oppose sanctions the West has imposed since Russia invaded Ukraine[https://www.jpost.com/50-most-influential-jews/article-717707] earlier this year.

In several articles at Russian state media TASS, the role of Hungary has been spotlighted. The goal of Moscow is to portray Hungary as breaking with the rest of Europe. This is a classic Moscow policy to divide Europe. Since the European Union became increasingly relevant on the world stage, and since Vladimir Putin’s rise to power, Russia has sought to divide European countries. This has taken the form of messaging, support for those seen as opposing the idea of a unified Europe, and also stoking divisions.

“ Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban[https://www.jpost.com/international/article-717380] told parliament on Monday he would hold ‘national consultations’ in order to find out what the Hungarians really think about the sanctions imposed by the EU on Russia,” TASS media reported, based on what it says was a report in the Magyar Nemzet newspaper.

"The sanctions [against Russia] were introduced in an undemocratic way. It was a decision by the bureaucrats in Brussels, for which the European peoples are now paying. We need to know the opinion of the people. For the first time in Europe, in Hungary, we will ask for the opinion of the people concerning the sanctions…National consultations will be launched. The Hungarian people will be able to express their opinion whether they support them and if they are in favor of introducing new ones," Orban said, the report said.

This is the second recent article in Russian state media highlighting Hungary’s stance. “Large-scale restrictive measures imposed by the European Union[https://www.jpost.com/israel-news/article-717183] against Russia because of the situation around Ukraine cause great harm to Europe and Europeans, Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs Peter Szijjarto said in an interview with TASS on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly[https://m.jpost.com/israel-news/article-718017],” the Russian media reported last week.

Russian President Vladimir Putin makes an address, dedicated to a military conflict with Ukraine, in Moscow, Russia, in this still image taken from video released September 21, 2022. (credit: Russian Presidential Press Service/Kremlin via REUTERS)

"If you look at the sanction policy of the European Union, not in an ideological not in a political but in a professional manner, then it's obvious that it is extremely painful to Europe, extremely painful. Inflation is skyrocketing, energy prices are in the skies, price for commodities food is increasing like hell. So this sanction policy is definitely extremely harmful to Europe and European people," Szijjarto said.

Ukraine has been outraged by this stance. In early September, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine slammed a statement of the Foreign Minister of Hungary Szijjártó that through sanctions, Europeans are somehow forced to pay for a war they aren’t responsible for.

The logic here is that a tough winter lies ahead, inflation and other concerns are forefront in Europe. Blaming sanctions for this phenomenon is one way to look at it; but others would argue that Russia is at fault for starting the war. Hungary’s position, apparently, is that by pushing sanctions and support for Ukraine, the West has expanded the repercussions.

"No one should forget: Ukrainians pay with their lives so that people in the rest of Europe do not see the horrors of war. Russian aggression is a hybrid. It is not only about the military. The Russians attack Ukrainian cities and villages with cruise missiles, tanks, and EU countries with sky-high gas prices and propaganda. Let me remind you that Russia started blackmailing European consumers with energy resources supplies and a high price tag as early as November 2021 - three months before the full-scale invasion in Ukraine," Oleg Nikolenko, the spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, wrote on Facebook in early September.

"Russia's attack on Ukraine is an attack on the entire democratic world, democratic values, the right to be yourself and to determine your own future.”

Ukraine

This divide between whether it is “our war” or not is a divide in European history going back more than a 100 years. Countries have always tried to decide whether aggression by a powerful country is one that requires collective action or not. From Russia’s point of view, it would be preferable if countries not act collectively, so that Russia can do what it wants in Ukraine the way it did what it wanted to Georgia and Chechnya and other places and countries. Moscow would prefer to pick countries off one by one.

Moscow today hopes that Hungary’s current leadership can help articulate its stance. Moscow knows it has an uphill battle in this regard in the West, but Hungary has a foot in both camps. Hungary is facing stiff criticism from Europe over its alleged authoritarian slide, and there are calls to withhold funds from Hungary. Orban has said that the sanctions on Russia have backfired.

Hungary appears to have few allies in Europe. Some commentators thought the rise of the Right in a new election in Italy might give Budapest some headwind, but an article at The Guardian points out that the new Italian leadership appears to be pro- NATO[https://www.jpost.com/breaking-news/article-717962] and against Russian “aggression.”

The article notes also “nor is there any sign that Poland, once Hungary’s great ally, would welcome such a move. The first to congratulate Giorgia Meloni[https://www.jpost.com/international/article-718174] was the Polish prime minister, Mateusz Morawiecki. Brothers of Italy is aligned with the Polish PiS in the European parliament – but Warsaw remains at the helm of Nato’s anti-Putin alliance.”

A week ago a report at Euro News said that “the European Commission on Sunday called for an estimated €7.5 billion in European funds to be withheld from Hungary over corruption concerns. Commissioner Johannes Hahn, in charge of Budget and Administration, said the figure amounts to 65% of the commitments for three operational programs under cohesion policy and about a third of cohesion funds the country received from the EU budget.”

Clearly a denouement may be coming

Hungary is being pressured by other European countries. Russia wants Hungary’s backing and some other friends and allies in Europe. It works with Serbia, but it has few open friends in the continent.

An article in 2016 at the European Council on Foreign Relations said that Russia could count on some sympathy from “on the far right, the AfD, FPÖ, Greece’s Golden Dawn, Hungary’s Jobbik, France’s Front National, Italy’s Northern League, the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP), and Belgium’s Vlaams Belang (VB). On the far left, the most pro-Russian parties are Cyprus’s AKEL, Germany’s Die Linke, the Czech Republic’s KSCM, Podemos in Spain, and Syriza. The Italian Five Star Movement and the Human Shield Party in Croatia also belong to the pro-Russian camp.”

An article at the EU Observer in April suggested that “EU lawmakers have accused far-right and populist political parties of serving Putin's objective to undermine EU democracy — either for money or political gains. These include Italy's League, Germany's Alternative for Germany, Austria's Freedom Party, Hungary's Fidesz and the French National Front party.”

But even with that mosaic, critics of support for Ukraine are not rising in Europe yet, and Hungary appears one of the lone voices. A winter of discontent in Europe, the weakening of the British Pound and other issues could of course upend this trend and Moscow might find that Hungary has weathered the storm.

The Jerusalem Post

文件 JPSTEN0020220927ei9r000gp


West's sanctions have badly backfired
415 字
2022 年 9 月 28 日
China Daily-Hong Kong Edition
CHNDHK
8
英文
Copyright 2022, China Daily Multimedia Co. Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
In a speech delivered at the opening of the Hungarian Parliament's autumn session on Monday, Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban said Western countries' sanctions against Russia have turned the "local" conflict between Russia and Ukraine into a "global economic war".

As Orban has correctly pointed out, an increasing number of countries around the world are becoming "victims" of the conflict in Ukraine due to its impact on global food and energy supplies and the spillover effects of the sanctions imposed on Russia. The United States' proxy war against Russia has sent oil and food prices rocketing upwards.

From Sri Lanka's financial crisis to the acute food crisis in Africa, the conflict's impacts on other parts of the world have been swift and serious.

Even European countries are bracing for a winter of fuel shortages and high fuel prices.

Europe's plight prompted Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto to say, in an interview with CNN on Saturday, that the European Union's sanctions policy against Russia had failed "because those sanctions that were introduced against Russia are more harmful and more painful to Europe than to the Russian Federation".

Before the Ukraine conflict erupted, the world economy was already being battered by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the efforts of the US to break and reshape supply chains and the disruptions caused by global warming-induced extreme weather events. The sanctions imposed on Russia and their broad consequences have painted an even gloomier picture.

As the adverse effects of the sanctions have become increasingly evident, the EU's sanction regime has created differences and divisions among the bloc: According to a Bloomberg report on Monday, EU nations are likely to delay an accord on imposing a price cap on Russian oil as opposition to it has surfaced within the bloc.

History has shown that sanctions are not an effective means of resolving conflicts and disputes. Instead of forcing Russia to its knees, the sanctions against it have only added more fuel to the fire of Moscow's confrontation with the West and opened a Pandora's box for the world.

Nothing is more salient of the folly of their actions than the fact that European countries are facing a rising wave of public anger as the sanctions hit home, literally.

It is high time the US and the EU placed their apoplectic sanctions genie back in the bottle before it does any more harm.

China Daily Multimedia Co. Ltd.

文件 CHNDHK0020220927ei9s00044


Cyprus wary of harsher Russia sanctions
337 字
2022 年 9 月 28 日
Financial Mirror
FINMIR
英文
© 2022 Financial Mirror Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Cyprus is expected to join Hungary and Malta in opposing tougher European Union sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine, reported the Financial Times.

The bloc has already issued seven sanction packages, approved by all 27 members, but an update of measures has already been vetoed by Hungary, with Malta and Cyprus appearing sceptical.

Sanctions need the approval of all EU member states.

News site StockWatch quotes state sources confirming Cyprus is negotiating with its EU partners over a new sanction package.

“There is an ongoing consultation process between member states to prepare a proposal that will be put before the European Council.

“The aim is to come up with a package that meets the objective, which is to deliver a negative impact on Russia,” said the source.

However, to stress that the specificities of each EU state should be considered to avoid delivering[https://www.financialmirror.com/2022/09/28/businesses-still-feeling-heat-from-war-in-ukraine/] more negative impacts on domestic economies rather than on Russia.

According to the Financial Times, measures included in the package are likely to include supportive acts, such as a ban on imports of Russian diamonds for non-industrial purposes, a ban on imports of steel products, measures targeting the Russian IT and cyber security industry, more restrictions on banks and more travel bans and asset freezes for senior executives.

Poland and the Baltic states have proposed a ban on imports of Russian nuclear energy products and a moratorium on Russian citizens buying real estate in the EU. Still, they are reportedly seen as too difficult to achieve consensus.

The European Union’s foreign ministers have agreed to proceed with the preparation and imposition of new sanctions[https://www.financialmirror.com/2022/09/26/government-working-to-promote-lgbtq-rights/] against Russia at their informal meeting in New York on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly, as announced by the High Representative for Foreign Affairs Josep Borrell.

Speaking to reporters in New York, Borrell said the bloc’s 27 members had taken the political decision to impose new sanctions on several individuals and sectors of the Russian economy.

Financial Mirror Limited

文件 FINMIR0020220929ei9s0000b


POLITICS
Shocked to new unity
Tobias Kaiser
940 字
2022 年 9 月 29 日
Die Welt translated into English
DWLEN
WETR
6
190
英文
Copyright 2022. Axel Springer SE
The attack on pipelines has shown Europe its vulnerability. This will accelerate new sanctions against Russia

Tobias Kaiser

Brussels

Was it Russia? And what interest would Moscow have? These are the key questions being asked in Brussels since explosions damaged the Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2 pipelines between Russia and the EU. Whether it will ever be possible to clarify who is responsible for this attack in the depths of the Baltic Sea is written in the stars. Especially since there is so far only speculation as to why Moscow might have an interest in destroying its own gas pipelines, which it could also simply shut down. Even politicians who are not in government responsibility are holding back on speculation. EU parliamentarian Reinhard Bütikofer (Greens), who has years of experience in EU foreign policy, speaks generally of a "terrorist attack. "

It is therefore premature for EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell to speak already of a European response to the attack. "All available information indicates that these leaks are the result of a deliberate act," Borrell said Wednesday on behalf of the 27 member states. He announced "a robust and joint response. "

Nonetheless, the pipeline shock is likely to influence ongoing talks on what is now the eighth EU sanctions package against Russia. In the past, current developments in the Ukraine war and its aftermath had repeatedly ensured that EU states agreed more quickly on new sanctions. However, as long as it is not clear who is responsible for the incident, sanctions against Russia as a direct consequence are out of the question. Especially since the Commission is proceeding extremely cautiously in drafting the measures. Agency officials make a point of ensuring that their sanctions are court-proof. This is especially true for measures against individuals. Several oligarchs are already suing over sanctions imposed by the EU after the Ukraine invasion.

The Czech Republic, which currently holds the EU Council presidency and is coordinating negotiations between the 27 member states and the Commission, wants to reach an agreement by the middle of next week. The heads of state and government will then meet for an informal summit in Prague, where there should be as little dispute as possible over sanctions. The Czech presidency therefore tried to eliminate possible resistance to sanctions in advance. On Wednesday afternoon, the EU ambassadors of the member states bent over the latest sanctions proposal of the EU Commission at their meeting in Brussels. Later, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and Borrell presented the measures.

Their proposal calls for a price cap on oil. The G-7 countries had already decided on such an oil price cap at the G-7 meeting at Schloss Elmau, which was also attended by Commission President von der Leyen. Now the EU still has to put the Elmau decision into law. Technically, the oil price cap could be implemented by allowing ships to transport Russian oil only if it has been sold at a fixed maximum price. Insurance for the transports should also only be possible if this is the case. For Russia to really make less money from oil sales as a result, other international partners such as the United Kingdom would have to enact similar rules.

At the beginning of the week, however, there was still resistance among the 27 member states. Hungary and Cyprus, in particular, apparently opposed the oil price cap. Cypriot shipowners earn a lot of money from transporting Russian oil. Moreover, Hungary's head of government Viktor Orbán, who is considered Putin's ally in the EU, had already blocked the last sanctions package. There is also criticism of the proposal from Malta and other states, but apparently at least no frontal opposition.

"Hungary and Cyprus are problematic," says an EU diplomat. "But Hungary also put up a lot of public resistance last time, and then there was a deal after all." Indeed, there had been an ugly public row over the seventh sanctions package. The result was a package riddled with exceptions and restrictions. For example, the embargo, which will apply to crude oil from December and to oil products from February, applies only to oil transported to Europe by ship - not to oil delivered by pipeline.

Corresponding restrictions are also conceivable for the eighth sanctions package. In its proposal, the Commission also takes up another idea from Germany: In addition to an oil price cap, the German government had also proposed that EU citizens be prohibited from holding high posts in Russian companies. It would be a lesson from the Gerhard Schröder case.

In addition, the EU wants to ban the import of further Russian goods worth seven billion euros. Certain key technologies are to be banned from export to Russia, including aviation products and electronic components. More people are also to be banned from entering the country, assets are to be frozen and the circumvention of existing sanctions is to be prosecuted more severely.

It is possible that Commission President Ursula von der Leyen will even seize the opportunity after the pipeline shock to once again put her demand for a price cap on Russian gas on the table. Actually, this possible sanction was considered dead after the few EU states still buying gas from Russia opposed it.

President Volodymyr Selenskyj and EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen at a meeting in Kiev, Sept. 15

Disclaimer: Translation automatically generated. Axel Springer is not liable for any automatically generated translation of written text, audio tracks or other translatable media items. Legally binding is exclusively the original German text or spoken word.

Axel Springer Syndication GmbH

文件 DWLEN00020220929ei9t0000c


Hungary: Government not considering talks for assistance from IMF
430 字
2022 年 9 月 29 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Spending freeze shows commitment to meet deficit target for this year

Non-EU resources to replace only loan pillar of EU recovery plan, Gulyas suggests

Hungary cannot support energy sanctions against Russia

The government has not considered applying for assistance from the IMF, PM Office head Gergely Gulyas said at a press conference. His statement came in response to a reporter question after media reports that an IMF delegation had been on a visit to the country in early July, coupled with concerns about the country's rising twin deficits and energy bill. In addition, the finance ministry confirmed yesterday's press reports that a spending freeze has been ordered, in our opinion also to be interpreted in the context of the need to reduce the budget deficit and provide headroom for higher-than-expected energy costs. Gulyas underlined that spending has not been frozen but it will only need additional authorisation from the finance ministry, adding that there have been similar freezes in the past. The reason for the decision was the government's commitment to meet the 4.9% of GDP budget deficit target and the country does not have a solvency problem, Gulyas stressed.

Gulyas confirmed that the government intends to borrow financial resources if Hungary does not receive the allocation from the loan pillar from the EU recovery funds. The alternatives were either a market loan or a loan from another country, he said. He did not allow for the possibility that Hungary will not receive even the grant resources from the recovery fund, saying that Hungary continued to follow on its commitments to the EC. The EC demands for the release of the funds are not impossible to fulfil, Gulyas stated.

There is an element of energy sanctions in the proposed new sanction package of the EC, Gulyas said. Hungary cannot support it despite its intentions to keep the EU unity, he added. The questions on the national consultation against the energy sanctions on Russia will be prepared in the next days and the consultation will be launched by the middle of the month, he said. The government believes that the sanctions are responsible for the energy crisis in the EU, Gulyas said, and reiterated that there will be help for municipalities for the high energy prices. The government has also decided to lengthen the winter break in the public administration for the sake of achieving energy savings. There are still no plans to introduce a four-day working week, or teaching week at universities, Gulyas said.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220930ei9t0000z


Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - September 30, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 9 月 30 日, 13477 字, (英文)
Hungary plans to reduce share of natural gas in energy mixHungary is planning to review its energy strategy and reduce the share of natural gas in its energy mix, Technology and Industry Minister Laszlo Palkovics said at an energy ...

Hungary This Week - September 30, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 9 月 30 日, 19958 字, (英文)
More pain stored up for Emerging Europe in 2023There is more pain ahead for Emerging Europe as government efforts to shield populations from the energy crisis and rampant inflation since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine have shifted the worst ...

Szijjarto: Govt won't back sanctions that go against Hungary's natl interests
547 字
2022 年 9 月 30 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Brussels, September 30 (MTI) - Hungary's government will not

support EU sanctions that go against the country's national

interests, Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said in Brussels on

Friday, adding this meant that Hungary did not support imposing a

price cap on Russian gas, which for now was off the agenda.

According to a foreign ministry statement, Szijjarto told a

press conference after a special session of the European Union's

Energy Council that the body had approved the European Commission's

latest package of proposals "amid the most severe energy supply

crisis of all time".

The EC's package mandates a 5 percent cut in energy consumption

in peak hours. It proposes allowing member states to intervene in

the retail prices of electricity on a voluntary basis. Further, the

plan proposes capping the revenues of so-called "inframarginal"

electricity producers and levying a solidarity contribution on the

extra profits of companies in the oil, coal, gas and refinery

sectors, Szijjarto said. Because these last two measures are

already in effect in Hungary, they do not present new obligations,

he added.

"This package is inadequate when it comes to resolving the

current energy supply crisis in Europe," Szijjarto said. "In any

event, it perhaps doesn't cause much harm at this point, but I

doubt it will be of much help."

Szijjarto welcomed that the proposals did not include a price

cap on gas, saying that such a measure would make it impossible for

Hungary to receive gas. "Everyone knows, because the Russians have

made it clear, that if the European Union imposes a price cap, they

will completely stop gas deliveries to Europe," he said. The

minister said such a proposal was "hypocritical", arguing that it

would clearly be a political decision rather than an economic one.

It would also count as a sanction, whose approval requires

unanimity among member states, he added.

Szijjarto said the gas price cap was being proposed by those

who "are not in the least bit affected" by the issue, and called on

them "not to try to be heroic at our expense". He said that though

the EC had "lost out to member states", "we should have no naive

illusions that this issue won't come up again."

Meanwhile, Szijjarto said Hungary was on schedule with filling

up its gas storages and Russian gas was continuing to flow into the

country. The amount of gas in storage right now is enough to cover

46 percent of annual consumption, while the EU average is at 26

percent, he said.

Szijjarto also expressed support for investigating the

suspected attack on the Nord Stream gas pipelines, calling the

security of supply routes a shared international responsibility.

In response to a question, he said Russia's Gazprom had assured

Hungary that gas deliveries along the TurkStream pipeline would

remain uninterrupted.

He also said that the EU's planned new sanctions package

included several proposals that could cause problems around the

upgrade of Hungary's Paks nuclear power plant, which Hungary

"firmly rejects".

"We refuse to accept any form of blackmail," Szijjarto said.

"When it comes to the sanctions we will only make decisions that

are in line with Hungarian national interests."

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020220930ei9u001b9


Govt official: Change of direction needed in European politics
274 字
2022 年 10 月 5 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, October 5 (MTI) - A change of direction is needed in

European politics because the energy sanctions are clearly

destroying the European Union's economy, Zoltan Kovacs, the state

secretary for international communications and relations, said on

Wednesday.

Kovacs said in a video on Facebook that the restrictions

imposed by Brussels on oil and oil products must not be left

unmentioned.

For a long period after the outbreak of the war in Ukraine, the

EU said no sanctions would be imposed on energy, he said. Then

everything changed in June when Brussels forced through a decision

on the ban of Russian crude oil and oil derivatives, he added.

"We said right from the beginning that imposing any sanction on

energy would equal to dropping an atomic bomb on the Hungarian

economy and also on the European economy," he said. "In the case of

Hungary, which has no sea ports and can therefore only receive gas

and crude oil by pipeline, it is obvious that a switch would take

long years and require many hundreds of billion forints," he added.

After lengthy fights and a tough battle, Prime Minister Viktor

Orban has managed to achieve an exemption from sanctions on

(pipeline-delivered) Russian crude oil, he said.

"By now, we can see that these sanctions hurt Europe much more

than they hurt Russia, which has increased revenues while energy

prices and inflation break loose in Europe," he said.

"If enough of us express our support and tell our opinion, we

will manage to change these decisions," he added referring to the

government's National Consultation survey.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020221005eia5000gp


Magyarország Miniszterelnoke - Policy of sanctions must be changed
Magyarország Miniszterelnoke published this content on 07 Oct 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 07 Oct 2022 07:43:05 UTC.
275 字
2022 年 10 月 7 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://miniszterelnok.hu/policy-of-sanctions-must-be-changed/]

Policy of sanctions must be changed

It is evident that the policy of sanctions must be changed, the Prime Minister stressed in a message posted on his Facebook account on Thursday evening.

Mr Orbán, who is attending the summit of the European Union's heads of state and government in Prague, said in the video that serious problems were on the table.

'Will there be gas, will there be electricity for European countries in the coming months?' he listed.

The Prime Minister recalled that Hungary had earlier obtained exemption from the oil embargo and sanction, adding that they have recently achieved that the new sanctions will not apply to either Hungary's nuclear energy or its gas supply.

Mr Orbán also said the sanctions have, however, raised the price of energy "sky-high" and this is also affecting Hungary. Prices are almost unaffordable, he pointed out.

"Russia has not been brought to its knees at all; meanwhile, European economies are bleeding out. It is evident that the policy of sanctions must be changed," Mr Orbán said, referring to the latter as what is at stake at the meeting.

* Original Link[https://miniszterelnok.hu/policy-of-sanctions-must-be-changed/]

Disclaimer

Prime Minister of Hungary published this content on 07 October 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 07 October 2022 07:43:19 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020221007eia7005sd


Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - October 7, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 10 月 7 日, 13324 字, (英文)
Hungary outlines roadmap for gas reduction plansHungary aims to reduce its gas consumption by 2030 to cover a quarter of its needs from domestic sources and cut off gas imports entirely from Russia by 2050, Minister of Technology and ...

A hostile EU is behind Hungary’s weakening currency
ReMix News
1516 字
2022 年 10 月 11 日
The Rio Times
RIOTIME
英文
Copyright 2022, The Rio Times
Brussels is conducting financial warfare against Hungary

By John Cody

Hungary is currently facing pressure in financial markets and a weakening currency, but this development is not due to the mismanagement of Hungary's economy.

Instead, it is a form of punishment tied to Brussels' unprecedented decision to cut €7.5 billion in EU funding to the country over alleged violations of the rule of law.

Read also: Check out our coverage on curated alternative narratives[https://www.riotimesonline.com/brazil-news/category/modern-day-censorship/]

The goal is to punish Hungarians as much as possible for their decision to vote for Orbán, which delivered him a landslide win[https://rmx.news/article/hungarys-viktor-orban-on-pace-to-win-4th-term-secure-huge-majority-for-fidesz/] coupled and a two-thirds majority in April's national election held this year.

Soros, Orban, von der Leyen.[https://www.riotimesonline.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/Orban_Soros_Leyen.jpg]

As a result, the EU has essentially written off Hungarians as a people and is now, in effect, waging an open financial war against them.

Europe's mainstream press admits as much.

As Germany's influential 'Die Welt newspaper[https://www.welt.de/finanzen/geldanlage/plus241436383/Forint-Abwertung-Im-Machtkampf-mit-Bruessel-riskiert-Orban-den-Staatsbankrott.html] notes, the EU's threats to sanction Hungary have weakened the country's currency, widened the budget deficit, and raised its cost of borrowing.

Despite the pain, this will cause Hungary, citizens, the European press, and the left-liberal establishment are clamoring for more pain.

This same establishment has long aimed to remove Orbán from power due to his opposition to mass migration,[https://www.welt.de/politik/ausland/plus220037090/Ungarn-Wir-wollen-keine-multikulturelle-Gesellschaft.html] multiculturalism, and a federalized Europe.[https://www.magyarhirlap.hu/kulfold/20210507-veszelyes-lazalmok-helyett-magyar-modell]

Yet, more than half the country still voted for him and his party — a minor miracle in a multi-party and arguably the most robust democratic mandate in Europe.

As a result, the EU has little hope of removing Orbán from power soon — he is too well-liked domestically. With a comfortable majority, there is little risk that his government could collapse over a coalition power struggle.

Europe has instead turned to collective punishment. Hungarians must pay.

HOW THE EU IS DRIVING INFLATION IN HUNGARY

As Die Welt[https://www.welt.de/finanzen/geldanlage/plus241436383/Forint-Abwertung-Im-Machtkampf-mit-Bruessel-riskiert-Orban-den-Staatsbankrott.html] outlines, Hungary's central bank has taken dramatic measures to prop up the country's currency and slow inflation by boosting the bank's interest rate to a whopping 13 percent.

Despite these efforts, one euro now equals over 424 forints, significantly weakening from the 350 forints it was worth at the beginning of the year.

At the same time, the euro has weakened relative to the dollar, which means the forint has seen even more dramatic decreases relative to the global reserve currency.

To its credit, Hungary has used domestic tools, including price caps[https://rmx.news/hungary/to-fight-inflation-hungary-extends-fuel-and-basic-foods-price-cap/] to keep the cost of essential goods down, along with diplomacy and realpolitik to keep cheap gas from Russia flowing. Still, a weakening currency has been a significant factor in the country's inflation woes.

Ultimately, the dispute with Brussels is thwarting Hungarian National Bank's efforts "to be able to offer the forint support through its restrictive monetary policy," said Sandra Striffler, a foreign exchange analyst for DZ Bank.

She noted that as long as Brussels blocks the disbursement of billions of funds for Hungary, then" the central bank will continue to fight a very losing position as far as the forint is concerned."

After the bank's last interest rate hike, it also stated it would keep hiking anytime soon, reducing its ability to influence future depreciation.

Indeed, Hungary's currency is not the only weakening in the region — Poland has seen its currency depreciate relative to the euro and dollar. Still, Poland is also in the crosshairs of the EU and continues to pursue billions in frozen recovery funds.

The Czech koruna has weakened somewhat, but the country is in Brussels' good graces and has had no problem receiving EU funds, a significant factor as to why the currency has remained more stable.

Nevertheless, many countries are still worse off than Hungary regarding inflation, at least so far.

The Baltic nations have seen inflation break over 20 percent, and even in the highly prosperous Netherlands, inflation has soared to 17.1 percent.

However, these nations are not facing a hostile EU, which could play all the difference in the long term. If the EU keeps turning the screws and Hungary's currency weakens further, inflation may significantly affect the country's populace.

The EU has given Hungary until November to fix its "rule of law" issues, but the writing is likely on the wall. Hungary will lose out on either those funds or nearly all of them.

EU COMMISSION PRESIDENT ADMITS TO USING TOOLS AGAINST HUNGARY

Before elections in Italy last month, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen warned that if the "wrong" government is elected, the EU has "tools" it could use to correct such an outcome, which she said were already being used against Hungary and Poland.

[video width="1080" height="1080" mp4="https://www.riotimesonline.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/Von-der-Leyen-Remix.mp4"][/video[https://www.riotimesonline.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/10/Von-der-Leyen-Remix.mp4"][/video]]

"We will see the result of the vote in Italy," said von der Leyen. "If things go in a difficult direction — and I've spoken about Hungary and Poland — we have the tools."

She was referring to the new sanctions tool at the EU's disposal, which is what has enabled Brussels to cut €7.5 billion in funding. In addition, the EU is withholding another €5.8 billion in coronavirus recovery funds from Hungary.

That is big money for Hungary, which set a budget expenditure for 2023 that will total €84.1 billion with planned costs of €78.3 billion. Those budget figures already include the EU funds, and if the EU withholds this vital funding, this will lead to a more significant deficit.

The EU knows this.

A widening deficit harms Hungary's ability to borrow on financial markets. Hungary is just above the threshold of investment-grade debt, but the country could soon be downgraded further over EU funding cut threats.

If it falls below this, institutional investors will likely hesitate to purchase the country's bonds, and finding financing becomes more difficult and expensive.

The rating agency S&P already adjusted its outlook for Hungary to "negative" in August, which could signal a downgrading during the following review and result in some capital flight.

WILL HUNGARY BECOME A TEST CASE?

Despite all the rhetoric about "rules-based order" and "democracy," the EU is not a democratic institution. Judging by its actions and threats, it is very particular about when it supports the concept of democracy.

If a national vote goes the "wrong" way in a member state, as it did in Hungary and Italy, the EU will use its "tools" to punish countries until it gets the results it wants.

This is not an opinion.

The EU commission president is now on record making such a threat — there should no longer be any illusions.

While it has almost become a cliché among conservatives, it is also worth pointing out that these EU funding cuts have come after years of lobbying from billionaire oligarch George Soros to make a "test case" out of Hungary and cut its funds.

Some claim that Soros has unjustly been made into a "bogeyman" in the eyes of the conservative movement.

Still, there is no denying the financier is involved with a truly astounding array of political influence operations with billions in funding, all the way from electing crime-friendly district attorneys in the U.S. to funding pro-censorship "fact-checking" outlets across Facebook's European operations.

That same kind of money and determination has long been directed at removing Orbán from power. It has become an obsession, including openly calling for "regime change" in Hungary.

Known as the "man who broke the Bank of England," Soros made much of his initial fortune in currency speculation, earning US$1.5 billion in a single month betting against the British pound.

Soros is not stupid enough to be placing bets against Hungary's currency, but the "test case" he called for is undeniably happening, with the result being that man is looking to profit once again from a weakening currency, this time politically.

The EU funds owed to Hungary flow into roads, schools, and digital projects, to name a few areas, and when they are cut, the citizens of Hungary, who are poorer than those of Western European nations, suffer the consequences.

It does not matter if the blame is pinned on Soros, NGOs, think tanks, the EU commission, or European MEPs — the reality is that they all come together to make up the dominant power bloc guiding a West that does not care about human rights, democracy, or even human suffering.

This power bloc will continue to do whatever it deems necessary to punish Hungary and its people, the same ones who overwhelmingly voted for Orbán.

How far will they go in their effort? They admit they want a federal Europe free of sovereign nation-states.

They want to abolish the veto and end the troublesome democracies in countries like Italy and Poland.

They are playing for keeps.

This post is mirrored and was published first here.[https://rmx.news/commentary/a-hostile-eu-is-behind-hungarys-weakening-currency/]

Join us on Telegram: t.me/theriotimes[https://t.me/theriotimes]

Matthias Kurt Josef Camenzind

文件 RIOTIME020221011eiab0005u


CE Noticias Financieras English
Russian Orthodox Church feels welcome in Orban's Hungary
612 字
2022 年 10 月 13 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Russian Orthodox Patriarch Kirill, a staunch advocate of the invasion of Ukraine, has so far managed to evade European Union (EU) sanctions, thanks to the backing of Hungary's leader, Viktor Orban.

Eager to defend "Christian values," the Hungarian nationalist leader's government has strengthened ties and earmarked funds despite the fact that only 14,000 people out of the country's nearly 10 million population are Russian Orthodox.

In the resort town of Heviz in western Hungary, construction of a Russian Orthodox temple began in 2020 and, although unfinished, Masses are already being held in the bare concrete structure and worshippers are praising Orban.

"He understands what is important. Hungary is a model of Orthodox-Catholic relations," said Aleksey Yazikov, a 61-year-old businessman from Mytischi, a city near Moscow, who Hungary regularly.

Priest Nikolai Kim also said he was "very grateful" to the Hungarian government for supporting the $1 million church 250 km southwest of Budapest on the shores of a small lake.

"Thanks to him we have built this wonderful church (...) But it is not only us, in our small parish, who feel this gratitude, it is the whole Russian church," he told AFP.

- Russian connection -

Patriarch Kirill, leader of the Russian Orthodox Church, said last week that God had put Russian President Vladimir Putin in power, as he congratulated him on his 70th birthday.

The EU did not sanction Kirill after Hungary objected on "religious freedom" grounds.

Orban was praised by Kirill after winning his fourth consecutive term in April, when the Russian religious leader called him "one of the few European politicians who makes an extraordinary effort to defend Christian values."

"Orban has made this big speech that Hungary is a Christian country and his link with Russia is part of that," Jonathan Luxmoore, a journalist for Britain's The Church Times, told AFP.

"His idea is that if liberal Western neighbors won't stand up for traditional Christian values, at least Hungary will," he said.

About half of Hungary's population is divided between Catholics and Protestants.

But Orban says the alliance with Orthodoxy can help stem the decline of Christianity in the West under Pope Francis, in a "battle for the soul of Europe."

"We cannot win this battle without the Orthodox," Orban said in September after receiving an award from Serbian Patriarch Porphyrios for his efforts to protect Christianity.

Government officials responsible for religious affairs declined to speak to AFP.

For Janos Reichert, a Hungarian religious affairs journalist, Orban's support for the Russian Orthodox "is important because of the connection with Moscow."

"He has an Eastern-type mentality that dismantled the Western separation of church and state in Hungary," he said.

- Stalled plans -

Still, the war complicated plans.

In 2016, the government agreed to allocate 2.4 billion guilders ($5.7 million) for the renovation of three Russian Orthodox temples and the construction of a new one in Héviz.

But the construction of the Héviz church was stalled by the blocking of funds from Russia's Sberbank, according to Bulah Svatoslav, a priest at the main Russian Orthodox temple in Budapest.

"If Sberbank pays this money, which is blocked, we will be able to move forward, but I don't know when it will happen," he told AFP.

Russian tourists thronged Héviz, which has stores and doctors aimed at them, until the coronavirus pandemic appeared in 2020.

And they have not returned in large numbers because the Kremlin's war in Ukraine complicates travel and there are no direct flights between Russia and Hungary.

pmu/jza/rox/mas/an

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221013eiad0046e


Magyarország Miniszterelnoke - We need a ceasefire and peace talks between the Russians and the Ukrainians
Magyarország Miniszterelnoke published this content on 14 Oct 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 14 Oct 2022 10:02:38 UTC.
1135 字
2022 年 10 月 14 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2022. As included in the Information
* Click here to view this document in its original format[https://miniszterelnok.hu/we-need-a-ceasefire-and-peace-talks-between-the-russians-and-the-ukrainians/]

We need a ceasefire and peace talks between the Russians and the Ukrainians

On Friday on Kossuth Radio's programme 'Good morning, Hungary,' Prime Minister Viktor Orbán urged a ceasefire and peace talks between the Russian and Ukrainian parties. He also said he had asked the central bank governor and had instructed the finance minister to minimum halve inflation by the end of the year.

The Prime Minister argued that a ceasefire and peace talks would bring about abatement in the economy because as long as the war lasted and the West reacted to it with sanctions, neither inflation, nor energy prices would decrease.

He said Brussels had "made a mess" of the sanctions; additionally, they are not coupled with price reduction proposals. Therefore, today we are experiencing inflation induced by the sanctions, and the country is paying a sanction surcharge for energy.

He added that Hungary had received exemption from all negative sanctions concerning its energy market. However, the trouble is that as part of the common European market, high energy prices do have an impact on Hungary.

The ultimate solution to high energy prices would be if the European Union abandoned its policy of sanctions, Mr Orbán said, indicating that they have yet to fight hard for that.

He said there are many who keep saying that the war must be won, while others - including Hungary - argue that we need an immediate ceasefire and peace talks afterwards.

He observed: an argument that is often raised is that "we are a nation of freedom fighters," and in this regard another one is that they do not understand "why such a feisty, freedom fighter nation is now on the side of peace". No one needs to explain to Hungary "the degree of brutality associated with the Soviet army," and what it is like to fight against the Russians because "we of all people know what brutality is and what war is". However, in 1956 "we did not fight because we thought that we would defeat the Soviet Union," but "we started a revolution and a freedom fight in order to force a ceasefire and peace talks," he explained, adding that the goal was for the Russians to come to an agreement with the West in peace talks about "us becoming neutral, the same as Austria".

He observed that voices claiming that we now need a ceasefire, followed by peace talks are becoming ever louder.

Mr Orbán took the view that there is growing dissatisfaction among countries due to the sanctions, and now Hungary is not the only one asking the questions: What is going on here? Whose interests are being served by what is happening? "We must ask our American friends the questions" what is going on and who stands to gain by the present situation "because we Europeans are most certainly losing out," "you're standing to gain, while the Russians are minimum not standing to lose," he said, adding that the whole thing is put together in such a way that "we Europeans can only stand to lose".

The Prime Minister said the fact that the Nord Stream pipelines had been detonated was a serious matter, according to Hungarian law, they amounted to acts of terrorism, "and if any state had anything to do with it, it's a terrorist state". The last high-capacity pipeline that conveys Russian gas from the South to Europe, and so to Hungary, is TurkStream; Hungary is being supplied via that pipeline, and if anyone were to detonate it or make it inoperational, Hungary will regard that as a terrorist attack and will act accordingly, he stated.

The Prime Minister also said he had asked the central bank governor and had instructed the finance minister to minimum halve inflation by the end of the year.

He stressed that at present there was sanctions-induced inflation; if the European Union finally came to reason about this, then within days the prices of a few products, including energy could drop to a half. This high inflation is not being caused by the laws of the market, the underlying reasons should not be sought in the economy; "this was introduced into the economy from the side of politics," he stated.

He added that the incumbent government had experience in the management of inflation as also in 1998 they had inherited inflation between 10 to 15 per cent.

The Prime Minister said as inflation is forcing families to exhaust their reserves, the fight against it is "in actual fact, a series of family protection measures". We must fight against high prices because "they are taking their toll on the people and families, are destroying businesses and are causing unemployment," he pointed out.

Regarding the national consultation about to be launched, Mr Orbán said in Hungary it is customary to find the political means to create a majority or full national understanding, on the foundations of which the government is able to fight much more effectively in the Brussels battles than without it.

He said the sanctions against Russia had not been introduced democratically, that decision had been taken by the Brussels bureaucrats and the European elite.

For the time being, there is democracy in Europe, and what the people think matters. In Hungary, the people are regularly consulted and also involved in decisions "on the most difficult European issues," be they about migration, the management of the coronavirus pandemic or the present sanctions, he pointed out.

Regarding migration, the Prime Minister said "what we need" is "to be able to protect our borders against illegal border-crossing" because that is a crime. The solution to the problem would be if migrants did not gather at the Serbian-Hungarian border, but instead the southern border of Serbia were being protected; this is in everyone's best interest, he laid down.

He highlighted that Hungary's borders must be protected, "in Hungary there won't be any refugee camps, migrants will not come here, they won't tell us from elsewhere whom we should live together with". Who lives in Hungary, "whom we Hungarians want to live together with can only be the decision of the Hungarian people and the Parliament and government elected by them," Mr Orbán stressed.

* Original Link[https://miniszterelnok.hu/we-need-a-ceasefire-and-peace-talks-between-the-russians-and-the-ukrainians/]

Disclaimer

Prime Minister of Hungary published this content on 14 October 2022 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 14 October 2022 10:03:13 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020221014eiae009ey


Politics & Law
Hungary aims to halve inflation by end 2023
265 字
2022 年 10 月 14 日 11:46 GMT
Xinhua News Agency
XNEWS
英文
Copyright 2022. Xinhua News Agency. All rights reserved.
BUDAPEST, Oct. 14 (Xinhua) -- Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said on Friday that he has asked the central bank governor and finance minister to halve inflation in the country by the end of next year.

Orban said this during an interview with Kossuth Radio.

Driven mostly by skyrocketing energy prices, Hungary's annual inflation rate climbed from 15.6 percent in August to 20.1 percent in September, a level unseen since October 1996, according to the latest official figures published on Tuesday.

Orban said that the current inflation is a result of sanctions imposed by the European Union (EU) on Russia, which would not have been so serious had the "EU bureaucrats" been more careful.

"Hungary examines each Brussels sanction by the letter, and if they would hurt Hungary, we launch an attack to make sure it does not extend to a territory that is harmful to us," he said.

Orban said his government has been successful so far and Hungary has been exempted from any sanction that could have a bad effect on its energy market.

The final solution would depend on whether the EU would abandon its sanctions, he said.

Orban was confident that his government will be able to overcome inflation, backed by its experience in fighting a 10-15 percent inflation in 1998.

In its latest inflation report released at the end of September, the Hungarian Central Bank MNB forecasted an inflation rate of 13.5-14.5 percent for this year and 11.5-14 percent for 2023.

Enditem

News and Information Center Xinhua News Agency

文件 XNEWS00020221014eiae006hd


Russia This Week - October 14, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 10 月 14 日, 51986 字, (英文)
Gazprom confirms commitment on Hungary gas deliveriesRussian gas giant Gazprom has confirmed its commitment to continued deliveries of gas to Hungary and the long-term operation of the TurkStream pipeline, Hungarian Minister of Foreign ...

Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - October 14, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 10 月 14 日, 9959 字, (英文)
Gazprom confirms commitment on Hungary gas deliveriesRussian gas giant Gazprom has confirmed its commitment to continued deliveries of gas to Hungary and the long-term operation of the TurkStream pipeline, Hungarian Minister of Foreign ...

CE Noticias Financieras English
Orbán launches "national consultation" in Hungary on sanctions against Russia
326 字
2022 年 10 月 15 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Budapest, Oct. 15. The Hungarian government of ultranationalist Viktor Orbán launched Saturday a new "national consultation", focused on EU sanctions against Russia, with seven questions, considered by critics as biased.

These "national consultations" consist of questionnaires sent to people's homes with questions that citizens can answer by post until December 9.

The Government refers to these consultations as an instrument of supposed direct democracy, although they are not binding and serve to mobilize its sympathizers and dominate the political discourse, analysts and opponents criticize.

The seven questions of this new consultation are focused on the European Union (EU) sanctions against Russia for the invasion of Ukraine, which Orbán has always criticized despite having approved all the EU packages.

The first five questions concern the embargo on oil, nuclear fuels and other raw materials from Russia, asking Hungarians whether or not they agree with these being sanctioned.

The questions are accompanied by explanations reflecting the government's point of view.

"Brussels has decided to impose sanctions on oil, despite the fact that after the outbreak of the war it was agreed that sanctions against Russia would not cover energy" reads the first question.

He adds that Hungary has secured an exemption from that embargo and claims that such a sanction would have led to "serious supply problems" and could have resulted in a huge burden.

"The sanctions policy does not spare tourism either - do you agree with sanctions that limit tourism?" another question asks.

"Sanctions increase food prices and generate a new wave of immigration. Do you agree with sanctions that generate food price increases?" concludes the questionnaire.

Orbán, considered Moscow's best ally in the EU, assures that with the sanctions Europe "has shot itself in the foot".

He affirms that Hungary is the first European country that "asks the opinion of the people within the framework of a national consultation".

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221015eiaf006j9


Hungarian government’s survey against EU sanctions laced with false claims and leading questions
431 字
2022 年 10 月 18 日 05:57 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Hungary has published a national consultation survey asking citizens to agree or disagree with the government's opposition to European Union sanctions against Russia over its invasion of Ukraine. The questions in the national consultation were sent out to millions of households on Friday, but can be filled out online as well.

As the cost of living crisis deepens in Hungary, Orban has ramped up the rhetoric against Brussels and announced the launch of a national consultation survey to gauge the views of Hungarians on the effectiveness of sanctions.

The consultations with no legal implications are seen as a political and communication tool to dominate public discourse and use the EU as a scapegoat for the unfolding cost of living crisis as Fidesz has backtracked from most of its major election promises, such as keeping election subsidies in place and inflation in check.

The text of the survey contains falsehoods, and includes guided questions and misleading claims, according to independent media.

Phrases like "Brussels sanctions", "Brussels leaders" and a reference to the European Parliament abound in the questionnaire, but sanctions were decided and approved by the member states and not the EU’s executive or lawmaking branch.

Furthermore, Prime Minister Vikor Orban’s government has approved all eight sanctions packages against Russia, which required a unanimous vote by member states, and it received an exemption for sanctions on pipeline oil delivery from Russia, analysts pointed out.

People were asked about oil sanctions, gas shipments, nuclear fuel rods and tourism. The form consists of the following assertions and questions.

* Brussels has decided to impose oil sanctions. Do you agree with the oil sanctions imposed by Brussels?

* The sanctions are to be extended to gas deliveries. Do you agree with the sanctions imposed on gas deliveries?

* Brussels-imposed sanctions also apply to raw materials. Do you agree with the sanction imposed on raw materials?

* The sanctions would also be extended to nuclear fuel rods. Do you agree with the sanctions on nuclear fuel rods?

* The enlargement of the Paks nuclear power plant is also in the line of fire of the sanctions policy. Do you agree that the sanctions-related measures should also be extended to the Paks investment project?

* The sanctions policy will not avoid tourism either. Do you agree with the sanctions aimed at restricting tourism?

* The sanctions will increase the prices of food and could lead to another wave of immigration. Do you agree with the sanctions that could cause a rise in the prices of food?

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020221018eiai001gt


The Brief – Beware of sanctions gambles
Alexandra Brzozowski
854 字
2022 年 10 月 19 日 16:26 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Hungary will soon become the first EU member state to give citizens a chance to voice their opinion on Russian sanctions, which should preferably align with the government’s own anti-sanction stance if the latest campaign in Hungary is anything to go by.

The campaign came after the Hungarian government started a national consultation survey last week asking citizens whether they agree or disagree with the government’s opposition to the EU sanctions imposed on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.

Orbán has repeatedly argued the sanctions are hurting Europe more than Russia by endangering energy supplies and price stability.

“We believe that the sanctions are destroying us,” said a statement on the government’s Facebook page, where the taxpayer-funded survey comprising seven questions was published.

The “About the Brussels Sanctions” questionnaire will be sent out nationwide to Hungary’s estimated eight million households, with respondents asked to return it by 9 December.

One question asks if respondents agree with potential sanctions on Russian gas supplies imposed by “Brussels leaders”, which would “put at risk household heating and the European economy’s ability to operate”.

A question on the impact of sanctions on price levels, particularly food prices, blames the anti-Russia measures for the spiralling inflation, “increasing the risk of starvation in developing countries”, which “leads to increasing migration pressure” on Europe’s borders.

The survey has no legal implications, but since 2015, Orban’s government has often used such questionnaires, backed by extensive multimedia campaigns, to gain legitimacy for its stances and denounce EU policies.

But the questionnaire itself, although phrased suggestively, is not the real problem.

The accompanying anti-sanctions poster campaign[https://twitter.com/erdelyipe/status/1582423830328639488] is a drawing of a missile with the word ‘sanctions’ on it.

It’s a vicious cycle: You tell your own citizens sanctions are evil and then use the formatted public opinion as an argument to veto them in the next round of sanctions negotiations in Brussels, invoking their ‘will’.

Funnily enough, checking notes from the past seven months, it turns out the same Hungarian government still voted through all eight EU sanctions packages against Russia in Brussels without vetoing any of them.

In Brussels, however, EU officials are not in the least amused.

“We have seen the pictures used in the national consultation [campaign], and, frankly, it is inappropriate to show pictures of bombs or missiles in relation to the sanctions,” European Commission spokesperson Dana Spinant told reporters.

“The aim of the EU sanctions is precisely to stop the bombs from falling on Ukraine,” she added.

One can, of course, discuss the effectiveness and impact of EU sanctions, but the bloc’s executive and the majority of member states say they are working.

Sanctions experts though, stress that such measures are by design not meant to change behaviour but to at least constrain the capacity to cause harm.

Playing with popular mood is a dangerous game. This is how Brexit started, this is how reconciliation in the Western Balkans keeps being derailed. Orban seems determined to keep at it. The question is, what happens if his sanctions gamble succeeds?

Today’s edition is powered by SGI Europe

Providers of services of general interest (SGIs) are active in, amongst others, the social housing, energy, waste, water, social services and healthcare sectors.

Essential for the security, prosperity and well-being of citizens and enterprises, they should be at the centre of the solutions to the cost-of-living crisis through affordable, high-quality and accessible SGIs.

Learn more >>[https://eurac.tv/9WbI]

The Roundup

A strategy in mental health is on next year’s agenda,[https://www.euractiv.com/section/health-consumers/news/new-mental-health-strategy-must-involve-everyone-eu-commissioner/] Commission Vice-President Maroš Šefčovič told a Parliamentary plenary debate on Tuesday (18 October).

The Netherlands will pull out of the Energy Charter Treaty,[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy/news/netherlands-follows-spain-in-quitting-energy-charter-treaty/] which has come under fire for protecting investments in the oil and gas sector, the country’s energy ministry said on Wednesday (19 October).

A European association representing automotive industry suppliers has criticised the EU for violating the principle of technology neutrality in road transport[https://www.euractiv.com/section/electric-cars/news/automotive-suppliers-slam-likely-ban-of-combustion-trucks/], saying that policymakers might soon table a ban on the sale of combustion engine trucks.

The Czech Presidency of the EU Council circulated a new compromise on the Artificial Intelligence Act[https://www.euractiv.com/section/digital/news/eu-council-nears-common-position-on-ai-act-in-semi-final-text/] on Wednesday (19 October), set to be the basis for an agreement next month.

The Commission plans to bring forward early next year new legislation targeting foreign actors and influence in the European media sphere,[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/eu-plans-new-transparency-laws-on-foreign-media/] officials have indicated, as part of attempts to increase transparency.

The right and the far-right in France are using a recent murder,[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/french-right-slammed-for-using-young-girls-death-for-political-gain/] for which an irregular female immigrant is currently under investigation, for political gain – behaviour that the left, but also the majority linked to President Emmanuel Macron, have criticised as shameful.

Be sure to read the latest Health Brief: Playing with… Pfizer.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/health-consumers/news/health-brief-playing-with-pfizer/]

Last but not least, don’t forget to check out this week’s Green Brief: Europe’s big biomass dilemma.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/the-green-brief-europes-big-biomass-dilemma/]

Look out for…

* European Council meeting on Ukraine, energy, the economy, and external relations.

* Informal meeting of transport ministers.

Views are the author’s

[Edited by Zoran Radosavljevic/Alice Taylor]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020221019eiaj0005l


Hungary This Week - October 21, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 10 月 21 日, 10554 字, (英文)
Share of single-bid public procurements in Hungary on descending pathThe proportion of single-bid procurements under the EU tender system in Hungary fell to 26.8% of the total in August and 26% in September, compared to 34-48% in the first ...

Hungary PM in new anti-EU tirade amid protests by teachers
Georgi Gotev
567 字
2022 年 10 月 24 日 07:39 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on Sunday (23 October) attacked the EU over its Russia sanctions policy, while in Budapest, tens of thousands protested what they say is his neglect of the education sector.

Speaking in the western city of Zalaegerszeg, Orbán accused Brussels of “shooting” at Hungary with the sanctions.

“Let us not worry about those who are shooting at Hungary hidden in the shadows, somewhere from the watchtowers of Brussels,” he said.

“They will end up where their predecessors ended up,” he added, hinting that the EU could disintegrate as the Soviet bloc had.

Since the start of the conflict in Ukraine, Hungary – which is heavily dependent on imports of Russian energy – has nurtured its relations with the Kremlin so as to keep receiving gas and oil.

At the same time, Budapest has repeatedly denounced the EU sanctions as a disastrous to its economy.

Orbán was speaking on the anniversary of the start of the 1956 Hungarian uprising against Soviet rule, which was eventually crushed when Moscow sent in tanks to crush the rebellion.

Last week, Budapest launched a “national consultation” survey of citizens about the EU’s sanctions. Posters put up across the country declare: “The sanctions from Brussels are ruining us.”

Now that the government of #Hungary[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Hungary?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] has supported every #EU[https://twitter.com/hashtag/EU?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] #sanctions[https://twitter.com/hashtag/sanctions?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] package, these posters are flooding the streets. The slogan: "Brussels sanctions are ruining us."  @444hu[https://twitter.com/444hu?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] pic.twitter.com/oNtOJ8vcl1[https://t.co/oNtOJ8vcl1]

— Ákos Hadházy #dontfearEPPO (@hadhazyakos) October 18, 2022[https://twitter.com/hadhazyakos/status/1582398783077261312?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Although Hungary voted with his fellow EU member states for the sanctions, Orbán has regularly protested the damage they have done to the country’s economy.

“War on our doorstep, financial crisis and economic slowdown in the European Union, migratory invasion in the south, (…) we have to face multiple problems,” said Orbán on Sunday

But he insisted that his “strong and united” government would overcome such challenges.

The Brief – Beware of sanctions gambles[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/opinion/the-brief-beware-of-sanctions-gambles/]

Hungary will soon become the first EU member state to give citizens a chance to voice their opinion on Russian sanctions, which should preferably align with the government’s own anti-sanction stance if the latest campaign in Hungary is anything to go by.

Anti-government protest

In Budapest meanwhile, tens of thousands marched against Orbán’s education policies, angry at what they say is the underfunding of schools and the intimidation of teachers pressing for better conditions.

After years pressing in vain for wage rises, the campaigners have hardened their tone, pushing back at a government decree in February that drastically restricted teachers’ right to strike.

Since the start of the school year, teachers and high school students have staged several demonstrations in Budapest and cities nationwide, backing teachers dismissed for taking part in earlier protests.

Sunday’s march in Budapest was the biggest so far, and organisers pledged to keep up the pressure in the coming weeks.

“Everyone in my school is exhausted at having to fight for basics like enough teachers and equipment,” said 17-year-old student Anett Bodi at the demonstration.

“We totally back our teachers in their struggle for their rights,” she told AFP.

Although the government acknowledges that pay is too low, it has tied a planned rise to long-awaited EU funding.

That has been held up over concerns in Brussels over Hungary’s corruption and slipping democratic standards.

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020221024eiao00006


CE Noticias Financieras English
Half of Hungarians reject EU sanctions against Russia
309 字
2022 年 10 月 25 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Budapest, Oct. 25. The percentage of Hungarians who oppose sanctions against Russia for its aggression against Ukraine has risen from 41% in May to the current 52% in the midst of the political and media campaign that the ultranationalist government maintains against these measures of the European Union.

These data are reflected in a survey conducted by the polling institute Median and published today by the digital newspaper 444.hu.

The percentage of those who reject the sanctions reaches 81% among the respondents who declare themselves sympathizers of Fidesz, the party of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who has been ruling with an absolute majority for twelve years.

On the other hand, the higher the level of education and the younger the respondents, the higher the support for sanctions.

The Hungarian government claims that the sanctions benefit Russia and that it is the EU economy and citizens who suffer the consequences.

Orbán, regarded as the leader best allied with Russian President Vladimir Putin, has repeatedly criticized the sanctions imposed by the EU and claimed that "Europe is shooting itself in the foot."

The government has launched a popular poll to ask citizens their position, in a questionnaire in which the sanctions are presented as harmful to the economy.

In addition, posters with pictures of bombs depicting sanctions against Russia have appeared on the country's streets, with messages such as "Brussels sanctions lead us to ruin."

Hungary has so far supported all the sanctions packages and Orbán also signed at the last Council meeting the joint document of the EU leaders in which they claim that "Russia is solely responsible for the current energy and economic crises".

Hungary is radically opposed to any kind of sanction against the purchase of Russian hydrocarbons, on which it is extremely dependent.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221025eiap009qg


HUNGARY: GAS CONSUMER PRICES TO FALL
461 字
2022 年 10 月 31 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2022. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
The world gas price has not been as low as it is now for three months. Hungary will also feel the price drop, but it will have to wait a little longer. For the time being, we are using the gas Hungary bought earlier, at a higher price. Despite what the Hungarian government calls "sanction inflation" and the collusion of energy companies, the price of natural gas has not been so low in a while. As a result, the direction of gas procurement in Hungary has started to shift quite spectacularly in the last week or two, G7 reports.

The route through which Russian gas arrives is slowly decreasing, and more gas is coming in from the north and west. While gas volumes from Serbia have decreased, imports from Austria have increased, and after a four-month break, deliveries from Slovakia have resumed. With prices falling, this is a perfectly logical market process, but it also shows that the government's argument about physical dependence on Russia is simply not true. October 24 was the seventh consecutive day in which more than 40 million cubic metres of natural gas entered the country. This was not only unprecedented since the outbreak of the war, but also before.

It has now become clear that the measures taken to replace Russian gas have proved to be a good idea across Europe, and other gas producers are absolutely willing to take over the supply from Russia. The question is where the price drop will stop, what to expect this winter and whether wallets will feel the impact. According to energy expert Attila Holoda, consumer gas prices are not expected to fall as much as market prices, because the gas that reaches Hungarians comes from several sources, some of it from the expensive gas that we already bought. He said that the price reduction could be around 15-20%, and Hungary would have to wait for that.

Recently, the Hungarian Foreign Minister, Peter Szijjarto, was the only one who negotiated with Moscow on gas supplies. He said that, despite many people calling him a "piece of shit", this is the reason why gas supplies to Hungarian households are guaranteed. But Attila Holoda said this was nonsense.

"We don't live only from storage, we have domestic production and imports," he said.

And imports are increasing, and buyers who buy together in larger volumes can negotiate better prices on the world market - which is the thinking behind the EU's joint gas purchases. The expert therefore does not think that it is necessarily wise for the Hungarian government to go it alone and buy less gas more expensively instead of relying on joint EU purchases. (Daily News Hungary/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020221031eiav0004f


Overcoming the ambition-unity dilemma
European Policy Centre (EPC) - Publications, 2022 年 10 月 31 日, 2372 字, (英文)
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022 has triggered a watershed moment for the European Union.1 In reaction, the EU must now be bold and implement fundamental policy changes.2 To do so, the Union must adapt its decision-making ...

Hungary’s MOL raises guidance after posting gigantic Q3 profit
bne IntelIiNews
473 字
2022 年 11 月 4 日 06:59 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2022. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
Hungary’s MOL has upgraded its guidance for full-year Ebitda, adjusted for one-offs and at current cost of supply, from $3.3bn to $4.1bn-4.4bn after posting record earnings in the third quarter, the oil, gas and petrochemicals giant said in a report before the bell on November 4.

Clean CCS Ebitda reached $1.45bn in Q3 and $3.63bn in Q1-Q3, exceeding analysts’ targets. Earnings were driven by the strong upstream and downstream performance despite regulatory headwinds, such as fuel price regulation and windfall taxes.

Third-quarter net income rose 66% y/y to $658mn, but fell 5% from the previous quarter, well above the $581mn consensus.

Upstream Clean CSS Ebitda surged 97% y/y in the quarter to $640mn, driven by high global crude prices, which averaged $98 per barrel in the July-September period, according to calculations by financial website Portfolio.hu.

In downstream business, adjusted Ebitda came in at $741mn in Q3 from $436mn a year ago, but down from the record $863mn in Q2, even as refining margins retreated from the previous quarter. MOL however continued to benefit from the Brent-Ural spread at around $24.

Hungary received an exemption for Russian oil in June, when EU leaders sanctioned imported oil from Russia, with the sanction to come into effect next month. Sales fell 2% y/y in line with the completion of the planned refinery maintenance in Hungary.

The Ebitda of the gas business increased by 25% y/y and 147% q/q to $38.1mn, supported by record gas prices, which drove the company’s average realised hydrocarbon price to $134/boe.

The consumer services Ebitda remained under pressure and reached $121mn in Q3 2022, mainly due to fuel price regulation.

MOL noted that the estimated impact of fuel price regulation and windfall taxes came to around $1.18bn in the first nine months. It added that the potential introduction of a European Union "solidarity contribution" by member states may have "further negative impact" on profitability.

Chairman-CEO Zsolt Hernadi acknowledged that macro conditions "evolved favourably" for the oil and gas industry in Q1-Q3, but said the uncertain external environment, looming recession, state interventions and windfall taxes "cast uncertainty over the industry".

He said MOL's "biggest achievement" in Q3 was maintaining stable fuel supplies amid "very tight" energy supply in the CEE region.

Among highlights in Q3, MOL was awarded a 35-year communal waste management concession by the state, which allows the company to expand in a new, low-carbon, circular economy business and to meet sustainability goals in the 2030+ strategy.

MOL is aiming to become net carbon-neutral by 2050 while shaping the low-carbon circular economy in Central-and Eastern Europe, it said.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020221104eib4000jj


Hungary This Week - November 4, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 11 月 4 日, 6235 字, (英文)
Hungary’s August trade gap revised to €1.6bnHungary had a €1.6bn trade deficit in August, revised from €1.3bn in a preliminary reading as energy imports continued to rise, the Central Statistics Office (KSH) said on November 2.

Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - November 4, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 11 月 4 日, 4534 字, (英文)
Hungary’s MOL raises guidance after posting gigantic Q3 profitHungary’s MOL has upgraded its guidance for full-year Ebitda, adjusted for one-offs and at current cost of supply, from $3.3bn to $4.1bn-4.4bn after posting record earnings in ...

What should the EU do about Hungary’s illiberal turn? conditionality regulation,...
European Policy Centre (EPC) - Publications, 2022 年 11 月 4 日, 6100 字, (英文)
What should the EU do about Hungary’s illiberal turn? conditionality regulation, triggered against Hungary this year, is the first real step38 taken against the country by the institutions. But how much of a step is it actually?[QQ]The ...

Sanctions policy drains EUR 10bn from Hungarian economy - Orban
191 字
2022 年 11 月 18 日
MTI - EcoNews
MTIE
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, November 18, 2022 (MTI-ECONEWS) - Sanctions policy is

draining EUR 10bn from the Hungarian economy a year, Prime Minister

Viktor Orban said at the Permanent Hungarian Conference (MAERT) on

Friday.

Mr Orbn said sanctions policy is costing the central budget

some EUR 4bn, money that could be used for social policy, wage

rises or tax cuts, while the economy has to "swallow" a EUR 6bn

loss.

"In this light, Hungary's anti-sanction policy does not appear

to be excessive," he added.

Mr Orban said Hungary will not accept joint borrowing by

European Union members states to assist Ukraine. He recommended

members states decide how much they want to contribute to Ukraine's

operation, then divide that up among themselves in a "proportional,

fair" manner.

Hungary could contribute an annual HUF 60bn-70bn from the

central budget in the framework of a bilateral agreement with

Ukraine, he added.

Hungary condemns Russia's aggression and is assisting the

Ukrainian people, but it is not prepared to place the interests of

Ukraine over its own, Mr Orban said.

(HUF 100 = EUR 0.2430)

MTVA

文件 MTIE000020221118eibi000m9


UPDATE - Sanctions policy drains EUR 10bn from Hungarian economy - Orban (adds details)
338 字
2022 年 11 月 18 日
MTI - EcoNews
MTIE
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, November 18, 2022 (MTI-ECONEWS) - Sanctions policy is

draining EUR 10bn from the Hungarian economy a year, Prime Minister

Viktor Orban said at the Hungarian Standing Conference (MAERT) on

Friday.

Mr Orbn said sanctions policy is costing the central budget

some EUR 4bn, money that could be used for social policy, wage

rises or tax cuts, while the economy has to "swallow" a EUR 6bn

loss.

"In this light, Hungary's anti-sanction policy does not appear

to be excessive," he added.

Mr Orban said Hungary will not accept joint borrowing by

European Union members states to assist Ukraine. He recommended

members states decide how much they want to contribute to Ukraine's

operation, then divide that up among themselves in a "proportional,

fair" manner.

Hungary could contribute an annual HUF 60bn-70bn from the

central budget in the framework of a bilateral agreement with

Ukraine, he added.

Hungary condemns Russia's aggression and is assisting the

Ukrainian people, but it is not prepared to place the interests of

Ukraine over its own, Mr Orban said.

Mr Orban said Hungary is on the threshold of signing an

agreement on its EU support for the 2021-2027 funding cycle, but

"can't be sure what will be paid or what will be suspended". That

funding comes to net HUF 800bn a year, compared to Hungary's GDP of

HUF 62,000bn, he added.

He said Hungary "must be given" its funding from the Recovery

and Resilience Facility (RRF) as those resources are from joint EU

credit on which member states earlier agreed how to distribute.

That funding can be "delayed at most", he added.

Mr Orban said EU funding can't be used as a "tool for

blackmail", adding that "we can't be backed into a corner".

Hungary could finance its programme for the greening of its

economy from global markets, getting credit from countries such as

China, he said.

(HUF 100 = EUR 0.2436)

MTVA

文件 MTIE000020221118eibi001up


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungarian Prime Minister calls EU sanctions against Russia "steps towards war".
284 字
2022 年 11 月 18 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban called EU sanctions against Russia "steps towards war", intensifying his criticism against a Brussels strategy considered "dangerous".

"Anyone who intervenes economically in a military conflict takes a position," the nationalist leader declared in his traditional interview to a radio station close to power.

"Little by little we are sliding towards war," he insisted, worrying about the accumulation of measures taken to sanction the Russian offensive in Ukraine.

Orban also opposes the European Commission's proposal to grant Ukraine aid of 18 billion euros (similar amount in dollars) by 2023, in the form of loans whose interest would be borne by member states.

"Hungary will not accept EU members taking loans to help Ukraine," he told a conference according to the MTI news agency. Instead, he advocates paying a sum, divided "equally" among the 27 countries.

Hungary could contribute up to 70 billion forints (170 million euros) as part of a bilateral agreement with Kiev, he said.

Orban, who maintains links with Russia, regularly denounces the European strategy, although he voted for all the European sanctions with his partners. For him, it is the main reason for the economic difficulties of this Central European country.

The Prime Minister affirmed his readiness to "fight" against a possible new package of measures and to ensure that Hungary, which is very dependent on Russian hydrocarbons, is "exempted", as is the case with the oil embargo.

"We supply destructive weapons, train Ukrainian soldiers on our territory and impose sanctions on energy. We are becoming an integral part" of the conflict. Europe is playing a very dangerous game," he concluded.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221119eibi003cu


Hungary: Hungary to send progress report on rule of law to EC tomorrow
291 字
2022 年 11 月 18 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Justice minister expresses confidence that government has taken aboard all proposals on rule of law

The government will send a progress report on the implementation of its seventeen commitments under the rule of law mechanism to the EC tomorrow, justice minister Judit Varga said in Brussels, the state news agency MTI reported. Hungary has until tomorrow to implement them, after which the EC should issue a new assessment to be used by the EU Council in its decision whether to impose EU fund sanctions on the country. We note that the EC has proposed that 65% of the EU funds on three operating programmes are withdrawn, meaning an EU fund sanction of EUR 7.5bn for the 2021-2027 programme period. The EU Council has until Dec 19 to decide whether to pass the sanctions, which would require a qualified majority vote.

Hungary is in intensive negotiations with the EC and a constructive and professional dialogue is being held, Varga said. The government does not spare financial or human resources to build trust and resolve the rule of law concerns, she added. She expressed hope that the dialogue would not be made subject to political agendas, which would undermine EU unity in this challenging time. We think that Varga thus made an implicit warning that Hungary would not be willing to cooperate on other important issues, including the energy sanctions against Russia, the financial assistance to Ukraine and others, in case the EU decides to withhold EU funds from the country. The government has taken into account all proposals that will ensure effective use of the EU funds, Varga said and she considered its measures to be exemplary.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020221121eibi0000m


Hungary: Energy prices bring EUR 10bn loss to Hungarian economy – PM Orban
481 字
2022 年 11 月 18 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Some EUR 4bn of total loss fall on state budget

Hungary should not lose recovery funds, they can be delayed at most, Orban says

The policy of sanctions towards Russia has boosted energy prices, which generates an annual loss of EUR 10bn for the Hungarian economy, PM Viktor Orban said at a conference in Budapest, the news portal Portfolio reported. Out of this amount, EUR 6bn will have to be borne by the economy while the remaining EUR 4bn loss, or HUF 1,600bn, will fall on the state budget, he said. Orban did not mention details on how the loss estimate was calculated while we think that the estimated loss for the budget should include the cost of maintaining the regulated utility prices, the increased energy spending by the public administration and possibly, the cost of the additional gas reserve purchases. The budgetary loss means that the budget cannot spend on social purposes, including wage hikes or tax cuts, Orban pointed out. Hungary's positions against sanctions should not be considered excessive from this point of view, he argued. Inflation will be halved in case the EU sanction policy changes while the sanctions have not served their purpose to make Russia end the war, Orban said.

Orban urged again that the V4 countries should maintain their cooperation despite differences on positions regarding the EU policy on Russia. We note that Hungary has become increasingly isolated, even from traditional allies like the other V4 countries, and in the most recent example, the Czech and Slovak parliamentary speakers refused to sit on one table with Hungary's parliamentary speaker. Hungary does believe that Russia should not pose a threat to the CEE region and believes there should be a sovereign state between Russia and the CEE, Orban stated. Hungary therefore agrees with Poland on the goals but not on the means as Hungary advocates ceasefire and peace negotiations as well as European security arrangements regarding Russia, he pointed out.

Hungary is on the threshold of signing and agreement on EU funds for the 2021-2027 programme period, Orban stated. There is no certainty though what funds will be paid out and what will be suspended, he acknowledged. The EU funding represented net HUF 800bn per year compared to Hungary's GDP of HUF 62,000bn, he said. Orban also stressed that Hungary should not be made to lose its recovery fund allocation and such funding could be delayed at most. These funds should not be used for political blackmail while Hungary can finance itself from global markets to implement its energy efficiency investments, Orban said. He repeated an earlier remark that Hungary could borrow for China for these purposes as well, in our opinion making an implicit warning towards the EU, which has aimed to reduce Chinese influence in Europe.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020221121eibi0000l


Orban claims EU sanctions cost country €10bn, stands by blocking EU aid to Ukraine
496 字
2022 年 11 月 20 日 16:53 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Sanctions are draining €10bn from the Hungarian economy a year, Prime Minister Viktor Orban said on November 18 at the Permanent Hungarian Conference (MAERT), a consultative body of Hungarian parties and representatives of ethnic Hungarians in neighbouring countries.

Sanctions are costing the central budget some €4bn, while the economy has to "swallow" a €6bn loss. In this light, Hungary's anti-sanctions policy does not appear to be excessive," he added.

This is the first time that Orban has given specific figures for the economic impact of the sanctions, although it is not clear how he came up with the numbers, or what methodology he used. The €10bn in question equals roughly 6% of the country’s annual GDP.

Earlier on Friday, in a regular interview with state radio, Orban categorically denied the fact that Hungary had approved EU sanctions.

In fact, the Hungarian premier personally has approved all eight sanction packages against Russia, which required a unanimous vote by member states, and he has even boasted of fighting successfully for Hungarian interests when energy-related exemptions were agreed, analysts pointed out.

As part of these negotiated agreements, Hungary can continue to buy equipment and raw materials for its Russian-built nuclear power plant. Pipeline delivery of Russian crude oil was also exempted from the sixth round of sanctions after Orban threatened a veto in late April.

On Friday at the MAERT meeting, Orban said that Hungary will not accept joint borrowing by European Union members states to assist Ukraine. He recommended members states decide how much they want to contribute to Ukraine's operation, then divide that up among themselves in a "proportional, fair" manner. Budapest could contribute an annual HUF60bn-70bn (€146-170mn) from the central budget in the framework of a bilateral agreement with Ukraine, he added.

He noted that Hungary condemns Russia's aggression and is assisting the Ukrainian people, but it is not prepared to place the interests of Ukraine over its own.

Hungary is becoming increasingly isolated in the EU and among its regional allies, the V4 countries, for its pro-Russian position in the war and for blocking EU initiatives to punish Moscow for its aggression and help Ukraine.

Czech European Affairs Minister Mikulas Bek has slammed Hungary for obstructing the EU’s efforts to raise a loan for Ukraine, warning that Hungary’s position alienates the EU towards Hungary.

Earlier this week, Slovakia called off the meeting of V4 Speakers of the House due in Bratislava on November 25 after Czech Speaker Marketa Pekarova Adamova and Czech Senate President Milos Vystrcil signalled that they would not want to sit at the same table with the Hungarian representative, Laszlo Kover.

According to reports by Seznamzpravy.cz, the leaders of the two chambers of the Polish Sejm would not have attended the meeting either, because of the Hungarian government's policy regarding the Russian-Ukrainian war.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020221120eibk000b5


Czech premier to attend V4 meeting after parliamentary leaders boycott it
491 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日 06:51 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala will attend the Visegrad Group (V4) meeting on November 24 hosted by Slovakia in its second largest city in Kosice not far from the Ukrainian border. The decision comes after Parliamentary Speaker Marketa Pekarova Adamova and Czech Senate President Milos Vystrcil boycotted meeting their Hungarian counterparts over the Hungarian stance towards Ukraine and its energy policies.

“Hungarians bilaterally negotiate with Russia over supplies of energy commodities,” Vystrcil told local media, adding that this prevents a “united stance of EU countries and implementation of our goals in this energy crisis” and that the boycott is a “rational and sober way to express disagreement” on the V4 level. The war in Ukraine, the energy crisis and migration are key agenda topics in Kosice.

Pekarova Adamova called Hungary a “trojan horse of Russia” in line with comments of other Czech representatives such as the lower house's vice-speaker Olga Richterova from last week. “It is always Hungarians who agree with the sanction packages last” […], “blackmailing further sanctions, and they are exploiting the war themes domestically against the EU,” Pekarova Adamova said.

Fiala said he wants to discuss “common approach and common rules” on supporting the economy during the energy crisis, pointing to the German €200mn package, which “causes concern among EU member states”. In an interveiw for Czech newsite Seznam Zpravy, Fiala said that after a dialogue “Hungary supported all the key decisions during EU negotiations".

Prior to the war Fiala and Vystrcil’s rightwing ODS avoided criticism of Fidesz and maintained friendly ties with it. ODS MEP Jan Zahradil, who represents the strong conservative and eurosceptic wing within the party, called on the EU to accept Hungarian strongmanViktor Orban after Fidesz’s flawed general election victory in April. Another MEP Alexandr Vondra, a former liberal dissident who has moved to the right, also defends Fidesz rule in Hungary.

One of Fidesz’s 1988 co-founders and the current Speaker of the National Assembly Laszlo Kover issued a press statement in which he regretted the V4 house speakers' meeting was postponed as a result of the Czech boycott.

“The remarks of the speakers of the Czech Parliament concerning our country are untrue and disrespectful,” Kover wrote, highlighting that these “do not correspond to the facts and they call into question the right of the Hungarian government to shape its policy according to the interest of the Hungarian nation”.

Czechia holds the EU’s rotating presidency and its Europan Affairs Minister Mikulas Bek chairs EU discussions over the breaches of rule of law, civil liberties, and democracy in Hungary. Last week Bek criticised Hungary for obstructing the EU’s efforts to raise cash on financial markets for a loan to Ukraine, warning it could alienate EU officials in the upcoming response to Hungary’s proposals to unlock the rule of law conditionality to gain access to EU funds.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020221121eibl000xd


Sanctions Drain EUR 10 bln From Hungarian Economy, Orbán Says
334 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日
Budapest Business Journal
WBBJ
英文
© 2022 Budapest Business Journal, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Sanctions policy is draining EUR 10 billion from the Hungarian economy a year, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said at the Hungarian Standing Conference, according to a report by state news wire MTI.

Orbán claimed the sanctions policy is costing the central budget some EUR 4 bln, money that could be used for social policy, wage rises, or tax cuts, while the economy has to "swallow" a EUR 6 bln loss.

"In this light, Hungary's anti-sanction policy does not appear to be excessive," he added.

Orbán said Hungary will not accept joint borrowing by European Union member states to assist Ukraine. He recommended member states decide how much they want to contribute to Ukraine's operation, then divide that up among themselves in a "proportional, fair" manner.

Hungary could contribute an annual HUF 60 bln-70 bln from the central budget in the framework of a bilateral agreement with Ukraine, he added.

Hungary condemns Russia's aggression and is assisting the Ukrainian people, but it is not prepared to place the interests of Ukraine over its own, Orbán added.

The PM said Hungary is on the threshold of signing an agreement on its EU support for the 2021-2027 funding cycle, but "can't be sure what will be paid or what will be suspended". That funding comes to net HUF 800 bln a year, compared to Hungary's GDP of HUF 62 trillion, he added.

He said Hungary "must be given" its funding from the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) as those resources are from joint EU credit on which member states earlier agreed how to distribute. That funding can be "delayed at most", he added.

Orbán said EU funding can't be used as a "tool for blackmail", adding that "we can't be backed into a corner".

Hungary could finance its program for the greening of its economy from global markets, getting credit from countries such as China, he explained.

Business Publishing Services Kft

文件 WBBJ000020221121eibl0002t


News
Czech premier to attend V4 meeting despite boycott of Hungary by parliamentary leaders
Albin Sybera
715 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日 06:51 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala will attend the Visegrad Group (V4) meeting on November 24 hosted by Slovakia, even though Parliamentary Speaker Marketa Pekarova Adamova and Senate President Milos Vystrcil boycotted meeting their Hungarian counterparts over Budapest's stance towards Ukraine and its energy policies. The meeting is being held in Slovakia's second largest city in Kosice, not far from the Ukrainian border

Hungary is becoming increasingly isolated in the EU and among its regional allies, the V4 countries, for its more pro-Russian position in Moscow's war against Ukraine and for blocking EU initiatives to punish Moscow for its aggression and help Ukraine. These differences have rendered the regional group moribund since Russia's invasion.

But there are differing views within the V4, the Czech coalition government and even within the rightwing Czech Civic Democrats on how tough a stance to take towards Viktor Orban's radical rightwing regime.

“Hungarians bilaterally negotiate with Russia over supplies of energy commodities,” Vystrcil told local media, adding that this prevents a “united stance of EU countries and implementation of our goals in this energy crisis” and that the boycott is a “rational and sober way to express disagreement” on the V4 level. The war in Ukraine, the energy crisis and migration are key agenda topics in Kosice.

Pekarova Adamova called Hungary a “trojan horse of Russia” in line with comments of other Czech representatives such as the lower house's vice-speaker Olga Richterova from last week. “It is always Hungarians who agree with the sanction packages last” […], “blackmailing further sanctions, and they are exploiting the war themes domestically against the EU,” Pekarova Adamova said.

Fiala said he wants to discuss “common approach and common rules” on supporting the economy during the energy crisis, pointing to the German €200mn package, which “causes concern among EU member states”. In an interveiw for Czech newsite Seznam Zpravy, Fiala said that after a dialogue “Hungary supported all the key decisions during EU negotiations".

Prior to the war Fiala and Vystrcil’s rightwing ODS avoided criticism of Fidesz and maintained friendly ties with it. ODS MEP Jan Zahradil, who represents the strong conservative and eurosceptic wing within the party, called on the EU to accept Hungarian strongmanViktor Orban after Fidesz’s flawed general election victory in April. Another MEP Alexandr Vondra, a former liberal dissident who has moved to the right, also defends Fidesz rule in Hungary.

One of Fidesz’s 1988 co-founders and the current Speaker of the National Assembly Laszlo Kover issued a press statement in which he regretted the V4 house speakers' meeting was postponed as a result of the Czech boycott.

“The remarks of the speakers of the Czech Parliament concerning our country are untrue and disrespectful,” Kover wrote, highlighting that these “do not correspond to the facts and they call into question the right of the Hungarian government to shape its policy according to the interest of the Hungarian nation”.

Czechia holds the EU’s rotating presidency and its Europan Affairs Minister Mikulas Bek chairs EU discussions over the breaches of rule of law, civil liberties, and democracy in Hungary. Last week Bek criticised Hungary for obstructing the EU’s efforts to raise cash on financial markets for a loan to Ukraine, warning it could alienate EU officials in the upcoming response to Hungary’s proposals to unlock the rule of law conditionality to gain access to EU funds.

Poland and Slovakia have also strongly criticised Hungary's stance towards Russia and Ukraine. In an interview published on November 9, Slovak Foreign Minister Rastislav Kacer (a former Slovak ambassador to Hungary) told the Slovak website Napunk [https://napunk.dennikn.sk/hu/3097730/rastislav-kacer-kulugyminiszter-orbanek-ervei-a-szankciokrol-mintha-a-kreml-kezikonyvebol-szarmaznanak/?utm_source=Insight+Hungary&utm_campaign=690d815a00-EMAIL_CAMPAIGN_2022_11_17_06_09&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_-690d815a00-%5BLIST_EMAIL_ID%5D](published in Hungarian) that Hungary's arguments against sanctions "seem to come from the Kremlin playbook".

"The arguments we hear from the Hungarian government are often the same as those used by the Kremlin's propaganda in its information war. I do not understand. These sanctions are in no way more damaging to Europe. Some even say they are helping Russia – if that were true, Russia wouldn't be rebelling against them. Hungary is alone in the European Union with this view and is completely isolated from its other Western allies"

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020221121eibl001md


Emerging Markets Monitor
Economic Analysis - Week Ahead: Unconventional Monetary Policy To Continue In Europe's East
1600 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日
Emerging Markets Monitor
EMDN
英文
© 2022 Fitch Solutions, Inc
This week, we at Fitch Solutions will be paying close attention to monetary policy meetings at the Hungarian National Bank (MNB, November 22) and the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkiye (CBRT, November 24). The pair have been conducting monetary policy in an unorthodox manner, albeit in different ways.

We expect the MNB to hold their benchmark policy rate at 13.00% on Tuesday. This view is in line with consensus and any departure would be a big surprise given the bank has announced the official end of their policy tightening cycle. What will be more interesting is the press release and minutes following the meeting. Since October 14, monetary conditions have been determined in Hungary by the one-day quick deposit tender, which is the de facto main policy rate and can be adjusted daily by the Bank. We hope that the press release will reveal more details about the instrument, presently set at 18.00%, namely how long will the instrument (which the MNB note as 'targeted and temporary') be in use. Under the current setup, the phasing out of the instrument and reinstatement of one-week tenders (which were phased out in October as the quick deposit tool was introduced) at 13.00% would mean an effective 500 basis points (bps) cut. It is unclear whether the MNB would unwind these 500bps in one go or with gradual cuts (we believe likely the latter to avoid a crash in the Hungarian forint). Regardless, a dovish pivot from the MNB will be tempting against a backdrop of weakening economic activity ( real GDP contracted 0.4% q-o-q in Q322) although soaring inflation of 21.1% y-o-y (October print) complicates matters.

Convoluted Monetary Policy In Hungary

Hungary - Interest And Interbank Rates, %

Source: Macrobond, Fitch Solutions

We anticipate a 150bps rate cut to 9.00% on Thursday from the CBRT. The CBRT is in the midst of an interest rate cutting cycle, in spite of inflation hitting fresh highs of 85.5% y-o-y in the October print. This stance from the Central Bank broadly falls in line with the viewpoint held by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. A cut to 9.00% would leave the rate in line with Erdogan's expectations of a single digit rate by year end (per September 29 comments). We expect the Bank to go slightly further, with a 100bps cut to 8.00% coming in the December meeting. However, we expect the post election (June 2023) period to return a degree of orthodoxy to the CBRT, with the bank hiking their main policy rate to 24.00% shortly after. In the meantime, we anticipate continued loose policy, with interest rates remaining heavily negative (see chart below), although the CBRT will likely continue introducing macroprudential policies to encourage lira bank deposit holdings (over the current high proportion of FX deposits).

 Real Interest Rates Very Negative In Turkiye
 Turkiye - Main Policy Rate vs Consumer Price Inflation

<TD>Source: Macrobond, Fitch Solutions

Previous Week's Highlights...

Central and Eastern Europe: GDP figures for Hungary, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, and Slovenia were released on November 15. We expected softer growth in much of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) as rising inflation posed greater headwinds to demand, while an unfavourable external backdrop further hampered activity. Broadly in line with our expectations, third quarter growth in Hungary contracted by 0.4% quarter-on-quarter (q-o-q), which left the year-on-year figure at 4.0% in Q322, down from 6.5% in Q222. Polish GDP expanded 0.9% q-o-q (3.5% y-o-y), while Romania saw growth of 1.3% (4.6%). Bulgarian GDP expanded by 0.6% in Q322, while seeing y-o-y growth decelerate to 3.2% compared to 4.6% in the previous quarter. Slovakian GDP grew by 0.3% q-o-q for the fourth consecutive quarter, while its y-o-y growth decelerated from 1.3% in Q222 to 1.2% in Q322. Slovenian growth came in at its lowest level since Q121. GDP expanded 3.4% y-o-y in Q322 compared to 8.3% in the second quarter of 2022, recording a 1.4% q-o-q contraction versus our expectation of a 1.0% contraction.

United Kingdom: The UK's Office for National Statistics released its unemployment figures for Q322 on November 15. The unemployment rate in the increased very modestly by 0.1 percentage points, which was broadly in line with our expectations. While the labour market remains tight, this adds to the evidence that conditions are starting to loosen somewhat at the margins with hiring intentions also weakening at the beginning of Q422. Currently, we see the UK unemployment rate gradually move higher in the coming quarters, ending 2023 near to 5.0%.

This increase in the unemployment rate comes as inflation jumped to 11.1% y-o- in October up from 10.1% in September, above consensus expectations of 10.7% and our own forecast of 10.8%. The pick-up in price pressures in the month largely reflected the impact from a reset in energy prices, though the government's rollout of the Energy Price Guarantee limited the extent of the increase. Core inflation held steady at 6.5% in October, in line with our expectations. We expect headline inflation to average 7.0% next year, ending 2023 near 4.0%.

Netherlands: Real GDP growth of the Dutch economy shrank by 0.2% on the quarter in Q322. This marks a y-o-y growth rate of 3.1%, which follows a 5.1% expansion in Q222. Alongside consensus, we had expected Dutch GDP growth to remain in positive territory and we have revised down our 2022 GDP forecast from 4.7% growth to 4.5% in response to the Q322 reading. The main drags on growth were declining fixed capital formation and government consumption. Moving forward, we expect the Dutch economy to move into a technical recession in Q422 as household consumption and fixed investment continue to decline.

Russia: Russia's GDP decreased by 4% y-o-y in the third quarter of 2022. This is smaller than the contraction that both we and consensus expected and comes as hydrocarbon exports remained stronger than expected, boosted by accelerating LNG exports to Europe. However, moving forward we forecast further downward pressure on GDP growth as global sanction continue to bite. We expect GDP to shrink by 3.5% over the full year, but we highlight that risks fall to the upside given the possibility of more consistent hydrocarbon exports than expected.

Norway: Norwegian GDP growth data came in at 2.5% y-o-y in September. This marks a 0.5% expansion on a month-on-month (m-o-m) basis and surprised to the upside of our expectations for a decline of 0.5% m-o-m. This strength in growth, however, is unlikely to be sustained in the coming quarters given the drag from the Norges Bank's policy tightening, persistent cost of living pressures and a weaker external demand backdrop. Indeed, we now anticipate that growth will slow to around 1.0% in 2023, compared to our previous forecast for a 1.7% expansion.

What We Are Watching in the Week Ahead...

Eurozone

(November 23) November PMIs: This week's flash PMI data are expected to show that eurozone economic momentum lost further momentum in November. The composite index is seen dropping deeper into contraction territory (i.e. below the 50.0 threshold) from 47.3 to 47.0, driven by falls in both the manufacturing (46.4 to 46.0) and services (48.6 to 48.0) subcomponents. With limited hard data yet available, weakness in survey indicators underpin our view that the eurozone will enter recession from Q422, contracting by 0.2% q-o-q. Risks to this already above consensus forecast are tilted somewhat to the upside, given the unusually warm start to the winter months that has seen natural gas prices plunge. However, we remain downbeat about the prospects for the eurozone in 2023 with a combination of persistent of living issues, tight financial conditions and weak external demand set to see the economy experience a prolonged recession.

Germany

(November 24) November Ifo Business Climate Index: The ifo Institute is set to release the November figure for the Ifo Business Climate Index, with the Bloomberg consensus being for a rise from its 30-month low of 84.3 in October to 85.0. The index has fallen sharply from the reading of 98.8 in February prior to the beginning of the war in Ukraine, as concerns regarding energy prices and external demand have increasingly weighed on sentiment. With inflation at 11.6% y-o-y in October and a cost of living crisis-induced recession likely to come, we expect the index score to remain low in November.

Poland

(November 25) October Unemployment Rate: Poland's unemployment rate is expected to remain close to all-time lows at 5.1% in incoming November data, having fallen from 5.9% at the start of the year. Poland's labour market tightness, exacerbated by the arrival of Ukrainian refugees (many of whom have found work in Poland), is a significant factor driving inflation in the country. We see little scope for conditions to loosen significantly even as the country enters a technical recession, however it is likely that unemployment will tick up somewhat in 2023.

Fitch Solutions Inc.

文件 EMDN000020221127eibl0000n


Emerging Markets Monitor
Economic Analysis - Week Ahead: Unconventional Monetary Policy To Continue In Europe's East
1600 字
2022 年 11 月 21 日
Corporate Financing Week
CFWK
英文
© 2022 Fitch Solutions, Inc
This week, we at Fitch Solutions will be paying close attention to monetary policy meetings at the Hungarian National Bank (MNB, November 22) and the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkiye (CBRT, November 24). The pair have been conducting monetary policy in an unorthodox manner, albeit in different ways.

We expect the MNB to hold their benchmark policy rate at 13.00% on Tuesday. This view is in line with consensus and any departure would be a big surprise given the bank has announced the official end of their policy tightening cycle. What will be more interesting is the press release and minutes following the meeting. Since October 14, monetary conditions have been determined in Hungary by the one-day quick deposit tender, which is the de facto main policy rate and can be adjusted daily by the Bank. We hope that the press release will reveal more details about the instrument, presently set at 18.00%, namely how long will the instrument (which the MNB note as 'targeted and temporary') be in use. Under the current setup, the phasing out of the instrument and reinstatement of one-week tenders (which were phased out in October as the quick deposit tool was introduced) at 13.00% would mean an effective 500 basis points (bps) cut. It is unclear whether the MNB would unwind these 500bps in one go or with gradual cuts (we believe likely the latter to avoid a crash in the Hungarian forint). Regardless, a dovish pivot from the MNB will be tempting against a backdrop of weakening economic activity ( real GDP contracted 0.4% q-o-q in Q322) although soaring inflation of 21.1% y-o-y (October print) complicates matters.

Convoluted Monetary Policy In Hungary

Hungary - Interest And Interbank Rates, %

Source: Macrobond, Fitch Solutions

We anticipate a 150bps rate cut to 9.00% on Thursday from the CBRT. The CBRT is in the midst of an interest rate cutting cycle, in spite of inflation hitting fresh highs of 85.5% y-o-y in the October print. This stance from the Central Bank broadly falls in line with the viewpoint held by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. A cut to 9.00% would leave the rate in line with Erdogan's expectations of a single digit rate by year end (per September 29 comments). We expect the Bank to go slightly further, with a 100bps cut to 8.00% coming in the December meeting. However, we expect the post election (June 2023) period to return a degree of orthodoxy to the CBRT, with the bank hiking their main policy rate to 24.00% shortly after. In the meantime, we anticipate continued loose policy, with interest rates remaining heavily negative (see chart below), although the CBRT will likely continue introducing macroprudential policies to encourage lira bank deposit holdings (over the current high proportion of FX deposits).

 Real Interest Rates Very Negative In Turkiye
 Turkiye - Main Policy Rate vs Consumer Price Inflation

<TD>Source: Macrobond, Fitch Solutions

Previous Week's Highlights...

Central and Eastern Europe: GDP figures for Hungary, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, and Slovenia were released on November 15. We expected softer growth in much of Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) as rising inflation posed greater headwinds to demand, while an unfavourable external backdrop further hampered activity. Broadly in line with our expectations, third quarter growth in Hungary contracted by 0.4% quarter-on-quarter (q-o-q), which left the year-on-year figure at 4.0% in Q322, down from 6.5% in Q222. Polish GDP expanded 0.9% q-o-q (3.5% y-o-y), while Romania saw growth of 1.3% (4.6%). Bulgarian GDP expanded by 0.6% in Q322, while seeing y-o-y growth decelerate to 3.2% compared to 4.6% in the previous quarter. Slovakian GDP grew by 0.3% q-o-q for the fourth consecutive quarter, while its y-o-y growth decelerated from 1.3% in Q222 to 1.2% in Q322. Slovenian growth came in at its lowest level since Q121. GDP expanded 3.4% y-o-y in Q322 compared to 8.3% in the second quarter of 2022, recording a 1.4% q-o-q contraction versus our expectation of a 1.0% contraction.

United Kingdom: The UK's Office for National Statistics released its unemployment figures for Q322 on November 15. The unemployment rate in the increased very modestly by 0.1 percentage points, which was broadly in line with our expectations. While the labour market remains tight, this adds to the evidence that conditions are starting to loosen somewhat at the margins with hiring intentions also weakening at the beginning of Q422. Currently, we see the UK unemployment rate gradually move higher in the coming quarters, ending 2023 near to 5.0%.

This increase in the unemployment rate comes as inflation jumped to 11.1% y-o- in October up from 10.1% in September, above consensus expectations of 10.7% and our own forecast of 10.8%. The pick-up in price pressures in the month largely reflected the impact from a reset in energy prices, though the government's rollout of the Energy Price Guarantee limited the extent of the increase. Core inflation held steady at 6.5% in October, in line with our expectations. We expect headline inflation to average 7.0% next year, ending 2023 near 4.0%.

Netherlands: Real GDP growth of the Dutch economy shrank by 0.2% on the quarter in Q322. This marks a y-o-y growth rate of 3.1%, which follows a 5.1% expansion in Q222. Alongside consensus, we had expected Dutch GDP growth to remain in positive territory and we have revised down our 2022 GDP forecast from 4.7% growth to 4.5% in response to the Q322 reading. The main drags on growth were declining fixed capital formation and government consumption. Moving forward, we expect the Dutch economy to move into a technical recession in Q422 as household consumption and fixed investment continue to decline.

Russia: Russia's GDP decreased by 4% y-o-y in the third quarter of 2022. This is smaller than the contraction that both we and consensus expected and comes as hydrocarbon exports remained stronger than expected, boosted by accelerating LNG exports to Europe. However, moving forward we forecast further downward pressure on GDP growth as global sanction continue to bite. We expect GDP to shrink by 3.5% over the full year, but we highlight that risks fall to the upside given the possibility of more consistent hydrocarbon exports than expected.

Norway: Norwegian GDP growth data came in at 2.5% y-o-y in September. This marks a 0.5% expansion on a month-on-month (m-o-m) basis and surprised to the upside of our expectations for a decline of 0.5% m-o-m. This strength in growth, however, is unlikely to be sustained in the coming quarters given the drag from the Norges Bank's policy tightening, persistent cost of living pressures and a weaker external demand backdrop. Indeed, we now anticipate that growth will slow to around 1.0% in 2023, compared to our previous forecast for a 1.7% expansion.

What We Are Watching in the Week Ahead...

Eurozone

(November 23) November PMIs: This week's flash PMI data are expected to show that eurozone economic momentum lost further momentum in November. The composite index is seen dropping deeper into contraction territory (i.e. below the 50.0 threshold) from 47.3 to 47.0, driven by falls in both the manufacturing (46.4 to 46.0) and services (48.6 to 48.0) subcomponents. With limited hard data yet available, weakness in survey indicators underpin our view that the eurozone will enter recession from Q422, contracting by 0.2% q-o-q. Risks to this already above consensus forecast are tilted somewhat to the upside, given the unusually warm start to the winter months that has seen natural gas prices plunge. However, we remain downbeat about the prospects for the eurozone in 2023 with a combination of persistent of living issues, tight financial conditions and weak external demand set to see the economy experience a prolonged recession.

Germany

(November 24) November Ifo Business Climate Index: The ifo Institute is set to release the November figure for the Ifo Business Climate Index, with the Bloomberg consensus being for a rise from its 30-month low of 84.3 in October to 85.0. The index has fallen sharply from the reading of 98.8 in February prior to the beginning of the war in Ukraine, as concerns regarding energy prices and external demand have increasingly weighed on sentiment. With inflation at 11.6% y-o-y in October and a cost of living crisis-induced recession likely to come, we expect the index score to remain low in November.

Poland

(November 25) October Unemployment Rate: Poland's unemployment rate is expected to remain close to all-time lows at 5.1% in incoming November data, having fallen from 5.9% at the start of the year. Poland's labour market tightness, exacerbated by the arrival of Ukrainian refugees (many of whom have found work in Poland), is a significant factor driving inflation in the country. We see little scope for conditions to loosen significantly even as the country enters a technical recession, however it is likely that unemployment will tick up somewhat in 2023.

Fitch Solutions Inc.

文件 CFWK000020221127eibl0000w


Turkey This Week - November 25, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 11 月 25 日, 18479 字, (英文)
Nomura says Egypt, Romania, Turkey, Czechia and Hungary among nations at high risk of currency crisisNomura has identified seven countries—Egypt, Romania, Sri Lanka, Turkey, Czech Republic, Pakistan and Hungary—that it says are now at a ...

Hungary This Week - November 25, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 11 月 25 日, 13706 字, (英文)
Hungarian real wages continue to shrink in September as CPI climbsReal wages in Hungary fell 1.9% in September, as double-digit nominal wage growth couldn't keep up with inflation, the Central Statistics Office (KSH) said on November 24.

Europe to become dependent on US should it refuse to buy Russian gas - MFA
311 字
2022 年 11 月 29 日 11:31 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
The European Union’s attempts to impose an embargo on the import of Russian gas are wrong, because even if Russian gas is replaced by LNG from the United States, Europe will still be dependent, the Secretary of State for Bilateral Relations at Hungary’s Foreign Ministry, Tamas Menzer, said on the M1 television channel.

"The European Union has been adamant in its attempts to oust Russian gas from Europe, but this is the wrong aim, because even if dependence on Russia is replaced with dependence on the US, dependence as such will still be there," Menzer explained. He is certain that "instead, efforts should be made to ensure that Europe can receive energy from the largest possible number of sources."

The Hungarian government, he noted, remains certain that the EU’s sanction policy is unlawful. Budapest is in favor of lifting restrictions on business ties with Russia in the energy field. Menzer recalled that the sanctions have led to an increase in oil and gas prices. The Hungarian economy, he said, in fact pays a "sanction surcharge" and for this reason the "energy sanctions should be lifted."

Menzer also confirmed that Hungary considered the imposition of sanctions against Russia in the field of nuclear energy as absolutely unacceptable.

"The next, ninth package of sanctions is already being discussed in Brussels. Moreover, the issue of nuclear power has been raised. This is another red line for Hungary," Menzer stressed.

Hungary closely cooperates with Russia in the energy industry. It receives oil through the Druzhba pipeline and natural gas through the TurkStream. The nuclear power plant in the city of Paks, built in accordance with Soviet technology, uses Russian nuclear fuel. Preparations are underway to build two new power units as part of a project headed by Rosatom.

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020221129eibt000yp


CE Noticias Financieras English
Brussels demands freezing of European funds to Hungary for violations of the rule of law
1084 字
2022 年 11 月 30 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The European Commission is advocating the premiere with Hungary of the tool that will allow for the first time to restrict European funds to countries that do not comply with the rule of law. Brussels believes that Hungary has so far not fulfilled its part of the agreement reached in September to implement 17 anti-corruption measures and reforms to avoid such punishment. With this conclusion in hand, the Community Executive will recommend to the Council of the EU, which integrates the member countries and which will have the final decision, to freeze the delivery of 7,500 million structural funds to the government of the ultraconservative Viktor Orbán, the final step to apply the mechanism that allows to apply this type of sanctions when it detects that the deficiencies in the rule of law of a European country put at risk the community budget.

To mitigate the harshness of this decision, the college of commissioners has, at the same time, given the go-ahead to the Hungarian recovery plan, which means access to 5.8 billion euros in subsidies. The money will come, however, provided that Hungary implements four important measures to ensure the independence of the judiciary in the Magyar country.

Basically, what Brussels has done this Wednesday has been to double the bet with Orbán. Not only does it threaten to cut off 7.5 billion in European program money if he does not implement the measures to which he committed himself in September. He also warns him that the 5.8 billion that go with his recovery plan are at stake. But in both cases, it makes its delivery - if so ratified by the Member States in the EU Council - dependent on Orbán backtracking on many of his policies in recent years. That is, it demands that he deploy the anti-corruption reforms demanded just over two months ago and legal changes to ensure judicial independence and the application of European jurisprudence in Hungary.

"The Commission considers that, despite the measures taken, there remains a risk to the EU budget, given that the corrective measures still to be fulfilled are of a structural and horizontal nature. While a number of reforms have been undertaken or are underway, Hungary has not adequately implemented the central aspects of the 17 necessary corrective measures agreed under the general conditionality mechanism by the deadline of 19 November, as it had committed itself", explains the communiqué of the European Executive in which it gives account of its decision.

Orban has been defying Brussels and many of his EU partners for more than a decade because of his authoritarian drift, which has led him to take steps that dismantle the rule of law in Hungary and to reverse rights and guarantees among its citizens, such as those of the LGTBi community. In line with the recovery plan, the EU approved the so-called Conditionality Mechanism to be able to sanction countries that in this type of drift put the community budget at risk. The tool was even challenged in court by the two countries that from the beginning seemed to be clear targets: Poland and Hungary. The EU Court of Justice rejected the appeal, leaving the Commission's hands free to activate the process, which it did in September.

"We have to distinguish between the two decisions," European Commission Vice-President Valdis Dombrovskis has called for. "Our assessment of the Hungarian recovery plan is positive," the Latvian continued, referring to the investment forecast and the approach to transforming the country's economy towards greater digital and environmental sensitivity. "But we will also assess the implementation of this plan and the conditions attached to it," he added, referring to those four "super milestones," as Dombrovkis called them. These seek to ensure judicial independence and must be approved and deployed before Budapest can request the first payment under its plan, i.e. in the first quarter of next year. Both Dombrovskis and Justice chief Didier Reynders have been very clear: if these four milestones are not met, there will be no money.

"The ball is now in less than the member states," Reynders said. It is now the 27 countries that make up the EU, in the Ecofin, the body that brings together the ministers of Economy and Finance, who have to decide on the two proposals that have approved this Wednesday the commissioners. This is the same body in which Hungary has so far blocked initiatives in which the EU has put a lot of effort: the development of the international agreement of more than 150 countries to set a minimum effective rate of 15% in the corporate tax and the delivery to Ukraine of 18,000 million for the current expenditure of the invaded country.

In principle, the four points, plus others, were to be discussed at the meeting on December 6. But the idea of convening another one for the following week, in which the four issues could be on the table, according to Politico. The linkage would thus become clear and it would be an attempt to twist Orban's arm, who has been dragging his feet with sanctions against Russia and aid to Ukraine since the war began because of his closeness to Vladimir Putin's regime.

If Hungary were to be deprived in the medium term of the more than 13 billion euros tied up in the decisions taken by the Commission on Wednesday, the blow to Budapest's finances would be serious. In the run-up to last April's elections, the Orban government shot up public spending and its fiscal deficit has become a nightmare for the government now. This has been compounded by inflation, which in this country has soared to 22%; the fall of the forint, the Hungarian currency, in the currency markets; and the punishment of public debt bonds (the risk premium has reached 800 basis points or eight percentage points).

Before this almost perfect storm on the Hungarian public finances, to stop receiving the 7.5 billion (65% of three programs of its cohesion funds) plus the 5.8 billion of the recovery plan would greatly punish its economy. This situation of weakness leads several banking research services to presume that Orban will eventually give in to the demands of his EU partners.

Follow all the international information on Facebook and Twitter, or in our weekly newsletter.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221130eibu008ob


UPDATE - Opposition parties slam Orban remarks on sanctions, energy supplies (adds Fidesz)
348 字
2022 年 12 月 2 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2022 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, December 2 (MTI) - Opposition parties have criticised

Prime Minister Viktor Orban's statements on European Union

sanctions against Russia, energy supplies and aid for Ukraine, in

his regular interview with public broadcaster Kossuth Radio on

Friday.

Conservative Jobbik said that Orban had "lost sight of

reality", noting that the prime minister had voted in favour of all

sanctions against Russia in the EU.

At the same time, Orban failed to address the fact that

Hungarian food price growth had outstripped all other European

countries' and that the forint had plunged into record depths in

the autumn. The government "has cancelled the utility price cut

scheme and is causing a shortage economy with its price caps

harking back to the communist era," the party said.

Meanwhile, "Hungary and Hungarians are stripped of the EU

monies they are entitled to, because of Viktor Orban and his

government," Jobbik said.

Momentum leader Ferenc Gelencser, reacting to Orban's statement

that "Hungarians have understood that, whether they like it or not,

Ukraine needs support", said Hungarian society had taken a "humane

and fair" approach to Ukrainians and Transcarpathia Hungarians. "It

was not the government but civil organisations, which the

government has been persecuting for years, who took the lion's

share in helping people fleeing Ukraine and those staying in their

homeland," he said.

LMP said that contrary to what Orban said, Russian gas was not

cheap and "the prime minister said himself that the long-term

contract concluded with Russia last year was no guarantee for

secure supplies." The solution would be a green transition, the

party said.

Ruling Fidesz responded by saying that "the pro-war and

pro-sanction stance" of the left-wing opposition parties "threaten

Hungary". They would sacrifice Hungary's security and energy supply

in exchange for "rolling foreign dollars", the party said in a

statement.

The left-wing parties continue to lobby for sanctions by

Brussels which will destroy Europe and threaten the Hungarian

economy and the livelihood of Hungarian families, it said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020221202eic2001b9


Hungary claims to have received exemption from EU oil price cap
420 字
2022 年 12 月 5 日 06:30 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2022. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
Hungary has received an exemption from the application of the oil price cap, Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto claimed on Facebook on December 3, after EU leaders reached a deal for a $60-per-barrel threshold for Russian crude shipped by sea.

"During the talks about the oil price cap, we were fighting hard for Hungarian interests and we succeeded in the end and as a result, the security of the country's energy supplies has been again successfully protected," he boasted.

Hungary’s top diplomat bashed the EU for the decision, which in his words will hurt Europe’s economy the most. Szijjarto said that increasing energy volumes would be required in order to reduce prices.

The price limit is linked to a previous decision by the G7 group of leading economies to sanction Russian oil exports to the wider global economy, such as to China and India.

The price cap and the boycott could have an uncertain effect on the price of oil as worries over lost supply through the boycott compete with fears about lower demand from a slowing global economy, analysts said.

The measures will not cause acute problems for Hungary, which, along with two of its landlocked V4 peers Slovakia and the Czech Republic, is particularly dependent on pipeline oil from Russia due to their geographical location and inability to quickly replace imports.

In case Russia were to halt deliveries through the Druzhba (Friendship) pipeline, Hungary would be left with the Adriatic pipeline, but its capacity is limited.

One negative impact of the oil embargo is that Hungary’s oil and gas producer MOL will not be allowed to supply fuel from its Bratislava refinery to Hungary, which will further aggravate the fuel crisis.

The company already faces huge logistical problems supplying rural petrol stations, which is aggravated by problems at its Hungarian refinery, operating at 55-60% of capacity after flaws emerged in restarting the facility after maintenance work.

Government officials have already begun talking about scrapping the fuel price cap as a possibility from January 1, citing the negative impacts of sanctions to avoid widespread fuel shortages.

The government capped retail fuel prices in November 2021 and wholesale prices four months later at HUF480 per litre, which led to the collapse of imports and a surge in demand.

Analysts said that it would take months for imports to rebuild and supply and demand normalise after the government ends state intervention in the markets.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020221205eic5000dy


CE Noticias Financieras English
Orbán keeps blackmailing EU and blocks 18 billion in aid to Ukraine and 15% tax on multinationals
705 字
2022 年 12 月 6 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
More blackmail. Viktor Orbán's ultra-conservative government exercised its blocking power at the meeting of EU finance ministers on Tuesday, and prevented the approval of the 18 billion in aid to Ukraine for 2023, while managing to push the 15% minimum tax for multinationals off the agenda.

Hungarian pressure, however, has achieved something: the 27 EU finance ministers have decided to postpone the discussion on the European Commission's proposal to block 7.5 billion in cohesion funds to Hungary because of its authoritarian drift. Some countries, such as France and Germany, argue that the figure should be lowered on the basis of alleged legislative progress by Budapest, contrary to the Brussels proposal reaffirmed last week.

The days, however, are running out: the deadline given by the European Commission expires on December 19, when the dossier will lapse if it is not approved by the governments which, on the other hand, could also decide to approve the sanction but with a lower figure.

"Unfortunately we are not in a position to adopt the package, our ambition is still to disburse the aid to Ukraine in early January, and we ask that solutions be studied with the support of 26 member states, without touching the Multiannual Financial Framework," said the Czech Minister of Economy and rotating president of the EU Council, Zbyn& Stanjura.

The 27, in any case, do plan to take a decision on Hungary's recovery plan, conditional on 27 reforms related to the strengthening of the rule of law. If the EU governments do not formally approve the plan before the end of the year, Hungary would lose 70% of the funds, some 4.6 billion of the 5.8 billion in direct aid.

OECD agreement June was the month in which the EU was scheduled to approve the 15% tax on multinationals. But it did not. At the preceding Ecofin meeting, the finance ministers noted the Polish veto, which in fact depended on the European Commission unblocking its recovery fund -36 billion euros-, which it eventually did on condition that Poland addressed the political decolonization of the judicial system.

Poland succeeded in this release and then lifted its veto on the new levy. But now the veto comes from its old ally, Hungary, which has also blocked its recovery plan due to its authoritarian drift, which has even led the European Commission to activate the conditionality mechanism due to the corruption detected in the management of European funds.

Orbán's veto of the tax goes hand in hand with Budapest's tensions with the 26 countries over sanctions against Russia.

Thus, Orbán is making good on his threat to veto a 15% minimum tax on multinational companies agreed internationally at the OECD in October 2021 and consisting of two pillars.

The first pillar fixes that 25% of the profits of companies with a turnover of more than $20 billion (about €19 billion) and a profitability of more than 10% would have to pay taxes in the countries where they have their activity. According to the OECD, pillar one would affect about the 100 largest multinationals - Google, Facebook, technology companies, etc. - and would generate about $125 billion (119 billion euros) in annual revenues for the countries and territories concerned.

The second pillar, which was being debated this Friday at Ecofin, introduces an overall minimum rate of 15%, which would apply to companies with revenues in excess of €750 million. The EU Tax Observatory estimated that EU countries could earn around 80 billion euros per year with the reform.

Commenting on the deadlock at Ecofin, Chiara Putaturo, EU tax expert at Oxfam, said, "Once again, EU countries have failed to agree on an already unambitious plan to implement the international minimum tax agreement. EU national interests have prevailed despite the cost-of-living crisis. Some EU tax havens have reduced the ambition of the tax agreement at the international level and Hungary has delayed implementation at the EU level for months. This is a defeat for ordinary people struggling with the cost of living crisis and a victory for ultra-profitable corporations."

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221206eic6006hv


Hungary scraps petrol price caps amid fuel shortage
471 字
2022 年 12 月 6 日 22:56 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2022 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Hungary on Tuesday abolished petrol price caps after a fuel shortage led to "panic buying" at petrol stations with Hungarian energy giant MOL blaming the price limits.

Hungarian media published images of hundred-metre-long queues at filling stations nationwide on Tuesday, while an AFP photographer saw most pumps out of order at several stations in Budapest.

Prime Minister Viktor Orban's chief of staff, Gergely Gulyas, blamed EU oil sanctions over Russia's invasion of Ukraine for the fuel problems.

"The government will abolish the petrol price cap at the suggestion of MOL" with immediate effect, Gulyas announced.

"What we feared came true: the oil sanction that entered into force on Monday caused perceptible disturbances in Hungary's fuel supply. MOL can't do without imported gasoline."

An EU embargo on seaborne deliveries of Russian crude oil came into force on Monday.

MOL's executive director Gyorgy Bacsa told AFP earlier on Thursday that the "supply situation is clearly critical, demand has skyrocketed, consumers are stocking up, and panic buying has begun."

"A partial product shortage is present in our entire network and a quarter of our filling stations were completely empty," said Bacsa.

The fuel shortage has been caused by a 30 percent drop in imported fuel, as well as maintenance at one of MOL's refineries, and will take "several weeks" to resolve, he said.

The government-mandated price cap on vehicle fuel products has led foreign firms to cut fuel shipments to Hungary, according to the Association of Independent Petrol Stations.

In November 2021 Budapest decreed a fixed price of around 1.17 euros ($1.22) per litre of 95-grade fuel.

Reviewed every three months, the cap was last extended in September and was valid until the end of the year.

The government said price caps -- on a range of basic foodstuffs as well as fuel -- were aimed at supporting the economy and curbing rampant inflation.

Annual inflation in Hungary reached 21.6 percent in October, its highest level since 1996, and the third highest in the EU, according to Eurostat.

But Hungary's central bank governor Gyorgy Matolcsy blamed fuel and food price caps for adding "three to four percentage points onto inflation".

Matolcsy, usually seen as an ally of nationalist premier Orban, had also called for the caps to be withdrawn.

Adding to Orban's economic woes, recession is looming with GDP contracting by 0.4 percent in the third quarter, while the local currency, the forint, has plunged to record lows against the euro this year.

Last week the EU's executive also recommended that bloc funds totalling more than 14 billion euros be withheld over corruption and rule-of-law concerns.

"Hungary is in a near-crisis situation," said Matolcsy.

pmu-mg-jza/rox

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020221206eic600mlx


Hungary scraps fuel price cap after drop in imports curbs supply
Marton Dunai in Budapest
823 字
2022 年 12 月 7 日 16:02 GMT
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
英文
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.
PM Viktor Orbán reverses signature policy as cost of imports soars after Russian sanctions disrupt market

Hungary has removed its cap on petrol and diesel prices after supply shortages caused panic buying and threatened the country’s ability to replenish emergency stocks, the government said.

The price caps, introduced by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán 13 months ago as fuel prices climbed across Europe, became untenable after costs to import refined products soared on the back of EU sanctions on Russian oil.

The caps, which set pump prices at about €1.20 a litre — the lowest level in the EU — prevented importers from making a profit. The loss of imports and technical difficulties that halved domestic production at national oil company MOL’s refinery near Budapest have left Hungary with about a third of its normal supplies in recent weeks.

The decision to scrap the fuel price cap shows how a deteriorating economic outlook is putting pressure on Orbán’s populist economic policies.

“I had to find a remote village with a small station . . . people were panicked,” said Gabor, a driver of a plug-in hybrid vehicle who had returned to Budapest after a trip to eastern Hungary. “I was already calculating routes home using only electric charging stations. This has been crazy.”

Gergely Gulyás, Orbán’s chief of staff, said EU sanctions on Russia after its full-scale invasion of Ukraine — including the latest oil price cap — had disrupted the market, even though Budapest has an exemption to import Russian crude through the Druzhba pipeline.

“MOL told us it can no longer supply the country without imports,” Gulyás said as the government announced the scrapping of its fuel cap late on Tuesday. “So the government heeded its advice and two days after the sanctions kicked in it scrapped the fuel price ceiling.”

Budapest will replace the fuel price cap with a windfall tax on oil companies. “From now on, sanction-affected petrol prices are in effect throughout Europe,” Orbán said in a Facebook post on Wednesday. “In Hungary, the resulting extra profit [will be] deducted and directed to the [budget].”

Hungary blamed “Brussels sanctions” on Russia for its economic difficulties. Disputes over rule-of-law reforms have led the EU to withhold a combined €13.3bn in post-pandemic recovery funds and cohesion payments.

Market participants have warned that importers, including MOL, will not resume purchases unless they can sell at a profit.

MOL chief executive Zsolt Hernádi compared the fuel crisis to the oil shortages of the 1970s, saying the artificially low prices caused people to stockpile and use fuel recklessly, leading to a 45 per cent rise in fuel demand from last year.

“The situation became critical,” Hernádi said. “Panic started. MOL could no longer cope.”

Removing the price caps to allow a resumption of imports was important now, Hernádi said, as Hungary and other EU countries prepare for a ban on the import of Russian refined petroleum products to begin in February. MOL feeds Russian crude to its refineries in Budapest and Bratislava, Slovakia.

MOL is retooling its Bratislava facility to allow it to use lighter Brent-type crudes as feedstock, enabling it to increase exports of non-Russian refined products to Hungary, analysts noted.

“Europe as a whole is about 10 per cent short on diesel, which will lead to supply disruptions next year,” said Erste Bank oil analyst Tamás Pletser. “Hungary is 30 per cent short but Bratislava can supply it easily.”

Oil supply from the Druzhba pipeline has been reduced following Russian attacks on Ukraine’s power grid. “We need to have alternatives . . . restart [fuel] imports and replenish emergency stocks so we can supply the market in case of a disruption,” Hernádi said.

The government would remove similar price caps for products including basic foods and financial services if they led to shortages, Gulyás said. György Matolcsy, the central bank’s governor, told MPs this week that the caps were a mistake, forcing businesses to recoup losses by raising prices on non-capped products and pushing inflation up by 3-4 percentage points.

With Hungary facing inflation of 15-18 per cent next year, Matolcsy said: “All price caps must be phased out immediately . . . We must not return to socialism, which proved that price caps don’t work.”

The resumption of normal supply will probably take several months, according to Hungary’s association of independent fuel station owners, which recorded disruptions in more than 150 towns and cities.

“If you once exported fuel to Hungary, you need some convincing to route it back again,” said László Gépész, vice-chair of the association. “Trust needs to be rebuilt, and premiums will apply.”

He added that the price caps had taken away “the flexibility of the system that came from imports and the strategic reserves . . . we must forget this price cap regime, and quickly”.

The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)

文件 FTCOM00020221207eic70048t


Hungary scraps petrol curbs
172 字
2022 年 12 月 8 日
China Daily-Global Edition
CDGLED
6
英文
Copyright 2022, China Daily Multimedia Co. Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Hungary on Tuesday abolished petrol price caps after a fuel shortage led to "panic buying" at petrol stations, with Hungarian energy giant MOL blaming the price limits.

Hungarian media published images of 100-meter-long queues at filling stations nationwide on Tuesday.

Gergely Gulyas, chief of staff for Prime Minister Viktor Orban, blamed the European Union's oil sanctions over the Russia-Ukraine conflict for the fuel problems.

"The government will abolish the petrol price cap at the suggestion of MOL" with immediate effect, Gulyas announced.

"What we feared came true: The oil sanction ... caused perceptible disturbances in Hungary's fuel supply. MOL can't do without imported gasoline," he said.

MOL's executive director Gyorgy Bacsa said earlier on Thursday that the "supply situation is clearly critical, demand has skyrocketed, consumers are stocking up, and panic buying has begun".

A rift between the EU and Hungary deepened on Tuesday when Budapest vetoed an 18 billion euro ($18.8 billion) financial aid package to Kyiv.

Agencies Via Xinhua

China Daily Multimedia Co. Ltd.

文件 CDGLED0020221208eic80000j


Interview · Economics
Snake oil cap . Economist Marcel Salikhov speaks on what change the new EU sanctions against Russia’s oil will bring
1969 字
2022 年 12 月 8 日
Novaya Gazeta. Europe
NOVZE
英文
© 2022. Novaja Gazeta - Europe.
The countries of the European Union agreed on introducing a price cap on selling Russia’s oil to third countries last week. This decision was long anticipated, although its exact parameters remained unknown. Moreover, an embargo on importing Russia’s oil to the EU countries also kicked in on 5 December. We asked Marcel Salikhov, an economist and the current president of the Institute for Energy and Finance think tank to explain how the new mechanism will work and how hard it is going to hit Russia’s oil and gas revenues.

Photo: Stefano Guidi / Getty Images[https://novayagazeta.eu/static/records/5ed993cdf8794fca891a1f20055bf89e.jpeg]

Marcel Salikhov[https://novayagazeta.eu/static/records/e9510bbaf62d4c6fb945bb9ec28e7964.jpeg] economist

Why was it so hard for the EU countries to agree on a Russian oil price cap?

Issues like this usually present challenges in the EU. Other Western countries are no longer buying Russia’s oil and petroleum products. Europe, however, continued doing so until recently, and its companies play a key role in terms of transportation, insurance, and so on. The US and Canadian companies are not involved in this, so little actually depends on them.

The previous sanction packages the EU introduced had exclusions, and the current embargo (the EU has banned the sea import of Russia’s crude oil starting 5 December; petroleum products will also be subject to the restriction starting 5 February 2023 — Novaya-Europe) has an exclusion for Hungary. There were different stances, ranging from the $30 dollars per barrel price cap voiced by Poland up to the $70 per barrel cap backed by Greece and Malta. Many ship operators are registered in Malta and Greece, and those companies transport Russia’s oil, too. Therefore, the economies of these two countries depend on this sector.

The member states eventually agreed on a $60 per barrel cap, and it is in fact a pretty mild option, which is close to, or even above the current price level.

At the same time, the price cap does not include transportation fees, and this is very important. If we suppose that it currently costs Russian companies $20 per barrel to transport oil to Asia, then the price of an Urals barrel is $60 plus transportation fees. Therefore, I believe that the price cap itself will have little to no effect.

It is a pretty mild option in terms of secondary sanctions, too (reselling Russia’s oil is not restricted by the EU regulations — Novaya-Europe). In some part this was a deliberate decision so as not to cause big issues with the current supplies of Russian oil.

How did Hungary manage to lobby through an exemption from the price cap?

Through negotiation. Hungary is generally against any sanctions. So, the EU makes them exempt to avoid them vetoing every decision. They are allowed to buy Russian oil via the Druzhba pipeline, but only to the extent necessary to meet the needs of their own market. This volume is fixed, and they may not buy more oil and potentially refine it and resell it to other European countries.

Signs reading “out of use” on empty fuel pumps at a MOL Hungary Oil Gas Plc petroleum station in Budapest. Photo: Akos Stiller / Bloomberg / Getty Images[https://novayagazeta.eu/static/records/7cc134af4dc349e58afcbe31558efbc7.jpeg]

Some countries, including Ukraine and Poland, insisted that the cap at $60 is too high. Why cannot it be lower?

This is how the market works. If we put technical details aside, the price cap will work when there’s opportunity to replace Russia’s oil. Russia has reduced oil production, and the only country that can increase its production in the same volume is Saudi Arabia, but it does not want to. There are no sources for replacement. The EU could have negotiated a production increase with Iran or Saudi Arabia to make it work. Or convince China and India to join the price cap mechanism, but they haven’t joined.

There are no conditions under which the $30 price cap would work, so adopting it is pointless. This is why they adopt a price cap that does not affect much, and they do it deliberately to some extent. The reason is politics: “There will be a price cap, we’re going to introduce it”. However, it’s impossible to make it efficient at the moment. Maybe this will start working after a certain period. But now Russia will be bypassing this price cap, and it will still be an inefficient mechanism.

That is, there will be no special effect from the price cap on the Russian economy?

In my opinion, the EU has adopted an option that will not let the price cap work in a normal way. The reason is that the Western countries are trying to dictate terms upon which third countries may trade between themselves.

Say, Russia is selling oil to India, and the Western countries are trying to determine the price at which this trade should be carried out.

Obviously, it is difficult to do because those are some other countries.

So, the price cap itself will not make any real effect. The EU embargo will, though. Russia’s oil exports will decrease next year, and it looks like its exports of petroleum products will decrease even more as Russia’s exports were mainly Europe-oriented.

Will the discount on Russia’s oil brands increase?

Yes, it’s more likely to increase than not. It used to stand at $30–35 this spring, and at $20–25 in recent months. Perhaps it’s going to increase to $30 now so as to create additional motivation for the buyers. On the one hand, Russia will be losing a little money, but on the other, it will maintain its export volume.

How will this affect the cost ratio of different Russian oil brands?

It is unclear at the moment as the price cap is common for all brands. There are three main brands there: Urals, ESPO, and Siberian Light. Urals is usually the cheapest one since it contains much sulphur. ESPO and Siberian Light are being supplied to the Asian market; in fact, those have never been supplied to Europe. ESPO was being traded with no discount prior to the price cap discussion. Now the discount has increased. Everything depends on how willing Asian buyers will be to abide by the price ceiling. It is unclear so far how this will affect the ESPO brand in particular.

What if Russia starts selling oil for more than $60 per barrel, will it be forced to do so with no insurance?

There’s no way of selling oil with no insurance, no buyer will ever agree to buy such oil. However, Russia may use other insurance mechanisms, unrelated to Western companies, for instance, the Russian National Reinsurance Company. Perhaps Russia will be offering state-protected insurance to its buyers. This is also insurance, although from a Russian company, and not a British one. If, say, India is ready to accept Russian insurance coverage from Russian companies with state guarantee, what can anyone do about it? I believe that introducing both the oil embargo and the price cap for third countries is somewhat destroying the idea of the price cap.

Why was the rule about reviewing the price cap every two months introduced?

If the price cap is fixed at a certain level, then it is meaningless as the price can go down or up.

If the price drops to $50 or $40 in six months, what’s the point in having the $60 price cap then? So, it’s somewhat logical to introduce a floating price cap. The next time it will be reviewed is in two months.

Are there any other countries Russia might redirect its supplies to?

The countries that are now introducing the price cap have also already introduced an embargo on Russia’s oil. Therefore, they have already given up on buying Russia’s oil. From now on, Russia will only supply oil to the countries that have not joined the price cap and the embargo, namely, any countries outside G7 and the EU. The supplies will go to India and other Asian countries. Possibly to South America, too.

From what sources will the EU replace Russia’s supplies in 2023 and afterwards?

The Middle East and North Africa. There are no alternatives. It is possible that the US might increase production and exports. But still, the US is a net importer of oil, so it cannot replace Russia. So, the Middle East is a more likely option.

Photo: Benjamin Girette / Bloomberg / Getty Images[https://novayagazeta.eu/static/records/660c5d7cf9a54a2eab4978eb9ac1110c.jpeg]

Russia has said that it would stop selling oil to the countries that had supported the price cap. What is this threat about?

The countries that are introducing the price cap have already introduced the embargo. Therefore, they have already stopped buying Russia’s oil, independently from any Russia’s moves. However, the statements that Alexander Novak [Russia’s Deputy PM] made about Russia stopping supplies of oil to the countries supporting the price cap have played their role anyway. Other countries, such as China, India, and Turkey, did not join the price cap because they feared that otherwise Russia would stop providing them with oil. So, these statements have worked in some respects.

There was news that Russia had purchased[https://novayagazeta.eu/articles/2022/12/06/financial-times-oil-tanker-jam-forms-in-turkey-following-introduction-of-russian-oil-price-cap-en-news] 109 old tankers and now hopes that those would help it transport oil without any price restrictions. Will this “shadow fleet” also be used to bypass the sanctions?

We don’t know exactly how many tankers they purchased, the Financial Times wrote about it, providing an estimate from an insurance broker. So, we don’t know for sure how many tankers Russia has purchased: maybe more or maybe fewer [than 109]. It is clear that companies are forced to buy their own tankers to reduce the risks of facing sanctions and become independent from ship operators that might refuse to transport oil. Perhaps there will now be a certain drop in exports due to the shortage of tankers. But, most likely, Russia’s companies will continue buying old tankers and set up their own fleet; this is what Iran does. Iran has its own tanker fleet which is completely independent from foreign companies in terms of maritime oil transportation.

The last time the EU threatened to introduce a price cap, OPEC+ decided to reduce production by 2 million barrels per day. The cartel held another meeting last weekend, but no countermeasures were implemented. Why?

They decided not to change anything this time. The November production data shows that Saudi Arabia and its allies, such as Kuwait and the UAE, are cutting their production. They reduced production by 700-800 thousand barrels a day altogether in November, which is quite a lot. This was their way to demonstrate that they do not like the price cap mechanism, and that they are willing to help Russia, so to say, by reducing production and making the implementation of the price cap more challenging. On the other hand, another reason they did this is that they want to raise oil prices.

You said in your previous interview that a comfortable oil price for Russia is $90–100 per barrel. How hard will the current price hit Russia’s budget revenues?

Obviously, lower oil prices reduce the budget’s oil and gas revenues. But $90–100 per barrel is a brilliant scenario for Russia, while $60 is still pretty fine. Russia’s oil and gas revenues will drop by approximately 10% next year. On the other hand, the government may compensate for the revenues drop by raising taxes. This is already happening: Russia is boosting its severance taxes. So, the price cap will not have a significant impact on Russia’s oil and gas revenues.

Novaja Gazeta - Europe

文件 NOVZE00020221208eic80002u


News
Hungary drops fuel price cap to ease demand
MARTON DUNAI
533 字
2022 年 12 月 8 日
Financial Times
FTFT
1; Asia
4
英文
Copyright 2022 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.
Panic buying

Hungary has removed its cap on petrol and diesel prices after supply shortages caused panic buying and threatened the country's ability to replenish emergency stocks, the government said. The price caps, introduced by Premier Viktor Orbán 13 months ago as fuel prices climbed across Europe, became untenable after costs to import refined products soared on the back of EU sanctions on Russian oil.

The caps, which set pump prices at about €1.20 a litre, the lowest level in the EU, prevented importers from making a profit. The loss of imports and technical difficulties that halved domestic production at national oil company MOL's refinery near Budapest have left Hungary with about a third of its normal supplies in recent weeks.

The decision to scrap the fuel price cap shows how a deteriorating economic outlook is putting pressure on Orban's populist economic policies.

"I had to find a remote village with a small station ... people were panicked," said Gabor, a driver of a plug-in hybrid vehicle who had returned to Budapest after a trip to eastern Hungary. "I was already calculating routes home using only electric charging stations. This has been crazy."

Gergely Gulyás, Orbán's chief of staff, said EU sanctions on Russia, including the latest oil price cap, after its full-scale invasion of Ukraine had disrupted the market, even though Budapest has an exemption to import Russian crude through the Druzhba pipeline.

"MOL told us it can no longer supply the country without imports," Gulyás said as the government announced the scrapping of its fuel cap late on Tuesday. "So the government heeded its advice and two days after the sanctions kicked in it scrapped the fuel price ceiling."

Budapest will replace the fuel price cap with a windfall tax on oil companies. "From now on, sanction-affected petrol prices are in effect throughout Europe," Orbán said in a Facebook post yesterday. "In Hungary, the resulting extra profit [will be] deducted and directed to the [budget]."

Hungary blamed "Brussels sanctions" on Russia for its economic difficulties.

Disputes over rule-of-law-reforms have led the EU to withhold a combined €13.3bn in post-pandemic recovery funds and cohesion payments.

Market participants have warned that importers, including MOL, will not resume purchases unless they can sell at a profit. MOL chief executive Zsolt Hernádi compared the fuel crisis to the oil shortages of the 1970s, saying the artificially low prices caused people to stockpile and use fuel recklessly, leading to a 45 per cent rise in fuel demand from last year. "The situation became critical," Hernádi said. "Panic started. MOL could no longer cope."

Removing the price caps to allow a resumption of imports was important now, Hernádi said, as Hungary and other EU countries prepare for a ban on the import of Russian refined petroleum products to begin in February. MOL feeds Russian crude to its refineries in Budapest and Bratislava, Slovakia.

MOL is retooling its Bratislava facility to allow it to use lighter Brent-type crudes as feedstock, allowing it to increase exports of non-Russian refined products to Hungary, analysts noted.

The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)

文件 FTFT000020221208eic80003s


Hungary This Week - December 9, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 9 日, 11934 字, (英文)
Hungary’s trade balance posts third-largest deficit in OctoberHungary’s trade deficit widened from €745mn in September to €1bn, the third-highest deficit on record, according to the first reading of the data released by the Central ...

Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - December 9, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 9 日, 14101 字, (英文)
Orban invited to MOL’s board meeting as company opens new HQHungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban was invited to participate in MOL’s board meeting in its new HQ, which was officially opened on December 8. The prime minister was accompanied...

CE Noticias Financieras English
Orbán muddies European politics by freezing funds to Hungary
726 字
2022 年 12 月 11 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The week in Brussels is looking explosive. It is not the first time that the government led by the Hungarian Viktor Orbán threatens to block important European decisions. In recent years, his challenges have been constant and have become the norm in his relations with the European institutions. However, never before have there been so many dossiers on the table at once blocked by Budapest. "It is a kind of blackmail diplomacy that we have never seen before," criticize European diplomatic sources on the veto of the 18 billion macro-financial assistance package for Ukraine, which the EU-27 managed to straighten out in extremis this Saturday although without Budapest's help, the agreement on the 15% minimum corporate tax agreed within the framework of the OECD, the ninth package of sanctions against Russia or the replenishment of the EU Peace Fund with which to continue financing the purchase of armaments from Kiev.

All these issues require unanimous decisions of the EU-27, which are still up in the air because Orbán has decided to link his approval with the Brussels proposal to freeze the structural funds allocated to his country because of the drift of the rule of law. "It is what it is and we have to deal with it," admit the same sources tired of a pulse that could blow up this week. On Thursday, the 27 heads of state and government meet in Brussels for the traditional end-of-year summit, and everyone wants to see the situation resolved before the meeting. Otherwise, everything could end up contaminating a European Council that is already expected to take a long time. "I don't know if Hungary will want to muddy or solve. The rest of the governments want to solve things obviously", other diplomatic sources point out on the mood with which they face the week.

The first sign of Budapest's willingness to remove possible obstacles will be seen this Monday at the meeting of EU foreign ministers with the ninth package of sanctions against Russia, proposed this week by the European Commission, and the decision to replenish the 5.5 billion European Peace Fund, with which they finance the purchase of arms from Ukraine. The uncertainty as to the path to be taken by the Orbán government, isolated and without any ally in this field, is total and the feeling continues to prevail that it is blackmailing the rest of the club and that it is taking European policy hostage to its interests.

Brussels reasserts itself After weeks of talks, Brussels decided at the end of November to propose blocking a third of the cohesion funds (some 7.5 billion euros) allocated to Hungary until it complies with the reforms promised under the conditionality mechanism of the rule of law. In parallel, it proposed freezing the 5.8 billion recovery plan - the only one pending approval - until it implements the promised reforms, including guaranteeing judicial independence. The proposal, which must be adopted by qualified majority, was presented to EU finance and economy ministers (Ecofin) last Tuesday.

The EU-27 decided to postpone the decision and request a new analysis from Brussels on the alleged progress made by Budapest since last November 19 to reassess the possible punishment. The analysis, sent this Friday by the European Commission to the 27 EU ambassadors, reaffirms its initial assessment: "despite the measures taken by Hungary the overall risk to the EU budget remains unchanged" i.e. the proposal to freeze 7.5 billion remains intact.

Deadlines at the limit Time, in any case, is running against Hungary. If the EU-27 do not manage to take a decision before December 19, the dossier will end up in the trash and Hungary without sanction, a possibility that the diplomatic sources consulted rule out because they consider that the conditionality mechanism would be mortally wounded. Another deadline is December 31. By that date Hungary needs to see its recovery plan approved, for which it will receive 5.8 billion, otherwise it will lose 70% of the funds allocated, some 4.6 billion. Something that European sources rule out, although the disbursement of this money is not guaranteed and will also be conditioned to the fulfillment of reforms related to the rule of law.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221211eicb0040h


CE Noticias Financieras English
EU cuts suspended funds to Hungary in exchange for Orban lifting veto on money for Ukraine
1180 字
2022 年 12 月 13 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The European Union will finally suspend 55% of structural funds to Hungary. It is the first time the EU Council has frozen the delivery of money to a member state for violating the rule of law. But the punishment has been less than what the European Commission proposed for Budapest, for not completing on time the list of justice and anti-corruption reforms: it will not be finally 65%, about 7.5 billion euros, but about one billion less, according to European diplomatic sources. The EU-27 reached an agreement on Monday night, as reported by the Czech Republic, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU this semester, after weeks of negotiations and after the ultraconservative government of Viktor Orbán lifted two vetoes on key issues for the EU with which it has been playing as a bargaining chip: the package of 18 billion euros in joint aid for Ukraine and the minimum effective rate of 15% on corporate tax, which had been stranded for almost a year.

It was clear that the issues were linked. That Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, one of Russia's Vladimir Putin's allies in the EU, was subjecting his European partners to blackmail, several EU sources agreed. If they wanted the ultra-conservative Hungarian politician to give the go-ahead for financial aid to Ukraine and allow the European Union to comply with the agreement that had been reached with a hundred or so countries to set a minimum floor on taxes paid by companies, they would have to lift the suspension of structural funds to Budapest that the Commission had proposed and approve the recovery plan, another 5.8 billion.

Orban, in principle, seemed to have the upper hand. The remaining 26 states wanted to send financial assistance to Kiev quickly so that the country, which is resisting the Russian invasion, can continue to meet its current expenditure and indirectly asked the Commission on Tuesday last week, at the meeting of finance ministers - the so-called Ecofin - to be more lenient in its assessment of the measures Hungary had committed to adopt to fight corruption. Ursula Von der Leyen's EU executive refused on Friday. It did not want the first time it had triggered the Conditionality Mechanism against a state for violating the state to end up with a rinse in which the Commission took part.

From here on, things have been turning dark for Budapest. Over the weekend, member states agreed on an alternative route in case they could not get Budapest to lift its veto. The formula, which was designed so that Kiev would get the money with or without Hungary and eliminated that bit of blackmail Viktor Orbán has been agitating for, would have covered the €18 billion with national guarantees and bilateral agreements rather than setting up a joint debt for the Union, which Hungary opposed until today.

However, this common path, which finally went ahead, was the path preferred by the EU Council and the Commission because it would allow the funds to be sent to Ukraine more quickly, EU sources point out. With the national guarantees, the money would only arrive at the end of January. And the situation in Ukraine is very complicated, with sub-zero temperatures and millions of people without access to electricity and heating.

Against this new backdrop, the Member States have been negotiating since Saturday. Time was pressing. The proposal to suspend funds under the Conditionality Mechanism had to be approved or scrapped by December 19. Nor could the European Council of December 15 - the last summit of heads of state and government of the year - be allowed to arrive at the European Council with the four dossiers open. This Monday afternoon, at around 4 p.m., the light began to be seen, diplomatic sources pointed out. Finally, four hours later, a meeting of ambassadors began, which ended after 10.30 p.m. with white smoke.

Hungary could not hold its nerve much longer either. Ukraine is obviously in urgent need of money to cope with the war launched by Russia. But neither can the Orban government afford to do without a single euro of European money: its fiscal deficit this year is huge; the Hungarian currency has plummeted; inflation is above 20%; and borrowing on the market has become a nightmare for the Hungarian Treasury, which has reached a risk premium (the difference in yield between German and Hungarian 10-year bonds) of 800 basis points. In short: the fractious EU partner was playing with fire if it maintained this attitude, because without European money the fiscal storm is just around the corner.

Moreover, Orban can't say that the move is going well for him either. Although the Council has lowered the suspended money somewhat. The sanction is still high: it goes from 65% of structural funds to 55% (about 6.3 billion). And if it wants to access these resources as well as those of the recovery plan, it will have to reverse a large part of its policies of dismantling the rule of law that its ultra government has followed.

In the case of Ukraine, the agreement reached tonight does not solve all its problems. Kiev needs some 38 billion a year to cover its financial needs and essential state functions, according to the International Monetary Fund. The European money will have conditions that Kiev must complete: from issues related to governance, the fight against corruption or the rule of law. This is something that has already happened with previous packages, which have been arriving in dribs and drabs and not always on the promised schedule.

The EU continues to increase aid to Ukraine to help it cope with the Russian invasion. This Monday, the foreign ministers of the EU-27 have approved to increase by another 2 billion euros the Union's main defense fund, the European Peace Fund, from which they are drawing hundreds of millions to help Kiev with armaments. At the same time, the Union is maneuvering to increase pressure on the Kremlin and add dozens of new names of Russian individuals and entities to the sanctioned list while negotiating a new package of sanctions on technological components and new mining projects in which some countries are pushing to explicitly include that sanctions cannot impact fertilizers and foodstuffs.

The new €2 billion for the European Peace Fund (EPF) is in addition to the current €5 billion with which the extra-budgetary fund covers member states' arms donations provided to Ukraine. Of this EUR 5 billion, almost half has already been committed. The new disbursement from the fund, which could increase again by another 3.5 billion by 2027 and add other projects, comes as some member states have shown some concern about how and when they will be paid what they have already donated in arms to Kiev.

Follow all the international information on Facebook and Twitter, or in our weekly newsletter.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221213eicd002li


Blogs
MOSCOW BLOG: Are sanctions failing?
Ben Aris in Berlin
1302 字
2022 年 12 月 13 日 11:50 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
The EU has done a deal with bad-boy Hungary that gets Budapest’s agreement on a global minimum tax and the €18bn Ukraine macro-aid package. In return Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban had the frozen EU funds he wanted released.

Hungary was accused of using a “blackmail veto” but really this is just normal politics, isn’t it? You want something that someone else has so you use your leverage to get your way. Although the atmosphere is very charged by the war, this is just business as usual in the EU. It’s not great, but it’s what makes the EU so powerful – the fact that all these countries can work together, even if that process is ugly and messy.

The same thing is going on with the talks over the ninth sanctions package. Russian President Vladimir Putin’s advantage in the war is he can order something, and it will happen – well, in theory. In practice lots of things that are supposed to happen don’t.

But typically for the EU, the negotiations over what will go into the ninth package have got bogged down in disagreements and entangled in agendas. I’m not quite sure what the sticking point is, and the details of what is in the draft that have been revealed make this the most meaningless package to date. There is a new list of 144 nobodies (some media stars and a cousin of Chechen strongman Ramzan Kadyrov), a couple of relatively unimportant banks and some vague talk about dual-use tech.

Will there be a tenth package after this one is agreed? Yes, almost certainly, as these packages are increasingly driven by the “need to do something”. But the nature of the sanctions have changed from the sledgehammer blow of the first package in March to a death by a thousand papercuts that is the ninth package. There are still a lot of extremely damaging measures that could be introduced, but we have reached a point where any new sanctions do more economic damage to the EU than they do to Russia. It’s OK to let Ukrainians spend Christmas day in dark freezing-cold apartments, but to do that to Germans is unconscionable. (And this issue is very likely to come up again next winter – but worse, according to the International Energy Agency (IEA).)

Clearly what’s stymieing the ninth package talks is what is not in the draft but should be. Bringing the oil price cap down from $60 to $30 must be a major topic as a dozen countries have clubbed together, led by Poland, to insist on the lower cap. Another huge item is that the EU is starting to think about putting sanctions on Russia’s metallurgical businesses. So far, after the debacle that followed an attempt to sanction oligarch Oleg Deripaska’s RusAl in 2018, everyone has left the metal sector well alone when it comes to drawing up sanctions. That is supposed to change next year.

The problem so far has been that lots of EU members are not prepared to wreck their economies for Ukraine’s sake. The obvious one is Greece which objected to the ban on shipping Russian coal in the fifth package because it does so much of it, and got an exemption that allowed it to ship Russian coal to non-EU destinations; Russian coal exports hit a record high last month and at a time when the price of coal this year is 165% higher than last year. Or Spain that rejected European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen’s idea of a mandatory and Brussels-directed 15% reduction of gas usage. The compromise there was very ugly as the reduction became voluntary and 17 countries from the 28 member states got carve-outs and exemptions; Spain, which gets its gas from Africa, has since increased its gas use y/y.

We write a lot about the shortcomings of the sanctions and how many loopholes they contain and also about how successful Putin’s Fiscal Fortress[https://www.intellinews.com/moscow-blog-strategy-vs-tactics-putin-s-fiscal-fortress-is-ready-208909/] has been in deflecting the worst pain. I was just accused of being a nihilist and downplaying the West’s resolve to help Ukraine or all the successes Ukraine has had. But I think that people are framing the question wrong.

We have to face a few hard truths. Ukraine is not winning this war and it can’t. Of course, it has had many stunning successes and has done far better than anyone dreamed was possible, but it simply doesn’t have the industrial production capacity to beat Russia. And the West is totally allergic to giving it the kind of weapons needed to win as Nato is terrified of starting WWIII – Nato Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said this at the outset: the number one goal of Nato is to not start WWIII, not ensure Ukraine’s victory. In my book that makes peace talks with Russia still holding large swaths of Ukrainian territory inevitable.

The issue is not victory/defeat but simply timing. The sanctions already in place make Russia’s stagnation inevitable too. It has in effect been relegated back to an Emerging Market – it was classified by the UNDP as a “high income country” but has more recently been downgraded back to “middle income” – but unlike other EMs it now has no possibility making the transition to become a first world country, thanks to the financial and technology bans.

Russia's economic potential has been destroyed by the sanctions.

But that doesn’t help Ukraine win the war. Putin has already put Russia’s economy on a war footing[https://www.intellinews.com/kremlin-preparing-for-a-protracted-conflict-by-putting-russian-economy-onto-a-war-footing-258060/?source=bne-credit], while the West is only just starting to do that. Russian missiles made in August have started appearing on the battlefield, but the Western production of new arms and ammo are only expected to arrive next summer.

The debate going on now is about crushing sanctions that will collapse the Russian economy immediately, not in five year’s time; that is what Poland and the Balts are pushing for. But the rest of the EU realise that those kinds of sanctions would also crush their own economies, so they are resisting. Bottom line in my opinion is that the EU doesn’t have the stomach to take any serious damage for Ukraine’s sake. The Commission just had a report that assessed the damage to itself thanks to the war as fairly mild and costing a modest €550bn in relief, which given the size of the EU economy is pretty modest.

This is currently a proxy war with Russia, but the point of proxy wars is you are supposed to let someone else do the fighting, so you don’t have to, so that your life stays normal.

Without the crushing sanctions Putin can easily keep the war going for at least a couple more years. In other words, he has time to completely destroy the Ukrainian economy long before the existing sanctions cause him any really unsolvable problems at home. At some point this calculus will come to the fore and a serious effort at peace talks will start. I think more and more politicians – Putin included – can already see this coming, hence all the talk of talks that has come up in the last month. It is preparing the ground for a more serious attempt at freezing the conflict later. Obviously with Kherson’s liberation still clear in the rear-view mirror those talks can’t start now, but after a long dark miserable winter with no more major military gains?

This article originally appeared in Editor’s Picks, a free daily email digest of bne IntelliNews’ best stories from the last 24 hours. Sign up for free here[https://to989.infusionsoft.com/app/form/editors-picks-subscribers].

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020221213eicd00209


CE Noticias Financieras English
EU unblocks 15% minimum tax on multinationals
770 字
2022 年 12 月 14 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
A European minimum tax on multinationals is getting closer: after months of tug-of-war, the EU-27 have finally reached an agreement. The key is Hungary's change of position, which has lifted its veto and unblocked the situation in the EU Council. In return, it will get a softer punishment for violating the rule of law. This political consensus will now have to be formally adopted through the written procedure, but the most difficult hurdle, achieving the unanimity required for fiscal matters, has been overcome. Member states will have to implement the new rules by December 31, 2023.

"The [European] Commission welcomes the unanimous agreement announced last night by the Czech presidency of the EU Council on the Commission's proposal for a directive guaranteeing a minimum effective tax rate [of 15%] for large multinational groups," the EU executive says in a note published Monday after the Council meeting, where the minimum rate was not the only concession from Budapest. The ultra-conservative government of Viktor Orbán has also accepted the 18 billion aid package for Ukraine, which it opposed because of its closeness to Russia.

With the agreement on the new tax, Brussels will transpose the pact reached last year between nearly 140 countries within the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The initiative includes a common set of rules for calculating the 15% floor, which will affect companies with a turnover of more than €750 million a year. "They will apply to any large group, both domestic and international, with a parent company or subsidiary located in an EU Member State," details the Commission's statement.

In practice, if a company's subsidiary pays less than 15% in corporate income tax in one of the foreign countries where it operates, the state where the parent company is based will be able to apply a "top-up" tax to reach the 15% threshold. The European directive also provides for ensuring effective collection when the parent company is outside the EU, in a low-tax country that does not apply equivalent rules.

BlockingThe OECD-driven agreement - for which it worked for years - won the yes of nearly 140 jurisdictions last year, with the aim of changing international tax rules that have become obsolete with globalization and the rise of digital business. Several EU members, including Spain, France and Italy, have been fervent promoters of this initiative, which could bring up to an additional 83 billion to the EU bloc and partly serve to amortize the recovery fund. But others have opposed it head-on in recent months, with the ultra-conservative governments of Poland and Hungary leading the way.

Warsaw opposed the rule and blocked Ecofin, the body that brings together European finance ministers, last spring, when France was chairing the EU Council and most member states had closed ranks around the new tax. He argued that the application of the minimum rate was not accompanied by the second star initiative that is part of the OECD agreement - and whose technical details are yet to be finalized: that multinationals pay a share of taxes in the territories where they operate and generate profit even if they do not have a physical presence. Brussels offered in return a commitment to push for faster progress in the international negotiations. A few months later it was Hungary that vetoed the approval of the minimum rate, using as an excuse the same arguments as Poland, in addition to the war in Ukraine and its negative impact on the economy.

Orbán's turnaround that has allowed the project to be unblocked is not the result of a sudden change of heart. It has been the bargaining chip for the sanction to Budapest for not completing on time the list of justice and anti-corruption reforms to be less severe than initially proposed: the EU Council has decided to freeze 55% of the structural funds to Hungary instead of 65%. Even so, this is a historic decision: it is the first time that the EU has suspended transfers to one of its partners for violating the rule of law.

Paolo Gentiloni, EU Commissioner for Economic Affairs, commented that the agreement on the 15% minimum rate is "a victory for fairness, diplomacy and multilateralism. The European Commission never gave up on this agreement and I am proud to see it become a reality (...). We must now concentrate our efforts on finalizing discussions on the other pillar of the global agreement, which focuses on taxing the largest multinational groups, and incorporating it into EU law".

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020221214eice00649


Hungary’s Jobbik party leader notes security threat in cooperation with Rosatom, calling for sanctions on latter
Ievgen Matiushenko
424 字
2022 年 12 月 16 日 11:28 GMT
News from Ukraine
UKRANO
英文
© 2022 Ukrinform. All rights reserved.
Cooperation with the Russian Concern Rosatom poses a serious threat to Hungary’s security and is unacceptable from a moral standpoint. There should be EU sanctions against Rosatom, while cooperation between Hungary and Rosatom in the framework of the construction of the power unit for the Paks nuclear power plant should be stopped.

This was stated in a commentary to Guildhall [https://ghall.com.ua/2022/12/14/lider-jobbika-zayavil-ob-ugroze-bezopasnosti-iz-za-sotrudnichestva-s-rosatomom-i-prizyvaet-vvesti-sanktsii/]by Member of the European Parliament from Hungary, president of the right-wing radical party Jobbik, Márton Gyöngyösi.

“It is necessary (to impose sanctions against Rosatom and freeze the company’s projects in the EU - ed.), since Rosatom is part of the Russian defense industry, a sector that the EU seeks to sanction,” the politician said, according to a report posted in Russian.

“Since you mentioned the Paks NPP deal in Hungary, let me clarify my position on this issue as a Hungarian MEP. Planning for the expansion of the Paks NPP (Hungary's only nuclear power plant - ed.) began about 10 years ago. For historical reasons, the current power unit of the plant was built by Russian engineers, with technical assistance from Russia, in socialist times. In those days, we were still long before the war – it seemed a logical decision to enlarge the plant with the same Russian equipment. However, even back then, I criticized the Hungarian government for the serious non-transparency in the contract with Rosatom,” he said.

“Now, ten years on, Russia is waging war against Ukraine and openly threatening the European Union. Therefore, the EU decided to impose sanctions on Russia and its military industry. In this regard, I see no possibility of further cooperation between Hungary and Rosatom for two main reasons. The first is a matter of politics and defense: cooperation with such a company poses a serious security threat and is unacceptable from a moral standpoint. The second point is technical: Rosatom cannot guarantee the implementation of the project without Western partners,” summed up the MEP.

Earlier, the Ukrainian Center for Defense Reforms published a study showing that, in addition to participating in civilian nuclear energy projects, the Russian concern Rosatom is an important component of the Russian military-industrial complex, including due to being engaged in the production and operation of nuclear weapons.

Earlier, in the Bundestag, a deputy from the Union 90/Greens party, head of the European Committee of the German Parliament, Anton Hofreiter, called for raising the issue of sanctions against Rosatom.

The National News Agency of Ukraine "Ukrinform"

文件 UKRANO0020221216eicg001rx


Egypt and MENA This Week - December 16, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 16 日, 11390 字, (英文)
Hungary signs deal paving way for Qatari gas purchasesHungary has signed a political agreement clearing the way for the start of talks between energy group MVM and QatarEnergy on the purchase of Qatari gas, Minister of Foreign Affairs and ...

Hungary This Week - December 16, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 16 日, 21687 字, (英文)
Hungary’s economy minister expects inflation to peak at 27% next yearInflation in Hungary will peak at 27% next year, Economy Minister Marton Nagy forecast at a conference on December 15. This is the highest estimate by a government ...

Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - December 16, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 16 日, 6264 字, (英文)
Hungary signs deal paving way for Qatari gas purchasesHungary has signed a political agreement clearing the way for the start of talks between energy group MVM and QatarEnergy on the purchase of Qatari gas, Minister of Foreign Affairs and ...

Middle East Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - December 16, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 16 日, 7765 字, (英文)
Hungary signs deal paving way for Qatari gas purchasesHungary has signed a political agreement clearing the way for the start of talks between energy group MVM and QatarEnergy on the purchase of Qatari gas, Minister of Foreign Affairs and ...

Hungary This Week - December 23, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 23 日, 3986 字, (英文)
THE MITTELEUROPEAN VIEW: Western banks go back to square one in CEEThe key messages of this year's Raiffeisen Research CEE Banking Sector Report at the industry level are as follows: Geopolitically, the leading CEE banks in Eastern Europe ...

News
Orban's anti-sanctions referendum flops
Tamas Csonka in Budapest
635 字
2023 年 1 月 17 日 17:22 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Despite a massive media campaign costing at least €12mn, less than 1.4mn Hungarians, or 17% of eligible voters, filled out the government’s latest national consultation survey gauging people’s view of the EU’s sanction policy against Russia. This is the lowest number since the radical rightwing Fidesz government first began using referenda as political-communication campaign tools to dominate public discourse in 2005.

More than 97% of respondents said they are against EU sanctions on Russia, according to the final results. The number of respondents in the survey is less than 50% of the votes for the ruling party in the 2022 parliamentary election and is around two-thirds of the party's estimated 2mn large loyalist base.

Some 97% rejected the European Union's "detrimental" sanctions against Russia, government spokeswoman Alexandra Szentkiralyi commented, adding that sanctions have failed to stop the war and have caused "extreme economic difficulties" to Europe.

The government rolled out the national consultation survey in October, asking people’s views on sanctions against Russian oil, gas and nuclear energy and tourism among other sectors.

The questionnaire was previously described as misleading due to labelling of the bloc’s punitive measures as "Brussels sanctions" or imposed by "Brussels leaders" while omitting the fact that all punitive measures against Russia had been approved by Prime Minister Viktor Orban. Hungary also received an exemption from EU sanctions on Russian pipeline crude oil delivery or nuclear energy cooperation.

The government has ramped up its anti-Brussels rhetoric as the cost of living crisis deepened. Retail energy prices (over average consumption levels) soared after the overhaul of the retail energy subsidy scheme in the summer, and Hungarian food inflation is the 10th highest globally.

Facing the potential dissent from breaking key election promises after a fourth landslide election victory, Orban has again resorted to his old tactic of shifting blame for Hungary’s economic woes, using external forces as scapegoats.

The government introduced fiscal adjustments to plug the gaping hole in the budget. It abandoned its energy subsidy scheme in place since 2014, put off state investments and slapped windfall taxes on energy, banking, retail and pharma firms.

Hungary's strongman can take solace from the overwhelming majority, but the results will add little to shore up its "bargaining position" in the European Council in arguments against the sanctions.

The European Commission's reaction was that sanctions in the EU are made by member states in unanimity and Budapest needs to convince the other 26 members.

European Commission spokesperson Peter Stano noted the "very low participation of the consulted citizens".

The Orban government has regularly cited massive public support to back up its policies in earlier referendums, such as the one related to the EU's migrant relocation plan in 2016 (3.26mn in support), or the child protection referendum (3.61mn) held on the same day as the election last year.

Independent media put the cost of the national consultation, including printing, postal services and advertising at around HUF7bn (€17.5mn), excluding Facebook and other online social media spending. Some half of the money went for the billboard posters designed by New Land Media and Lounge Design, two companies owned by Gyula Balasy, dubbed by local media as the Lorinc Meszaros of Hungary’s PR and communication sector.

Hungary’s streets were flooded with billboards reading 'Brussels sanctions are destroying us,' depicting EU sanctions as a bomb. The European Commission denounced the poster campaign as "inappropriate".

The opposition has also filed a complaint against the government for scaremongering and threats of public endangerment for the use of the sanctions bomb depiction, but their requests were turned down by authorities. Hungary’s Advertising Association also declined to launch an ethics probe.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230117ej1h0035y


Russia: Von der Leyen announces new sanction package
210 字
2023 年 1 月 17 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2023. CEEMarketWatch
New package to focus on improvements of previous measures

According to media, hawks want to sanction Rosatom in new package

Hungary most likely to try to block this decision, due to its contracts with Rosatom

The European Union is committed to passing the tenth sanction package against Russia, CNN reported today citing Ursula von der Leyen. The sanction package would target loopholes in the previous legislation and introduce more severe punishment for circumvention of sanctions, von der Leyen added. We could conclude, that the package is likely on the initial stage of discussion, given the fact no new restrictions were announced and no dates of its readiness provided. On Jan 13 Reuters also reported that the EU begin working on the new sanction package, claiming that European hawks - Lithuania and Poland - wish to introduce restrictions against Russian nuclear giant Rosatom and cut several more banks off from SWIFT. The sanctions against Rosatom would look logical, given the corporation hijacked the Zaporizhzhya Nuclear Power Plant from its Ukrainian counterpart, however, such measures would likely be blocked by Hungary and not because Hungary tries to block practically every new sanction, but due to its contracts with Rosatom, which planned to build several new NPPs in the country.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020230118ej1h0001e


Hungary This Week - January 20, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 1 月 20 日, 14254 字, (英文)
Hungarian government submits budget amendments to parliamentThe government submitted amendments to the 2023 budget act to parliament on January 19, a month after the major overhaul of the legislation a month earlier in a decree.

Hungary threatens to veto EU sanctions on Russian nuclear energy in latest blow to West
Alessandra Scotto di Santolo
755 字
2023 年 1 月 27 日 13:01 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2023
Viktor Orban is once again pledging to veto EU plans to further sanction Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.

Western countries that are providing weapons and money to assist Ukraine in its war with Russia have already “drifted” into becoming active participants in the conflict, Hungary's prime minister has warned. In an interview with Hungarian state radio, Viktor Orban threatened to veto any EU sanctions that would affect its access to Russian energy.

Related articles

Orban, who has refused to send weapons to neighbouring Ukraine and has held up some European Union efforts to provide aid packages to Kyiv, has consistently argued against EU sanctions on Moscow and portrayed countries that assist Ukraine as being “on the side of war.”

His right-wing populist government has pursued increasingly close economic and diplomatic ties with Russia over the last decade and concluded major agreements on purchasing Russian gas, oil, and nuclear fuel.

He also said that Germany's Wednesday decision to send 14 Leopard 2 A6 tanks to Ukraine was emblematic of the increasing role Western countries are playing in the war, now in its 12th month.

Mr Orban said Hungary getting drawn into the war in Ukraine “is out of the question as long as I am prime minister” but he thinks it is too late for other countries in Europe.

He said: “The others are not only in danger, they have already been swept away.

"If you send weapons, if you finance the entire annual budget of one of the belligerents, if you promise more and more weapons, more and more modern weapons, then you can say whatever you want. No matter what you say, you are in the war.”

It comes as Russia fired more missiles and self-exploding drones at nearly a dozen Ukrainian provinces early Thursday, causing the first war-related death in Kyiv this year and killing at least 11 people overall, according to Ukrainian authorities.

The attacks adhered to Russia's recent pattern of striking power plants and other critical infrastructure about every two weeks. However, the latest onslaught came after Germany and the United States upped the ante in Russia's 11-month war by promising Wednesday to send high-tech battle tanks to Ukraine and green-lighting other allies to do the same.

READ MORE:

France could yield to Ukraine's demands for fighter jets

The spokesperson for Ukraine’s State Emergency Service, Oleksandr Khorunzhyi, said that in addition to the dead, at least 11 people were wounded.

Kyiv Mayor Vitali Klitschko said one person was killed during the attacks, the city’s first such death since New Year’s Eve. Two others were injured, he said. The head of the Kyiv city administration, Serhii Popko, said Ukrainian air defences shot down 15 cruise missiles heading to the area.

The regional prosecutor’s office in Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia province said three people were killed and seven injured in a strike on an energy facility. Valerii Zaluzhnyi, the commander of Ukraine's armed forces, said Thursday's volley involved a total of 55 missiles, of which 47 were intercepted.

DON'T MISS:

Canada follows Biden's lead and pledges tanks to Kyiv

[LIVE BLOG]

Putin 'ordered' downing of Flight MH17 after telling Xi 'leave to me'

[INSIGHT]

Four arrested after student, 19, 'raped then dumped and run over'

[VIDEO]

Related articles

Self-exploding drones swept in overnight before the missile strikes. As air raid sirens echoed across the country, civilians, some tugging pet dogs on leashes, poured into subway stations, underground parking lots, and basements to seek shelter.

It was the first such barrage of Russian firepower across the country since Jan. 14.

Russia has carried out massive strikes on Ukrainian energy facilities since early October, part of a strategy to try to hamper Ukrainian forces and to keep civilians in the cold and dark this winter before what many experts predict could be a springtime offensive as more conscripts reach the battlefields.

Ukrainian Energy Minister Herman Halushchenko acknowledged that some sites were hit, resulting in emergency power outages.

Related articles Child's body found in search for missing Athena Brownfield, 4 POLL – Do you think Rishi Sunak is a ‘weak’ Prime Minister Liz Truss gearing up to break months of silence ahead of Hunt's Budget Brexiteer fumes at feared EU takeover of Gibraltar 'Anyone awake?' Real reason Sunak's not sacking Zahawi and co despite Boris-backers

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020230127ej1r006he


Rishi Sunak said he would "love" to give nurses larger pay rises but warned...
6051 字
2023 年 1 月 30 日 23:14 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2023, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
Rishi Sunak said he would "love" to give nurses larger pay rises but warned against stoking a "vicious cycle" of inflation that he said would make everyone poorer.

Asked "when are you actually going to pay nurses properly", the Prime Minister told health workers in County Durham: "I would love, nothing would give me more pleasure than, to wave a magic wand and have all of you paid lots more."

But he added: "An important part of us getting a grip of inflation and halving it is making sure the Government's responsible with its borrowing, because if that gets out of control that makes it worse and it's about making pay settlements reasonable and fair.

"When we've had periods of high inflation, what happened in the past is everyone said 'OK inflation was at 15% we should all get paid 15%' and then you have a kind of vicious cycle which you never recover from.

"It would be the wrong thing to do. Of course it would make my life easier to say 'yep, sure, great, let's just go ahead'.

"It would be a bad thing for all of you if that meant inflation was running really high in a year's time."

He said he could not raise taxes to pay for pay hikes, arguing: "Where we are with taxes at the moment we can't put them up any more right, and we need to be getting them down."

Downing Street has urged unions to "step back" and prevent a fresh wave of strike action.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "We still believe there is time for unions to step back and to call on their members not to strike and avoid the sort of disruption we are expecting to see this week, particularly on Wednesday.

"We think the continuing discussions are the right approach and we'd like to see them continue."

The official said that any pay increases for public sector workers would have to come from "taxation or borrowing".

Joint general secretary of the National Education Union (NEU) Kevin Courtney is not expecting an offer to come out of talks between teaching unions and the Government ahead of the first planned teachers' strike on Wednesday.

Speaking to reporters outside the Department for Education (DfE) before the meeting, fellow NEU general secretary Dr Mary Bousted said they were hoping that Education Secretary Gillian Keegan would "finally" come to the table with an increased pay offer for the union to recommend to their members to avoid strike action.

Mr Courtney said: "Today's the last possible day that we could avoid the strike on Wednesday, even today will be very difficult. So, we go in hoping that there will be an offer, but frankly we don't expect that there is going to be one."

Asked what they were expecting, he said: "We are expecting that she will express sympathy and she'll say she knows teachers have it really hard, she knows there are big problems with workload, but they aren't going to do anything about it.

"Last Thursday they told us that they weren't submitting their evidence to the teacher review body.

"The deadline was Friday, everyone else met the deadline or could meet the deadline, and the DfE didn't put their evidence in, and we think that's because the civil servants who wrote it will have written in it (that) there are huge problems with teacher recruitment and retention, and they don't want to admit that in public before the strike on February 1.

"It feels, to us, not serious on their part."

Joint NEU general secretary Kevin Courtney said special needs support assistants are leaving their jobs in schools to work in supermarkets..

He told reporters outside the Department for Education: "Our members are really concerned that special needs support assistants are leaving jobs in schools to work in supermarkets, so children with special needs are losing that support.

"We can't recruit specialist teachers for many subjects and ... we can't hold onto permanent teachers."

He added that children are "suffering".

Mr Courtney also said that education ministers have had their "head in the sand".

"They really thought that it was impossible for any of the education unions to meet those huge strike thresholds and so they weren't really engaging.

"They've only started talking to us at all since the threat of strike became real and then I think they're really surprised by us not only passing the threshold but ... recruiting 38,000 more members since we announced the strike ballot result."

Joint NEU general secretary Kevin Courtney said it "looks like" the first teachers' strike will go ahead on Wednesday.

Speaking outside the Department for Education (DfE), he said: "It looks like we will have to have the strike on February 1, but the next strike in England is not until February 28.

"There's time for them to talk. There's time for them to bring proposals. They need to move because of the state of education, just like they need to move on nurses' pay because of the state of the NHS.

"You just can't have a functioning health service and a functioning school system if you're not prepared to invest in it and invest in the people who work in it."

Fellow NEU general secretary Dr Mary Bousted said "unfortunately" the strike on Wednesday will go ahead if "no serious offer" is made during talks with the Government on Monday.

She said: "If no serious offer is made, if the prospect of serious negotiations, not just one hour a week with the secretary of state, aren't made available, then what can we offer our members to stop them going on strike?

"They are not doing this easily, they don't go on strike at the drop of a hat. It's taken many of them to think very hard and long about doing this."

She added the fact that the DfE delayed giving their evidence to the teacher review body could mean the offer they are prepared to make for next year is "so derisory" that they do not want to print or publish it before the strike.

A school leaders' union boss has called a meeting with Education Secretary Gillian Keegan on Monday amid a dispute over pay "unproductive".

Ms Keegan met the general secretaries of unions representing teachers and school leaders in a bid to avert strikes by the National Education Union (NEU) due to take place on Wednesday.

Following the meeting, Paul Whiteman, general secretary of school leaders' union NAHT, said: "It was good of the Secretary of State to make time to meet with us today. However, the meeting was unproductive.

"This was unsurprising as the Secretary of State was unable to make any offer on the eve of industrial action.

"That being said, there is an agreement that further talks will take place and we continue to hope a resolution can be found."

The Education Secretary has "squandered an opportunity" to avert strike action on Wednesday, union leaders have said.

Teachers in England and Wales who are members of the National Education Union (NEU) are due to begin seven days of walkouts this week.

Following last-ditch talks with Gillian Keegan on Monday afternoon, Mary Bousted and Kevin Courtney, joint general secretaries of the NEU, said: "Gillian Keegan has squandered an opportunity to avoid strike action on Wednesday.

"The Government has been unwilling to seriously engage with the causes of strike action.

"Real-terms pay cuts and cuts in pay relativities are leading to a recruitment and retention crisis with which the Education Secretary so far seems incapable of getting a grip.

"Training targets are routinely missed, year on year. This is having consequences for learning, with disruption every day to children's education."

A headteachers' union boss has described the talks with Education Secretary Gillian Keegan as "deeply disappointing".

Following the meeting with Ms Keegan, Geoff Barton, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders (ASCL), said: "Parents will have been looking for the Government to avert the planned strike on Wednesday.

"Instead, the Government continues to talk around the issues rather than putting anything on the table which allows for any meaningful negotiation.

"It is deeply disappointing."

Mr Barton added: "We are sorry to report that there is therefore no resolution to the dispute and the strike is set to go ahead."

Joint NEU general secretary Kevin Courtney confirmed the teachers' strike will be going ahead as planned on Wednesday.

He spoke to PA News Agency outside the Department for Education following a meeting with Education Secretary Gillian Keegan that lasted more than an hour.

He said: "I regret to say that we didn't hear anything that enables us to say that the strike shouldn't go ahead on Wednesday.

"There's no offer from the Secretary of State trying to bridge the gap between us."

Joint NEU general secretary Kevin Courtney said talks with the Department for Education (DfE) on Monday revealed a "hint" that the Government might come back with "something that was more like an offer" for teachers to avoid further strikes after Wednesday.

Speaking to the PA News Agency outside DfE after the meeting, he said: "There certainly is time between February 1 and February 28 to find something that will enable us to call off the strikes on February 28 and later dates in March.

"The question on whether they are prepared to move on it is something that we're going to have to test out in practice.

"There was just a hint at the end of the discussions today that they might come back with something that was more like an offer ... and so we're hoping for further meetings, and we're hoping for serious engagement because the issues we're raising with them are very pertinent and very real.

"We're talking about the decline in teachers' pay compared with prices, which is true for everyone. We're also talking about the fact that teacher pay has declined in relative terms. We think that's really impacting on teacher recruitment and teacher retention, and thereby damaging children's education."

He also said the walkouts on Wednesday are about "trying to reduce disruption in education".

"Every day, children are missing out because special needs support assistants are taking jobs in supermarkets because they get better paid, every day there are children studying a GCSE subject without a teacher qualified in that subject, every day there are children who instead of having a permanent teacher are having a succession of very good but temporary teachers, and it's not the same, it's disruption every day," Mr Courtney said.

Joint NEU general secretary Kevin Courtney said teachers in England have a more "excessive workload" compared to teachers in other countries.

Speaking to PA News Agency outside the Department for Education after a meeting with its secretary Gillian Keegan, he said: "Teachers here work about the same amount of time in classrooms with children, but they do far more work outside the classroom.

"Teaching's always been long hours but long hours preparing exciting lessons for your class is not the same as what we have now, which is unfeasible hours preparing evidence for a bureaucratic system that doesn't trust you.

"Our members report that that's how they feel, that lots of the work they've been asked to do isn't about teaching better lessons or engaging the children it's about ... the system as a whole not trusting them."

He said the workload affects teacher retention.

Mr Courtney added that though the dispute is primarily about "pay and funding", and not workload, he would be "very happy" to "point" the Government to actions it could take to ease teachers' workload in this country.

Downing Street has said a decision by teaching unions to go ahead with strike action in England and Wales on Wednesday is "deeply disappointing".

The Prime Minister's official spokesman urged the unions to keep head teachers informed of their plans so they can prepare accordingly.

"Children were some of the hardest hit during the pandemic when schools needed to be closed," the spokesman said.

"To have the ability to get into classrooms taken away from them again is particularly difficult. Obviously it has a knock-on impact on parents who will have to scramble to get childcare. So, it is very disappointing.

"We do hope the unions will take the last few days (before the strike) to keep head teachers informed of their intentions so we can properly prepare and make sure children are safe and looked after in their classrooms."

Downing Street has urged the Fire Brigades Union to return to the negotiating table after members voted overwhelmingly for strike action in a dispute over pay.

"I think strike action would be disappointing and concerning for the public," the Prime Minister's official spokesman said.

"We will continue to work with that union to see what we can do to mitigate against the possible risks that that poses - and in the first instance call on them to reconsider and keep negotiating."

Joint NEU general secretary Kevin Courtney said the Government is putting up a "united front" to ensure that "nobody gets a pay rise anywhere".

Asked if he felt that Education Secretary Gillian Keegan was on the side of unions during talks at the Department for Education on Monday, he told reporters: "At the moment it feels like they are trying to maintain a united front that nobody gets a pay rise anywhere so ... I wouldn't say that I thought that she was out there batting for teachers in government at the moment, and I think she should be because she is the lead minister for education."

Mr Courtney went on to say that striking teachers have support from parents.

"We think that we do have parental support, we think there's a majority of parents who are supporting us and the strike.

"We think then there's another section of parents who don't necessarily support the strike but they do support the demand ... that the Government should invest in our children's education.

"If I was the Government I would be worried about the degree of support that there is amongst the general population for the demand that they invest in education and in the health service, as well as in our other public services."

He denied having any discussions in the meeting about offering minimum service levels during strikes, adding: "It would be good to have a minimum service level on non-strike days, it would be good for children with special needs to have a special needs support assistant that is there with them, it would be good for a GCSE chemistry class to have a chemistry teacher, it would be good for children to have a permanent member of staff with them."

The Government is taking "reasonable, proportionate and balanced steps" with the Strikes (Minimum Service Levels) Bill, MPs have heard.

Opening the committee stage of the Bill, business minister Kevin Hollinrake said: "Negotiations indeed continue, of course, and there needs to be fair negotiations, fair to workers but also fair to the taxpayer.

"I do reject the characterisation about this Bill by the Opposition who clearly put the relationship with their unions over the interests of this country. This is not a radical Bill. What we are doing isn't even new. We are taking reasonable, proportionate and balanced steps, aligning ourselves with many of our European partners like France and Spain.

"We clearly want to resolve these disputes but we have to do this in an affordable way. An inflation-matching pay increase of 11% for all public sector workers would cost £28 billion, that's just under £1,000 on to the bills of each of the households in all our constituencies.

"And I say, that's on top of the Opposition's spending plans, which have already added £50 billion annually of recurrent costs on to our economy and that's on top of a situation, we are already running a £175 billion deficit.

"What we have seen over recent months is you cannot take the markets for granted. That level of borrowing is absolutely unsustainable."

It will be left to the House of Lords to scrutinise the Strikes (Minimum Service Levels) Bill and "that should be a major concern to all of us", Labour has said.

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner told the Commons: "We are in an absurd situation: we are back today to debate the Conservative sacking nurses bill, and not just nurses, but millions of other key workers too.

"This Bill is controversial and decisive (sic), it is irrational as it is impractical and strongly condemned by all Opposition parties.

"Some 110 amendments and new clauses have been selected today, including over 35 from the Labour frontbench - given that we have had just a few days to draft and submit them, that's quite some feat.

"However, we will only have five hours to debate over 100 amendments with no reasonable timetable. But there would have been more had we had that. We have had no line-by-line scrutiny of the Bill, not able to hear any evidence.

"The Government has simply prevented this House from doing our job. It will be left to the other place (House of Lords) to scrutinise this legislation properly, and that should be a major concern to all of us."

Henry VIII would spin in his grave and be "astonished" by what the Government is trying to do with the Strikes (Minimum Service Levels) Bill, Angela Rayner has said.

Intervening during her speech, Labour former minister Barry Gardiner asked her in the Commons: "Does she understand that the Government is actually authorising employers to do what not even a court in this country can do?

"Under the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act, no court can compel an employee to do any work or attend to any place for the doing of any work, but having notified the union of the identity of the workers to be requisitioned, this Bill requires the union to take reasonable steps to ensure that all members of the union identified in that work notice comply with it?"

Ms Rayner replied: "These are the fundamental freedoms that underpin our democracy. Members opposite should be very concerned about what this Government is trying to do. Henry VIII would spin in his grave and be absolutely, you know, astonished that we're even trying to do this type of thing in this modern day."

Ms Rayner also said that if threatening to sack key workers is not the purpose of the Bill, Conservative MPs "will have the chance to join us in voting for amendment one, removing the sacking key workers clause tonight".

Conservative former minister Jacob Rees-Mogg criticised sweeping powers and vague wording within the Bill, suggesting the blame lay with "incompetence" within Government.

Mr Rees-Mogg told MPs: "I am a supporter of this Bill, I think this is a good Bill and a proportionate Bill, but it is a badly-written Bill."

Responding to Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner, Mr Rees-Mogg added: "What the honourable lady said about Henry VIII clauses is absolutely spot on.

"Indeed, I hope that should the socialists ever be in government in future they will remember what she said because skeleton bills and Henry VIII clauses are bad parliamentary and constitutional practice.

"It seems to me that she, in moving amendment 101, is very hard to describe as being wrong."

Speaking about clauses within the Bill, he added: "On what basis can any Government claim to have the power to amend legislation that has not yet been passed? The only argument for doing it, which no Government would wish to advance, could be incompetence.

"Because the only way of passing a subsequent act without amending it before it is passed is if you haven't noticed what it is saying in the first place."

The House of Lords should be allowed to make detailed changes to the Bill in order to help the Government avoid it being challenged by judicial review, Jacob Rees-Mogg said.

The Tory former minister said: "I think Clause 3 of this Bill, and I hope the Opposition benches will take note of this, is in and of itself an argument for the existence of the House of Lords.

"Because I hope their lordships will look at this clause and say that is simply not something that we can pass into law as it is currently phrased, that the Government must accept amendments, and I hope their lordships will vote through amendments that clarify and set out in detail the powers that are desired."

He added: "This is where the Government's interest - the executive's interest - and the legislature's interest combine, because if this House passes good, well-constructed legislation, it is much less susceptible to judicial review.

"So there is a Treasury bench interest in good, well-crafted legislation, which, as I have been saying, this is not.

"That is why the Government should be keen that the House of Lords in the time available, with the help I would hope of parliamentary counsel, will be able to specify the powers more closely."

Labour deputy leader Angela Rayner had earlier urged MPs to back a series of Opposition amendments aimed at giving Parliament a say over the detail of minimum service levels in future.

Ms Rayner told the Commons: "Riddled with holes, this Bill gives sweeping powers to a power-hungry Secretary of State."

She said: "We might pass a Bill only for a minister to rewrite it by statutory instrument the next day. Why on earth do they need this power? Are they admitting that future legislation will be badly-drafted or are their motives more sinister?"

"If those are the powers they seek, the least that we can do is ensure that those regulations are made under the affirmative procedure. If there is nothing to fear, they can show it by accepting amendments 100, 101, and 102 tonight."

Statutory instruments laid under the affirmative procedure need active approval from both the Commons and the Lords.

Ms Rayner later questioned why the Bill's powers were retrospective, adding: "Why should minimum service levels apply to strikes that have already been balloted for? Would he propose retrospective legislation in any other circumstances? Surely this would undermine attempts of finding the resolution to the current dispute, prolonging the pain that they are hell-bent on putting the public through."

Conservative former Cabinet minister Jacob Rees-Mogg said: "This is almost so skeletal that you wonder if bits of the bones have been stolen away by wild animals and taken and buried somewhere, as if, you know, in cartoons."

Speaking about the inclusion of so-called Henry VIII powers, he said: "This Bill is ... a particularly extreme example of bad practice, with the least possible excuse for it."

He added: "This is not urgent legislation. My fear is that by writing poor legislation we invite the courts to intervene more."

Conservative former minister Sir Julian Lewis said: "Does he agree with me that a point made to me by a regional representative of the TUC, which is that there is so little detail in the Bill, that it gives ministers too much discretion to decide what is actually constituting an adequate service level, is something that needs to be looked at again?

"Especially when this legislation, where it applies in European countries, does involve the unions in deciding what are the minimum service levels."

Mr Rees-Mogg said: "I think the Bill should set out clearly what it is trying to achieve."

Labour former shadow chancellor John McDonnell has accused Jacob Rees-Mogg of "shirking the responsibility" of the Commons by suggesting the Lords should change the Bill while saying he still intends to vote for it.

Mr McDonnell said: "He's shirking the responsibility of this House by simply passing it onto the Lords. What we've seen in recent history, recent months, is actually the Government withdraw a Bill for further consideration until they got it right.

"Surely that's the mechanism? Otherwise, we're shirking our responsibility to get this Bill right."

Mr Rees-Mogg, a Conservative former Cabinet minister, said: "I think he attributes to me more influence than I have, I think my fusillade against this particular clause of the Bill will not change many votes this evening, including not my own as it happens, and therefore it is not going to be the case that the Government is going to be defeated in this House."

Assistant general secretary of the Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT) union John Leach said working people "will not be shackled".

In the first speech to a crowd opposite Downing Street protesting what has been dubbed the "anti-strike" bill, he said: "We're here to send a loud message that no matter what laws they pass in that parliament, working-class people ... will not be shackled, will not be tied down."

He said the RMT had had 19 strike days so far and promised "there will be more".

He went on to say the Government want to "shackle us with legislation".

"They've picked a fight with the wrong people," he added, to cheers from the crowd.

"We will not be shackled, we will not be tied down."

The crowd sang along to Solidarity Forever by Pete Seeger as they waited for speeches to start.

Many were holding signs that read: "Defend the right to strike. Let's break the anti-union laws."

SNP MP Alan Brown (Kilmarnock and Loudoun) accused the Government of "looking to wreck relationships with key workers".

He said: "We know the attitude of the UK Government is Westminster knows best, even though it's Westminster itself that's wrecking inter-government relations and it's Westminster that's looking to wreck relationships with key workers, and key workers in devolved nations as well."

His party's amendment, he added, "makes it clear that these Henry VIII powers should not and do not extend to devolved legislation", adding "don't think about imposing it on Scotland and Wales whose governments don't want it".

He said: "There is a blunt reality that unless employment law is devolved to Scotland then this Bill, and clause three in particular, allows Westminster to interfere and impose as they see fit - we really are now seeing Westminster confirming autocratic powers."

Ben Selby, vice president of the Fire Brigade Union (FBU), told protesters opposite Downing Street that 88% of firefighters voted to strike on Monday.

Addressing the crowd protesting anti-strike laws, Mr Selby said firefighters were clapped for during the pandemic "but clapping, as you know, doesn't pay the bills".

He said the anti-strike bill is "straight out of the Thatcherite playbook" and makes workers "the enemy".

He called for Labour MPs to "back" striking workers and "join picket lines". He also called minimum service levels "a bit of a joke".

Former children's laureate Michael Rosen said anti-strike laws "somewhat resemble" the "Reichstag Fire Decree" issued under the Nazi regime.

Addressing protesters opposite Downing Street, he said: "What inspires these people? What is their textbook? Where do they go to conjure up these ideas and the way to run a country?

"Well, the answer is they go to fascist regimes. And one fascist regime in particular.

"In 1933 in Germany one of the first things that the Nazis did ... was (enact) laws that somewhat resemble the laws that we're talking about now.

"They banned what they called the freedom of association.

"That is the textbook for fascism, it's the textbook that these people work off. If they want to restrict freedoms, and they always do, if they want to push through laws to restrict freedoms, that's where they go.

"Four weeks after the Nazis came to power and that's ... the textbook they (the Government) learn from and that's what they're trying to do now.

"We have to remember that because we know where that leads, we know where that led."

The public have "the right" to get on with their daily lives and access public services, MPs have heard.

Conservative MP for Southend West Anna Firth told the Commons: "The public have the right to get on with their daily lives and access public services just as much as workers have the right to strike.

"Those public services must include health and education and transport. I was deeply disappointed to read on the BBC breaking news alert only this afternoon that the Fire Brigades Union has opted to strike and I will certainly be in touch with my PCC (Police and Crime Commissioner) to ask how we can minimise any disruption to people living in my constituency on those days.

"I'm also very disappointed that the planned strikes in schools are going ahead."

Intervening, Conservative MP for Ruislip, Northwood and Pinner David Simmons asked her: "Does she agree that it would be helpful if there were a requirement for a minimum notice period so that schools in particular could at least let parents know that the school will close?"

Labour MPs could be heard shouting "there is one", before Ms Firth replied: "He makes an absolutely critical point. Not only should there be decent notice, the schools should all be required to run a minimum service so that we do not have our children's education disrupted again."

A Labour MP has urged the Government to "take note of how things are being done differently and successfully" in Wales.

Speaking in favour of her amendments, which seek to exclude Wales from the Bill's application, Beth Winter said: "This legislation before the Commons has been introduced without any discussion with Welsh Government. It's been introduced despite it conflicting with the Social Partnership Bill before the Senedd.

"Now, a different approach is being taken in Wales and I urge the opposition benches to take note of how things are being done differently and successfully in Wales.

"It is an approach that fosters collaboration and co-operation between government employers and workers. It is encapsulated in the Social Partnership Bill, which places partnership working on a statutory footing and it really does work."

The Cynon Valley MP added: "It is this partnership approach that meant Welsh Government and Transport for Wales were able to recently successfully negotiate a pay settlement that was accepted by the RMT."

Labour MP Zarah Sultana told demonstrators opposite Downing Street protesting anti-strike legislation that she will be voting against the Bill.

She said the Government "wants to crush dissent" and stop working people from "fighting back".

"The Bills in parliament tonight are for that purpose," she said.

"The anti-strike Bill will make strikes ... effectively illegal. The public order bill will shut down protests like this with threats, fines and prison for those that refuse.

"After this demo, when I go back to the Commons, I will be voting against this anti-worker bill."

She called for working people to start "a movement".

"A movement that says to the country if your pay is too low and your bills are too high, if you're also struggling to make ends meet and you can't get a doctor's appointment, your problem is not striking nurses, railway workers, or posties; your problem isn't Mick Lynch, Dave Ward or Matt Wrack or Jo Grady or anyone else they say.

"It's not immigrants, it's not refugees, it's not trans people ... your problem is this rigged economy and the ruling class that build it and sustain it."

The crowd chanted "enough is enough" following the end of her speech.

SNP MP Joanna Cherry suggested the only European countries the Tories' proposals in the Strikes Bill align with are Russia and Hungary.

Talking about minimum service levels in the Commons, she said: "The other European countries don't have top-down, imposed Secretary of State ministerial regulations without any attempt first of all to reach it by collective bargaining or to put it out to arbitration."

She added: "A Bill that doesn't allow for collective bargaining, and doesn't allow for independent arbitration, does not fit with what the ILO (International Labour Organisation) stipulate."

The MP for Edinburgh South West said: "Can the minister point me to any other country in Europe that would sack people for taking part in a strike that breached top-down imposed minimum service levels without any negotiation or any arbitration beforehand?

"Can he name me any other country that would do that apart from Hungary or Russia. And does he really want to be in the same company, the same wee club, as Hungary and Russia when it comes to workers' rights?"

Labour MP Ian Lavery suggested trade union representatives could be sacked if they do not cross the picket line under the Government's proposals for minimum service levels.

The MP for Wansbeck said: "You're the trade union rep advocating strike action because that's what you're elected to do. And then the boss, the gaffer, gives you the ... notice and says you're the person that's got to cross the picket line.

"How does that work? Because you know bosses - in the main we've got fair bosses and bad bosses, and bad bosses will definitely pick out those who they can rid of as quickly as they possibly can.

"But a trade union rep advocating action ... could actually be dismissed. The protection is gone if you refuse to cross the picket line."

He added on the Bill: "It's not short of a form of industrial slavery this."

Bad employers will target trade unionists to ensure they are sacked, MPs have heard.

Intervening during Rebecca Long-Bailey's speech, Labour former shadow chancellor John McDonnell said: "We had 20 years of blacklisting taking place and the Government refuses to acknowledge it.

"We know what bad employers will do: they will target trade unionists, they will ensure that they are sacked and then when the union defends that trade unionist, they'll come for the trade union itself."

The Labour MP for Salford and Eccles replied: "He is 100% right and the problem with blacklisting is that this was done very much under the radar.

"We had Government institutions going behind legislation, but this will be a piece of legislation that unashamedly carries out similar practices in broad daylight with the full sanction of the Secretary of State and his Prime Minister, because this is an authoritarian and undemocratic Bill."

MPs rejected an SNP amendment to the Bill by 321 to 46, majority 275.

The amendment was aimed at ensuring the Bill would not become law until after consent from the devolved parliaments in Wales and Scotland and the Greater London Assembly.

MPs rejected a Lib Dem amendment to the Bill by 318 to 247, majority 71.

The amendment aimed to ensure that minimum service levels were "no higher than the lowest actual service level recorded on any day in the year before the new regulations are laid".

MPs rejected a Labour amendment which sought to force the Government to publish an assessment of how the proposed legislation would impact on workforce numbers, individual workers, employers, equalities and trade unions.

This was defeated by 317 votes to 250, majority 67.

The Commons later voted 315 votes to 246, majority 69, to reject a Labour amendment designed to preserve existing protections from unfair dismissal, including for an employee who participates in a strike contrary to a work notice under the Bill.

The Strikes (Minimum Services Levels) Bill has cleared the Commons.

MPs voted 315 to 246, majority 69, to give the Bill its third reading.

The Bill will now face scrutiny in the House of Lords.

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020230130ej1u002gx


Budapest sees ‘similarities’ with Meloni’s Italy
EURACTIV Network
1340 字
2023 年 2 月 2 日 07:34 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2023. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

Today’s edition is powered by NESTE

How will we power Europe’s trucks in the years to come?

To tackle climate change, we need to change the way we move and accelerate the rate of change. We need a change of course from fossil to renewable.

It is time to take charge of change.

Find out more >>[https://eurac.tv/9Wgg]

In today’s news from the Capitals:

ROME. Hungarian President Katalin Novák travelled to Italy to meet with government leaders, where she spoke of the similarities between both countries in their actions against irregular immigration, enlargement to the Western Balkans, and family values. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/budapest-sees-similarities-with-melonis-italy/].

EU INSTITUTIONS

Socialist Bullmann to take over Parliament’s human rights committee. Veteran socialist MEP Udo Bullmann will become the European Parliament’s chief spokesperson on human rights after his predecessor resigned as part of the fallout from the Qatargate scandal. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/justice-home-affairs/news/socialist-bullmann-to-take-over-parliaments-human-rights-committee/].

New US-EU Coalition calls to sanction Hollywood star. A group of politicians across the globe are urging the EU to enforce sanctions on ten individuals for supporting the Russian invasion of Ukraine – including US actor Steven Seagal. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/new-us-eu-coalition-calls-to-sanction-hollywood-star/].

Before EU summit, Ukraine carries out war-time anti-corruption crackdown. Ukraine on Wednesday expanded a corruption clampdown with coordinated searches of residences linked to a high-profile oligarch and former interior minister and tax offices in the capital, in what the authorities called a wartime anti-graft purge. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/before-eu-summit-ukraine-carries-out-war-time-anti-corruption-crackdown/].

BERLIN

Germany breathes sigh of relief at EU green industry plan. The presentation of the EU’s green industry plan on Wednesday brought cautious relief in Germany – although some of its points may lead to disputes within the country’s traffic light coalition. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/germany-breathes-sigh-of-relief-at-eu-green-industry-plan/]

VIENNA

Austrian president promises Ukraine further aid. Ukraine will receive additional aid and support of various kinds, Austrian President Alexander Van der Bellen said during a joint press conference with his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv on Wednesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/austrian-president-promises-ukraine-further-aid/].

BRUSSELS

Belgium largest energy supplier to EU neighbours in 2022. Belgium played a key role in supplying energy to its main neighbours in 2022, as it was France’s largest electricity supplier and Germany’s main transit country for natural gas. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/belgium-largest-energy-supplier-to-eu-neighbours-in-2022/].

Belgian Stalinist revealed as Russian fake news tsar in Africa. Luc Michel, a 65-year-old self-described ‘Stalinist’ whose resume includes founding a Belgian version of the National Front, has been revealed as the unlikely source of an elaborate network of fake news websites designed to spread pro-Russian propaganda across Africa. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/africa/news/belgian-stalinist-revealed-as-russian-fake-news-tsar-in-africa].

NORDICS AND BALTICS

STOCKHOLM

NATO: No compromise on freedom of speech, says Swedish FM. Sweden will not compromise on freedom of expression or the rule of law, Foreign Minister Tobias Billström said on Wednesday in response to Turkey’s Erdogan’s continuing demands and condemnations. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/nato-no-compromise-on-freedom-of-speech-says-swedish-fm/].

HELSINKI

Finland passes new transgender law. Finland has passed a new gender recognition law granting the right to legally change gender through the process of self-declaration, removing the need to go through a medical and psychiatric approval process first. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/finland-passes-new-transgender-law/].

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ATHENS

Greek Watergate: Socialists deny being ‘blackmailed’ by government. The Greek socialist party (Pasok) refuted assumptions by the main opposition Syriza party that the conservative government is blackmailing its leader Nikos Androulakis through a wiretapping scandal to influence post-election coalition talks, Pasok sources told EURACTIV.com. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/greek-watergate-socialists-deny-being-blackmailed-by-government/].

MADRID

Spanish government raises minimum wage. The government has agreed to increase the minimum wage by 8% after more than a month of negotiations with trade unions CC.OO and UGT, but without the support of the main employers’ association, CEOE. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/spanish-government-raises-minimum-wage/].

Spain, Morocco try to ‘normalise’ relations with high-level summit. A key summit was held in Rabat on Wednesday to normalise the bilateral relations between both nations, which had many shared challenges on the agenda, including how to deal with migration flows. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/spain-morocco-try-to-normalise-relations-with-high-level-summit/].

LISBON

Public opinion on striking teachers may turn negative, warns Portuguese president. President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa warned that the public’s current sympathy towards teachers on strike may turn bitter as the first day of strikes began on Wednesday and minimum services were required in impacted government-run schools.. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/public-opinion-on-striking-teachers-may-turn-negative-warns-portuguese-president/].

VISEGRAD

BUDAPEST

Former MEP: Hungary eyes post-war benefits from Russia. The Hungarian government believes that Russia will win the war against Ukraine and therefore avoids sanctions against Moscow, Hungarian politician and former MEP Benedek Jávor told EURACTIV Poland in an interview, adding that Budapest silently hopes there will be a modification of borders in the region. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/former-mep-hungary-eyes-post-war-benefits-from-russia/].

WARSAW

Biden, Zelenskyy likely to visit Poland later this month. US President Joe Biden and his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy are likely to visit Poland later this month, as Zelenskyy wants to present his 10-point peace plan, according to Polish media. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/biden-zelenskyy-likely-to-visit-poland-later-this-month/].

PRAGUE

Local communities fight against gigafactory in Czechia. The Czech Republic is finalising its application to the tender for the construction of Volkswagen’s gigafactory – a facility that produces batteries for electric vehicles on a large scale – but the government faces resistance from local communities, including surrounding villages. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/local-communities-fight-against-gigafactory-in-czechia/].

BRATISLAVA

Internationals express concern over ex-Slovak PMs foreign policy stance. At the meeting with former prime minister Robert Fico who is currently leading the disinformation scene in Slovakia, ambassadors expressed their concerns about his party´s foreign policy orientation. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/internationals-express-concern-over-ex-slovak-pms-foreign-policy-stance/].

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

LJUBLJANA

Hungary’s OTP becomes biggest player in Slovenian banking market. The Hungarian banking group OTP received clearance from the Slovenian market regulator to take over NKBM, Slovenia’s second-largest bank, making OTP the largest player in the local banking market. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/hungarys-otp-becomes-biggest-player-in-slovenian-banking-market/].

SOFIA

Bulgaria to continue exporting fuels from Russian oil to Ukraine. The export of petroleum products from Russian oil to Ukraine will continue after 5 February, when the government derogation was due to expire, the Bulgarian government said in a statement on Wednesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/bulgaria-to-continue-exporting-fuels-from-russian-oil-to-ukraine/].

TIRANA

Albania dismantles hundreds of illegal CCTV cameras amid organised crime crackdown. Hundreds of illegally placed CCTV cameras have been removed from public areas by Albanian authorities over the last two weeks, in a crackdown on organised criminal groups which placed them there to monitor police and gang movements. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/albania-dismantles-hundreds-of-illegal-cctv-cameras-amid-organised-crime-crackdown/].

PRISTINA

Kurti: A mono-ethnic association not possible in multi-ethnic country. The Prime Minister of Kosovo, Albin Kurti, spoke on Wednesday to the media about international pressure to accept the Association of Serb Municipalities, a provision signed in 2013 that the Constitutional Court has since ruled against, stating a mono-ethnic structure is not possible in a multi-ethnic country. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/kurti-a-mono-ethnic-association-not-possible-in-multi-ethnic-country/].

AGENDA

* EU: The College of Commissioners, on mission to Ukraine, meets with the government in Kyiv; Commission President Ursula von der Leyen participates;

* Vice President Dubravka Šuica on official visit in Croatia;

* Meeting of experts and officials, organised by the Swedish presidency in Stockholm, on the establishment of third-country nationals; Highlights include challenges and opportunities in housing, efforts to combat segregation, and more;

* European Parliament holds plenary session; Votes on impunity waivers regarding the Qatargate; Debate highlights include the preparation of the EU-Ukraine Summit, and more;

* President Roberta Metsola on official visit to Dublin, Ireland; Meets with Taoiseach Leo Varadkar, Ceann Comhairle Seán Ó Fearghaíl, Tánaiste Micheál Martin; Addresses the Joint Sitting of the Oireachtas;

* European Central Bank (ECB) holds press conference on eurozone monetary policy;

* European Investment Bank (EIB) holds press conference with President Werner Hoyer on annual results;

* France: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on official visit;

* Sweden: Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson hosts Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin;

* Saudi Arabia: French Foreign Affairs Minister Catherine Colonna on official visit;

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Daniel Eck, Zoran Radosavljevic, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson, Sofia Mandilara]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020230202ej2200002


Russia This Week - February 3, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 2 月 3 日, 31459 字, (英文)
Only Hungary and Russia heading for recession in 2023 as Emerging Europe shows its resilienceThe economies of Central, Eastern, and Southeast Europe (CESEE) are showing resilience despite the conflict in Ukraine that caused a significant ...

American tennis pro Varvara Lepchenko successfully reduces drugs ban as resolution offered
Yasmin Syed
703 字
2023 年 2 月 3 日 17:03 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2023
Varvara Lepchenko will return to professional tennis later this year after having her drugs ban reduced.

American tennis pro Varvara Lepchenko was issued with a “consent award” almost two years after testing positive for a banned substance during a routine drugs test. The former world No 19 was initially banned for four years but successfully appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport after finding a bottle of pills that did not label the banned substance on the bottle and will now have her period of ineligibility reduced to 21 months, to be lifted in May this year.

Related articles

Lepchenko returned a positive test containing metabolites of adrafinil and/or modafinil - non-Specified Substances prohibited by the World Anti Doping Agency and the Tennis Anti-Doping Programme - after providing a urine sample on 12 July 2021, in association with her participation in the WTA Hungarian Grand Prix held in Budapest, Hungary, from 12-18 July 2021. As a result, it was ruled last year that she would be banned for four years, back-dated to start from 19 August of that year.

But the 36-year-old has now been issued with a “consent award” by the CAS after successfully appealing the decision to make her ineligible to compete for four years. According to the International Tennis Federation, Her appeal came on the basis that, after the hearing before the Independent Tribunal, she returned home and found, in the lining of a travel bag that had been stored away, a bottle of bemetil capsules that she had purchased in Ukraine in October 2020 and from which she had consumed capsules in the days prior to the event in Hungary.

The ITF also confirmed that those capsules, and an unopened bottle independently sourced by the ITF, were sent for testing at a WADA-accredited laboratory, both of which were found to contain modafinil, which was not listed on the bottle label. As a result, all parties agreed that her period of ineligibility has been reduced to 21 months - still backdated to 19 August 2021 - which means she will be allowed to play from midnight on 18 May this year.

JUST IN: Wimbledon told to keep Russia ban as 'Ukrainians still being killed'

It was also noted that the current violation is being treated as Lepchenko’s first for the purpose of sanction despite being her second Anti-Doping Rule Violation, because she bore No Fault or Negligence for the first incident. As well as reducing the 36-year-old’s ineligibility period and agreeing on the back-date, all parties also agreed - with the written approval of WADA - that the Ukrainian-American committed a violation of the programme.

All ranking points and prize money obtained by Lepchenko at the tournament in Hungary and subsequent events prior to 27 July 2021 are also disqualified. The American, who used to represent Uzbekistan, last played an event on the week of 2 August 2021 at the WTA 125 tournament in Concord, Massachusetts.

DON'T MISS

Jack Draper 'owes Murray a lot' as rising star discusses Davis Cup

Becker urged to return to Davis Cup after prison stint in Zverev plea

Gerard Pique's Davis Cup slammed by Zverev after his £2.5bn deal ends

READ MORE

She convincingly beat Tatjana Maria 6-0 6-3 in the first round, before falling to then-86th-ranked Vera Zvonareva in the round of 16. Her best showing of the 2021 season came after she provided WADA with the urine sample containing banned substances, meaning the points and prize money have now been removed.

Lepchenko won the title at the WTA 125 LTP Ladies Open in Charleston, which started on the week of July 26, defeating compatriot Jamie Loeb in the final, 7-6 4-6 6-4.

Related articles Alcaraz warned of costly mistake as Djokovic becomes No 1 - EXCLUSIVE Nick Kyrgios pleads guilty to assaulting ex-girlfriend but avoids jail Nick Kyrgios issues statement as Aussie avoids criminal record Dan Evans gets Davis Cup wish after threatening to quit the team Djokovic warned of Nadal-backed rival that can disturb Grand Slam race

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020230203ej23007y6


Ukraine crisis - Energy ministry: New sanctions ban re-export of Russian oil products
307 字
2023 年 2 月 4 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2023 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, February 4 (MTI) - The new European Union sanctions will

ban the import and re-export of Russian oil products from Sunday,

but Hungary's exemption from the former and various alternative

resources will ensure the country's energy security, the energy

ministry said on Saturday.

Thanks to Hungary's government, pipeline deliveries received

exemption when Russian crude imports were restricted in the summer

of 2022, the ministry's statement said. The ban on the import of

oil products and on the re-export between member states will impact

Hungary's trade with other member states and its purchases from the

Bratislava refinery, the statement said.

The country's energy security continues to be ensured through

domestic production and imports through the Friendship and Adria

pipelines, as well as other imports, it said.

At the same time, the consequences of the sanctions may result

in rising energy prices in Europe and then in Hungary, it said.

Since Russia supplied about half of Europe's diesel imports, Europe

is expected to face diesel shortages and rising prices of oil

products, the statement said. It will probably have to resort to

imports from India, the Middle East and China, it said.

Meanwhile, the EU is mulling further sanctions on nuclear

energy and gas imports, the ministry said. Hungary's government

continues to oppose them, as the restrictions have failed to end

the war but hit European consumers with rising prices, and energy

crisis and supply chain issues. The failed sanction policy is

pushing Europe towards a crisis, and harms member states, companies

and families, the statement said.

In the latest National Consultation survey, 97 percent of

Hungarians "said no to sanctions", and it is time their voice

should be heard in Brussels too, the statement said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020230204ej240002t


CE Noticias Financieras English
MEPs call for resignation of Olivér Várhelyi, the Hungarian commissioner who called them idiots
381 字
2023 年 2 月 15 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The European Parliament reacted Wednesday with disbelief to the apology made by the Enlargement Commissioner, the Hungarian Olivér Várhelyi, after the day before he was heard asking "how many idiots" were left to speak in a debate held in Strasbourg.

Far from apologizing, Várhelyi, appointed by ultra-conservative Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, issued a statement in which he regrets the "misunderstanding" with his comment, which he claims was part of a conversation with his chief of staff on another topic and "has been taken out of context." "I regret any misunderstanding in this regard, I deeply respect the EU institutions, including the European Parliament and its honorable members." Several MEPs have called for the resignation of the Hungarian politician, known for his aggressive mood and strained relations with the European Parliament.

Appointed by ultra-conservative Prime Minister Viktor OrbánThe incident occurred during a debate on enlargement policy in the Balkans in which several MEPs posed incisive questions to him about his tolerance for the government of Serbia, a candidate country that resists aligning itself with European sanctions on Russia over the war in Ukraine. In the video of the incident, you can see how after an hour and a half of debate, Várhelyi finishes answering a question and takes a seat. Barely three seconds later, probably thinking his microphone was closed, he is heard to say in Hungarian, "How many idiots are left?"

"I was one of those idiots who asked Commissioner Várhelyi to sanction Dodik for his alignment with Putin," tweeted Dutch Green MEP Tineke Strik, who recalled that the MEP called a year ago for an investigation into the actions of the commissioner, who is accused of not pushing hard enough in defense of the rule of law in the candidate countries, and called for action.

"How many idiots are left?"Not only several MEPs from opposition parties in Hungary called for his resignation. Commission President Ursula von der Leyen "must kick him out immediately," said Belgian liberal Guy Verhofstadt. "It's good to see what Orbán's man thinks of democracy," said Germany's Damian Boeselager. "Várhely must resign, I don't want to see him in this chamber again," he added.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230215ej2f00bmf


Russian nuclear major Rosatom runs into sanction hurdles in Turkey
439 字
2023 年 2 月 17 日 06:44 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2023. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
The Russian state nuclear power agency and contractor Rosatom, which has so far avoided sanctions and substantially increased its exports in 2022, has run into problems building the Akkuyu nuclear power plant (NPP) in Turkey and the Paks-2 nuclear power plant (NPP) in Hungary, according to a report by Kommersant daily citing unnamed sources.

As covered in detail by bne IntelliNews, the unsanctioned Russian nuclear energy agency Rosatom is building NPPs on time and under budget around the world, while selling uranium to the US.

The latest reports suggested that Rosatom is going to dodge the sanctions again in the upcoming 10th EU's sanction package.

Reportedly, now Rosatom is facing the first secondary sanction test as Germany's exports control regulator reportedly refused to issue a permit to Siemens Energy for the supply of integrated switchgear (IED) equipment for projects in Turkey and Hungary, according to Kommersant sources.

The German side is said to have additional doubts over the point of delivery of the equipment because of fears that the switchgear could be imported to Russia, even though this type of electrical equipment is made for a specific facility.

Rosatom says they have not received any official notification of the suspension of supplies. The Turkish authorities are negotiating with the German authorities.

Reportedly, Turkish authorities are clarifying with the German government about which conditions the supply of the equipment would be possible. One of the costly solutions could be direct deliveries to the NPP site under the supervision of Siemens specialists.

As for the delays of shipments to the Hungarian NPP site, Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó said on February 14 that he viewed Berlin's actions as a violation of sovereignty.

"The German government continues to block Siemens Energy from supplying the already contracted control system to the Paks nuclear power plant. This can be seen as an attack on our sovereignty, as the security of power supply is an issue of sovereignty," the minister said, as cited by Kommersant, adding that German officials "have no legal grounds to block the delivery."

Analysts surveyed by Kommersant believe that switchgear that is being delayed by Siemens is not part of the critical nuclear fuel cycle equipment, and could potentially be replaced, albeit possibly causing delays to the projects.

The problems of Rosatom are also consistent with recent reports that the US Treasury Department's top sanctions official during a trip to Turkey and the Middle East cautioned countries and businesses that they could lose access to G7 markets if they conducted business with entities subject to US curbs.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020230217ej2h000ji


Hungary This Week - February 17, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 2 月 17 日, 16590 字, (英文)
Net asset value of Hungarian investment funds up 25% in 2022The net asset value of investment funds managed by members of the Association of Hungarian Investment Fund and Asset Management Companies (Bamosz) reached HUF9.6 trillion (€25.3bn)...

Orban addresses 'new dangers' of war, inflation in state of nation speech
605 字
2023 年 2 月 20 日
MTI - EcoNews
MTIE
英文
© 2023 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, February 20, 2023 (MTI-ECONEWS) - Prime Minister Viktor

Orban addressed the "new dangers" of war and inflation facing

Hungary this year, after the country navigated its "most difficult

year" since the fall of communism, in a state of the nation speech

delivered on Saturday.

Mr Orban reiterated the government's position on keeping

Hungary out of the war in Ukraine, while continuing to provide

humanitarian aid of an unprecedented scale to Ukrainians.

"If we want to protect Hungary, if we want a peaceful life for

ourselves, we have only one choice: we must stay out of the

Russo-Ukrainian war," he said.

"Hungary recognises Ukraine's right to self defence, to fight

against external aggression; but it would not be right from any

point of view – including any moral point of view – to put the

interests of Ukraine before those of Hungary," he added.

He said Hungary is maintaining its economic relations with

Russia and will not agree to sanctions affecting gas, oil or

nuclear energy as such measures "would ruin Hungary".

While acknowledging Hungary's "pro-peace position" and the

"pro-war position" of others accentuates differences, Mr Orban said

Hungary is "in full agreement" on strategic objectives: "We want

Russia not to be a threat to Europe, and we want there to be a

sufficiently broad and deep area between Russia and Hungary: a

sovereign Ukraine".

Mr Orban said Hungary's membership in NATO is "vital", but

pointed out that membership in the alliance does not imply any

obligation beyond joint defence.

NATO is neither "a war alliance" nor "a war coalition", he

added.

He said Hungary will "stand [its] ground" on staying out of the

war, while being prepared to be the object of "provocations,

insults, threats and blackmail" because of that position.

Mr Orban also noted that Hungary's position is "an exception

only in Europe" and "the norm" elsewhere in the world.

"Every country outside Europe is aware of the limited

significance of the war in Ukraine and the primacy of its own

national interest. Let us not isolate ourselves from the

level-headed part of the world," he said.

Mr Orban said sanctions took HUF 4,000bn "out of the pockets of

Hungarians" in 2022 and defended government measures to fight

"sanction inflation", such as price caps on staples, a freeze on

mortgage rates and spending to maintain regulated household

utilities prices. He added that monthly public transport passes

valid for a single county or the whole country, at a cost of HUF

9,450 and HUF 18,900, respectively, will be introduced from May 1,

saving commuters "a considerable amount".

He said inflation will fall into the single digits by year-end.

Mr Orban said 2022 could have "broken the backbone" of the

Hungarian economy, as predicted by "official doomsayers", but the

country instead had record employment, exports and investment. He

added that FX reserves are at record levels and the forint has

stabilised.

Mr Orban said the government will stick to its foreign policy

of making "friends, not enemies" and advocating the "creation of

connections instead of the formation of blocs". He also pledged the

continuation of the government's family policy, and reaffirmed its

position on a work-based economy.

He said strategic sectors, such as the banking, energy and

media sectors, will remain locally owned , while domestic ownership

in the telecommunications and ICT sectors is "revived".

"We will not stop there, the windsock is already blowing in the

wind," he added, referencing the Hungarian pop song "Airport".

(HUF 100 = EUR 0.2593)

MTVA

文件 MTIE000020230220ej2k00001


World news
The five EU countries whose imports from Russia have increased since the invasion
By Ben Butcher, Data Journalist
1091 字
2023 年 2 月 21 日 10:21 GMT
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
英文
The Telegraph Online © 2023. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Billions of pounds have been sent to Kyiv, but not everyone has been a committed ally

Five European Union countries have seen their imports from Russia increase by more than 50 per cent since the invasion began, Telegraph analysis shows.

The value of imports to Hungary, Slovenia, Greece, Bulgaria and Spain were as much as 250 per cent higher than average in November last year.

Taking into account military and humanitarian support for Ukraine, Hungary emerges as the least committed ally across the EU.

The Telegraph’s Ukraine scorecard assesses countries on four criteria linked to trade with Russia, financial support and supply of heavy weaponry.

The findings show that the UK and Poland have been most ardent in their support of Ukraine.

The UK has all but eradicated imports from Russia[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/08/12/britain-cuts-putin-russian-energy-imports-drop-zero/] by 97 per cent, according to data from the Observatory of Economic Complexity.

Meanwhile, Poland’s substantial financial commitments place it third in the world for economic support relative to a country's wealth.

Fifteen of the 57 countries assessed scored no points on the scorecard, including India, where imports have risen eightfold.

Some countries, including France, have not added imports data in the period of the analysis so have been excluded.

Hungary's 'double talk'

Hungary’s ranking makes the country a pariah[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/12/06/hungary-blocks-eus-155bn-ukraine-aid-package/] among other joint EU-Nato members.

In November 2022, its imports from the country hit 262 per cent above a three-year average.

And while it has contributed some financial support through EU packages, it has so far not donated any significant bilateral military or humanitarian aid[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/03/hungary-european-country-make-no-effort-stop-war-says-volodymyr/] to Ukraine.

“What I’ve seen in the past 12 years is an increasing friendship and increasing dependence on Russia,” says Dr Eszter Simon, an expert in Hungarian politics at Nottingham Trent University.

“Prime minister Viktor Orbán has made a complete U-turn with Russia since 2010 whilst keeping the benefits of Western institutions.”

Balancing its strong economic ties and a pro-Russian base with EU and Nato desires to isolate Putin has led to Hungary engaging in “double talk” to appease both sides, says Dr Simon.

For example, while Hungary publicly condemned Russia via the UN, it has since then called for Kyiv to begin peace talks[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2022/07/28/viktor-orban-right-ukraine-war/]; contrary to European allies.

It backed the EU’s sanction package last June, but has since dragged its heels over the details. They have since said any sanctions impacting nuclear energy should be halted due to Hungary’s links to Russia's state energy company.

But Hungary is not alone in its historical reliance on Russia.

Slovenia and Bulgaria are among the eastern European countries to have seen an increase in the value of imports since the start of the war.

The EU has made plans to drastically reduce the most lucrative import from Russia-fossil fuels-but the task is more difficult for those most reliant on it.

Many of these include eastern European countries, including the Czech Republic, Romania, Lithuania and Slovakia; all of whom imported at least half of their stock from Russia.

Unlike Hungary, almost all the other Soviet bloc countries have used the war as a catalyst in their move towards the West.

At the end of November, former Soviet states made up the top five countries in economic and military support to Ukraine, relative to GDP.

Latvia and Estonia have seen their aid contributions equate to over one per cent of GDP.

For example, the Czech Republic has committed some 130 battle tanks to Ukraine, equivalent to 20 per cent of its existing stocks, according to the Kiel Institute for the World Economy.

Europe's gas problem

Germany, which itself imported half of its gas from Russia[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/04/26/russia-cuts-gas-supplies-poland-tensions-mount-west/], has managed to cut imports by a third.

Despite causing frustration over its tank policy, Germany has also committed heavy weaponry equivalent to 12 per cent of its stock to the war, including armoured vehicles, howitzers and rocket launchers.

The UK tops the ranks in Europe, having almost completely removed Russian imports from its trade mix.

Its focus on military support, equivalent to 60 per cent of all European aid sent to the country, gained the UK the honour of Volodymyr Zelensky’s first visit outside of Ukraine in 2023.

But the UK was in a unique position to sever ties with Russia so quickly.

Pre-war, just five per cent of its gas came from Russia, making diversification easier.

Across the EU, gas imports from Russia had dropped from 50 per cent of the total to just 20 per cent by November.

But the move away from Russian gas has been more difficult for others.

Last year, Spain’s trade with Algeria-one of the largest exporters of oil to the EU-collapsed over a territorial dispute in the Western Sahara. The result was the propulsion of Russia to become the country’s second-largest importer, more than doubling its imports to the country.

India's Russian trade boom

Outside of Europe, just nine countries have made significant military contributions to Ukraine.

These include the USA, whose $24 billion worth of military aid[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/09/28/us-announces-11bn-package-military-aid-ukraine-including-himars/] is the largest in the world, as well as Japan, New Zealand and Australia

However, for many countries, the war in Ukraine has made little impact on how they approach their relations with Russia.

In India, for example, it has mostly been business as usual, says Dr Bhavna Davé, an expert in Eurasian geopolitics at the School of Oriental and African Studies.

“India has turned a lot to the West[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2023/01/14/india-offers-russian-oil-back-door-britain/] since the Cold War, but at the same time they remain a close partner with Russia. It has been buying a lot of arms from Russia,” she says. “And there is a mutual whereby India supports some of Russia’s resolutions in the UN and Russia supports their relationship.”

Even if India wanted to support the West’s approach to Ukraine, its reliance on Russian weapons technology[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2022/09/17/russias-military-reputation-nosedives-do-asian-arms-sales/] and business would not be strategically viable.

Instead, while Western countries have been struggling to wean themselves off Russian oil[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2022/04/20/europe-pays-price-russian-gas-addiction-worst-yet-come/], India has used its non-aligned position to increase imports of cheaper oil in abundance.

In September, India’s imports from Russia jumped to $1.3 billion, up eightfold from the pre-war average.

Similarly, China has seen imports increase by around 40 per cent, reaching almost $9 billion

Both these countries have indicated they have sent some humanitarian aid-barely significant next to their GDPs.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

文件 TELUK00020230221ej2l0018h


Baltics and Poland push to make sanctioning oligarchs’ associates easier - diplomats
LETA
633 字
2023 年 2 月 22 日 13:42 GMT
Latvian News Agency
LETA
英文
© 2023 LETA .
BRUSSELS, Feb 22 (LETA--POLITICO) - The Baltic states and Poland want to make it easier to sanction the family members and entourage of Russia's richest men and women but are facing resistance from Hungary, several EU diplomats told the Politico news portal.

Under its current rules, the EU can freeze the assets and impose visa bans on "leading businesspersons operating in Russia." Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Poland now want to expand this definition, according to their proposal seen by Politico, to include "their immediate family members, or other natural persons, benefitting from them."

The EU has sanctioned more than 1,400 people in relation to Russia's activities in Ukraine, many of who are Russian oligarchs. An additional 96 people could be added to the EU's next sanctions package, draft documents seen by Politico indicate. Including oligarchs' family members and other associates of oligarchs would make it possible to sanctions thousands more people without having to prove that they are directly involved in the war in Ukraine or acting in the economic interest of the Russian state.

This could, for example, apply to the ex-wife of Russian President Vladimir Putin, Lyudmila Ocheretnaya, whose daughters have been sanctioned but has not been herself, and other members of the oligarchs' entourage.

While some countries had doubts, legal experts are on board, said one of the diplomats.

Yet, in a meeting on Tuesday, at which EU ambassadors discussed the bloc's next round of sanctions, Hungary resisted such plans, the diplomats said. Budapest argued that this is not part of the 10th sanctions package, said one of the diplomats. Hungary has long been skeptical of including too many names on the list.

Hungary also pushed to strike four people out the already existing sanctions list, two of the diplomats said.

It was not immediately possible to learn the identity of the four individuals.

That request is igniting tensions, and will be likely subject to another heated debate during a meeting of EU ambassadors on Wednesday. During that meeting, they will not only discuss the new package of sanctions against Russia, but also the so-called rollover of the 1,400-plus names already on the list to keep them sanctioned.

That's because the regime is subject to a six-month review, which has hitherto been more or less a formality. Now, Hungary is using this extension review as leverage by insisting that four specific people have to be struck from the EU’s existing sanctions list before it will agree to the rollover. If Hungary blocks the rollover and refuses to compromise, all 1,400 people would be de-listed, the two diplomats warned.

One of the diplomats didn't hide his frustration: "It shows Hungary’s disregard for unity and European values that they are willing to risk this in the week where we commemorate one year since the Russian invasion," he said.

And those aren't the only measure that Hungary takes issue with. It also is chiefly against sanctioning personnel working in the nuclear sector.

But a Hungarian official poured water on this last point, saying that “the only open issue for Hungary is with the length of the rollover and not with the listings.”

On the oligarchs issue and the proposal of the Baltics and Poland, the same Hungarian official said that this is not part of the 10th package.

As all EU countries have to agree to the proposal, any country could veto the move even if all other 26 EU countries were in favor. Time is running out, with the EU wanting to adopt the 10th sanctions package before the one-year anniversary of Russia's invasion of Ukraine on Friday, Politico reports.

39443341324630302D434241362D3443

Latvian News Agency

文件 LETA000020230222ej2m001xh


Orban blackmails EU with block to sanction package extension against Putin
Alessandra Scotto di Santolo
637 字
2023 年 2 月 22 日 14:06 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2023
Viktor Orban is once again threatening to veto a renewal to EU sanctions against Russia over Vladimir Putin's decision to invade Ukraine.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban is blackmailing his EU counterparts on new sanctions against Putin's regime over demands to remove four individuals from the list of sanctioned people.

Related articles

The Hungarian leader has spoken out strongly against several rounds of EU sanctions against Moscow, arguing that they've done little to stop the war and have hurt European economies more than Russia.

Over the last decade, Orban's government has pursued increasingly close economic and diplomatic ties with Russia and concluded major agreements on buying Russian gas, oil and nuclear fuel.

Hungary has threatened to veto any EU sanctions that would affect its access to Russian energy.

On Tuesday, EU ambassadors failed to reach an agreement with Budapest on their latest sanction package but two diplomats told Politico Brussels was ready to give into Orban's demands or else they would risk having to de-list all people already included under the sanction regime.

This time, however, Orban is also opposing plans to extend the six-month period for sanctions renewal to 12 months.

The Hungarian Prime Minister said Saturday that the European Union is partly to blame for prolonging Russia’s war in Ukraine, doubling down on his government’s insistence that supporting Kyiv was a mistaken strategy for Europe.

Speaking at an annual state of the nation address in Budapest, Orban said the EU had fanned the flames of the war by sanctioning Russia and supplying Ukraine with money and weapons, rather than seeking to negotiate peace with Moscow.

He said: “When Russia launched its attack, the West didn’t isolate the conflict but elevated it to a pan-European level.

“The war in Ukraine is not a conflict between the armies of good and evil, but between two Slavic countries that are fighting against one another. This is their war, not ours.”

Under the slogan “Peace and Security,” Orban’s nearly hour-long address focused largely on the conflict in Ukraine, which is approaching its one-year mark, February 24.

The right-wing populist leader has repeatedly called for an immediate ceasefire, saying he and his government are “on the side of peace,” and condemning his Western allies for providing assistance to Kyiv.

Hungary, he said Saturday, is “part of the Western world, a member of NATO and the European Union where, aside from us, everyone supports the war or at least acts like they do.”

Breaking with most of its Western allies, Hungary has refused to provide military aid to Ukraine or allow its transfer across its borders and has held up some EU efforts to provide financial aid packages to Kyiv.

Related articles

On Saturday, he said that while Hungary has provided humanitarian aid to Ukraine and taken in refugees who fled the war, such assistance “does not mean doing away with our relationships with Russia, because that would be contrary to our national interests.”

He said: “We are maintaining our economic relationship with Russia, and in fact, we recommend that the entire Western world do the same because, without relations, there will not be a ceasefire nor peace talks.”

Saturday's address came as Orban faces numerous political and economic obstacles only 10 months after he and his party won a fourth consecutive term in office.

Related articles Woman claiming to be Madeleine McCann will take DNA test SNP's rivals want Humza Yousaf elected to replace Sturgeon Best frying pans for 2023 - non-stick, cast iron and for pancakes Putin's claims that sanctions have had little impact fact-checked History at a 'turning point' as Putin's message 'loses power'

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020230222ej2m003e9


Top Hungarian boss fails to show up for Ukraine support video ahead of war anniversary
Alessandra Scotto di Santolo
782 字
2023 年 2 月 23 日 13:52 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2023
EU foreign ministers filmed a support video for Ukraine in Brussels on Monday, but Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó remained in Budapest on that day.

Hungarian Minister Péter Szijjártó was the only EU Foreign chief missing in Brussels on Monday for the filming of a video made in support of Ukraine ahead of the first anniversary since the beginning of Russia's invasion. EU foreign ministers filmed the video after their scheduled meeting in Brussels, to which Mr Szijjártó sent his Secretary of State for Security Policy counterpart, Péter Sztáray, instead.

Related articles

Other foreign ministers, like Austria's Alexander Schallenberg, were unable to make the meeting on Monday but they made sure to send a pre-recorded clip for the support to Ukraine video ahead.

The video, introduced by EU’s Chief Diplomat Josep Borrell, sees foreign ministers choosing words they consider associated with Ukraine.

Among them, are courage, freedom, justice, unity and heroism.

But Hungarian Security Policy Secretary chose the word "diversity".

The move comes as Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban threatened to block the renewal of EU sanctions against Russia this week.

Mr Orban demanded four individuals included on the list of sanctioned people were removed and objected to the extension of the sanction renewal period from six to 12 months.

Eventually, the Hungarian leader dropped his demand for the four sanctioned people to be delisted in exchange for a concession on his second ask on the renewal.

The Hungarian leader has spoken out strongly against several rounds of EU sanctions against Moscow, arguing that they've done little to stop the war and have hurt European economies more than Russia.

Over the last decade, Orban's government has pursued increasingly close economic and diplomatic ties with Russia and concluded major agreements on buying Russian gas, oil and nuclear fuel.

Hungary has threatened to veto any EU sanctions that would affect its access to Russian energy.

READ MORE:

Lukashenko won't help Putin for fear his military would 'switch sides'

The Hungarian Prime Minister said on Saturday that the European Union is partly to blame for prolonging Russia’s war in Ukraine, doubling down on his government’s insistence that supporting Kyiv was a mistaken strategy for Europe.

Speaking at an annual state of the nation address in Budapest, Orban said the EU had fanned the flames of the war by sanctioning Russia and supplying Ukraine with money and weapons, rather than seeking to negotiate peace with Moscow.

He said: “When Russia launched its attack, the West didn’t isolate the conflict but elevated it to a pan-European level.

“The war in Ukraine is not a conflict between the armies of good and evil, but between two Slavic countries that are fighting against one another. This is their war, not ours.”

Under the slogan “Peace and Security,” Orban’s nearly hour-long address focused largely on the conflict in Ukraine, which is approaching its one-year mark, February 24.

The right-wing populist leader has repeatedly called for an immediate ceasefire, saying he and his government are “on the side of peace,” and condemning his Western allies for providing assistance to Kyiv.

DON'T MISS:

Post-Brexit fisheries deal signed by Macron sparks Frexit calls

[INSIGHT]

Russian 'spy ship' stopped in North Sea over energy sabotage attempt

[VIDEO]

Rishi Sunak to unleash massive crackdown on asylum backlog

[ANALYSIS]

Related articles

Hungary, he said on Saturday, is “part of the Western world, a member of NATO and the European Union where, aside from us, everyone supports the war or at least acts like they do".

Breaking with most of its Western allies, Hungary has refused to provide military aid to Ukraine or allow its transfer across its borders and has held up some EU efforts to provide financial aid packages to Kyiv.

On Saturday, he said that while Hungary has provided humanitarian aid to Ukraine and taken in refugees who fled the war, such assistance “does not mean doing away with our relationships with Russia, because that would be contrary to our national interests.”

He said: “We are maintaining our economic relationship with Russia, and in fact, we recommend that the entire Western world do the same because, without relations, there will not be a ceasefire nor peace talks.”

Related articles DEAL OF THE DAY: Travelodge slashes hotel rooms to £17pp Russian pilot killed after jet crashes after Ukraine combat mission Ukraine flag sprawled across road outside Russian embassy Putin warned his Ukraine offensive will be 'bloody failure' If democracy does not show its teeth Putin will trample over Europe

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020230223ej2n0036b


News; International
One Year Of War In Ukraine Leaves Its Mark Around The World; Ukraine's Economy Suffering, Faces Major Rebuild; China's 12-Point Peace Plan For Ukraine; U.S. Imposes New Sanctions On Those Aiding Moscow; U.S. Announces $2B Dollar Aid Package To Ukraine; Awaiting Election Day In Nigeria. Aired 3-4p ET
Richard Quest, Sam Kiley, Marc Stewart, Larry Madowo
7792 字
2023 年 2 月 24 日
CNN International: Quest Means Business
CNNQMB
英文
Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2023 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[15:00:38]

RICHARD QUEST, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: Special Edition one-year of the Ukraine War.

President Zelenskyy is pledging, it will be the year of victory for his country. I'll be talking to the Chief Executive who is keeping the lights on as Russia targets the power and energy grid.

Are you with us on the Kremlin? Tonight, a top US official gives us his warning for those evading sanctions.

And live from New York on Friday, February the 24th, the end of a long week. I'm Richard Quest, and I mean business.

Good evening.

Russia's invasion of Ukraine a year ago today has caused death and destruction on an unimaginable scale. It has also reshaped the global order, the end of which we have no idea where it will be.

The economy of Ukraine has been crushed through all of this, it is now being propped up by support, aid, and grants from the West.

The US and allies have tried to isolate President Putin, the Kremlin, and squeeze Russia's war chest. The conflict has driven up the price of food, it sent energy prices to stratospheric levels, it's led to a resurgence of inflation around the world.

So on this program, we followed each of these developments along the way throughout the year. And tonight, let's draw the economic threads together. Let's examine the state of a wartime economy in a war that shows no sign of ending.

We begin, of course, in the country itself, in Ukraine, where President Zelenskyy addressed his troops on the anniversary telling them they will determine their country's future. He then held a news conference in Kyiv where he thanked the world for its support.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT (through translator): If we all do our homework, victory will be inevitable. I am certain there will be victory. I don't think I want it this year, we have everything for it. We have the motivation, certainty, friends, the diplomacy, you have all come together for this.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

QUEST: Now, in the last six months, Russia's strategy has been to relentlessly attack Ukraine's energy infrastructure. If you think about it, over the winter months, hoping in the depths of winter, darkness, and freezing temperatures might force Kyiv's submission.

Clearly, as we look towards spring, it is a strategy that hasn't worked even with the hundreds, if not thousands of missiles that have been aimed at Ukraine's energy infrastructure.

The attacks have cost at least a billion dollars' worth of damage to the power grids, but the crews, the emergency crews and the highly specialized workers then just get on and restore the electricity.

The country's largest private energy provider DTEK said it has been shelled 28 times, half of its facilities are under occupation, and yet, it is still fighting and keeping the lights on.

Maxim Timchenko is the CEO of DTEK. He joins me now from Ukraine.

Sir, very grateful. We have spoken several times during all of this. I mean, it has been a Herculean task to keep repairing power plants, grids, lines that have been shelled and missile attacked. Can you keep doing that?

MAXIM TIMCHENKO, CEO, DTEK: Hello, Richard.

I think it's very symbolic that exactly one year ago, we went live on your show talking about first power station and this Russian shelling and it was hours before the full scale invasion started.

[15:05:03]

And since that time, we lost three power stations -- thermal power stations in occupied territory, the largest nuclear power station, about 50 percent of generation capacity either destroyed or on the occupied territory. So we've had more than a thousand missiles and drones sent to Ukraine by Russians.

And today, I can say that they completely lost this energy war and energy terror started against Ukraine on the 10th of October, because we have light, we have electricity, we have heat, but we pay very high price for that.

Talking about our company, we lost 141 employees so that Ukraine can survive.

QUEST: Our heart aches for those losses of those employees. Do you fear, though, that Russia could try again, to basically obliterate the infrastructure?

TIMCHENKO: Definitely, they will keep doing what they did with us for the last 12 months, but we becomes stronger. We learn after each attack, we know how to fight, and I have full confidence saying that there is no chance for Putin to plunge Ukraine into darkness. No chance, especially after the most challenging and difficult winter season we are passing now.

QUEST: And of course, with the weather -- with better weather and with lighter evenings, that also has an effect.

Now, we've reached a situation where Ukraine might actually -- you might actually start exporting energy again, because you have been connected to the rest of Europe and the EU's energy grid. So can you see in the near future exporting?

TIMCHENKO: Yes, the irony is that after all these attacks, now we are taking seriously resuming export of electricity. You know, basically on the first of January this year, we had to start importing, but we managed after two months to have sufficient power, generation capacity, and power supply in the country. And now we're discussing with our international partners to start exporting some hours during the day.

Yes, that's what we can start again.

QUEST: What do you need in terms of going to the next level, to protecting the resilience of the infrastructure?

TIMCHENKO: Let me start with the great words of appreciation to all our partners who started helping us from the first weeks of the war, I am talking about energy companies, about governments sending us equipment, helping us financially. Of course, we relied mostly on what we had during the last year, and now, our stocks run out.

And now, we have started preparing for the next winter season. What is it first of all? Building new equipment, bringing new equipment very, very specific to our power stations.

We need priority production, and we need financial support to place. It is about hundreds of millions of dollars.

QUEST: The financial support, which we'll be talking about later in our program.

Thank you, sir. I'm grateful for your talking.

We spoke last year. We've spoken several times during the course of the year. We look forward to continuing to talk to you as we move on. Thank you. I'm grateful, sir.

TIMCHENKO: Thank you.

QUEST: Now, Ukraine's economy shrank more than 30 percent last year. The war effort has consumed a huge part of its budget, and when the conflict finally ends, the country and the West will be faced with the biggest rebuilding effort since World War Two.

The plan is to use the sequestrated Russian assets, assuming it's a legal thing to do, to actually rebuild the infrastructure in Ukraine. You can't bring back the lives, but you can certainly put back the bricks and mortar.

Sam Kiley is with me in Kharkiv, in Ukraine. I guess the feeling is what life is like and this sort of always feeling that you're on the precipice of something that could get a great deal worse.

SAM KILEY, CNN SENIOR INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, I think there has been a much, much more positive air than there was when I was standing here a year and a bit ago as in a year and a few hours ago when the war started. There were Russian troops pressing into suburbs of Kharkiv, it's only 25 miles from the Russian border, they were punching in from the east, they were assaulting the -- or on their way to assault the capital.

[15:10:10]

That is now been the tide. That tide came in hard and fast and was turned back so that large swathes of Kharkiv Province has been liberated. It continues, though, Richard to be pounded and it continues to be pounded as part of what the Ukrainians believe of shaping operations, softening up the Ukrainian positions ahead of what is feared to be a Russian offensive.

Now the Ukrainians have also got their own plans for offensives. They make no bones about the fact that they want to chase the Russians out of their country altogether, and they want Western help to do it.

I have to say, though, in the civilian areas that are not very, very close to the front, life goes on as defiantly as possible. The food here is outstanding. Even in relatively obscure little towns, you wouldn't expect to get a decent cup of coffee, you can get extraordinarily good food.

People here are determined not to see or allow Putin to undermine their sense of self, their sense of dignity, their sense that they can be and will be proud Ukrainians come what may, so there isn't really that sense of impending doom, that you might expect given that their own government is warning of a Russian offensive.

There is a lot of focus on thanking the international community for the help that they've already given, and really strong cries for further help, because there is in the background, very heavy casualties, indeed, on the military front.

This is unsustainable, long term for Ukraine in terms of a dynamic war of maneuver. And the real problem, what does scare people is the idea that this could settle into a frozen conflict and that at the end of the day, Richard, would be victory for Vladimir Putin.

QUEST: Sam Kiley in Kharkiv bringing us the latest on the ground, and the feeling there. Thank you.

In just a moment, Hungary's Foreign Minister will be with me to discuss Hungary's role in the conflict, his meeting with the Chinese Minister, and the latest Chinese Peace Plan, in a moment, QUEST MEANS BUSINESS.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

QUEST: President Zelenskyy says he is prepared to meet with China's President Xi Jinping. It is an offer yet, though that's not been taken up by Beijing; however, today, China did put out a 12-point peace plan.

[15:15:09]

It starts by saying the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries must be upheld. Nowhere does it call upon Russia to withdraw its troops. CNN's Marc Stewart has the gist of the story.

MARC STEWART, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, hi there, Richard.

We are seeing these different sides of China. On one hand, it is portraying itself as a peacemaker, yet it also has this no limits pledge with Russia. In fact, it won't even call the conflict an invasion.

So now we see this position paper appear, it calls for resumption of peace talks, it calls for a focus on some of the humanitarian issues. Yet, there are no specifics.

In recent days, we are seeing China really trying to exert its power on the world stage. It just had a meeting, its top diplomat, China's top diplomat just had a meeting with Vladimir Putin. This, at a time when both the EU and NATO are really trying to flex their diplomatic muscle -- Richard.

QUEST: Marc Stewart.

Now, before he went to Russia, the top diplomat, Wang Yi was in Budapest amongst other countries. Hungary is of course, part of both the EU and NATO. The critics say it's trying to play both sides of this conflict.

Peter Szijjarto is Hungary's Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. It is always good to have him here in New York, and the Minister is with me now.

I just want to start with the full text of China's plan. China's position on the politics settlement. It starts with the number one point, respecting the sovereignty of all countries.

Now, once that's your starting point, don't you then have to say Russia has already failed in this plan?

PETER SZIJJARTO, HUNGARIAN MINISTER FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND TRADE: Well, good afternoon. First of all, thank you so much for the invitation. Again, I'm happy to be back to your program.

As you said, former Minister and current State Counselor, Wang Yi has not only visited the Hungary before going to Moscow, but he was in Germany, in France and Italy as well. So the three G7 countries from the European Union, and we were honored to be on his travel schedule as well, since China is an important partner for us when it comes to trade and investments.

We have discussed a bit, but just a bit, about this peace plan since the visit took place on Monday, and they just announced the points now. What I can say is that I totally agree that sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries on earth must be respected, and it must be respected by everyone.

I think this is a very important basic pillar of international politics or it should be a basic pillar of international politics.

QUEST: And if that is the case, you obviously then it follows you accept that Russia has breached the sovereignty of Ukraine?

SZIJJARTO: Well, it's no question. I mean, Russia -- the Russian Federation has attacked Ukraine. And we Hungarians, we do condemn this attack. We do condemn this war and it is obvious that we stand by Ukraine, and we call for the respect of territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. That's no question. I said it to you as many times already, I believe.

QUEST: You did. You did.

Why did you go to Belarus? I mean, what purpose does it serve going to give comfort in a sense to a country that is part of, if you will, the Russia axis against Ukraine?

SZIJJARTO: Well, you know, we are a neighboring country to Ukraine, and the impacts of the war are severe and immediate on us, and we, as a neighboring country, we have the concern that this war might be escalated and prolonged, both in geographic terms and both timewise.

And therefore, I asked my counterpart, my colleague, the Foreign Minister of Belarus, to refrain from any kind of steps, which would either prolong or escalate this war.

As a neighboring country, it is super important for us because if a war is being escalated, then the escalation does not appear on the other side of the ocean, or thousands of kilometers away, it appears in the neighborhood. We are a neighboring country, we have serious security concerns because of the war. So for us, it's very important that all countries refrain from any kind of steps, which would bring the risk of either escalation or prolongation of this war.

QUEST: Talking of escalation, in terms of sanctions, the EU -- and I'll save you the breath of saying it. I understand Hungary has supported every sanctions measure being put forward by the EU. I've said it, you don't need to, Minister.

[15:20:10]

SZIJJARTO: Sorry. Sorry, Richard, I don't want to -- I just want to say that we do not support the sanction policy as such. We have just not vetoed.

We don't think that the sanction policy is good. We don't think that the sanctions would work. We don't like the sanctions. We don't support them, but we have not vetoed any packages so far.

This is very precise this way. Sorry to interfere.

QUEST: Yes, well, yes. Okay, your point is taken. So I can just reframe my question, will you veto the 10th when it comes up for a vote?

SZIJJARTO: No, we will not veto and I will tell you why not, because during the discussions about the package, we were successful in gaining all those exemptions, which took -- which took all those issues out of the sanctions, which are important for us.

For example, we made it very clear that we would and we will never support any sanction, which would restrict the nuclear cooperation so far. We will never support any kind of sanction, which would restrict oil deliveries from Russia to Hungary or the gas deliveries, and since we were successful in taking out all those issues from this package, which are important for us, and which are vital from the perspective of Hungary, we don't like it, we don't support it, but we don't veto it.

QUEST: Okay, so if this is the scenario that we now face ourselves in, and we are looking at various countries suggesting an increase in military support. I hear what you say about what your Prime Minister has said.

So how do you get out of this? How do we get out of this?

If Russia won't withdraw and Ukraine is demanding full sovereignty under the sovereignty of all countries, how do you think Hungary can play a role that doesn't impede the successful if you like, restoration of Ukraine?

SZIJJARTO: Look, we are a neighboring country, as it is widely known and as a neighboring country, for us an immediate ceasefire and peace is vital. And not only because we are neighbors, but because of the fact that Hungarians are dying in this war.

I'm not quite sure, Richard, you even know that there is a significant Hungarian community living in the western part of Ukraine. Members of this community are obviously Ukrainian citizens, so they are being conscripted into the Ukrainian army.

Many of them have been deployed on the frontline, and unfortunately, many of them have died. So I'm representing a nation, let's put it this way, members of which have already died in this war.

So when we call for saving lives of the people, it comes from this perspective that we are losing people and we are there in a neighborhood. So how peace could be made? Because this is your question.

I think peace can only be made in the case those who are party to the conflict can talk to each other. That's why when we say that the channels of communication must be kept open. This is why we say that because if there is no communication, if the channels are being cut, then we give up even the hope for peace. Because at the end of the day, I hope -- sorry, at the end of the day, I hope you agree with me that the war means failure of diplomacy, and peace means success of diplomacy. So, we have to double the diplomatic effort.

QUEST: That's a given. Okay, but two points as a result of that.

Firstly, to those -- you, Hungarian, if you will, Ukrainian nationals of Hungarian descent, obviously, that anyone who dies receives -- I mean, it's just horrific. But has that tilted? The fact that there are those of Hungarian descent in Ukraine, has that tilted the way your party and your government views the Ukrainian prosecution of its defense?

SZIJJARTO: So could you please repeat the second part of the question, because I couldn't hear? I really apologize.

QUEST:` No, I'm basically asking whether or not the fact that there are Hungarian descent in Ukraine has that to some extent, altered the way you look upon Ukraine and its defense?

SZIJJARTO: Well, we look at Ukraine as a country which has been attacked. We look at Ukraine as a country, territorial integrity and sovereignty of which is violated. But we see the conflict as a brutal one, where hundreds or even thousands of people are dying on a daily basis.

So what we think the number one duty now should be to save lives and you cannot save lives with weapon deliveries, you cannot say lives with sanction regimes. You can only save lives if you stop the war, if you come to an immediate ceasefire, if you sit to the table to discuss, to launch peace talks, at the end of which some sustainable peace agreement should be reached.

[15:25:14]

This is what we say, and this is what we hope for. And if we can help, we are ready to help.

QUEST: And that is what most people who are familiar with foreign negotiations say.

So my last question is, does in your view and in your government's view, does that also mean -- at peace negotiation, does that also mean, A., sovereignty guarantees to Ukraine for the future, but perhaps more importantly, a return to sovereignty borders, either of 2022 or 2014 pre- Crimea. Which would you be looking at?

SZIJJARTO: Well, you know, I told you at the beginning of this discussion that we are in favor of respecting territorial integrity and sovereignty of all countries. So we hope, we hope that a sustainable peace can be created, where Ukraine gets its guarantees for sovereignty. No question.

QUEST: Sir, I am grateful to you. We talk often. There are many more things we do need to talk about, and you'll be delighted to know, I am actually coming to Budapest in the next two months.

SZIJJARTO: Come on. You are promising that for me for like two years now.

QUEST: We have dates.

SZIJJARTO: So please, please deliver.

QUEST: "World of Wonder." "World of Wonder" will be coming from Budapest, so I will be in touch. Sir, thank you very much.

The Minister there talks about his opposition to the fundamental idea of sanctions, they don't work, he .

In just a moment, the US Deputy Secretary of Treasury, Wally Adeyemo, he talks about Russian sanctions, and he will tell us, they're working very nicely.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

WALLY ADEYEMO, US DEPUTY SECRETARY OF TREASURY: They are having to use their reserves to prop up their economy rather than buy tanks to fight the war in Ukraine. So from our perspective, they are working. Our goal is to make sure they're working better.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[15:30:11]

QUEST: You're either with us or you are against us. That's the message from a top U.S. Treasury official to countries and companies trying to circumvent the sanctions regime in place. The United States has just imposed new fresh sanctions on the Kremlin and those that accuses of aiding Moscow's war. I asked the Deputy Treasury Secretary Wally Adeyemo if the existing sanctions are really actually working.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

WALLY ADEYEMO, UNITED STATES DEPUTY SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY: What we've done with sanctions is that we've made it harder for Vladimir Putin to use the money he has to get the weapons he needs in Ukraine. And the reason we know they're working is because the Kremlin has tasked their intelligence agencies with trying to evade our sanctions. And our goal with the sanctions we announced today was to make that harder for them, so that they can't get the weapons they need to continue their war in Ukraine.

And we're committed to doing that going forward. Fundamentally, Russia has made a great deal of money from selling energy to the world. We recently put in place a price cap on their ability to sell energy using G7 services. Russia, their finance ministry reported that their revenues from selling energy were down 46 percent last month, because of our price cap on Russian oil. And that means they're having to use their reserves to prop up their economy rather than buy tanks to fight the war in Ukraine.

So, from our perspective, they're working, our goal is to make sure they work even better, in order to slow down Russia, as our friends in our defense department give Ukraine the weapons they need to speed up in defending their country from Russia's advances.

QUEST: So, the ruble, for example, which did crash immediately afterwards is just about recovered to where it was. Inflation in Russia, I agree, we've taken with a pinch of salt, the number, but it's not much worse than the U.K. If you look at the way in which Russia has managed to leak through the sanctions, and that's something you're familiar with, of course, China is picking up the slack, Indian products are. The critics say the sanctions regime simply isn't effective enough.

ADEYEMO: So, I think the Russian would disagree with you. And you've heard the central bank governor talk about how our sanctions have set back their economy, not just one year but decades. And you're right that the economic data has demonstrated that Russia has been able to manipulate that data in a way that shows strength at this point. But fundamentally, you have to remember the beginning of this conflict. Anyone who had money in Russia was trying to get that money out.

In fact, educated Russians, the most productive Russians are still leaving the country due to the impact of our sanctions and our export controls. What Russia did in response is they put in place a set of draconian capital controls that made it impossible for anyone to get money out of the country which has helped to prop up their economic data. Fundamentally, Russia over the last nine months has seen industrial production decline.

They've seen the smartest Russians leave the country. They've been forced to use their reserves to prop up their economy and to stimulate their economy. Over the long term, Russia's economy is headed less towards becoming an open economy like those we find in Europe, and more towards looking like Iran's economy because they have less access to the world due to the war that they are fighting in Ukraine.

QUEST: So, is part of the future direction for sanctions targeting third party, third country to prevent? I mean, what our correspondent yesterday was saying, if we look at Moscow and Russia now, it's swamped with Chinese goods, replacing those which have been removed because of sanctions. So, is the future to go after third parties and third countries?

ADEYEMO: So, it's one thing I want to make clear is that our sanctions have been in a place where what we've tried to do is target Russia and Russia's ability to fight its war in Ukraine. And what we've told individuals and companies and other countries is that if you provide material support to Russia in terms of their ability to fight this war, we're going to go after you. Today we announced a set of more than 250 sanctions.

And in that, were sanctions of 30 individuals and companies outside of Russia, who are providing just that material support. It's helping Russia further its war. But one thing we haven't done is placed sanctions in any way that would impact the ability of food to be delivered to (INAUDIBLE) or energy products because we know about the impact of those things on emerging markets and developing economies.

But while we have resisted doing anything like that, and tried to make sure that food is able to be accessed by people, Russia has taken steps to make it hard for food to leave the Black Sea and have led -- and when Russia's invasion started energy prices went up having an impact on developing economies. Fundamentally, actions like using Strategic Petroleum Reserve has helped to bring down energy prices not just here the United States but around the world.

And we're committed to doing whatever we can to reduce costs for the people who are suffering in Russia's invasion.

[15:35:07]

QUEST: And as you look to the future, we head on QUEST MEANS BUSINESS a steel company CEO, the largest steel company in Ukraine and he says it's a great regime, sanctions regime. But there's too much leakage. There's too many loopholes that Russia can manage to do. Now, I imagine you have some of your brightest and best looking into closing those loopholes to tighten the regime.

ADEYEMO: We do. And in the package that was announced today, we went after what we would call sanctions evasion. And this has been attempts by Russia and the Kremlin using their intelligence services to get around our sanctions. And a number of the companies and entities we went after today, for those that were helping further Russia's attempts to do that. And the choice we're going to give companies and individuals around the world who are helping Russia to get around our sanctions, you can either choose to do business with Russia which is a small economy that's getting smaller over time.

We're going to continue to do business with the United States, and the members of our coalition which represent 50 percent of a global economy. For most companies and individuals, that's going to be a clear choice.

QUEST: The difficulty becomes places like South Africa. And those countries where we want to keep them on board but we want to also enforce. That's the tricky area.

ADEYEMO: And I think the thing to remember is that fundamentally, many of the decisions aren't being made by countries. They're being made by businesses. What Russia is attempting to do is get access to goods and technology that they need to fight their war of choice in Ukraine. They get that from individuals and companies within these countries. Those companies within these countries be at South Africa or any country around the world.

They have to make decisions about where they want to do business. Who they want to do business with Russia. A small economy that's getting smaller were with the members of our coalition which represent 50 percent of the global economy. Fundamentally, what we've made clear is that we're going to take actions to go after companies and individuals who provide material support Russia going forward.

And on the other hand, we're committed to helping those countries who are struggling, due to the higher food prices and higher energy prices that have been caused by Russia's war of -- aggression in Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

QUEST: U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary. The U.S. has announced another $2 billion in military aid for Ukraine. The Pentagon says it includes rocket launchers, drones, artillery, and ammunition. That defense secretary of the U.S. Lloyd Austin says the country will stand by Ukraine for as long as it takes. Some Republican lawmakers have questioned that commitment and may use the party's slim House majority to block some of the aid.

John Garamendi is U.S. congressman from California. Member of the Armed Services Committee who has recently visiting the Polish border with Ukraine. He joins me from the magnificent state of California. Sir, grateful to have you on the program tonight. Look, I know where they come from this sort of anti -- they basically say we're not against helping Ukraine, but we're not giving them a blank check either. They have a valid point.

REP. JOHN GARAMENDI (D-CA): Well, they've never had a blank check. These folks that are -- I don't know mouthing off right now. Really don't care to understand that never had a blank check. Each and every one of the appropriations is very, very carefully analyzed. Often, they find -- the same people are complaining that we're not sending enough equipment fast enough. But reality is that the equipment is being sent forward, as needed.

And as can be used usefully by the Ukrainians. That is their properly trained, they can properly maintain the equipment and use it at the battlefield. What we did on our journey just a week ago was to check it out. To make sure that the equipment was getting through, that the munitions were getting through, the artillery and all of the other. And in fact, they are from the arsenals in the United States all the way to Ukraine.

QUEST: So, the way forward. Now, for example, today, the British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, has been talking about -- basically taking a quantum leap forward, providing Ukraine with armaments and weaponry that's just going to knock this thing on the head once and for all. Eventually, you're going to have the question of plains, you're going to have the question of much greater military issuance. Are you prepared to go there?

GARAMENDI: Well, step by step. That's exactly what's been happening. And take a look at the success that the Ukrainians have had from the very beginning of this. It was the missiles, the Javelin missiles, the stinger missiles that really together with a well-trained, well-prepared Ukrainian Army which NATO and particularly the United States National Guard had been training the Ukrainians for 2014.

[15:40:07]

They use that to great effect. And as the war has proceeded, the equipment is flown into Ukraine, not only from the United States, but also from the United Kingdom and the NATO countries. As could be useful, if that particular junction of the war. You're quite correct. It can pressure -- the pressure for the F-16 teens continues on. However, in the Eastern European and NATO countries, there are still Soviet Union makes that are available and wouldn't be moved forward when those countries are -- or feel that they have the backup that is new, more modern planes being available. So yes. And by the way, the tanks are flowing in too.

QUEST: And final question, sir. The -- I did some back of envelope numbers. It's not totally accurate but it's close enough. 70 -- the U.S. has provided about $77 billion worth of aid in an economy worth $23.2 trillion. So, it's less than two-tenths of one percent. Probably 1-1/2, point one- five. Do you think this is an argument you need to make to the American people who may be hear these very large numbers and think actually, this is extremely deleterious to the U.S. economy.

In actual fact, it's not even the rounding error. And this is an argument that needs to be made to keep people on side.

GARAMENDI: I'm going to record what you said and I'm going to play it instead of my own words, it cannot be more accurate. This is not even a rounding area error. It is a very small part. Actually, the actual military aid is less than 20 billion. Other aid as certainly to deal with the refugee issues as well as to provide direct support to the Ukrainian economy. The numbers fluctuate, you're there, it is not a significant issue.

Keep in mind that the U.S. military is appropriated every year over $800 billion a year. And so, for the U.S. military, the 18 billion, 17 billion of military is very, very small, although it is very, very important equipment because it is our ammunition stock. I should also point out the NATO is doing its share also. All of the NATO countries, they're chipping in, they're providing support similar and in many cases, a very much larger part of their total economy.

GARAMENDI: Sir, I'm grateful for your time. We will talk more as these progresses. And as your schedule allows. Thank you, sir, for joining us tonight.

GARAMENDI: Thank you.

QUEST: QUEST MEANS BUSINESS coming up. Hopes of a new era in Nigeria. Now the country is preparing for a weekend presidential election. We know there'll be a change in power but who's going to win? QUEST MEANS BUSINESS.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[15:45:30]

QUEST: Whether it's blogging music design, the creative economy as we all know is a true engine of growth for any country. Which is why Dubai is emerging as a new hub for arts and culture and attracting global creators with incentives to settle there.

Kim Kelaita explains in our latest edition of Think Big.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ZAHRA ABDALLA, FOOD BLOGGER: Today I'm going to show you how to make a delicious gnocchi with pumpkin sauce --

KIM KELAITA, CNN INTERNATIONAL REPORTER (voice over): Zara Abdalla is one of many creatives who've made a name for themselves in Dubai.

(INAUDIBLE) studio. Is the kitchen always in studio lights camera action?

ABDALLA: Pretty much, pretty much.

KELAITA: In 2020, she was one of 70,000 people working in the city's creative fields. A number Dubai wants to double by 2025 as part of a new strategy designed to diversify its economy.

HALA BADRI, DIRECTOR GENRAL, DUBAI CULTURE AND ARTS AUTHORITY: The ultimate goal for Dubai is to create this pool of talent. Make sure that this talent is educated, has everything that it requires to run its business and then this transforms into healthy businesses. That in the future will actually contribute positively to our economy.

KELAITA: The creative economy is one of the world's fastest growing sectors. In 2022, the United Nations reported that it accounts for 3.1 percent of global GDP. Recognizing this potential Dubai's new policy introduced a special cultural golden visa to grant those like Zahra long- term residency to cultivate their careers in the Emirates.

BADRI: The Golden visa allows you security. It allows you to stay within the city for 10 years. It ensures sustainability for your business.

ABDALLA: I always felt like this is a transitionary city and after we got the golden visa, I truly feel that Dubai is home.

KELAITA: to replicate that feeling of home for those abroad, this new scheme also helps establish new hubs to entice foreign talent and investment. The industrial area of Al Quoz for example is being revamped.

BADRI: When we create a platform like Al Quoz Creative zone that allows people to come and create. It allows for jobs in the manufacturing sector.

KELAITA: One entrepreneur drawn in by this growing artistic community is Kwame Mintah as the co-founder of FTA Gallery in Al Quoz, he sees firsthand how the city's action plan is changing the world's perception of Dubai.

KWAME MINTAH, CO-FOUNDER EFIE GALLERY: It's like a vehicle so the guy acts as a vehicle between artists and the creative economy here in Dubai. When an artist wants to become international previously (INAUDIBLE) was to go to Europe or to go to America. But now the Middle East has really opened up its areas and its landscape as a destination artist want to exhibit in.

KELAITA: As the city works to raise its creative sectors GDP contribution to five percent by 2025. Dubai-based creators like Zahra can only benefit from the policies turning the Emirates into an international hub for creativity.

ABDALLA: Giving us the space to thrive and feel like you are part of the tapestry. It's really exciting to see everyone's celebrate it. From the doctors and lawyers and entrepreneurs to the students and artists and people who traditionally wouldn't have been celebrated in this part of the world.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

QUEST: Coming up. Nigeria is bracing itself for major presidential election. Polls opening just hours.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[15:51:31]

QUEST: In a matter of hours. Polling will open in Nigeria. It's very important presidential election because for the first time in more than 20 years, no military leaders are on the ballot and the existing president, his time -- is time limited. Voting no doubt will be brisk, as it always is in Nigeria with three main candidates Bola Tinubu, Peter Obi and Atiku Abubakar. Now Obi under the lesser-known Labour Party. It is a rare third contender. Economies are huge issue.

The country has suffered inflation, unemployment, corruption. And of course, the object is to see if a new leader can change things. Larry Madowo is watching developments. He's in Lagos. I mean, one goes into an election with great hope, after all the people the majesty, people will have their say but the cynicism of the ability to affect change in Nigeria must be enormous amongst the electorate.

LARRY MADOWO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It is enormous because they've been consistently disappointed by generations of leaders since 1999 when Nigeria returned to democratic rule. It's not been good. That's the thing (INAUDIBLE) view. And that is why in this election for the first time, we have three men, one of whom could be the next president of Nigeria, the incumbent parties Bola Tinubu in his seven days.

The main opposition PDP's candidate Atiku Abubakar also in his seven days and the third horse in this race, the younger man, 61-year-old Peter Obi who's energized a lot of young people that are excited about him because they want all been changed with this country. The litany of problems, Richard, you mentioned doesn't even include last few weeks were a major cash shortage and a major gasoline shortage has led to chaotic scenes, outside banks and outside gas stations as people are just trying to fill up or get a few Naira after the central bank decided to demonetize higher denomination notes.

But there was not enough supply and give people six weeks to comply. So, it's all writing on who becomes president in the election tomorrow. So, when we know who the next president is? Don't ask Electoral Commission.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

MAHMOOD YAKUBU, CHAIRPERSON, INDEPENDENT NATIONAL ELECTORAL COMMISSION: Asking how soon we expect results of election to be declared after polling. I just want to say that will ensure that it is done speaking, but I can't put a finger on the number of days or number of hours it will take but it will be done speaking.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

MADOWO: Richard, Nigeria is Africa's most populous nation and Africa's largest economy but also maybe Africa's most disappointing. A good example is, when oil prices rose last year after Russia invaded Ukraine. Nigeria didn't benefit because, in fact, oil output fell to a 40-year low. Up to 20 percent of the oil that's produced here in Nigeria, the crude is just stolen, straight up.

QUEST: Larry, final question. When we hear these results in a sneeze speedily put together results over the next few days and weeks. Can you just tell us, is it generally considered that elections are free and fair in the way they are managed?

MADOWO: In general terms, yes. It comes down to the vet are specific instances across this nation which is massive than 93 million registered voters in this election.

[15:55:05]

That's more than the next 14 West African nations combined. And the further away you are from Abuja and Lagos the more likely that some voters are open to getting manipulated or getting bots. This election requires a lot of money which is why the two main parties, the PDP and the APC stand the strongest chances because they have a nationwide machinery. They have people in every part of Nigeria that can -- when necessary, even pay voters to vote for his particular candidate.

But Nigeria (INAUDIBLE) a lot of technology in the selection to make sure it's transparent, so the outcome will generally represent the views of the people, even though ethnicity and religion are two key factors in determining who becomes the president of the country.

QUEST: Larry, you'll watch the results, you'll bring us to them. Thank you very much. The Fed's preferred inflation gauge came in higher than expected. PCE grows 5.4 from a year ago. Look at the Dow, I need to update you there. It's been all day. It's off about 350 odd points. Morgan Stanley -- or no, J.P. Morgan, I beg your pardon, is up about one percent. Broad losses otherwise. Boeing's off the most, down 4-1/2 percent as its temporarily halting deliveries of the Dreamliner.

Those are the markets. I'll have our profitable moment after the break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

QUEST: Tonight's profitable moment on the anniversary of the Ukraine invasion. Whenever you hear that this country or that country, the E.U., U.S. NATO whatever is giving X billion, 15 billion, four billion, two billion. G7, 39 billion to Ukraine. You're apt to think, gosh, that's a lot of money. My word. I mean, it's such a -- what's about it (INAUDIBLE) but the reality is the summons we're giving at the moment are basically rounding errors.

In economies that are worth trillions. We are giving literally -- I'll give you an example. The U.S. economy is worth $23 trillion dollars. USAID is $76 billion. If you aggregate it all up, we are roughly giving two-tenths of one percent. Two-tenths of one percent either military or financial aid to Ukraine, which is a small price some would argue to pay for freedom and democracy. Others may have a different view.

My point here is, let's not get hung up on what seems like large numbers. The reality is, it's still very small amounts that developed economies can easily and well afford.

[16:00:05]

And that's QUEST MEANS BUSINESS for tonight. I'm Richard Quest in New York. Whatever you're up to in the hours ahead, I hope it's profitable. We'll be in Seoul in South Korea next week.

END

Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2023 VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNQMB0020230225ej2o00001


West urged to sanction key Russian firm for fuelling Putin’s war machine with £800m
Ciaran McGrath
726 字
2023 年 2 月 27 日 06:00 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2023
Rosatom has exported more than £800million in nuclear energy-related goods and materials since Putin's invasion a year ago, a report published earlier this month suggested.

The West must include Rosatom, Russia’s state-owned nuclear power company, in its list of sanctioned entities to prevent it from being used as a means of generating income to power Vladimir Putin’s war machine, a Kyiv-based economist has said. Vlad Vlasiuk also warned Viktor Orban-led Hungary’s decision to allow the company to build a nuclear power station there represented a threat to the unity of both the European Union and NATO as far as support for Ukraine was concerned.

Related articles

Mr Vlasiuk was commenting in the wake of stymied attempts by western officials to target the company, despite being urged to do so by Volodymyr Zelensky, Ukraine’s President.

The EU’s recently unveiled package of measures target specific sectors, such as aviation or military, and impose visa restrictions and asset freezes on both individuals and companies - but Rosatom remains exempt, partly as a result of concerns about a likely Hungary veto.

Mr Vlasiuk, who works for the Office of the President of Ukraine, and who is also Deputy Head of the Task Force Ukraine, spearheaded by Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova, told Express.co.uk: “This week, Putin delivered his Presidential address to the Federal Assembly, where he urged Rosatom to boost its nuclear forces and prepare nuclear weapon testing, while also suspending a landmark nuclear arms control treaty.

“This is a call for conflict escalation, and as such, targeting Russia’s nuclear industry would be one of the toughest measures the EU could implement at this stage in the war.”

Rosatom continued to position itself as a civil nuclear company, but the purposes it had been serving were “crossing blurred lines”, Mr Vlasiuk said.

He explained: “There are some reports indicating that Rosatom is working with the Russian military-industrial complex to help circumvent sanctions by supplying components, technologies, and raw materials for rocket fuel to companies that are already under sanctions. This makes Rosatom sanctionable.”

Mr Vlasiuk welcomed what is the EU’s tenth package of measures - but stressed more needed to be done.

He continued: “We call for more sanctions on Russian propagandists spreading misinformation and promoting Putin’s illegal war, the diamond industry, as well as strong financial sanctions and a complete ban on investments in the EU from Russia.”

JUST IN: New Ukraine war map shows 'extremely high' Russian casualties

The 10th ������������ sanctions package targets russian military industry, propaganda & financial system. The pressure on russian aggressor must increase: we expect decisive steps against Rosatom & russian nuclear industry, more pressure on military & banking.

Related articles

With specific reference to Hungary, Mr Vlasiuk said: “We are fully aware that countries within NATO remain sovereign states and must act in accordance with their national interests.

“However, the one and only factor that ensures an effective sanctions regime is the EU’s unity and unanimity.

“EU countries must strengthen their collective effort and align on detailed sanctions proposals to ensure successful results.

DON'T MISS

China fires space lasers, US deploys troops, says JONATHAN SAXTY [COMMENT]

Joe Biden snaps back after being asked about China arming Russia [NEWS]

Arming Ukraine before invasion might have made Putin think again [SPOTLIGHT]

“The ambiguity in Hungary’s foreign policy can pose a threat to the bloc’s unity and will only make it more difficult to weaken Russia’s aggression against Ukraine and bringing this illegal war to an end.”

A report published by the Royal United Services Institute earlier this month suggests Russia has exported just over £840million-worth of nuclear energy-related goods and materials since the start of the war in Ukraine.

Neither the USA nor the UK has sanctioned Rosatom either, although Express.co.uk understands London reserves the right to do so in the future.

Related articles DEAL OF THE DAY: Dunelm heated airer costs 3p to run Master ‘manipulator’ Putin makes others feel like his ‘best friend’ Russia braces for civil war & break-up as rebels vote for Revolution Ukraine star Stakhovsky makes new call for Wimbledon to tackle Russia 'Russian missiles fly past my balcony, we barely blink these days'

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020230227ej2r000rt


AsiaWorld
Breaking with EU, Hungary's leader backs China's peace proposal for Ukraine war
592 字
2023 年 3 月 1 日
scmp.com
SCMCOM
英文
(c) 2023 scmp.com. All rights reserved.
* ‘We consider China’s peace plan important, and we support it,’ Prime Minister Viktor Orban says

* Most European Union leaders have criticised the 12-point proposal, contending that it takes Russia’s side

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has broken with the European Union to throw his support behind China’s position paper for peace in the Ukraine war.

In a speech to the Hungarian national parliament on Monday, Orban warned that “the whole of Europe is slipping into the war, step by step”.

“We need a ceasefire and the start of peace talks; Hungary calls for peace in all international forums; I see that most states support peace and Hungary cannot isolate itself from most of the world.

Do you have questions about the biggest topics and trends from around the world? Get the answers with SCMP Knowledge[https://www.scmp.com/knowledge], our new platform of curated content with explainers, FAQs, analyses and infographics brought to you by our award-winning team.

“Therefore, we consider China’s peace plan important, and we support it,” he said, according to the Hungarian news website Telex.

China’s 12-point position paper, released on Friday to mark the first anniversary of Russia’s invasion, calls for an immediate ceasefire, opposes the use of sanctions and nuclear weapons, and calls on all parties to stop “fanning the flames” of the war.

Orban, who is considered Beijing’s closest ally in Europe, warned that with many other EU member nations now considering sending fighter jets to Ukraine, troops may follow.

By contrast, EU leaders have criticised China’s paper, saying that it takes Russia’s side.

“China introduced its ‘position paper’ on a political settlement. It is not really a peace plan and mostly reiterates well-known Chinese positions – some of which we share while important ones are missing,” EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell wrote in a blog post on Sunday.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said last week that the bloc would assess the paper, “but it is already clear that the key problem is that it does not really distinguish aggressor from the victim, putting the parties at an equal level”.

China’s proposal was also rejected by the United States and Nato. But Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky cautiously welcomed it, reiterating a desire to meet with Chinese President Xi Jinping.

According to media reports, Zelensky told reporters in Kyiv that “the fact that China started talking about Ukraine is not bad … but the question is what follows the words. The question is in the steps and where they will lead to.”

Orban has frequently shown willingness to break with EU consensus on important foreign policy issues. He has held up sanction packages and halted the export of weaponry to Kyiv.

He has referred to Zelensky as an “opponent”, drawing criticism from the Ukrainian leader.

However, Orban, who critics say has established an authoritarian government within the EU’s borders, supported Brussels sanctions on Chinese officials for alleged human rights abuses in Xinjiang in 2021, even as he torpedoed a package of measures to be taken in response to the imposition of Hong Kong’s national security law months earlier.

Russian spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that the proposal deserves “great attention”, but added that Moscow saw “no preconditions at present” for the conflict to shift tack and will continue its assault.

“We are paying a great deal of attention to the plan of our Chinese friends,” Peskov told reporters on Monday.

South China Morning Post Publishers Limited

文件 SCMCOM0020230228ej31000jh


Hungary This Week - March 3, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 3 月 3 日, 21215 字, (英文)
Statistics Office confirms Hungary in recession in Q4Hungary's annualised GDP growth slowed to 0.4% in 4Q from 4.0% in the previous month and adjusted for seasonal and calendar year effects, growth was 0.8%, the Central Statistics Office ...

Features
Turkey cuts trade ties with Russia, Hungary to “rethink” relationship as Western pressure to end sanctions-busting mounts
Ben Aris in Berlin
1433 字
2023 年 3 月 12 日 11:19 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Turkey has abruptly stopped exporting goods to Russia and one of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s strongest advocates in Europe, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, has said that he might “rethink” his relations with Russia in the future, as Western diplomats pile the pressure on countries “friendly” to Russia to end aiding Moscow in dodging sanctions.

Ten packages of sanctions have been imposed on Russia, but most of them are not working well. Russia has managed to almost entirely dodge those on oil exports, import of technology and has earned more money from trade last year than it has done in its entire post-Soviet history. At the same time as bne IntelliNews reported, efforts to seize oligarch money in the West are going poorly[https://www.intellinews.com/western-efforts-to-freeze-and-seize-russian-oligarch-money-going-poorly-272448/?source=russia].

At the same time, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell admitted on March 10 that the West is running out of sanctions options. The latest tenth package of sanctions contained little more than the addition of 122 names to the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons (SDN) list, many of them insignificant media personalities.

A second issue is that further sanctions increasingly hurt Western commercial interests and their economies more than they harm Russia’s, which has to a large extent sanction-proofed its economy thanks to the strength of Putin’s Fiscal Fortress[https://www.intellinews.com/moscow-blog-strategy-vs-tactics-putin-s-fiscal-fortress-is-ready-208909/].

"There is not much more to do from the point of view of sanctions, but we can continue to increase financial and military support," Borrell told the Euractiv news website after an informal meeting of EU development ministers in Stockholm, adding that the bloc was "getting to the end of the ladder.”

As a result, the focus is switching from imposing new punitive sanctions on Russia to making the existing ones work better, with some recent success.

Hungary is rethinking its relations to Russia as it becomes increasingly likely that the war in Ukraine could be protracted. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said that he was reconsidering his pro-Russia stance as a result of “shifting geopolitical realities”.

“I understand the need to rebuild Russian-European relations after the war but that’s far from realistic,” Orban said on March 9. “That’s why Hungary’s foreign and economic policy needs to think hard about what sort of relations we can establish and maintain with Russia in the next 10 to 15 years.”

Hungary is especially reliant on Russian energy imports of oil and gas, and since it is far from the sea and has been locked into the Soviet-era oil and gas pipelines, switching to new energy sources has proved to be especially hard. Germany was also locked into the same Soviet energy system, but as it has a coast it hired five floating LNG (FLNG) platforms last year that allowed it to completely reduce its dependence on Russian gas, and is in the process of building more permanent land-based LNG terminals.

Turkey has also been playing both sides, and refused to join Western sanctions on Russia.

However, Turkish customs officials abruptly stopped permitting the transit of sanctioned goods bound for Russia through Turkish ports on March 9, Russia's Kommersant FM reported, citing[https://t.me/kfm936/16819] Russian logistics operators. Exports to Russia from Turkey topped $738mn in August, a new all-time record, the Moscow Times reports.

“We are not expecting to receive any official orders or decrees, because then Turkey would have to admit that it was linked to facilitating [illegal] shipments of sanctioned goods to Russia over the past year,” Valeriya Savenkova, commercial director of Transasia Logistics, told Kommersant FM, as cited by the Moscow Times. “As of today, Turkey’s system for processing transit and export shipments to Russia isn't working.”

Kommersant FM’s source cited pressure from US officials as a probable reason for Turkey’s sudden policy switch.

Turkey is also heavily dependent on Russian oil and gas and the TurkStream gas pipeline that delivers Russian gas to the south-east is both a source of cheap energy and a strategically important piece of infrastructure for Ankara. Moreover, Russia was already one of Turkey’s major trade partners before the war, but it has opportunistically benefited from the sanctions as trade between the two has soared in the last year, a time when Turkey was desperate for foreign exchange earnings due to a currency crisis.

Crackdown

At the weekend the EU said it plans to ask those third countries where there has been a sharp increase in imports of European technologies and dual-use goods to start monitoring that trade, Bloomberg reported on March 11.

Bloomberg sources say that with the help of increased trade monitoring, the EU aims to determine whether sanctioned goods reach Russia. The EU request will include extended trade tracing information for hundreds of goods and technologies that could be used for military purposes.

However, it remains uncertain if any of the countries approached by the EU will comply. Moreover, the European Commission told Vedomosti that EU customs cannot block the re-export of sanctioned goods to Russia through Turkey, but does control the movement of European goods inside Europe and will step up the fight against sanctions circumvention, implying countries aiding Russia may see export controls imposed on them.

As bne IntelliNews reported, Russian and Western diplomats have been frenetically touring the world[https://www.intellinews.com/western-russian-diplomats-globetrotting-to-win-support-in-ballooning-sanctions-battle-272188/?source=angola] in recent months trying to shore up support for their respective positions. Africa and Central Asia have been especially the focus of interest.

The West is increasingly playing a game of whack-a-mole as it tries to shut down sanction-dodging as Russia reroutes exports via “friendly” countries. As has been widely reported, Russia has successfully dodged the crude oil embargo by rerouting all its oil exports to Asia. It is having more problems with oil products, which were targeted on February 5[https://www.intellinews.com/eu-and-g7-agree-on-russian-petroleum-product-price-caps-269006/], and Russian diesel is currently building up in tankers idling at sea in oceans around the world.

Surprisingly, Russia has also been able to almost entirely evade sanctions on the technology trade[https://www.intellinews.com/russia-is-successfully-evading-western-technology-sanctions-271899/?source=baltic-states] and has supplied itself with all that it needs in the last year, as bne IntelliNews reported.

The EU also recently warned Georgia to stop transiting sanctioned goods to Russia and threatened it with halting its progress towards EU accession and maybe even reversing some of the EU-backed investments.

National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan also told Georgian President Salome Zourabichvili that her country should not take part in helping Russia to dodge Western sanctions last week, the White House press service said in a statement on March 11.

"Sullivan underscored the need for Georgia to avoid becoming an avenue for evasion or backfill," according to a read out of the meeting.

Georgia has an ambivalent attitude to Russia[https://intellinews.com/caucasus-blog-where-next-for-georgian-dream-272413/?source=blogs]. It is currently emerging from a crisis after the ruling Georgian Dream party tried to introduce a “foreign agents[https://www.bne.eu/protestors-against-foreign-agent-laws-clash-with-police-in-tbilisi-272241/?source=georgia]” law, sparking mass protests that clashed with police on March 7. An estimated 85% of the population are for a closer integration with Europe and the government was forced to withdraw the law[https://www.bne.eu/foreign-agents-bill-withdrawn-from-georgian-parliament-272373/?source=georgia] two days later. Zourabichvili was openly against the foreign agents law and promised to veto it if it passed.

But exports of sanctioned goods via Georgia to Russia have soared in the last year as Georgia has become more economically dependent on Russia[https://www.intellinews.com/georgia-more-economically-dependent-on-russia-than-ever-before-says-icc-georgia-report-271642/?source=georgia] than at any time since independence in 1991 last year, as the country is too distant from Europe to have few alternative trading partners.

The story is the same in Central Asia, which is as far from the sea as it is possible to be. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken was recently in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan at the end of last month, calling for an end to sanction-busting re-exports to Russia. The Kazakh foreign minister paid lip service to the demand but US pressure is unlikely to have much impact.

Even more than Georgia, Central Asia’s extreme distance from the rest of the world and its long-standing economic and cultural links to Russia make it almost impossible for it to do business with anyone else, as bne IntelliNews discussed in an article on the geography of diplomacy.

The Central Asian republics would love to trade more with Southeast Asia, but the southern route is blocked by instability in Afghanistan, leaving Russia to the north as the only viable trade partner.

Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan in particular have seen exports to Russia from places like China soar in the last year as well.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230312ej3c000ul


Hungary This Week - March 17, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 3 月 17 日, 10365 字, (英文)
Hungary's tourism spending surplus reaches €3bn in 2022Hungary's tourism income surplus rose 47% to HUF1.22 trillion (€3bn) as spending by foreign tourists climbed 71% to HUF2.3 trillion and Hungarians' spending abroad increased by 10% to ...

HUNGARY: SANCTIONS TO CAUSE PROBLEMS FOR MOL'S GAS SUPPLY
391 字
2023 年 3 月 22 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2023. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
The latest restriction on oil products could have a negative impact on EU energy markets. According to an expert from MOL, this could even cause inflation, but the question is how the Russians will react.

The EU sanctions on Russia have not had a major impact on the European energy market so far. The main reason for the price hikes last year was pressure from Russia. In December 2022, the European Commission banned imports of Russian offshore crude oil to the EU as the first step of its sixth package of sanctions. But even this has not had a major impact. However, on February 5, a new sanction came into force, banning imports of refined petroleum products (petrol, diesel and others) from Russia. This will put an end to Russian oil coming into the EU and being refined there. However, this would have been a serious problem for many countries, so refining was necessary. The EU allows exports within the EU or to third countries on the basis of the mass balance principle. This means that a country can export as much as the proportion of non-Russian oil it processes.

So far, MOL has spent $170 million to use less Russian oil and more Adriatic oil at the Danube Refinery.

"The company is already able to process 30-35% of alternative oil types in Szazhalombatta, so it can potentially export 30-35% of the finished products produced," said Agnes Horvath, chief economist at MOL.

MOL has to divest some of the oil maturing on the Friendship pipeline. Slovnaft, the Slovak subsidiary of the Hungarian multinational, is in a difficult situation, having processed only 5% of non-Russian oil.

"The risk is that it is still unclear how the Russian side will react if we halve or even reduce our purchases by a third," Horvath said.

The EU has been ordering less and less Russian gas, but pipeline maintenance, transit fees and other extra costs have not fallen significantly. So Russia can hit back at the EU without losing much in terms of business. Hungary's strategic stocks provide enough crude oil and fuel for several months. In a worst-case scenario, there could be a diesel shortage in the region, which would dampen economic activity. (Daily News Hungary/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020230322ej3m0001c


跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
Hungary in talks with France over role in Russian-led nuclear plant
Marton Dunai in Sofia, Henry Foy in Brussels and Leila Abboud in Paris
945 字
2023 年 3 月 23 日 15:08 GMT
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
英文
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.
Shift to French technology would mark significant change of tack in Viktor Orbán’s pro-Moscow stance

Hungary has begun talks with France over an increased role in its nuclear programme, which may eventually lead to replacing Russia at its only atomic power plant.

The shift, if completed, would mark a significant change of tack in Prime Minister Viktor Orbán’s pro-Moscow stance, amid ongoing pressure from other EU states to target Russia’s nuclear exports with sanctions over its war in Ukraine, something Orbán has resisted.

It would also underscore Orbán’s continued openness for pragmatic co-operation with his EU and Nato allies on key strategic issues, despite his virulent Eurosceptic rhetoric, criticism of Brussels and ongoing antagonism with other EU powers over his rightwing, nationalist regime.

Budapest has begun to re-evaluate the flagship project in its controversial ongoing economic co-operation with Russia, a €12bn expansion of its Paks nuclear power plant, a project led by Moscow’s state-owned Rosatom and financed mostly from a Russian state loan, senior government officials said.

Framatome, France’s state-owned nuclear reactor maker, is now a subcontractor to Rosatom in Hungary, tasked to deliver the control systems to the plant, together with Germany’s Siemens.

“We will further increase the role of Framatome at the Paks investments,” Hungarian foreign minister Péter Szijjártó said last week after a visit to Flamanville, the French town where Framatome is building a nuclear power plant.

Budapest has defied western pressure to loosen its close ties with Moscow and tried to add two new Russian reactors to its existing Paks nuclear power plant, adding 2GW to its capacity.

Orban agreed to the expansion in a deal struck with Russian president Vladimir Putin in 2014, shortly before the invasion of Crimea. He has so far stuck to the plan despite severe delays and insisted it must be completed by 2030.

But the war, which Orbán last year expected to be over in short course, shows no signs of ending, raising questions over the Paks timeline and the feasibility of long-term co-operation with Moscow, forcing Hungary to look for potential alternatives.

While Hungary and France have blocked efforts by other EU member states to directly sanction Rosatom, there is increased pressure on the bloc to find ways to restrict the company’s future business and to find alternatives for countries that rely on the company to service their power plants.

“There is a discussion [over rethinking Paks] because we are worrying,” said Balázs Orbán, the premier’s political director, who is not related to him. But Orbán said that experts have suggested that changing the design would set the project back years: “So if we start something new, it’s just it’s a waste of years and then really we will be in trouble in 2030.”

The German government has been reluctant to give its necessary permits for Siemens to deliver its part in the project, however, leading Hungary to consider whether Framatome could play more of a role.

Orbán and French president Emmanuel Macron discussed the Paks project and co-operation on nuclear at a dinner meeting in Paris last week.

The German government and Siemens both declined to comment. Framatome did not respond to a request for comment.

Hungary is not yet ready to abandon the project altogether or replace the main Russian reactor design with other ones. It is intent on saving as much as possible from the originally approved plans to avoid having to reapprove them with local regulators, as well as those of the EU and the International Atomic Energy Agency — a process which could take years.

But sources told the FT that the longer the war drags on and the sanctions regime lasts, the more likely it becomes that Russian participation in the project may have to be phased out altogether. Whether that means replacing Rosatom with another main partner or building an entirely new power plant is not clear.

Hungary is under a time constraint as it has banked on nuclear energy to complete its green transition, alongside renewable and other sources.

Paks is Hungary’s only operating nuclear power plant, whose four Soviet-era reactors have been upgraded and equipped with western control systems, extending their lifespan into the 2030s. Budapest wants to rely on nuclear power for most of the rest of the century, according to the government’s energy strategy.

“In order to have a western control system in the Paks nuclear power plant we further enhance the Hungarian-French co-operation,” Szijjártó said.

A French official said both sides were open to work closer on nuclear power, but it was not clear whether it was going to be the Paks expansion project or another one.

“We don’t know at this stage if there is a way for France to get a bigger share of the work on Paks,” the person added.

The loss of the Paks project would be a serious blow to Rosatom, which has lost its foothold in all other EU countries in recent years, said Maxim Samorukov, a Russia expert at the Carnegie Foundation.

“Rosatom has been very keen to maintain a western, European presence,” Samorukov said. “It lobbied very hard for Czech and Bulgarian projects, but lost those as well as a Finnish project already, leaving Hungary the only EU country where Rosatom was still doing business. The only western country in fact.”

Additional reporting by Laura Pitel in Berlin and Sarah White in Paris

The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)

文件 FTCOM00020230323ej3n003xp


Is Hungary shifting the focus of its nuclear sector from Russia to France?
RFI
876 字
2023 年 3 月 24 日
RFI.fr
RFIFEN
英文
Copyright 2023 RFI.fr
France, March 24 -- Hungary is in talks with France about the possibility of enlarging the French role in refurbishing its nuclear programme. This could eventually lead to the replacement of Russia at Hungary's only atomic power plant, marking a shift in Prime Minister Viktor Orban's pro-Moscow stance.

Despite pressure from other EU states anxious to target Russia's nuclear exports with sanctions because of the war in Ukraine, Orban has maintained his cooperation with Russia.

According to a reportin The Financial Times, the €12bn expansion of Hungary's Paks nuclear power plant, led by Moscow's state-owned Rosatom and financed mostly from a Russian state loan, is a flagship project in Hungary's economic cooperation with Russia.

Thismonth the Hungarian news agency MTI reported that Hungary would increase French involvement in the Paks NPP expansion project.

It quoted Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto as saying "the Paks expansion cannot be successful without French cooperation, since the control technology system, which is considered the 'soul of the power plant', was developed by the Franco-German consortium".

The expansion plans for the Paks plant date back to 2014 when Orban signed a deal with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

However, the ongoing war in Ukraine, which Orban had expected to be over quickly, has raised questions over the Paks timeline and the feasibility of long-term cooperation with Moscow. This has forced Hungary to look for potential alternatives.Increased pressure

While Hungary and France have blocked efforts by other EU member states to directly sanction Rosatom, there is increasing pressure on the bloc to find ways of restricting the Russian company's future business.

The longer the war in Ukraine drags on and the sanctions regime lasts, the more likely it becomes that Russian participation in the project may have to be phased out altogether. Whether that means replacing Rosatom with another main partner or building an entirely new power plant is not clear.

Hungary is under a time constraint as it has banked on nuclear energy to complete its green transition, alongside renewable and other sources.

Paks is Hungary's only operating nuclear power plant, whose four Soviet-era reactors have been upgraded and equipped with western control systems, extending their lifespan into the 2030s.

Budapest wants to rely on nuclear power for most of the rest of the century, according to the government's energy strategy.

French President Emmanuel Macron and Orban discussed the Paks project and cooperation on nuclear at a meeting in Paris last week. Hungary is not yet ready to abandon the project altogether or replace the main Russian reactor design.

The country is intent on saving as much as possible from the originally approved plans to avoid having to re-approve them with local regulators, as well as those of the EU and the International Atomic Energy Agency, a process that could take years.

The loss of the Paks project would be a serious blow to Rosatom, which has lost its foothold in all other EU countries in recent years, leaving Hungary as the only EU country where Rosatom is still doing business. What can Europe learn from Orban's victory in Hungary's elections?

It would also mean a shift from Orban's pro-Russia stance. Just days ago he declared that Vladimir Putin "would not be arrested" in case of a visit to Hungary, in spite of an arrest warrant recently issued against the Russian President by the International Criminal Court in The Hague.

Hungary is also one of a few EU member states that still receives Russian gas, and Orban has repeated on several occasions that he is not happy with EU- and Nato-sponsored military support for Ukraine.No sanctions?

Meanwhile, Moscow's nuclear energy exports have not been subject to EU sanctions, in spite of Kyiv's request for a complete embargo on Russian nuclear exports.

Eight rounds of sanctions and targeted action against Moscow's energy exports did not include shipments of nuclear fuel from Russia that are still being sent to member states of the European Union, including France.

It was precisely because of the Hungarian Paks project that Victor Orban threatened to veto any EU sanctions related to nuclear energy.

"We will not allow the plan to include nuclear energy into the sanctions be implemented," the Hungarian premier said as recently as January. "This is out of the question."

Ariadna Rodrigo, EU sustainable finance manager at environmental group Greenpeace, was quoted by US TV station CNBC as saying that it is "absolute madness" for the bloc to continue bankrolling the Kremlin by exempting Russian nuclear trade.

In its explainer on sanctions against Russia, the European Commission does point out that export of "food and fertilisers coming out of Russia" are permitted as well as "overflight of [EU] airspace by Russian aircraft if that is required for humanitarian purposes," but no reason is given for the absence of measures against the importation of Russian nuclear fuel.

Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from RFI English.

For any query with respect to this article or any other content requirement, please contact Editor at contentservices@htlive.com

France Médias Monde

文件 RFIFEN0020230324ej3o000dx


Hungary would not arrest Putin despite ICC warrant, official says
Shawna Chen
399 字
2023 年 3 月 25 日
Axios
AXIOS
英文
Copyright 2023. Axios Media Inc.
A Hungarian official has said that the country would not arrest Russian President Vladimir Putin[https://www.axios.com/world/russia] if he entered Hungary, despite the International Criminal Court (ICC)[https://www.icc-cpi.int/news/situation-ukraine-icc-judges-issue-arrest-warrants-against-vladimir-vladimirovich-putin-and] warrant for alleged war crimes.

What they're saying: Gergely Gulyas, Orbán's chief of staff, called the warrant counterproductive at a news conference in Budapest this week, per Reuters[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/hungary-would-not-arrest-putin-says-pm-orbans-chief-staff-2023-03-23/]. It pushed "things toward further escalation and not toward peace, this is my personal subjective opinion," he said.

* Arresting Putin would also go against Hungarian law since Hungary has not widely incorporated the ICC's statute into its legal system, he added.

* "We can refer to the Hungarian law and, based on that, we cannot arrest the Russian president ... as the ICC’s statute has not been promulgated in Hungary."

Why it matters: Putin is unlikely to face a trial from the warrant — the Russian government does not recognize the ICC[https://tass.com/politics/1588237/amp] — but it could limit his ability to travel to the ICC's 123 member nations, which are obligated to follow through with an arrest under their treaty with the court.

* Hungary is one of these 123 member states. Its government has condemned Russia's invasion of Ukraine[https://www.axios.com/world/axios-explains-ukraine] and accepted EU sanctions on Russia but declined to allow the transport of weapons[https://www.axios.com/2022/03/31/orban-putin-ties-scrutiny-hungary-election] across Hungarian territory or sanction Russian energy.

* Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's close ties with Putin have also come under scrutiny. The Hungarian government has not publicly taken a stance on the warrant.

The big picture: Orbán has repeatedly criticized Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and referred to him as an opponent[https://www.axios.com/2022/04/04/hungary-election-orbn-slams-zelensky-after-win] the Hungarian people "had to fight against" after he was re-elected last April.

* But the ICC statute[https://www.icc-cpi.int/sites/default/files/RS-Eng.pdf] is clear that member states are expected to "immediately take steps" to make an arrest if requested.

* South Africa is another member nation that has pushed back against the warrant. Naledi Pandor, minister of international relations, told South African Broadcasting Corp.[https://www.sabcnews.com/sabcnews/dirco-awaiting-legal-opinion-before-extending-an-invite-to-putin/] that South Africa is aware of its legal obligation but is considering extending an invite to Putin to an August summit in Johannesburg.

Worth noting: Neither the U.S. nor China is an ICC member state.

* Chinese leader Xi Jinping visited Putin in Moscow[https://www.axios.com/2023/03/20/xi-arrives-russia-meet-putin-ukraine-war] earlier this week and invited the Russian president to Beijing later this year.

Go deeper... UN: Russian forces have committed war crimes in Ukraine[https://www.axios.com/2023/03/16/russia-war-crimes-ukraine-un-report]

View image.[https://images.axios.com/cPrp3b6SObrseogszAVCFw-cOYY=/0x0:4011x2256/1280x720/2023/03/25/1679761812294.jpg]

Axios Media Inc.

文件 AXIOS00020230325ej3p000dx


Swedish minister says ready to work on Russian nuclear sanctions
283 字
2023 年 3 月 29 日 05:35 GMT
Prime News
PRTASS
英文
© 2023. JSC PRIME. All rights reserved.
BRUSSELS/BUDAPEST/MOSCOW, Mar 29 (PRIME) -- Sweden is ready to work on Ukraine’s proposals to expand the anti-Russian sanctions to include the nuclear power sphere and nuclear fuel during its temporary presidency in the E.U. Council, Swedish Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Energy Ebba Busch said late on Tuesday.

Earlier in the day, the E.U. Council held a meeting on energy with participation of Ukrainian Energy Minister German Galushchenko.

Busch welcomed the Ukrainian impulse to move further, ensure that the existing sanctions are working, and continue cutting dependency on Russian gas, oil, and nuclear power as well as nuclear fuel. It will be a priority for the Swedish presidency in the E.U., she said, adding that she does not rule out slapping new sanctions on Russia in order to maintain pressure on Moscow.

But Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said in a statement that he had a phone conversation with Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak and assured him that Hungary would continue blocking sanctions against the nuclear power industry.

“We discussed construction of the new units of the Paks nuclear power plant and agreed that preparatory works are going on and that the government (of Hungary) will continue preventing any sanction intentions that hurt the nuclear sector because the new nuclear capacities are vital from the point of view of the Hungarian energy security,” he said.

The Russian government said that Novak and Szijjarto had discussed the two countries’ relations in the spheres of trade and supplies of energy, and that Russia was pumping additional amounts of natural gas to Hungary on request of Budapest.

End

JSC PRIME

文件 PRTASS0020230329ej3t000p1


Hungary has approved Finland joining NATO. But its delays raise deeper concerns.
Petr Tůma
1726 字
2023 年 3 月 29 日
Atlantic Council
ATLCNCL
英文
Copyright 2023. Atlantic Council of the United States, Inc.
On Monday, Hungary’s legislature approved Finland’s accession to NATO, 265 days after Helsinki signed the protocols to join. The vote moves the long-delayed process forward, but it still leaves unaddressed both when exactly Hungary will take up Sweden’s accession and why the Hungarian government has taken so long. After all, it took the first twenty-eight NATO members fewer than ninety days to ratify both Finland and Sweden’s accession. Hungary and Turkey have been the holdouts, and while they have shared this status, it is important to look at the differences in how Budapest and Ankara have handled the process. Doing so raises new concerns about Hungary’s approach to the Alliance beyond the specific issue of this enlargement.

The reasons Turkey has taken longer are well documented[https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/new-atlanticist/what-turkey-really-wants-from-sweden-nato-pkk/] . Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has been quite clear on his major interests related to arms exports and in particular to Stockholm’s attitude toward Kurdish groups with alleged links to the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK), which is designated as a terrorist organization by Turkey, the United States, and the European Union (EU). And Turkey’s lengthy process toward ratification has strained Alliance cohesion and made happy its enemies, such as Russian President Vladimir Putin. That’s not a small deal.

Still, Turkey early on presented detailed arguments and conditions that allies could debate and sort out. In contrast, Budapest has been opaque on the reasons why it delayed ratification on Finland and continues to do so for Sweden. Given that other allies delivered[https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/commentary/trackers-and-data-visualizations/when-will-sweden-and-finland-join-nato-tracking-the-ratification-process-across-the-alliance/] more than six months ago, lack of time has long ceased to be an acceptable excuse.

The biggest concern with Hungary now is less that it might keep Sweden in limbo for a few more months before ratification, and more that it might do so without plausible arguments. Leaving no room for a meaningful discussion, Budapest impedes the basis on which the Alliance deals with critical issues and inhibits the bedrock foundation of democratic life itself: open and purposeful debate.

Lack of time?

For months, Budapest has signaled that the ratification of Sweden and Finland was merely a matter of finding a time slot for lawmakers to vote. After the Nordic pair signed accession protocols in July, a few other NATO members—where the enlargement agreement is a more complex process and goes through their national assemblies—struggled to find time for a few months last spring and summer, as parliamentarians were heading for summer recess. Some convened extra sessions to advance the ratification, while Hungarians continued postponing it.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán’s Fidesz—together with its coalition partner the Christian Democratic People’s Party (KDNP)—has a strong majority in the National Assembly. Moreover, Fidesz has become a kind of a one-man party that will comply with its leader’s wish, with a satellite KDNP that will always follow. If Orbán wanted ratification passed earlier, he could have easily done so.

In fact, all parliamentary parties—as confirmed[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/hungary-backs-finnish-swedish-nato-membership-unclear-on-ratification-date/] by Deputy Speaker Csaba Hende—seemed to be aligned in favor of Finland and Sweden, except for the far-right Our Homeland Movement, and their votes are not enough to prevent ratification. When the opposition and foreign media asked after several delays about the timeline for the ratification, the ruling Fidesz, including Gergely Gulyás[https://www.politico.eu/article/hungary-to-ratify-sweden-and-finlands-nato-membership/] , Orbán’s chief of staff, indicated that it would be done by the end of 2022 . That dragged out into early 2023 and, finally, into late March—but only for Finland. In the meantime, several Fidesz lawmakers began raising reservations[https://www.thelocal.se/20230224/hungarys-president-orban-says-mps-unenthusiastic-about-sweden-nato-bid/] regarding Finland and Sweden’s bid, which came in handy for Orbán, who could then start saying Hungary needed more time to deal with ratification.

Follow the EU money

Does Budapest have a particular issue with Sweden’s or Finland’s accession? It does not appear so. Hungary has supported expansion before, and nothing is publicly known that accounts for the current delay. Diplomats who were in touch with their Hungarian counterparts on this particular question told me they are not aware of anything substantial, aside from concerns related to occasional Finnish and Swedish critiques of democratic backsliding and the erosion of rule of law in Hungary—a mainstream position within Europe. As the pressure from allies grew—including several NATO members that recently asked for an explanation from Hungarian ambassadors—Budapest gradually picked that line. Orbán’s political director in a recent Twitter post[https://twitter.com/BalazsOrban_HU/status/1638972259845959701] pointed out a few of the concrete cases from the past where Swedes, including Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson, were not mincing their words in criticizing Hungary. But on March 23, Kristersson met his Hungarian counterpart at the EU summit in Brussels and hoped for more clarification[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-03-24/hungary-delays-sweden-nato-vote-after-rule-of-law-criticism?leadSource=uverify%20wall] on the hold-up. He commented afterward: “I didn’t get an actual explanation, only the message that they have no intention of delaying any country’s accession… I don’t see any reason for the delay.”

Hungary’s obstruction does not, then, seem to be about Finland or Sweden specifically. Orbán would likely equally interfere if there were other countries joining. For him, it seems to be a matter of questioning liberal and democratic values and the related world order that NATO is here to defend. It’s part of his balancing act between the West and the rest, a way to show—both abroad and at home—that Hungary has a voice that others should hear and respect.

Hungary is also suspected of using its obstructions as a bargaining chip, and likely less in relation to NATO or the United States than with respect to the EU. Orbán may hope that the bargaining chip of ratification can help unlock part of the fifteen billion dollars envisioned by the EU[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/hungary-must-bolster-judiciary-very-soon-recover-billions-eu-top-official-2023-02-18/] for Hungary from COVID recovery and other funds. That pot of funding includes free grants as well as cheap EU loans but is now frozen over concerns about the rule of law in Hungary. The European Commission linked the release of part of this money to conditions such as strengthening judicial independence and tackling corruption.

In this context, it’s interesting to hear from Budapest that parliament could not properly focus on NATO’s enlargement now because it must rush implementation of the reforms requested by Brussels, as the European Commission should have started the evaluation process on March 15. The reality seems to be, instead, that Budapest did not care for a long time about the Commission’s requests and now could really feel under pressure.

It’s also worth remembering that Sweden currently holds the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union, thus some in Budapest may have thought that Stockholm could be of more use than Helsinki in delivering the frozen funds. Yet this is not so much the agenda of the Council and the presidency, but rather of the Commission.

The world saw Budapest playing a similar game many times recently when stalling the EU sanction packages targeting Russia or opposing nineteen billion dollars of financial aid to Kyiv. And there’s a pattern: In the end, a compromise was always reached with Budapest not leaving empty-handed[https://www.politico.eu/article/eu-deal-hungary-drop-vetoe-recovery-plan-approved-funding-freeze-ukraine-aid/] .

In Turkey’s shade

The news of Hungary’s readiness to initiate the ratification of Finland came just after Erdogan announced[https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/new-atlanticist/experts-react-turkey-moves-to-approve-finlands-nato-membership-where-does-that-leave-sweden/] Turkey’s decision to do so. There were more concerns regarding Sweden in Budapest, but no talk about splitting the two candidate countries’ accession. A Hungarian parliamentary delegation went to Stockholm and Helsinki recently, with Hungarian lawmakers sending positive messages[https://www.pbs.org/newshour/world/delegation-from-hungary-supports-swedens-nato-application] afterward regarding the ratification. That makes the current Hungarian decision all the more surprising. Orbán uses Erdogan’s shade. Without Turkey hindering enlargement, Hungary would probably be already on board. Orbán could have dragged it out for a while but does not seem to want to be the last one to ratify.

It is too much to say that Orbán is merely following Erdogan. He’s playing his own game, developing his own art of the deal, and hiding behind Turkey. But if Turkey proceeds to Sweden’s ratification after its May 14 parliamentary and presidential elections—and hopefully before the NATO summit in Lithuania in July—then it is likely that Hungary will do the same, though Budapest may seek its own sweetener for doing so.

At a business forum in Budapest this month, Orbán said[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-03-09/hungary-needs-to-think-hard-about-future-russia-relations-orban#xj4y7vzkg] : “I understand the need to rebuild Russian-European relations after the war but that’s far from realistic… That’s why Hungary’s foreign and economic policy need to think hard about what sort of relations we can establish and maintain with Russia in the next ten to fifteen years.” A few days later, reports emerged[https://www.ft.com/content/52707196-4882-45af-9342-59413472c443] that Budapest is considering whether to give French and German companies a larger role in the enlargement of its Soviet-designed Paks nuclear power plant, where two new reactors are slated to be built by Russian state-owned Rosatom and financed mostly from a Russian state loan. It would be a positive development if Budapest reshapes a project that gives Moscow strong leverage over Hungarian infrastructure. Yet the move appears to made more out of necessity than virtue, given that the war in Ukraine and Western sanctions call into question the long-term viability of Russia’s role in the project.

Elsewhere, Hungary continues with its leniency towards Moscow. Recently, Budapest was the only EU country to push[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-03-20/hungary-blocked-joint-eu-statement-on-putin-s-icc-arrest-warrant?leadSource=uverify%20wall] back against the International Criminal Court arrest warrant against Putin, preventing the European Union from issuing a joint statement. Hungary also reiterated its opposition[https://apnews.com/article/nato-hungary-ukraine-rights-minorities-3b6581af80d5d51d511ac666eeef9288] to NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg’s decision to convene a session of the NATO-Ukraine Commission next week.

Even if Hungary does finally approve NATO enlargement for both Finland and Sweden, the allies should not get their hopes up too high for a more cooperative approach overall. This pattern of obstruction will likely arise in other situations for other countries. That’s why Hungary should not be underestimated as mere mirroring of Turkey. The problem of an unreliable Hungary will long outlast this foot-dragging over Sweden and Finland, and allies should start looking for appropriate tools to deal with an outlier that’s weakening the system from within.

Petr Tůma is a visiting fellow at the Atlantic Council’s Europe Center and career Czech diplomat.

Atlantic Council of the United States, Inc.

文件 ATLCNCL020230329ej3t00001


Politics
Transformation of Organization of Turkic States opens up new avenues for cooperation between East and West
1226 字
2023 年 4 月 1 日 05:21 GMT
Trend News Agency
TRENDE
英文
(c) 2023 Trend News Agency. Copyright for the present information is reserved, in case of reprint of any part of it reference should be done to the Agency.
BAKU, Azerbaijan, March 31. The 3rd Meeting of

Energy Ministers of the Member States of the Organization of Turkic

States (OTS) in Budapest, Hungary, signaled the continuation of the

transformation of the OTS into a crucial regional organization.

Despite the common Turkic cultural heritage of the countries, each

state in the Organization has a unique set of opportunities and

challenges they face. After all, the issues in front of them are

dictated by regional dynamics, which is highly specific in any

given case.

Despite these set of issues and challenges, the OTS became a

beacon that united Turkic states under the banner of their common

Turkic heritage. Initially, most people regarded the organization

merely as a cultural forum. However, as time passed by, it became

evident that the Organization of Turkic States offers considerably

more than being a simple cultural forum.

The perfect example of the above-mentioned argument is the 3rd

Meeting of Energy Ministers and the avenues that it opens up to the

participants, observers, other regional states, and economic blocs.

The benefits that the Organization offers are numerous, and if used

wisely, the OTS may become an important piece of the regional

international relations system.

The platform with diverse representation

The diversity of member states and observer countries is one of

the key strong points of the OTS. The presence of Türkiye, Hungary,

Azerbaijan, and Central Asian states offers a unique opportunity

for discussion in a multilateral format. Additionally, their joint

discussions in an organization with a small number of states make

reaching a consensus on issues of interest easier, compared to

other regional organizations.

The Organization of Turkic States offers an interesting medium

for communication between states and economic blocs with each

other. Particularly, the OTS may serve as a bridge between the

Turkic states and the European Union. The Turkic states may find it

appealing to find a common framework for multilateral cooperation

with their European partners, which will complement bilateral

relations between the EU and any particular member of the OTS.

Additionally, such cooperation will offer a unique dynamic to

various fields of cooperation between the OTS member countries and

the EU.

From the perspective of the EU, potential cooperation with the

Organization of Turkic States will offer several highly specific

benefits. First, the EU will find it very easy to build relations

with the OTS due to the presence of Hungary. This will make the

dialogue between the sides go smoother.

Systemic approach to cooperation

The second benefit is crucial, as it goes in line with the EU’s

long-term strategic interests and vision. The OTS unites several

important oil and gas exporting countries, such as Azerbaijan,

Kazakhstan, and Turkmenistan, in addition to having Türkiye, a

major oil and gas transit country, onboard. The puzzle is being

completed by Hungary, which is already working on fostering gas

cooperation with Azerbaijan. Additionally, the OTS hydrocarbon

exporting countries also started their transition to becoming

energy exporters, which will introduce additional opportunities for

cooperation in the future.

Consequently, the OTS offers a systemic approach to oil, gas and

energy transit. This system, despite still being under development,

offers a credible solution to the EU’s existing problem of energy

security. In this context, the opportunities that the Organization

presents for the EU can be very appealing, should the EU be willing

to engage in dialogue with the OTS.

A similar approach can be taken regarding transport cooperation.

Currently, it is impossible to use the trade route via Russia, due

to the sanction imposed on Moscow. The trade route through Iran is

inaccessible for a similar reason. Under these circumstances, the

only possible way to link Western and Eastern countries is via the

Trans-Caspian International Transport Route (TITR), also known as

the Middle Corridor. As of today, this is the only route that

bypasses Iran and Russia, thus making it possible to execute trade

operations between Europe and Asia.

The access to this route lies through Türkiye, Azerbaijan and

Kazakhstan. The three countries serve as a gateway to tapping into

the global trade potential. Being able to foster a relationship

with the OTS may offer the EU in general, and its member states

individually, a very beneficial partnership that will impact all

involved economies positively.

Overall, the EU may find cooperation with the OTS highly

beneficial in two strategic areas. Currently, Turkic states offer

credible solutions to the critical issues that the EU seeks to

address. Establishing close relations with the Organization may

foster the EU’s image in the Turkic countries significantly.

OTS as a potential regional integration

model

The development trajectory of the OTS suggests that the

decision-makers opted to transform it from a cultural organization

to an all-encompassing body, which offers a platform for dialogue

on strategically important issues. As the Organization transformed

to its current state, it became clear that energy is one of these

issues, due to the demands dictated by the geopolitical shifts.

Despite the growing significance of the OTS, there is

significant potential for further improvements to be made. Perhaps,

it is somewhat early to make such a bold prediction, however, it is

looking increasingly likely that, at least, some countries in the

Organization will see an increase in the level of integration. This

would be necessary to streamline their joint operations in the

framework of the projects that they are involved in. For example,

Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan would benefit immensely from harmonizing

existing customs procedures, as it would lead to a reduction of

time that the goods spend in transit through the Middle Corridor.

This is one of the examples of possibilities that OTS offers to its

member states. The potential closer cooperation between the

national institutions may lead to an even higher level of

integration between the nations, which will, consequently, benefit

all involved parties.

The possibilities for closer integration will present themselves

in the process of implementation of major projects, but even now

the potential is observable. This would be a very welcome

development for all states involved because, in the existing

political climate, there are limited regional organizations, which

treated the participants as equals.

The transformation of the OTS is an interesting development for

the participants of the organization and other political actors.

The growing stature of the Organization will draw attention to it,

which will turn it into a regional platform for communication

between the East and West.

It would be particularly interesting to see whether the EU

chooses to cooperate with the Organization of Turkic States, as the

benefits to be had by this cooperation are too valuable to

overlook. The EU can have tangible and intangible benefits from

such cooperation.

Finally, the transformation of the Organization brings the

member states closer. For example, during the 3rd Meeting of Energy

Ministers Askhat Khasenov, Deputy Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan,

invited the member countries to participate in the joint

development of energy deposits in Kazakhstan. Such opportunities

exist in other fields as well, and the countries will only benefit

in the long run from the partnership.

In conclusion, the transformation of the OTS opens up several

avenues for multilateral cooperation. These partnerships can be

achieved internally between the member countries, and externally

with other regional entities, such as the EU.

Trend Agency

文件 TRENDE0020230401ej41000b9


Turkey cuts trade ties with Russia, Hungary to “rethink” relationship as Western pressure to end sanctions-busting mounts
bne Magazine, 2023 年 4 月 1 日, 1446 字, (英文)
“As of today, Turkey’s system for processing transit and export shipments to Russia isn't working”Turkey has abruptly stopped exporting goods to Russia and one of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s strongest advocates in Europe, Hungarian ...

Lithuania offers carve-outs to EU sceptics over Russia nuclear sanctions
719 字
2023 年 4 月 4 日 15:28 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2023 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS (Reuters) -A new Lithuanian bid to push the European Union to impose sanctions on Russia's nuclear energy industry includes proposed exemptions for Hungary and a two-year period to phase out existing contracts, according to a document seen by Reuters.

Unlike similar, earlier proposals by the EU's Russia hawks, the latest plan from Vilnius includes a nuanced approach, an apparent attempt to win over sceptics in Budapest and elsewhere.

"It is proposed to introduce individual restrictive measures for Rosatom," says the policy proposal dated March 17, which has not been released publicly.

"In addition, it is appropriate to introduce a derogation on the basis of which operations, contracts or other agreements concluded with Rosatom could be still executed for a fixed period of time allowing European Union member states to complete the execution of these contracts or other agreements."

The document proposed setting that at two years.

The EU has slapped 10 rounds of sanctions on Russia since it invaded Ukraine in February 2022, but hundreds of millions of euros worth of trade with Russia's nuclear energy industry has not been directly affected.

All EU countries must agree for the bloc to impose sanctions and Budapest - where Rosatom is to expand the Paks nuclear power plant - has vowed to oppose any curbs on the Russian nuclear energy industry.

Lithuania's proposal sought to address that by offering Budapest specific carve-outs of up to nine years for Paks.

Otherwise, the proposed sanctions would ban new investments in Russia's civil nuclear energy sector, prevent new cooperation agreements with Rosatom, and end imports of enriched uranium from Russia, with opt-outs for France and others who have running contracts there.

The detail of the proposal is reported here for the first time.

'ONION APPROACH'

Lithuania's Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis spoke of it in broader terms on arriving for talks with his EU peers in Brussels on March 20. He said the plan amounted to "an onion approach".

"That means that it has a lot of layers to choose from. We can peel all those that we cannot... agree upon," he told reporters.

"But still there are things that we can sanction when it comes to board members, it can be new contracts, it can be a lot of things taking into consideration those countries who have existing contracts and existing projects that need to be safeguarded."

It was not clear when the EU would impose any new sanctions on Russia. 

There was no immediate comment from Hungary but two French diplomatic sources suggested such a piecemeal approach could work for Paris. 

“If the pressure mounts on Rosatom, I don’t think France will be last on the barricade,” said one of the sources. “There are French firms which work with Rosatom... but if we have to find an alternative solution, then we’ll find one.”

The second French diplomat said any nuclear sanctions on Russia would need to be narrowly focused on specific individuals, rather than taking the form of broader sectoral curbs. The person said one example would be Russian officials overseeing Ukraine's embattled Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant. 

EU imports of Russian nuclear industry products totalled nearly 750 million euros ($820 million) in 2022, according to Eurostat. EU nuclear agency Euratom said Russia provided a fifth of the uranium used by EU utilities in 2021, the latest data available, as well as a fourth of conversion and a third of enrichment services.

The agency said Russia’s share in the EU market might have increased in 2022 as utilities with existing contracts advanced deliveries to mitigate short-term risks following the invasion.

The French energy ministry disputed parts of a recent report by Greenpeace, which said Paris had sharply increased imports of enriched uranium from Russia since the war began.

Nuclear reactors in Hungary, Bulgaria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Finland depended on Russian-made fuel, and France was relying on Russia for reprocessing uranium, according to Euratom.

“The future dependence on Russia in the nuclear fuel cycle depends on investment in the ‘global West’,” Euratom told Reuters.

($1 = 0.9125 euro)

(Reporting by Andrew Gray and Gabriela Baczynska; Editing by William Maclean and Jonathan Oatis)

Released: 2023-4-4T15:28:54.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020230404ej4401tfl


LITHUANIA: SANCTIONS AGAINST RUSSIAN NUCLEAR SECTOR SUGGESTED
404 字
2023 年 4 月 5 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2023. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
A new Lithuanian bid to push the European Union to impose sanctions on Russia's nuclear energy industry includes proposed exemptions for Hungary and a two-year period to phase out existing contracts, according to a Reuters report quoting documents.

Unlike similar proposals by the E.U.'s Russia hawks earlier on, the latest plan from Vilnius includes a nuanced approach, an apparent attempt to win over skeptics in Budapest and elsewhere.

"It is proposed to introduce individual restrictive measures for Rosatom," says the policy proposal dated March 17, which has not been released publicly. "In addition, it is appropriate to introduce a derogation on the basis of which operations, contracts or other agreements concluded with Rosatom could be still executed for a fixed period of time allowing European Union member states to complete the execution of these contracts or other agreements."

The document proposed setting that at two years.

The E.U. slapped 10 rounds of sanctions on Russia since the start of its invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, but hundreds of millions of euros worth of trade with Russia's nuclear energy industry had not been directly affected.

All E.U. countries must agree for the bloc to impose sanctions and Budapest - where Rosatom is to expand the Paks nuclear power plant - has vowed to oppose any curbs on Russian nuclear energy industry.

The Lithuanian proposal sought to address that by offering Budapest specific carve-outs of up to nine years for Paks.

Otherwise, the sanctions proposed by Lithuania would ban new investments in Russia's civil nuclear energy sector, prevent new cooperation agreements with Rosatom and end imports of enriched uranium from Russia, with opt-outs for France and others who have running contracts there.

Lithuania's Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis spoke of it in broader terms on arriving for talks with his E.U. peers in Brussels on March 20. He said the plan amounted to "an onion approach".

"That means that it has a lot of layers to choose from. We can peel all those that we cannot agree upon," he told reporters. "But still there are things that we can sanction when it comes to board members, it can be new contracts, it can be a lot of things taking into consideration those countries who have existing contracts and existing projects that need to be safeguarded." (Prime/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020230405ej450003c


US sanctions Budapest Russian-dominated bank
398 字
2023 年 4 月 12 日 16:33 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2023 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Washington has imposed sanctions on a Russian-dominated bank in Budapest and several of its officials, a top US diplomat said Wednesday, in a move likely to further strain relations with Hungary.

The officials are among dozens newly added on a US sanction list of entities and individuals with Washington seeking to curb Russians' access to the international financial system.

David Pressman, US ambassador in Budapest, said the Russia-controlled International Investment Bank (IIB) and three of its senior executives -- a Hungarian and two Russians -- all living in Hungary have been sanctioned.

IIB moved its headquarters to Budapest in 2019 under Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who cultivated close ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin before the Ukraine war.

Orban has drawn fierce criticism from both EU and NATO allies for his neutral stance on Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"We have concerns about the continued eagerness of Hungarian leaders to expand and deepen ties with the Russian Federation despite Russia's ongoing brutal aggression to Ukraine and threat to transatlantic security," Pressman told reporters.

"With this announcement the US is demonstrating that we will take action in response to Hungary's choices," he added.

Pressman also said the presence of IIB "this opaque Kremlin platform in the heart of Hungary threatens the security and sovereignty of the Hungarian people, their European neighbours and their NATO allies".

Orban's chief-of-staff Gergely Gulyas said earlier Wednesday that the US was "trying to squeeze Hungary into the pro-war position".

"There is no alliance, diplomatic or even friendly pressure that Hungary will not resist," Gulyas told reporters, adding that Budapest will not change its position, "not even in light of US pressure".

Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto announced on Tuesday, on his fourth trip to Moscow since the invasion, an expansion of oil and gas energy deals with Russia.

Szijjarto also hosted his Belarusian counterpart Sergei Aleinik in Budapest Wednesday to discuss energy security.

Since taking office in 2010, Orban has regularly clashed with both Brussels and the US over charges he has steered Hungary down an authoritarian path.

Close to former US president Donald Trump, Orban has accused the current Joe Biden-led administration of trying to weaken his government and strengthen the Hungarian opposition.

In 2014 the US slapped entry visa bans on six unnamed Hungarian government officials.

pmu/jza/pvh

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020230412ej4c00ei9


News
US targets Budapest-based International Investment Bank with sanctions
Tamas Csonka in Budapest
898 字
2023 年 4 月 12 日 16:36 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
The US Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) has placed the Budapest-based and Russian-dominated International Investment Bank (IIB) and three of its senior executives on its sanction list, US Ambassador to Hungary David Pressman announced at a press conference in Budapest on April 12.

Individuals designated for sanctions include two Russian nationals, IIB chairman Nikolai Kosov, and deputy chairman Georgy Potapov. Imre Laszloczki, deputy chairman in charge of strategy and policy, is the only Hungarian national targeted.

According to the statement released by OFAC, the IIB’s presence in Budapest enables Russia to increase its intelligence presence in Europe, opens the door for the Kremlin’s malign influence activities in Central Europe and the Western Balkans, and could serve as a mechanism for corruption and illicit finance, including sanctions violations.

On Wednesday, OFAC targeted a total of 25 individuals and 29 entities from 20 jurisdictions. The sanctions aim to impose severe costs on third-country actors who support Russia’s war, OFAC said.

Local media, citing diplomatic sources, had earlier speculated that the rumoured sanctions might entail a travel ban of government officials or people close to the government.

IIB was originally established in 1970 as the Comecon bank serving the then Soviet bloc’s economic area and third-world countries and was revitalised in the early 2010s under Putin. Hungary, which re-joined the IIB in 2015, is now the second-biggest shareholder after Russia, with 25.3% compared to Moscow's 45.4%.

The development bank, which moved its headquarters to the Hungarian capital from Moscow in 2019, is seen by critics as a "spy nest" of the Kremlin and has been accused of taking part in money laundering, allegations it dismisses. Four years ago, the Hungarian government agreed to limit the number of people who could receive diplomatic immunity.

Following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, Bulgaria, Czechia, Romania, and Slovakia ended their participation in the IIB, bringing the number of shareholders to just five (Cuba, Mongolia, Russia, Vietnam) with Hungary being the only EU member state left. The IIB has dragged its feet on repaying the capital committed by these countries, amid press reports that the bank is in financial crisis.

Pressman told reporters at the US embassy in central Budapest that the Orban government had dismissed US concerns raised over the presence of the Russia-controlled bank.

The US diplomat said Washington was concerned that Hungarian leaders are seeking ever closer relations with Russia, despite the brutal aggression. "Close economic cooperation with Russia feeds the Russian war machine and threatens the security of the transatlantic alliance," he added.

Pro-government media launched a pre-emptive communication offensive before the press briefing. The narrative was that the US was intervening in Hungary’s sovereignty, while some media outlets tried to make Pressman look bad for inviting Marton Gyongyosi, the chairman of the opposition Jobbik-Conservatives party, to the Passover Seder at the US Embassy in Budapest last week.

Gyongyosi caused an international outrage in 2012 when he called for drawing up a list of cabinet members and MPs of Jewish origin. Jobbik was a radical right-wing party until 2018 when it steered to the centre with the financial support of former Fidesz cashier Lajos Simicska, who fell out of grace with the Orban regime in 2015.

Government-loyal media seized the chance to blast the diplomat for the move, which has also caused great uproar among Jewish religious leaders and drew criticism from abroad. Gyongyosi has apologised for his earlier anti-Semitic comments.

The US Embassy has launched a billboard campaign with a caption in English and Russian reading: "Russians go home", citing the slogan of the 1956 revolution and drawing comparisons between Hungary’s freedom fight, crushed by Russia, to the war in Ukraine

"There can be only peace in Ukraine when the Russian occupying army withdraws," reads the text, presented in the commonly used blue-white style of the Hungarian government. The campaign seems to be a reaction to the massive Russian propaganda in local media and has immediately triggered a swift response from the government.

"US diplomacy has not given up on efforts to pressure Hungary into taking a pro-war position," head of the Prime Minister's Office Gergely Gulyas said before Pressman’s press briefing, repeating the government’s narrative that supporting Ukraine would further escalate the crisis and Hungary remains on the side of peace.

Gulyas said the US embassy began "running a direct campaign" in Hungary, which is "unusual among allies".

US diplomacy has not given up on trying to squeeze Hungary into a pro-war position, but there is no alliance, diplomatic or even friendly pressure that Hungary will not resist", the government’s official Facebook page read after the press conference.

Analysts argue that sanctions by Washington will do little to turn Orban’s most loyal base against Russia, on the contrary, it could further stoke anti-American sentiment.

Over the last 13 years, Hungary’s strongman, the leader of a radical anti-Communist and liberal youth movement in 1988, has switched from a pro-Western centrist conservative position to a stance critical of EU institutions and the country’s transatlantic ties, while pursuing closer links with dictators such as Russia's Vladimir Putin.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230412ej4c002mh


Hungary quits Russian-led bank day after US sanctions
399 字
2023 年 4 月 13 日 15:17 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2023 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Hungary's government said Thursday it is quitting the Russia-led International Investment Bank (IIB) based in Budapest a day after Washington levied sanctions on the entity and several of its officials.

"The government discussed the situation and found that although the IIB played an important development role in Central and Eastern Europe, the operation of the bank lost its meaning as a result of the imposed American sanctions," said a statement by the Hungarian Ministry for Economic Development sent to AFP.

"Therefore, the government is recalling the persons holding positions in the IIB and delegated by the Hungarian state, as well as withdrawing from the international financial organisation," it added.

David Pressman, US ambassador in Budapest, said Wednesday that the IIB and three of its senior executives -- a Hungarian and two Russians -- living in Hungary have been sanctioned.

The officials were among dozens newly added on a US sanction list of entities and individuals, with Washington seeking to curb Russians' access to the international financial system.

The IIB moved its headquarters to Budapest in 2019 under Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who cultivated close ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin before the Ukraine war.

The bank's other EU backers -- Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Romania and Slovakia -- have quit the lender since Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

The other members, besides Russia itself, are Cuba, Mongolia and Vietnam.

Pressman said the presence in Budapest of "this opaque Kremlin platform in the heart of Hungary threatens the security and sovereignty of the Hungarian people, their European neighbours and their NATO allies".

Orban has drawn fierce criticism from both EU and NATO allies for his neutral stance on Russia's war in Ukraine.

"We have concerns about the continued eagerness of Hungarian leaders to expand and deepen ties with the Russian Federation despite Russia's ongoing brutal aggression to Ukraine and threat to transatlantic security," Pressman said Wednesday.

With the sanctions "the US is demonstrating that we will take action in response to Hungary's choices," he said.

Founded in 1970 by the Soviet Union to foster links within the communist bloc, the IIB is registered as an official Russian state organ.

Billed as a version of the London-based European Bank of Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) -- albeit smaller -- the bank distributes loans to firms and projects in member countries.

pmu/kym/cw

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020230413ej4d00e1l


News
Hungarian government confirms decision to pull out of sanctions-hit IIB
Tamas Csonka in Budapest
1220 字
2023 年 4 月 13 日 15:30 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
The Hungarian government has confirmed media reports that it will withdraw from the International Investment Bank (IIB ) after US sanctions were imposed on the Budapest-based, Russia-controlled development bank on April 12.

The decision to withdraw by the bank's second-largest shareholder implies that Hungary will refuse to take part in any attempt to rescue the IIB , which had been rumoured to be in crisis even before the imposition of sanctions. Western financial institutions such as the Belgium-based Euroclear network, which settles securities transactions, have reportedly refused to deal with it. The IIB 's bonds have been downgraded to junk status by ratings agencies.

IIB told bneIntellinews it would make no comment until it later issued an official statement, which had still not been issued by press time.

The withdrawal of Hungary ends Moscow's dream of building a European-focussed international financial institution such as the EBRD or EIB , leaving it as the last significant shareholder.

The decision also marks a humiliating defeat for Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban 's project to attract the IIB to Budapest in 2019 and thereby forge closer financial ties with Moscow and strengthen Hungary's role as an international financial centre. Hacked documents [https://vsquare.org/leaked-files-reveal-panic-at-russian-led-bank-in-budapest/] sent to the investigative CEE media network VSquare showed how Budapest had desperately tried to lobby inside the EU for the bank not to be frozen out of European financial networks, and had schemed to hide the bank's Russian dominance by keeping Moscow's stake under 50%.

Hungarian Economic Development Minister Marton Nagy said the government had come to the conclusion that participation in the bank no longer made sense, as US sanctions have rendered the bank's operations meaningless. The government hence decided to withdraw its representative from the board, although IIB has played an important financing role in Central and Eastern Europe, Nagy told state news agency MTI on Thursday afternoon, a few hours after the news first leaked by pro-government business website Vilaggazdasag.

Hungary is the last EU member state to leave IIB . The Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Slovakia and Romania announced their decision to quit both the IIB and the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (IBEC) following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Poland already quit the IIB in 2000. The IIB has refused to repay the equity capital invested by the exiting countries.

As of Thursday afternoon, the Hungarian government had not officially reacted to the announcement made by US Ambassador to Hungary, David Pressman to sanction IIB , along with three executives resident in Hungary, Nikolay Kosov chairman, Georgy Potapov deputy chairman and Imre Laszloczki, deputy chairman in charge of strategy and policy. The 62-year-old banker, a former ambassador to Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, is the only Hungarian national on the list.

The US diplomat, some nine months in office, told the international press at the Budapest embassy that Washington had repeatedly raised concerns concerns about how Russia could use the bank to expand its influence in the region, but that these had been ignored.

“Unlike other Nato allies previously engaged with this Russian entity,” Pressman said, “Hungary has dismissed the concerns of the United States government regarding the risks [the IIB 's] continued presence poses to the alliance.”

According to the statement released by the US Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) , the IIB 's presence in Budapest enables Russia to increase its intelligence presence in Europe, opens the door for the Kremlin’s malign influence activities in Central Europe and the Western Balkans, and could serve as a mechanism for corruption and illicit finance, including sanctions violations. The US has accused the bank of co-ordinating its policy with the Kremlin.

At the end of the press conference, Pressman struck a conciliatory tone, leaving the door open for talks with the government. "The United States is committed to a close and constructive relationship with Hungary, our valued Nato ally", he added.

While Orban has reluctantly approved sanctions against Russia and acknowledged Ukraine's right to territory integrity, he drew criticism from its allies for his pro-Kremlin narratives during the war and for strengthening economic ties with Moscow in the face of bloody conflict.

Budapest has done little to reduce its dependence on Russian energy imports, and just this week Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto signed new energy contracts earlier in Moscow that will cement Russian influence for decades to come.

Hungary's isolation among its regional allies, the Visegrad Four, has also deepened since the outbreak of the war and regional cooperation is now all but dead.

At the time the US ambassador was providing details of sanctions against Russian interests in Hungary, the country's foreign minister hosted his Belorussian counterpart in Budapest "to keep the channels of communication" open for peace. A day earlier in Warsaw, US Vice President Kamala Harris and Polish PM Mateusz Morawiecki discussed the “importance of a shared commitment to democratic values” and the two country's strategic partnership.

Hungary, together with Turkey, is also still blocking Sweden's application to join Nato , to the frustration of its allies

“We have concerns,” Pressman said, “about the continued eagerness of Hungarian leaders to expand and deepen ties with the Russian Federation.”

The IIB was originally established in 1970 as the Comecon bank serving the then Soviet bloc’s economic area and third-world countries and was revitalised in the early 2010s under Putin.

Hungary renewed its membership in IIB in October 2014 after a decade-long absence, and four years later IIB member states unanimously voted for the proposal to relocate the bank's HQ to Budapest from Moscow.

According to the blog of a leading Hungarian geopolitical analyst, this was proposed by Orban's former chief foreign adviser, Janos Balla, a former career diplomat, born in Moscow.

The government argued that moving IIB 's seat to Budapest will strengthen Hungary's role as an international financial centre and it fitted into the government's Opening to the East policy, which aimed to bolster economic ties with Russia, China and other emerging markets outside the EU.

The United States expressed reservations over the relocation from the onset. Washington successfully blocked the lender to have its HQ established alongside the US Embassy in Hungary at the landmark Freedom Square, close to the Parliament building. It also successfully pressured Hungary to reduce the number of officials at the bank with diplomatic immunity.

In an interview on Wednesday, the Hungarian government’s delegate to the board, Imre Boros raised eyebrows when commenting on the latest sanctions on IIB , saying "the US was trying to strike at Russia while attacking one of Russia's allies, Hungary". This was the first time that a leading public figure close to the government called Russia Hungary’s ally.

The 75-year-old former minister in the first Orban cabinet also said that Hungary is the number one shareholder in the bank, a claim that is not backed up by official data from IIB .

The latest data shows that Russia is currently the largest owner in the bank, holding 45.44% of the shares, followed by Hungary with 25.27%, while Cuba holds 2.83%, Mongolia 1.8% and Vietnam 1.26%.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230413ej4d001p5


Transformation of Organization of Turkic States opens up new avenues for cooperation between East and West
1221 字
2023 年 4 月 14 日
Caspian Oil & Gas Trends
TREOGE
英文
© 2023. Trend News Agency. All Rights Reserved
The 3rd Meeting of Energy Ministers of the Member States of the Organization of Turkic States (OTS) in Budapest, Hungary, signaled the continuation of the transformation of the OTS into a crucial regional organization. Despite the common Turkic cultural heritage of the countries, each state in the Organization has a unique set of opportunities and challenges they face. After all, the issues in front of them are dictated by regional dynamics, which is highly specific in any given case.

Despite these set of issues and challenges, the OTS became a beacon that united Turkic states under the banner of their common Turkic heritage. Initially, most people regarded the organization merely as a cultural forum. However, as time passed by, it became evident that the Organization of Turkic States offers considerably more than being a simple cultural forum.

The perfect example of the above-mentioned argument is the 3rd Meeting of Energy Ministers and the avenues that it opens up to the participants, observers, other regional states, and economic blocs. The benefits that the Organization offers are numerous, and if used wisely, the OTS may become an important piece of the regional international relations system.

The platform with diverse representation

The diversity of member states and observer countries is one of the key strong points of the OTS. The presence of Türkiye, Hungary, Azerbaijan, and Central Asian states offers a unique opportunity for discussion in a multilateral format. Additionally, their joint discussions in an organization with a small number of states make reaching a consensus on issues of interest easier, compared to other regional organizations.

The Organization of Turkic States offers an interesting medium for communication between states and economic blocs with each other. Particularly, the OTS may serve as a bridge between the Turkic states and the European Union. The Turkic states may find it appealing to find a common framework for multilateral cooperation with their European partners, which will complement bilateral relations between the EU and any particular member of the OTS. Additionally, such cooperation will offer a unique dynamic to various fields of cooperation between the OTS member countries and the EU.

From the perspective of the EU, potential cooperation with the Organization of Turkic States will offer several highly specific benefits. First, the EU will find it very easy to build relations with the OTS due to the presence of Hungary. This will make the dialogue between the sides go smoother.

Systemic approach to cooperation

The second benefit is crucial, as it goes in line with the EU's long-term strategic interests and vision. The OTS unites several important oil and gas exporting countries, such as Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, and Turkmenistan, in addition to having Türkiye, a major oil and gas transit country, onboard. The puzzle is being completed by Hungary, which is already working on fostering gas cooperation with Azerbaijan. Additionally, the OTS hydrocarbon exporting countries also started their transition to becoming energy exporters, which will introduce additional opportunities for cooperation in the future.

Consequently, the OTS offers a systemic approach to oil, gas and energy transit. This system, despite still being under development, offers a credible solution to the EU's existing problem of energy security. In this context, the opportunities that the Organization presents for the EU can be very appealing, should the EU be willing to engage in dialogue with the OTS.

A similar approach can be taken regarding transport cooperation. Currently, it is impossible to use the trade route via Russia, due to the sanction imposed on Moscow. The trade route through Iran is inaccessible for a similar reason. Under these circumstances, the only possible way to link Western and Eastern countries is via the Trans-Caspian International Transport Route (TITR), also known as the Middle Corridor. As of today, this is the only route that bypasses Iran and Russia, thus making it possible to execute trade operations between Europe and Asia.

The access to this route lies through Türkiye, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan. The three countries serve as a gateway to tapping into the global trade potential. Being able to foster a relationship with the OTS may offer the EU in general, and its member states individually, a very beneficial partnership that will impact all involved economies positively.

Overall, the EU may find cooperation with the OTS highly beneficial in two strategic areas. Currently, Turkic states offer credible solutions to the critical issues that the EU seeks to address. Establishing close relations with the Organization may foster the EU's image in the Turkic countries significantly.

OTS as a potential regional integration model

The development trajectory of the OTS suggests that the decision-makers opted to transform it from a cultural organization to an all-encompassing body, which offers a platform for dialogue on strategically important issues. As the Organization transformed to its current state, it became clear that energy is one of these issues, due to the demands dictated by the geopolitical shifts.

Despite the growing significance of the OTS, there is significant potential for further improvements to be made. Perhaps, it is somewhat early to make such a bold prediction, however, it is looking increasingly likely that, at least, some countries in the Organization will see an increase in the level of integration. This would be necessary to streamline their joint operations in the framework of the projects that they are involved in. For example, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan would benefit immensely from harmonizing existing customs procedures, as it would lead to a reduction of time that the goods spend in transit through the Middle Corridor. This is one of the examples of possibilities that OTS offers to its member states. The potential closer cooperation between the national institutions may lead to an even higher level of integration between the nations, which will, consequently, benefit all involved parties.

The possibilities for closer integration will present themselves in the process of implementation of major projects, but even now the potential is observable. This would be a very welcome development for all states involved because, in the existing political climate, there are limited regional organizations, which treated the participants as equals.

The transformation of the OTS is an interesting development for the participants of the organization and other political actors. The growing stature of the Organization will draw attention to it, which will turn it into a regional platform for communication between the East and West.

It would be particularly interesting to see whether the EU chooses to cooperate with the Organization of Turkic States, as the benefits to be had by this cooperation are too valuable to overlook. The EU can have tangible and intangible benefits from such cooperation.

Finally, the transformation of the Organization brings the member states closer. For example, during the 3rd Meeting of Energy Ministers Askhat Khasenov, Deputy Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan, invited the member countries to participate in the joint development of energy deposits in Kazakhstan. Such opportunities exist in other fields as well, and the countries will only benefit in the long run from the partnership.

In conclusion, the transformation of the OTS opens up several avenues for multilateral cooperation. These partnerships can be achieved internally between the member countries, and externally with other regional entities, such as the EU.

Trend Agency

文件 TREOGE0020230414ej4e0008n


Hungary's Orban calls US a 'friend' despite sanction on bank
By JUSTIN SPIKE
Associated Press
686 字
2023 年 4 月 14 日 11:16 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2023. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) — Hungary's prime minister sought to bring down the temperature on spiraling tensions between his government and the United States, declaring Friday that the U.S. is Hungary's “friend” despite sanctions Washington imposed on a Budapest-based Russian bank.

In an interview on state radio, Prime Minister Viktor Orban said that the International Investment Bank, a Russian-controlled financial institution which U.S. officials have argued could serve as a conduit for Russian espionage, “could have played a serious role in developing Central European economies.”

While the war in Ukraine had limited the bank's effectiveness, Orban said, the U.S. sanctions against IIB and three of its top officials had “ruined it.” The Hungarian government withdrew its membership[https://apnews.com/article/hungary-leaves-russian-bank-90c81608ec82225825be925706d0f52c] in the bank Thursday, the day after the sanctions were issued.

“(The bank's) operations have been rendered impossible. It can't serve its function,” Orban said. “We decided that under these circumstances, Hungary's participation in the bank's further work has become pointless.”

The sanctions[https://apnews.com/24cd2d7557bc7c45b9ecb38591537643] — a broader package targeting the financial networks of two of Moscow’s wealthiest businessmen but also, in the case of Hungary, a rare step aimed at a NATO ally — brought rising tensions between Budapest and Washington to a head.

U.S. officials have grown increasingly dissatisfied with Hungary's approach to the war in Ukraine[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-politics-government-european-union-viktor-orban-a404e437593bddf9b0e8b23482f2872e], criticism of war-related sanctions on Russia and continuing close ties with Moscow, which have given Orban a reputation as the Kremlin's closest ally in the European Union.

Increasing anti-American rhetoric in Hungary's government-tied media and assertions from senior Hungarian officials that Washington seeks to force Hungary into the war have added fuel to the fire, bringing diplomatic relations to their lowest point in years.

But Orban appeared to want to pump the brakes on the deteriorating relations, emphasizing the U.S.'s status as Hungary's NATO ally and one of its most important trading partners.

“We have good relations with the Americans,” he said. “The United States is our friend and an important ally as well.”

“We've never agreed with the sanctions (against Russia,)” the populist prime minister continued, "but we don't dispute anyone's right, including that of the United States, to impose sanctions if they see fit."

Orban's conciliatory remarks followed actions by Hungary that escalated its disputes with Washington. Those include sending its foreign minister to Moscow for energy talks[https://apnews.com/article/hungary-makes-new-energy-agreement-russia-c069d83bc748cb820c3958bbecf13f17] on Tuesday and receiving the Moscow-allied Belarusian foreign minister in Budapest on Wednesday, said Daniel Hegedus, an analyst and Central Europe fellow for the German Marshall Fund.

But the Hungarian government's reaction to the U.S. sanctions has been “surprisingly accommodating,” Hegedus told The Associated Press, signaling that Orban was willing to make concessions in order to preserve a relationship with its largest ally.

“This was a message from the Hungarian government that, ‘Yes, we are responsive and we are ready in some way to settle this relationship,’” Hegedus said.

Hungary's president, Katalin Novak, also indicated Friday that Hungary would forego escalating tensions over the U.S. sanctions, writing on Twitter that “I welcome the decision of the Hungarian government to withdraw its representatives from the International Investment Bank.”

“In the shadow of war in Ukraine, the bank’s operation had lost its meaning; steps are needed to bring us closer to peace,” Novak wrote.

Despite opposition from U.S. and European officials, Orban’s government continues to lobby against EU sanctions on Russia, pursue energy deals with Moscow and to refrain from sending weapons to Ukraine.

Hegedus, the analyst, said that while he doesn't expect “a fundamental U-turn” in Hungary's Russia policy in the near future, the U.S. sanctions on the bank proved that Hungary's government “is responsive to pressure.”

“When it faces significant leverage from a partner, then it reacts," he said.

___

Follow AP's coverage of the war in Ukraine: https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine-war[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine-war]

Eds: UPDATES: AP Photos planned.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020230414ej4e007k9


Hungary quits Russia-linked bank after US sanctions
572 字
2023 年 4 月 14 日
Prime-News
PRIMNE
英文
(c) 2023 Prime News Agency All Rights Reserved.
Tbilisi. April 14 (Prime-News)- Hungary's government announced Thursday it is withdrawing its membership from a Russia-controlled investment bank a day after the United States issued sanctions against the Budapest-based financial institution.

The decision, announced on Thursday by Hungary's Ministry of Economic Development, came in response to the U.S. Treasury Department on Wednesday placing sanctions on the International Investment Bank (IIB), which relocated its headquarters to Hungary's capital from Moscow in 2019.

In a statement, the ministry said that "although the International Investment Bank has played an important development role in Central and Eastern Europe, the U.S. sanctions have rendered the bank’s operations meaningless.”

"Therefore, the government recalls the Hungarian government’s delegates to the International Investment Bank and withdraws from the international financial institution,” the statement said.

Hungary's stake in the bank, and the government's willingness to host its headquarters in Budapest, led to frustration from U.S. officials in both the Biden and Trump administrations, who argued it could serve as a conduit for Russian espionage within the European Union and NATO.

In announcing the U.S. sanctions on Wednesday, a Treasury Department statement said the bank enables Russia "to increase its intelligence presence in Europe, opens the door for the Kremlin’s malign influence activities in Central Europe and the Western Balkans, and could serve as a mechanism for corruption and illicit finance, including sanctions violations.”

At a news briefing in Budapest following the sanctions announcement, the U.S. ambassador to Hungary, David Pressman, said Hungary’s government had ignored pleas from multiple U.S. administrations to withdraw its stake in the bank.

"The presence of this opaque Kremlin platform in the heart of Hungary threatens the security and sovereignty of the Hungarian people, their European neighbors and their NATO allies," Pressman said.

Three current or former bank executives – Russian citizens Nikolay Nikolayevich Kosov, Georgy Nugzarovich Potapov and Hungarian national Imre Laszloczki – have also been designated for sanctions, Pressman said.

The officials were among dozens newly added to a U.S. sanction list of entities and individuals, as part of a broader package targeting the financial networks of two of Moscow’s wealthiest businessmen who are close allies of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Founded in the Soviet Union in 1979, the IIB moved its headquarters to Budapest under Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who cultivated close ties with Putin before the Ukraine war.

Billed as a version of the London-based European Bank of Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) – albeit smaller – the bank distributes loans to firms and projects in member countries.

EU members Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Romania were formerly members of the bank.

But all four countries said they would withdraw their membership after Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine, leaving Hungary as the only remaining EU member.

The other members, besides Russia itself, are Cuba, Mongolia and Vietnam.

Orban has drawn fierce criticism from both EU and NATO allies for his neutral stance on Russia's war in Ukraine.

"We have concerns about the continued eagerness of Hungarian leaders to expand and deepen ties with the Russian Federation despite Russia's ongoing brutal aggression to Ukraine and threat to transatlantic security," Pressman said Wednesday.

With the sanctions, "the U.S. is demonstrating that we will take action in response to Hungary's choices," he said, Daily Sabah reports.

Prime-News Business

文件 PRIMNE0020230414ej4e0012x


Hungary's Orban calls US a 'friend' despite sanction on bank
Justin Spike
The Associated Press 
139 字
2023 年 4 月 14 日 12:19 GMT
The Canadian Press - Broadcast wire
BNW
英文
(c) 2023 The Canadian Press. All rights reserved.
BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary's prime minister is seeking to bring down the temperature on spiraling tensions between his government and the United States after Washington sanctioned a Hungary-based Russian bank. Viktor Orban said on Friday that the U.S. was Hungary's “friend” and that his government wouldn't dispute Washington's right to issue sanctions as it sees fit. The statements came after weeks of tensions as Hungary's NATO and European Union allies grow increasingly dissatisfied with the approach of Orban's government to the war in Ukraine and close ties with Russia. An analyst says Hungary's decision to withdraw its stake in the Russian bank was “surprisingly accommodating" and signal that Orban is responsive to U.S. pressure.

The Canadian Press

文件 BNW0000020230414ej4e0060p


Hungary This Week - April 14, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 4 月 14 日, 13012 字, (英文)
Slower growth in Hungary’s vehicle sector drags down February industrial productionDetailed data of Hungary’s industrial output shows the biggest sectors expanding in February but segments with lower weight continuing to struggle.

CE Noticias Financieras English
Why have Hungary, Slovakia and Poland closed their borders to Ukrainian grain?
1227 字
2023 年 4 月 18 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Ukraine is known as the breadbasket of Europe. Before the Russian invasion, it produced enough grain to feed nearly 500 million people each year. The war closed ports and borders, threatening harvests, the country's economy and causing famine in Africa. The EU, together with the United Nations, managed to establish "solidarity corridors" to take grain out of the country, eliminating controls, inspections and tariffs. And preparing an unprecedented logistical campaign to take the product to continental ports. The problem is that the cereal has "flooded" its neighbors, in many cases it stays and does not go to Egypt or Pakistan, as it should, driving down prices and mobilizing farmers in the East. Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Bulgaria or Romania have announced restrictive measures and even a total ban on the entry of cereals. Brussels protests, but the conflict, in an election year for several of them, is deep.

What has happened to Ukrainian cereals?Poland, Hungary and Slovakia have decided in recent days to close their borders to Ukrainian grain. The eastern neighbors argue that there are health reasons, public concern and oversupply, which endangers not only the health but also the jobs of their citizens. The reality is that there are elections in Poland and Slovakia this year, and the rural vote is critical. Bulgaria has an interim government and political pressure in Romania is at an all-time high, with the Minister of Agriculture on the verge of losing his post. Farm workers are very mobilized and are demanding that the arrival of Ukrainian cereals, which in theory should be on their way to destinations such as Pakistan, India or Egypt, be cut off, but which in many cases have ended up staying in Europe, driving down the prices of local produce.

Is this a legal, political or sanitary problem?All three, it seems. The European Commission has reacted this week by denouncing the decision of these governments, recalling that all competences in trade matters are transferred to Brussels and warning, without microphones, that this route is unacceptable, unsupportive and could end up in court. If there are doubts in phytosanitary matters, they must be informed and act, but all at the same time. Last week, a meeting was scheduled between the Polish minister and his Ukrainian colleague, but after being postponed, the EU country announced the closure. Hungary, in perpetual tension with Kiev, immediately signed up. Warsaw is the one that is most between a rock and a hard place, the one that has taken the decision and dragged the others along with it."Trade policy is the exclusive competence of the European Union and decisions are taken at the European level. Unilateral actions are not acceptable. In such complicated times, it is crucial to coordinate and align all decisions within the EU," warned Trade spokeswoman Miriam Garcia Ferrer of Spain. The Commission has asked all countries involved for formal and full explanations of their measures and the consequences.

What can the EU do?For the moment, raise its voice and ask for explanations. But without seeking shock, because the last year has been particularly complicated for the bordering countries. "Poland and other neighbors have done everything in their power. It is not a matter of sanctioning, but of finding solutions on the basis of European legislation, in the interests of Ukrainians and Europeans," the Commission's chief spokesman said on Monday, showing understanding. Trade competences are transferred to the European Commission, but simply on the grounds of sanitary issues, controls and temporary blockades would be authorized. But as the problem is political and the elections are at the end of the year, it is difficult to find a fast track. Farmers in the East want compensation and that the grain does not stay in their territory. Brussels can provide money, but helping Ukraine is one of the priorities. There is unease among the diplomatic delegations. Hungary is always looking for any excuse not to sanction Russia or to annoy Kiev, but Poland is the great Ukrainian supporter and the one that has criticized its partners the most for not supporting the sanctions, for stopping the shipment of weapons or military material. Now, the same people who were constantly reprimanded are wondering where is the solidarity and point to the hypocrisy of the East, ready to act when the issues are in line with their priorities, but slipping away when it is time to suffer, like the rest.

Is it a serious problem for Ukraine or for the EU?It is a serious economic and logistical problem for Kiev, which is completely dependent on the EU and the United States for its military and commercial survival. It is a problem for Spain, the Netherlands and the other partners who want and need Ukraine's grain, the continental breadbasket. And it is a problem of image and coordination for the whole EU, which together with the United Nations, entrusted the subsistence of the Ukrainian countryside to this logistic macro-operation. When Russia closed the ports, the way to get food by land to EU ports was the only option to maintain the supply. But in addition, Moscow has only agreed to cooperate with its enemies on the grain issue, agreeing to allow exports.

What is the most likely scenario?President Zelenski has mastered the art of public persuasion, but he cannot tighten the noose. Poland or Slovakia are two of his most loyal supporters, militarily, economically and politically, and their concerns are legitimate. Grain has saturated their markets, driven down prices, irritated a key lobby in the run-up to the polls and created logistical problems and bottlenecks, which in turn affect other exports. Russia, always happy to take advantage of divisions, is putting pressure by interrupting ship inspections, effectively shutting down authorized corridors. Brussels is preparing new aid packages worth tens of millions of euros. And it has to take a decision on tariffs. Ukraine is not part of the Union, and therefore its products should pay certain border tolls. It was exempted for one year, but the deadline ends in June and it is not clear that it will be able to extend it for another 12 months, as was the initial intention, if there is not much more consensus. If the Commission were to take those who have imposed unilateral measures to the European Court of Justice it would surely win, but that is a process of years, not months.

Is this a sign of possible accession?This clash, the most serious since the Russian invasion, is more than a conjunctural issue. EU support has been almost unconditional in all aspects. Millions of refugees have entered, tens of billions of euros have been moved, military equipment of all kinds has been sent, and the process for the opening of the fastest accession negotiations in history has also been activated. But this trade friction shows precisely the seams. If Ukraine were to join the EU, its role as a continental breadbasket would reach another dimension. Brussels is tailoring a suit, allowing no tariffs, with lax sanitary controls, pushing in case of doubt. But there are limits and even the most enthusiastic in the East are saying that they have been exceeded and that alternative solutions are needed.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230418ej4i00aa4


Russian-led bank leaves Hungary following US sanctions
279 字
2023 年 4 月 19 日 14:04 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2023 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
A small Russian-led multilateral development bank announced on Wednesday that it was leaving Hungary after it was placed on a US sanctions lists and Budapest withdrew its membership.

"The Bank has commenced a relocation of its operations and functions of its headquarters from Hungary to Russia," the International Investment Bank (IIB) said in a statement on its website.

Last week, Hungary's government said it was quitting the bank, a day after Washington levied sanctions on the entity and several of its officials.

They were among dozens newly added entities on a US sanction list, with Washington seeking to curb Russians' access to the international financial system over its invasion of Ukraine.

"Due to US sanctions... the bank is currently deprived of the ability to conduct financial operations," IIB said, adding it had to leave Budapest since Hungary withdrew its membership.

US ambassador to Budapest, David Pressman, last week expressed "concerns about the continued eagerness of Hungarian leaders to expand and deepen ties" with Russia despite the war.

On his fourth trip to Moscow since the invasion, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto also last week announced an expansion of oil and gas energy deals with Russia.

The IIB moved its headquarters to Budapest in 2019 -- employing some 120 people at the time -- under Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who cultivated close ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin before the Ukraine war.

The bank's other EU backers -- Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Romania and Slovakia -- announced after Russia invaded Ukraine that they were quitting the lender, offloading their shares.

The other members, besides Russia itself, are Cuba, Mongolia and Vietnam.

pmu-jza/rl

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020230419ej4j00ac9


Features
The EU is not ready for Ukraine
Ben Aris in Berlin
2240 字
2023 年 4 月 21 日 04:42 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Two events in the last week have highlighted that the EU is not ready to make Ukraine a member: five countries have banned imports of cheap Ukrainian grain; and talks on the eleventh sanctions package have died before they started.

Five countries – Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria – have banned, or threatened to ban, imports of cheap Ukrainian grain, which could have put their own farmers out of business.

Bottled up by a Russian naval embargo of Ukraine’s Black Sea ports, millions of tonnes of grain has been sent west by train and dumped at on Central European markets at prices that undercut local producers.

Nominally this grain was destined for Africa to head off a potential food crisis but that is a myth. It is true that African countries remain heavily dependent on imports of Russian and Ukrainian grain. And it is also true that if they are cut off some countries would face shortage or famine. But unblocking Ukraine’s grains exports ended up largely benefiting Western companies who had contracts to use the grain as animal feed for industrial purposes.

Ukraine and Moldova were given EU candidate status[https://intellinews.com/ukraine-and-moldova-granted-eu-candidate-status-in-face-of-russian-aggression-248330/] last June, but in reality the former is very unlikely to be allowed to accede for years. The problem is Ukraine is an agricultural powerhouse and home to some of the most fertile land in the world, the famous “black earth” regions.

It is also the third most populous country and as the poorest nation on the Continent, now worse off than even lowly Moldova, if Ukraine were granted the free movement of labour capital and goods that comes with membership, its agricultural output would rapidly swamp the rest of Europe. The rise of right-wing parties in Europe has already made immigration a political hot potato in many countries, and opening the gates to millions of Ukrainian migrants would be a difficult pill to swallow; some 6mn Ukrainians had already left the country to look for work before the war started and another 6-8mn have followed since then as refugees.

Europe’s Common Agricultural Policy is baked into to the core of what the EU does, and eats up about a third of the EU annual budget. It has an extremely powerful lobby that is likely to resist Ukraine’s accession for as long as possible, as Ukraine’s membership would turn Europe’s agricultural sector on its head.

It’s all about the money

Talk of a famine in Africa has been a ruse by Eurocrats to mask the bigger underlying issues associated with imports of cheap Ukrainian grain.

In reality only 17% of Ukraine’s grain exports ended up in Africa last year, whereas 36% went to the EU and another 47% to Turkey and Asia combined, according to the Wilson Centre[https://www.wilsoncenter.org/blog-post/ukraine-russia-grain-deal-success-or-failure#:~:text=More%20than%20100%20ships%20have,and%2017%20percent%20to%20Africa.], a fact that the Kremlin has also gleefully pointed out.

“Indeed, contrary to popular perception, the majority of grain exports that were shipped out of Ukrainian Black Sea ports didn`t go to the poorest and most [needy] countries but rather to Europe and Turkey,” the Wilson Centre reported in January.

During the last five months of 2022 after the grain deal came into effect, more than 12.3 tonnes of grain were shipped[https://www.un.org/en/black-sea-grain-initiative/vessel-movements] from Ukraine, with 44% of it being corn rather than wheat (29%).

The main destinations of the cargoes were Spain (2.5mn tonnes), China (2mn tonnes), Turkey (1.9mn tonnes), Italy (1.3mn tonnes) and the Netherlands (898,000 tonnes).

“Most of the grain that had been held up in Ukrainian silos after February 24 was corn (not wheat), contracted by international companies, not necessarily to feed people but, for example, to use as biofuel or animal food. Therefore the agreement wasn’t designed to immediately avert famine in countries like Yemen or Somalia but rather to stabilise the market and contain prices, which in turn hurt countries’ ability to purchase food,” the Wilson Centre reported.

Europe has been struggling to cope with sky-high inflation, mostly driven up by record energy bills and soaring food inflation. As soon as the Istanbul grain deal was signed last July, wheat prices immediately returned to normal. (chart[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-i5zNovBzrgJHE602YmVc86EOlNQCnH5/view?usp=share_link)])

This year is seeing more of the same. As of March 2023, over 23mn tonnes of grain and other foodstuffs have been exported via the Black Sea Grain Initiative, according to the Council of Europe[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/infographics/ukrainian-grain-exports-explained/#:~:text=So%20far%2C%20over%20456%20000,%2C%20Djibouti%2C%20Somalia%20and%20Afghanistan.], but again, very little is actually going to Africa: so far this year only 456,000 tonnes of wheat have left Ukrainian ports en route to Ethiopia, Yemen, Djibouti, Somalia and Afghanistan. Once again the bulk of Ukraine’s grain exports are headed to Europe.

In its report, the Council of Europe says that 45% of Ukraine’s grain exports goes to “developed markets” but only identifies the remaining 65% as going to “developing” markets, which could include the Central European countries. It does not report how much grain has been sent to Africa.

The export of cheap Ukrainian grain has affected European markets far more than African ones. The low cost of wheat has been a non-monetary policy godsend for European central bankers, as it can bring down inflation rates.

However, the downside of this policy is the extremely powerful agriculture lobby is upset, as domestic farms are unable to compete with the copious amounts of cheap imported grain.

As prices tumbled Poland quickly banned imports of Ukraine’s grain until the summer[https://intellinews.com/a-flood-of-grain-from-ukraine-276290/] – an essential source of foreign exchange earnings for cash-strapped Kyiv. Warsaw was quickly followed by Budapest and Bratislava. Sofia and Zagreb, which are suffering from the same problem.

Ukraine is on course this year to run a $38bn budget deficit, but earned about $20bn from grain exports last year. Cutting Kyiv off from one of its biggest markets would blow a hole in the already very distressed budget.

The European Commission acted fast. Within days Poland was told that it can’t make a “unilateral decision” and was told to unblock both imports and transit to the rest of Europe[https://www.intellinews.com/european-commission-slams-bans-imposed-by-hungary-poland-and-slovakia-on-ukrainian-grain-exports-275954/?source=slovakia].

Poland demanded compensation for its farmers[https://intellinews.com/poland-demands-eu-action-to-reduce-impact-of-ukrainian-grain-glut-on-cee-markets-274486/] and President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen quickly rolled out a rescue package that includes €100mn of subsidies for EU farmers. That money would come on top of €56mn package that was provided for farmers in Poland, Romania and Bulgaria last month.

Von der Leyen also proposed taking “preventive measures under the applicable trade rules” in regard to certain grains such as sunflower and rapeseed, spokeswoman Dana Spinant said.

Brussels has previously insisted that any unilateral bans on the Ukrainian exports were “not acceptable” and noted that trade policy is solely an EU responsibility.

EU is done with sanctions

Europe’s need for affordable inputs from Eastern Europe has also brought the sanctions drive to an end. There have been ten rounds of sanctions, but each round has become progressively weaker and has contained more calve outs and exemptions as the less enthusiastic members of the EU – led by Hungary – try to protect their economic interests.

The latest package, the tenth package of sanctions[https://www.intellinews.com/tenth-eu-sanction-package-hits-alfa-rosbank-and-tinkoff-271215/], was the weakest, containing little more than the addition of around 120 people, many of them from Russian media, and a few commercial banks.

Work on the eleventh package is underway, and countries like Ukraine and Poland want the state-owned nuclear power monopolist Rosatom and the diamond miner Alrosa included, but that is a bridge too far for many EU members.

“We are done,” one of the EU officials working on the bloc’s future sanctions told the Financial Times. “If we do more sanctions, there will be more exemptions than measures.”

Several earlier rounds of sanctions were already significantly watered down thanks to vested sovereign interests. The fifth sanctions package included bans on EU shipping, but thanks to Greek lobbying on behalf of its a very large shipping fleet, the ban was softened to allow Greek ships to work with Russia on non-European routes. Greek ships increased their share of Russian cargo from 35% to 55% as a result, the Institute of International Finance (IIF) reported at the time. Likewise, the reluctance to sanction Alrosa is a result of lobbying by Belgium, as the city of Antwerp is a major international diamond trading centre.

By far the most effective and painful was the “massive package” of sanctions that were rolled out only days after the invasion of Ukraine, that included the CBR sanctions[https://intellinews.com/west-to-sanction-russia-s-central-bank-236291/] that froze some $300bn of the Bank of Russia’s reserves and the SWIFT sanctions[https://www.intellinews.com/russia-set-to-be-excluded-from-swift-network-236279/?source=russia] that in effect cut Russia’s banking sector off from the international financial system.

Last month Europe’s top diplomat Joseph Borrell admitted that the EU has run out of ideas on what to sanction next, and von der Leyen also said not to expect anything new in the eleventh package, which only would focus on making the previous sanctions work better. That has been accompanied by Western and Russian diplomats travelling the world to drum up support for their sides[https://www.bne.eu/western-russian-diplomats-globetrotting-to-win-support-in-ballooning-sanctions-battle-272188/?source=gabon].

Sanctions have reached the point where they do more harm to Europe than they do to Russia. Russia’s economy has been battered by sanctions, but it has weathered the story far better than expected. This year Russia is anticipated to grow a little, but it will be expanding faster than Germany and the UK, both of which are in, or close to, recession as a result of the unfolding polycrisis.

The irony is that the same arguments apply to Russia as they do to Ukraine. In 2001 Putin travelled to Brussels and met with the then-president Jose Barroso and asked that Russia be allowed to join the EU. But Russia is also an agricultural powerhouse, also home to black earth and together with Ukraine one of the biggest grain producers in the world. However, more than this, Russia has three times the population and is a powerhouse in a number of other sectors too.

Barroso rejected the request out of hand. That led Putin to launch his Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) project that would, in theory, allow the EU and EEU to tie up and create a single market “from Lisbon to Vladivostok”. Those dreams are smashed now, but keeping Russia outside the EU actually suits Brussels very well: Europe remains in deficit for many of the key inputs that Russia supplies like metal, energy, grain and fertilisers. Russo-EU trade turnover peaked in 2012 at €203bn – a level that China is about to reach.

But as it is outside the EU, and always will be, trade between two can be regulated and Europe can take advantage of Russia’s grain production, for example, without having to pay the CAP subsidies it would pay a member. From this perspective a tie-up between the EU and the EAEU would make a lot of sense.

CAR

Europe’s common agricultural policy (CAP) is the major obstacle in the way of Ukraine’s membership. Poland, Hungary and Slovakia have moved to block imports of Ukraine’s grain at a time when the Ukrainian economy is on its back and agricultural output is down by a third from normal. And even then these countries can’t compete with it.

If the Ukraine became a member then foreign investment would pour into the sector and billions would go into improving shipping and rail links to tap Ukraine’s full agricultural potential.

Another problem would be that as a member, Ukraine would become eligible for billions of euros in subsidies under CAP. Launched in 1962, CAP was designed to ensure food production and, crucially, to support farmers' income[https://agriculture.ec.europa.eu/common-agricultural-policy/income-support_en] as they typically earn 40% what non-agricultural workers get, according to the EU[https://agriculture.ec.europa.eu/common-agricultural-policy/cap-overview/cap-glance_en]. Given that Ukraine is currently paying some of the lowest wages in Europe then the EU would be on the hook to subsidise the entire sector’s payroll. These subsidies already account for about a third of the entire EU budget. (chart[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sWYzBp8F2xo8raQniVwZQoDIxo3iUua-/view?usp=share_link])

The power of Ukraine’s agricultural sector has already led to severe restrictions on the quotas of duty-free exports to the EU under the Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area (DCFTA) already in place. These quotas are typically used up in first the first few weeks of each January and set at very low protectionist levels. The DCFTA is neither deep nor comprehensive.

And it is not just grain at issue. Ukraine produces enough eggs to supply almost all of Europe. It is a major producer of poultry and would put most of Europe’s already struggling chicken farms out of business. Before the war started it was already producing a quarter of the world’s sunflower oil and remains a top ten producer of wheat, barley and honey, according to the Financial Times.

Being self-sufficient in food production is not just a question of economics. It also widely seen as a question of national security. The economic principle of comparative advantage argues that the EU should abandon its attempts to feed itself with the ecologically damaging intense farming techniques and simply outsource a large part of its food production to Ukraine. But having just come out from under the rock of over-dependency on Russian gas, that is the last thing politicians in Brussels would vote for – but with Ukraine a full member of the EU that is what they would get.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230421ej4l00001


Blogs
KYIV BLOG: The EU is not ready for Ukraine
Ben Aris in Berlin
2260 字
2023 年 4 月 21 日 04:42 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Two events in the last week have highlighted that the EU is not ready to make Ukraine a member: five countries have banned imports of cheap Ukrainian grain; and talks on the eleventh sanctions package have died before they started.

Five countries – Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria – have banned, or threatened to ban, imports of cheap Ukrainian grain, which could have put their own farmers out of business.

Bottled up by a Russian naval embargo of Ukraine’s Black Sea ports, millions of tonnes of grain has been sent west by train and dumped at on Central European markets at prices that undercut local producers.

Nominally this grain was destined for Africa to head off a potential food crisis but that is a myth. It is true that African countries remain heavily dependent on imports of Russian and Ukrainian grain. And it is also true that if they are cut off some countries would face shortage or famine. But unblocking Ukraine’s grains exports ended up largely benefiting Western companies who had contracts to use the grain as animal feed for industrial purposes.

Ukraine and Moldova were given EU candidate status[https://intellinews.com/ukraine-and-moldova-granted-eu-candidate-status-in-face-of-russian-aggression-248330/] last June, but in reality the former is very unlikely to be allowed to accede for years. The problem is Ukraine is an agricultural powerhouse and home to some of the most fertile land in the world, the famous “black earth” regions.

It is also the third most populous country and as the poorest nation on the Continent, now worse off than even lowly Moldova, if Ukraine were granted the free movement of labour capital and goods that comes with membership, its agricultural output would rapidly swamp the rest of Europe. The rise of right-wing parties in Europe has already made immigration a political hot potato in many countries, and opening the gates to millions of Ukrainian migrants would be a difficult pill to swallow; some 6mn Ukrainians had already left the country to look for work before the war started and another 6-8mn have followed since then as refugees.

Europe’s Common Agricultural Policy is baked into to the core of what the EU does, and eats up about a third of the EU annual budget. It has an extremely powerful lobby that is likely to resist Ukraine’s accession for as long as possible, as Ukraine’s membership would turn Europe’s agricultural sector on its head.

It’s all about the money

Talk of a famine in Africa has been a ruse by Eurocrats to mask the bigger underlying issues associated with imports of cheap Ukrainian grain.

In reality only 17% of Ukraine’s grain exports ended up in Africa last year, whereas 36% went to the EU and another 47% to Turkey and Asia combined, according to the Wilson Centre[https://www.wilsoncenter.org/blog-post/ukraine-russia-grain-deal-success-or-failure#:~:text=More%20than%20100%20ships%20have,and%2017%20percent%20to%20Africa.], a fact that the Kremlin has also gleefully pointed out.

“Indeed, contrary to popular perception, the majority of grain exports that were shipped out of Ukrainian Black Sea ports didn`t go to the poorest and most [needy] countries but rather to Europe and Turkey,” the Wilson Centre reported in January.

During the last five months of 2022 after the grain deal came into effect, more than 12.3 tonnes of grain were shipped[https://www.un.org/en/black-sea-grain-initiative/vessel-movements] from Ukraine, with 44% of it being corn rather than wheat (29%).

The main destinations of the cargoes were Spain (2.5mn tonnes), China (2mn tonnes), Turkey (1.9mn tonnes), Italy (1.3mn tonnes) and the Netherlands (898,000 tonnes).

“Most of the grain that had been held up in Ukrainian silos after February 24 was corn (not wheat), contracted by international companies, not necessarily to feed people but, for example, to use as biofuel or animal food. Therefore the agreement wasn’t designed to immediately avert famine in countries like Yemen or Somalia but rather to stabilise the market and contain prices, which in turn hurt countries’ ability to purchase food,” the Wilson Centre reported.

Europe has been struggling to cope with sky-high inflation, mostly driven up by record energy bills and soaring food inflation. As soon as the Istanbul grain deal was signed last July, wheat prices immediately returned to normal. (chart[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-i5zNovBzrgJHE602YmVc86EOlNQCnH5/view?usp=share_link)])

This year is seeing more of the same. As of March 2023, over 23mn tonnes of grain and other foodstuffs have been exported via the Black Sea Grain Initiative, according to the Council of Europe[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/infographics/ukrainian-grain-exports-explained/#:~:text=So%20far%2C%20over%20456%20000,%2C%20Djibouti%2C%20Somalia%20and%20Afghanistan.], but again, very little is actually going to Africa: so far this year only 456,000 tonnes of wheat have left Ukrainian ports en route to Ethiopia, Yemen, Djibouti, Somalia and Afghanistan. Once again the bulk of Ukraine’s grain exports are headed to Europe.

In its report, the Council of Europe says that 45% of Ukraine’s grain exports goes to “developed markets” but only identifies the remaining 65% as going to “developing” markets, which could include the Central European countries. It does not report how much grain has been sent to Africa.

The export of cheap Ukrainian grain has affected European markets far more than African ones. The low cost of wheat has been a non-monetary policy godsend for European central bankers, as it can bring down inflation rates.

However, the downside of this policy is the extremely powerful agriculture lobby is upset, as domestic farms are unable to compete with the copious amounts of cheap imported grain.

As prices tumbled Poland quickly banned imports of Ukraine’s grain until the summer[https://intellinews.com/a-flood-of-grain-from-ukraine-276290/] – an essential source of foreign exchange earnings for cash-strapped Kyiv. Warsaw was quickly followed by Budapest and Bratislava. Sofia and Zagreb, which are suffering from the same problem.

Ukraine is on course this year to run a $38bn budget deficit, but earned about $20bn from grain exports last year. Cutting Kyiv off from one of its biggest markets would blow a hole in the already very distressed budget.

The European Commission acted fast. Within days Poland was told that it can’t make a “unilateral decision” and was told to unblock both imports and transit to the rest of Europe[https://www.intellinews.com/european-commission-slams-bans-imposed-by-hungary-poland-and-slovakia-on-ukrainian-grain-exports-275954/?source=slovakia].

Poland demanded compensation for its farmers[https://intellinews.com/poland-demands-eu-action-to-reduce-impact-of-ukrainian-grain-glut-on-cee-markets-274486/] and President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen quickly rolled out a rescue package that includes €100mn of subsidies for EU farmers. That money would come on top of €56mn package that was provided for farmers in Poland, Romania and Bulgaria last month.

Von der Leyen also proposed taking “preventive measures under the applicable trade rules” in regard to certain grains such as sunflower and rapeseed, spokeswoman Dana Spinant said.

Brussels has previously insisted that any unilateral bans on the Ukrainian exports were “not acceptable” and noted that trade policy is solely an EU responsibility.

EU is done with sanctions

Europe’s need for affordable inputs from Eastern Europe has also brought the sanctions drive to an end. There have been ten rounds of sanctions, but each round has become progressively weaker and has contained more calve outs and exemptions as the less enthusiastic members of the EU – led by Hungary – try to protect their economic interests.

The latest package, the tenth package of sanctions[https://www.intellinews.com/tenth-eu-sanction-package-hits-alfa-rosbank-and-tinkoff-271215/], was the weakest, containing little more than the addition of around 120 people, many of them from Russian media, and a few commercial banks.

Work on the eleventh package is underway, and countries like Ukraine and Poland want the state-owned nuclear power monopolist Rosatom and the diamond miner Alrosa included, but that is a bridge too far for many EU members.

“We are done,” one of the EU officials working on the bloc’s future sanctions told the Financial Times. “If we do more sanctions, there will be more exemptions than measures.”

Several earlier rounds of sanctions were already significantly watered down thanks to vested sovereign interests. The fifth sanctions package included bans on EU shipping, but thanks to Greek lobbying on behalf of its a very large shipping fleet, the ban was softened to allow Greek ships to work with Russia on non-European routes. Greek ships increased their share of Russian cargo from 35% to 55% as a result, the Institute of International Finance (IIF) reported at the time. Likewise, the reluctance to sanction Alrosa is a result of lobbying by Belgium, as the city of Antwerp is a major international diamond trading centre.

By far the most effective and painful was the “massive package” of sanctions that were rolled out only days after the invasion of Ukraine, that included the CBR sanctions[https://intellinews.com/west-to-sanction-russia-s-central-bank-236291/] that froze some $300bn of the Bank of Russia’s reserves and the SWIFT sanctions[https://www.intellinews.com/russia-set-to-be-excluded-from-swift-network-236279/?source=russia] that in effect cut Russia’s banking sector off from the international financial system.

Last month Europe’s top diplomat Joseph Borrell admitted that the EU has run out of ideas on what to sanction next, and von der Leyen also said not to expect anything new in the eleventh package, which only would focus on making the previous sanctions work better. That has been accompanied by Western and Russian diplomats travelling the world to drum up support for their sides[https://www.bne.eu/western-russian-diplomats-globetrotting-to-win-support-in-ballooning-sanctions-battle-272188/?source=gabon].

Sanctions have reached the point where they do more harm to Europe than they do to Russia. Russia’s economy has been battered by sanctions, but it has weathered the story far better than expected. This year Russia is anticipated to grow a little, but it will be expanding faster than Germany and the UK, both of which are in, or close to, recession as a result of the unfolding polycrisis.

The irony is that the same arguments apply to Russia as they do to Ukraine. In 2001 Putin travelled to Brussels and met with the then-president Jose Barroso and asked that Russia be allowed to join the EU. But Russia is also an agricultural powerhouse, also home to black earth and together with Ukraine one of the biggest grain producers in the world. However, more than this, Russia has three times the population and is a powerhouse in a number of other sectors too.

Barroso rejected the request out of hand. That led Putin to launch his Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) project that would, in theory, allow the EU and EEU to tie up and create a single market “from Lisbon to Vladivostok”. Those dreams are smashed now, but keeping Russia outside the EU actually suits Brussels very well: Europe remains in deficit for many of the key inputs that Russia supplies like metal, energy, grain and fertilisers. Russo-EU trade turnover peaked in 2012 at €203bn – a level that China is about to reach.

But as it is outside the EU, and always will be, trade between two can be regulated and Europe can take advantage of Russia’s grain production, for example, without having to pay the common agricultural policy (CAP) subsidies it would pay a member. From this perspective a tie-up between the EU and the EAEU would make a lot of sense.

Common Agricultural Policy

Europe’s CAP is the major obstacle in the way of Ukraine’s membership. Poland, Hungary and Slovakia have moved to block imports of Ukraine’s grain at a time when the Ukrainian economy is on its back foot and agricultural output is down by a third from normal. And even then these countries can’t compete with it.

If the Ukraine became a member of the EU then foreign investment would pour into the sector and billions would go into improving shipping and rail links to tap Ukraine’s full agricultural potential.

Another problem would be that as a member, Ukraine would become eligible for billions of euros in subsidies under CAP. Launched in 1962, CAP was designed to ensure food production and, crucially, to support farmers' income[https://agriculture.ec.europa.eu/common-agricultural-policy/income-support_en] as they typically earn 40% what non-agricultural workers get, according to the EU[https://agriculture.ec.europa.eu/common-agricultural-policy/cap-overview/cap-glance_en]. Given that Ukraine is currently paying some of the lowest wages in Europe then the EU would be on the hook to subsidise the entire sector’s payroll. These subsidies already account for about a third of the entire EU budget. (chart[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sWYzBp8F2xo8raQniVwZQoDIxo3iUua-/view?usp=share_link])

The power of Ukraine’s agricultural sector has already led to severe restrictions on the quotas of duty-free exports to the EU under the Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Area (DCFTA) already in place. These quotas are typically used up in first the first few weeks of each January and set at very low protectionist levels. The DCFTA is neither deep nor comprehensive.

And it is not just grain at issue. Ukraine produces enough eggs to supply almost all of Europe. It is a major producer of poultry and would put most of Europe’s already struggling chicken farms out of business. Before the war started it was already producing a quarter of the world’s sunflower oil and remains a top ten producer of wheat, barley and honey, according to the Financial Times.

Being self-sufficient in food production is not just a question of economics. It also widely seen as a question of national security. The economic principle of comparative advantage argues that the EU should abandon its attempts to feed itself with the ecologically damaging intense farming techniques and simply outsource a large part of its food production to Ukraine. But having just come out from under the rock of over-dependency on Russian gas, the last thing politicians in Brussels would vote for is to make the EU dependent on Ukraine for something as basic as food. But with Ukraine a full member of the EU that is what they would get.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230430ej4l000jh


Latest
Europe: Could Brussels Finally Target Rosatom with Sanctions?
1195 字
2023 年 4 月 21 日
Nuclear Intelligence Weekly
URIW
英文
© 2023 Energy Intelligence Group, Inc. All rights reserved.
Rosatom is yet again being mooted as a possible target of European Union sanctions as the EU prepares its 11th package of sanctions against Russia since Russian troops invaded Ukraine last February. This time, rather than a blanket ban on Rosatom products and services, pro-sanctions member states are proposing more nuanced sanctions which would include exemptions for EU nuclear firms with existing contracts with Rosatom. At the World Nuclear Fuel Cycle conference this week, Euratom Supply Agency Director Agnieszka Kazmierczak also raised the possibility of putting in place protectionist measures to deter reliance on Russian nuclear products.Previous efforts to sanction Rosatom have been thwarted by Hungary, Bulgaria and France, all of which are reluctant to lose access to Russian nuclear fuel and technology; both France and Hungary are cooperating closely with Rosatom on ongoing projects.

But some EU member states are hoping that the proffered carve-outs will get Hungary, France and Bulgaria on board and allow for some sort of sanctions against the Russian nuclear giant. "To be honest, the only way we’re going to have sanctions is if there are big loopholes," Greenpeace EU democracy policy advisor Ariadna Rodrigo told Energy Intelligence. Ahead of this newest round of sanctions, Lithuania is reportedly advocating for what it calls an “onion” approach where sanctions on Rosatom are split into seven parts, with all parts that can be agreed upon passed and those that can’t discarded. Part of this compromise approach includes offering years-long phaseouts for countries that currently have contracts with Rosatom — potentially including a nine-year exemption for Hungary.Increased PressureGermany has also recently joined the coalition demanding that the upcoming sanctions package include nuclear. “The nuclear sector is still outstanding. It is not justifiable that this area is still given preferential treatment,” said German Economy and Climate Minister Robert Habeck this weekend. “Nuclear is an extremely sensitive area, and Russia can no longer be considered a reliable partner.”Part of Germany’s newfound interest in nuclear sanctions could be the government’s displeasure with a Rosatom-Framatome joint venture that is aiming to produce Russian-licensed nuclear fuel for Soviet-built VVER reactors at Framatome’s facility in Lingen, Germany. Framatome needs to receive a specific license from Germany in order to produce the VVER-440 fuel, but Lower Saxony officials have already vocally criticized the joint venture and are reportedly looking for ways to deny a license. While the final decision is up to the federal government and not the regional Lower Saxony government, officials are now considering simply delaying the process. That's according to Vladimir Slivyak, co-chairman for Russian environmental group Ecodefense, who spoke to Energy Intelligence after a conversation on the issue with a Lower Saxony minister. “They can set up a long public discussion process which will not allow Framatome to do anything until it finishes,” he said. “The German federal government is not in favor of Framatome cooperating with Rosatom in Lingen” either, he added.Alongside historically anti-nuclear countries such as Austria and Luxembourg, Poland and the Baltic states have repeatedly advocated for sanctions against Russia’s nuclear sector. But EU sanctions against Rosatom still look unlikely, because they must pass unanimously, and Hungary has vowed to veto any sanctions on Rosatom. Alternatives to SanctionsIf sanctions do not pass, Euratom restrictions are a potential alternative means to cut off Russian nuclear products supply. While overall imports of Russian nuclear material declined in 2022, according to Euratom, they were up 30% in countries with VVER reactors, and for the first time in ten years, utilities were buying more fuel than they were loading into reactors. Euratom allowed this in order to strengthen the short-term security of supply, but "will be much more protective in the coming months with the new line on materials, meaning uranium and EUP," Euratom Director General Kazmierczak said. Possible Euratom measures also include giving priority to European-produced conversion and enrichment sold to EU utilities. "But that would require a very specific situation and a tough political decision on the highest level," said Kazmierczak. She clarified that "it is not impossible."TIn 2022 the EU remained dependent on Rosatom for 22% of its conversion services, 30% of its enrichment services and 16% of its natural uranium, according to Euratom data, all of which means operators across the continent would have to scramble to find alternate sourcing if Russian supply was no longer an option.Any restrictions would on the newbuild front primarily impact Hungary, which is working closely with Rosatom to get its Rosatom-supplied Paks 2 twin VVER-1200 reactors commissioned by 2029 and 2030. Just last week, Hungary’s Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto announced that Budapest struck a deal with Moscow to update the construction and financing agreement for the newbuild project, though this still requires EU approval.France has also been more quietly but just as vehemently opposed to sanctions against Rosatom due to numerous ties between French nuclear companies and Rosatom. State-owned EDF has a contract with Rosatom fuel subsidiary Tenex for the re-enrichment of reprocessed uranium through 2032, according to a Greenpeace report, and Framatome, in addition to its joint venture with Rosatom, has an ongoing cooperation agreement with Rosatom Jacques Peythieu, who heads Orano's conversion and enrichment business, told Energy Intelligence in September that Orano has the technical capabilities to process reprocessed uranium but that the company would have to build a new facility to do that and that the final decision comes down to EDF, which owns the reprocessed uranium.The Greenpeace report also claimed that in 2022, 67% of France’s enriched uranium imports — 312 tons — came from Russia, with all imports occurring after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. EDF did not respond to an Energy Intelligence query prior to publication. Fueling Europe's VVERsOne of the biggest potential effects of a full ban on Russian nuclear could be on the fueling of the EU's 18 operating VVER reactors, which have historically relied on Rosatom subsidiary Tvel’s fuel assemblies. Nuclear sanctions “could have some impact on the EU economy if some reactors run temporarily out of fuel during transition to Western solutions,” nuclear trade association Nucleareurope told Energy Intelligence. While inventories remain at a healthy level for most utilities, there is a wide range of coverage among utilities, and some VVER operators have less than one year's worth of fuel stock, according to Euratom. Even if sanctions passed with exemptions for existing contracts, it wouldn't provide much of a buffer for Slovakia's VVER operator, which only has a contract with Tvel until 2026, or other VVER operators — potentially including sanctions skeptic Bulgaria — that were hoping to renew contracts with Tvel in parallel with fresh Western contracts.The Czech Republic, Finland and Slovakia all operate VVER-440 reactors for which Tvel is currently the only operating fuel manufacturer. Westinghouse and Enusa intend to begin producing VVER-440 fuel by Jan. 1, 2024 and already have contracts to supply Finland and the Czech Republic, but this fuel has not been proven commercially.

Grace Symes

Energy Intelligence Group Inc.

文件 URIW000020230521ej5l00005


HUNGARY: OIL IMPORT IN DANGER
231 字
2023 年 4 月 26 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2023. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
Earlier this month Poland presented a proposal for a new range of sanctions against Russia. According to the new EU sanctions, shipments arriving via the Druzhba crude oil pipeline would also be affected. This could have a serious impact on Hungarian crude oil imports.

Poland's newly designed proposal includes a ban on pipeline oil and diamond imports, reports Reuters. In addition, they would roll out restrictions against Rosatom. The written proposal, which a diplomatic source claimed was handed over to the EU's executive European Commission, could determine further sanction negotiations between the 27 countries. In order to impose the new sanctions, every member state must agree. This is not the first set of sanctions the EU introduced to immobilise Russia. The bloc has already launched ten rounds of punitive measures against Russia since Moscow fully invaded Ukraine in February 2022. Hungary has regularly vetoed the sanctions, therefore, the country is expected to object to them, again.

If the Polish proposal goes through, no crude oil will arrive in Drus through the Druzhba crude oil pipeline. However, this sanction could also threaten Hungary's crude oil imports. In theory, Hungarians can use their veto power in the case of the Druzhba oil pipeline and if Hungarian shipments are affected, which have been exempted for the time being until 2024. (Daily News Hungary/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020230426ej4q0000w


Kremlin Extends Global Influence With Russian Nuclear-Power Juggernaut -- Update
By Jared Malsin and Georgi Kantchev
2773 字
2023 年 4 月 27 日 14:01 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2023, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
ISTANBUL -- The Kremlin is projecting influence across the world through a state atomic-power company that has become the industry's global juggernaut. The latest example: Turkey is inaugurating a Russian-owned nuclear plant on Thursday, deepening a relationship with Moscow that has raised concerns in the West.

The company, Rosatom State Atomic Energy Corp., has expanded its global reach in recent years and is the world's leader in constructing and operating nuclear projects abroad, working on 34 power units in 11 countries from China to Egypt to Hungary. In recent decades, Russia has exported more reactors than any other major provider.

Despite Russia's invasion of Ukraine, business boomed last year: Rosatom has said that its foreign sales topped $10 billion last year, a roughly 15% increase from the year before. Rosatom's total foreign order book is around $140 billion, according to the company. Rosatom has remained mostly untouched by significant Western sanctions amid opposition from some European Union member states like Hungary that rely on it.

Russia provides crucial fuel supplies, including around 46% of global uranium-enrichment capacity, according to the World Nuclear Association. The U.S. is one of Russia's biggest customers of enriched uranium.

"Rosatom's significance comes with its ability to be used as an effective energy weapon in furtherance of Moscow's foreign-policy objectives," said George Voloshin, an expert on Russian energy policy.

The $20 billion Akkuyu Nuclear plant on Turkey's Mediterranean coast is one of the world's first to be built under a "build, own, operate" model in which Russia is mostly funding the project, building the facility and sending thousands of Russian engineers and other workers to run it. Through Turkish subsidiaries, Rosatom will assume broad control over the site for decades to come, raising concerns among Western officials and Turkish opposition lawmakers about the Kremlin's footprint in Turkey, a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

Though Turkey's quest for civilian nuclear power dates back to the 1950s, the Akkuyu plant has become a symbol of the burgeoning relationship between Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Russia's President Vladimir Putin, analysts say. The Turkish leader has sought to bridge the divide between Russia and the West during the war in Ukraine, selling weapons to Kyiv and expanding trade with Russia.

"Rosatom builds fine reactors. There's nothing wrong with Russian reactor technology. It's just that when you made this decision, you've signed yourself up for a 60-year partnership with Moscow and all that entails," said Aaron Stein, an expert on Turkish nuclear policy and a security analyst with the Philadelphia-based Foreign Policy Research Institute.

The ceremony on Thursday, in which Turkey will accept its first delivery of Russian nuclear fuel, comes less than three weeks before a national election that Mr. Erdogan is at risk of losing after two decades in office amid voter discontent with the country's struggling economy.

The event is part of a campaign to push back on opposition critiques of Mr. Erdogan's handling of the economy by inaugurating projects meant to signal economic and strategic successes. In recent weeks, Turkey has also launched a new aircraft carrier, natural gas drilling in the Black Sea and a new financial center in Istanbul.

"This nuclear power plant will have a significant role in our country's uninterrupted and stable electricity production," Mr. Erdogan said in March.

Mr. Erdogan attended the ceremony via videoconference after canceling a series of public events in recent days because of health issues, Turkish officials said. Earlier this week, Mr. Erdogan abruptly left, then returned to a live television interview due to what he said was stomach flu. Mr. Putin, the subject of an international arrest warrant over the forced deportation of children from Russian-occupied areas of Ukraine, also spoke to the ceremony remotely. In late March, Mr. Erdogan publicly floated the idea that Mr. Putin might attend the ceremony in person, despite the move by the ICC.

Russia was set to transfer $15 billion to Turkey for the construction of the plant last year, Turkish officials said, part of a burgeoning relationship in which the influx of Russian cash has helped offset Turkey's efforts to prop up its collapsing currency. Turkey spent more than $100 billion last year in an effort to defend the lira after Mr. Erdogan pressured the central bank to cut interest rates starting in 2021, economists say. Russia increasingly relies on trade with Turkey to cushion the blow of Western sanctions imposed in response to the invasion of Ukraine.

Mr. Erdogan's government agreed to allow Rosatom to build the Akkuyu plant in 2010, accepting the Russian bid over Japanese, Chinese and American proposals because Russia was willing to assume greater financial risk for its construction, said Mr. Stein. The Turkish government says the plant, which is expected to start generating power later this year, will provide about 10% of Turkey's electricity needs. Russia is also Turkey's top supplier of oil and natural gas.

"This is a Russian nuclear power plant," said Oguz Turkeyılmaz, head of the energy working group at Turkey's Chamber of Mechanical Engineers. "All of these policies are strategic for Russia, but they are increasing the dependency on Russia from a Turkish point of view."

Rosatom owes its rapid global expansion to its ability to cover the whole nuclear-power supply chain. It mines nuclear power's raw material, uranium, provides funding, designs reactors, builds plants and disposes of nuclear waste. The company is the world's only such "one-stop nuclear shop" providing an all-inclusive package, according to a February paper published in the journal Nature Energy. Russia's total portfolio of foreign orders, including reactor construction, fuel provision and other services, spans 54 countries, according to the paper.

Within Turkey, the nuclear project has drawn criticism from opposition lawmakers and engineers who have raised concerns about the plant's environmental impact, the high degree of Russian control over the project, and its proximity to a region prone to earthquakes. The plant is located in Turkey's Mersin province, adjacent to the area struck by catastrophic quakes in February that killed more than 56,000 people across Turkey and Syria.

"Erdogan cares more about protecting the Russians' interests than the interests of Mersin and the people of Mersin because by doing this ceremony now, he is ensuring that even if he loses the elections, Russia's interests in this project will be guaranteed," said Ali Mahir Basarir, an opposition lawmaker from Mersin, the district where the plant is located.

Akkuyu Nuclear, the Russian-owned company overseeing the project, said in February that the project is "located in the fifth-degree seismic zone, which is the safest one according to the earthquake zone classification." The company said the plant sustained no damage in the February earthquakes, and the facility is designed for a "safe shutdown" even in the event of a powerful magnitude nine quake.

Last year, a Turkish opposition lawmaker submitted an official parliamentary query to the government asking if the location, which includes a seaport, could be used in the future as a Russian military facility. Turkey's defense minister said in response, "Defense plans for all strategic facilities in Turkey are prepared in line with principles of readiness planning."

Rosatom's key position on the global nuclear market also makes it harder to sanction, despite calls by Ukrainian and some Western officials to blacklist it. Last March, only days after the EU barred Russian planes, Slovakia allowed a Russian IL-76 plane carrying nuclear fuel to land as the country depends on Russia for the fuel.

"As the Russian saying goes, any means are good in war, and Rosatom is no exception," said Maria Shagina, a senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies think tank.

--Elvan Kivilcim contributed to this article.

Write to Jared Malsin at jared.malsin@wsj.com and Georgi Kantchev at georgi.kantchev@wsj.com

27 Apr 2023 10:49 ET Kremlin Extends Global Influence With Russian Nuclear-Power Juggernaut -- 2nd Update

By Jared Malsin and Georgi Kantchev

ISTANBUL -- The Kremlin is projecting influence across the world through a state atomic-power company that has become the industry's global juggernaut. The latest example: Turkey is inaugurating a Russian-owned nuclear plant on Thursday, deepening a relationship with Moscow that has raised concerns in the West.

The company, Rosatom State Atomi Energy Corp., has expanded its global reach in recent years and is the world's leader in constructing and operating nuclear projects abroad, working on 34 power units in 11 countries from China to Egypt to Hungary. In recent decades, Russia has exported more reactors than any other major provider.

Despite Russia's invasion of Ukraine, business boomed last year: Rosatom has said that its foreign sales topped $10 billion last year, a roughly 15% increase from the year before. Rosatom's total foreign order book is around $140 billion, according to the company. Rosatom has remained mostly untouched by significant Western sanctions amid opposition from some European Union member states like Hungary that rely on it.

Russia provides crucial fuel supplies, including around 46% of global uranium-enrichment capacity, according to the World Nuclear Association. The U.S. is one of Russia's biggest customers of enriched uranium.

"Rosatom's significance comes with its ability to be used as an effective energy weapon in furtherance of Moscow's foreign-policy objectives," said George Voloshin, an expert on Russian energy policy.

The $20 billion Akkuyu Nuclear plant on Turkey's Mediterranean coast is one of the world's first to be built under a "build, own, operate" model in which Russia is mostly funding the project, building the facility and sending thousands of Russian engineers and other workers to run it. Through Turkish subsidiaries, Rosatom will assume broad control over the site for decades to come, raising concerns among Western officials and Turkish opposition lawmakers about the Kremlin's footprint in Turkey, a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

Though Turkey's quest for civilian nuclear power dates back to the 1950s, the Akkuyu plant has become a symbol of the burgeoning relationship between Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and Russia's President Vladimir Putin, analysts say. The Turkish leader has sought to bridge the divide between Russia and the West during the war in Ukraine, selling weapons to Kyiv and expanding trade with Russia.

"Rosatom builds fine reactors. There's nothing wrong with Russian reactor technology. It's just that when you made this decision, you've signed yourself up for a 60-year partnership with Moscow and all that entails," said Aaron Stein, an expert on Turkish nuclear policy and a security analyst with the Philadelphia-based Foreign Policy Research Institute.

The ceremony on Thursday, in which Turkey will accept its first delivery of Russian nuclear fuel, comes less than three weeks before a national election that Mr. Erdogan is at risk of losing after two decades in office amid voter discontent with the country's struggling economy.

The event is part of a campaign to push back on opposition critiques of Mr. Erdogan's handling of the economy by inaugurating projects meant to signal economic and strategic successes. In recent weeks, Turkey has also launched a new aircraft carrier, natural gas drilling in the Black Sea and a new financial center in Istanbul.

"Our country has risen to the league of countries with nuclear power in the world, after a 60-year delay," Mr. Erdogan said, speaking to the ceremony via videoconference on Thursday.

Mr. Erdogan attended the ceremony remotely after canceling a series of public events in recent days because of health issues, Turkish officials said. Earlier this week, Mr. Erdogan abruptly left, then returned to a live television interview due to what he said was stomach flu. Mr. Putin, the subject of an international arrest warrant over the forced deportation of children from Russian-occupied areas of Ukraine, also spoke to the ceremony remotely. In late March, Mr. Erdogan publicly floated the idea that Mr. Putin might attend the ceremony in person, despite the move by the ICC.

"I emphasize: this is a flagship project, it brings both mutual economic benefits and, of course, helps to strengthen the multifaceted partnership between our two states," Mr. Putin said during the ceremony.

Russia was set to transfer $15 billion to Turkey for the construction of the plant last year, Turkish officials said, part of a burgeoning relationship in which the influx of Russian cash has helped offset Turkey's efforts to prop up its collapsing currency. Turkey spent more than $100 billion last year in an effort to defend the lira after Mr. Erdogan pressured the central bank to cut interest rates starting in 2021, economists say. Russia increasingly relies on trade with Turkey to cushion the blow of Western sanctions imposed in response to the invasion of Ukraine.

Mr. Erdogan's government agreed to allow Rosatom to build the Akkuyu plant in 2010, accepting the Russian bid over Japanese, Chinese and American proposals because Russia was willing to assume greater financial risk for its construction, said Mr. Stein. The Turkish government says the plant, which is expected to start generating power later this year, will provide about 10% of Turkey's electricity needs. Russia is also Turkey's top supplier of oil and natural gas.

"This is a Russian nuclear power plant," said Oguz Turkeyılmaz, head of the energy working group at Turkey's Chamber of Mechanical Engineers. "All of these policies are strategic for Russia, but they are increasing the dependency on Russia from a Turkish point of view."

Rosatom owes its rapid global expansion to its ability to cover the whole nuclear-power supply chain. It mines nuclear power's raw material, uranium, provides funding, designs reactors, builds plants and disposes of nuclear waste. The company is the world's only such "one-stop nuclear shop" providing an all-inclusive package, according to a February paper published in the journal Nature Energy. Russia's total portfolio of foreign orders, including reactor construction, fuel provision and other services, spans 54 countries, according to the paper.

Within Turkey, the nuclear project has drawn criticism from opposition lawmakers and engineers who have raised concerns about the plant's environmental impact, the high degree of Russian control over the project, and its proximity to a region prone to earthquakes. The plant is located in Turkey's Mersin province, adjacent to the area struck by catastrophic quakes in February that killed more than 56,000 people across Turkey and Syria.

"Erdogan cares more about protecting the Russians' interests than the interests of Mersin and the people of Mersin because by doing this ceremony now, he is ensuring that even if he loses the elections, Russia's interests in this project will be guaranteed," said Ali Mahir Basarir, an opposition lawmaker from Mersin, the district where the plant is located.

Akkuyu Nuclear, the Russian-owned company overseeing the project, said in February that the project is "located in the fifth-degree seismic zone, which is the safest one according to the earthquake zone classification." The company said the plant sustained no damage in the February earthquakes, and the facility is designed for a "safe shutdown" even in the event of a powerful magnitude nine quake.

Last year, a Turkish opposition lawmaker submitted an official parliamentary query to the government asking if the location, which includes a seaport, could be used in the future as a Russian military facility. Turkey's defense minister said in response, "Defense plans for all strategic facilities in Turkey are prepared in line with principles of readiness planning."

Rosatom's key position on the global nuclear market also makes it harder to sanction, despite calls by Ukrainian and some Western officials to blacklist it. Last March, only days after the EU barred Russian planes, Slovakia allowed a Russian IL-76 plane carrying nuclear fuel to land as the country depends on Russia for the fuel.

"As the Russian saying goes, any means are good in war, and Rosatom is no exception," said Maria Shagina, a senior fellow at the International Institute for Strategic Studies think tank.

--Elvan Kivilcim contributed to this article.

Write to Jared Malsin at jared.malsin@wsj.com and Georgi Kantchev at georgi.kantchev@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

April 27, 2023 10:49 ET (14:49 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020230427ej4r00484


Russia: Ukraine wants to increase transit fees for Druzhba oil pipeline this year
277 字
2023 年 4 月 28 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2023. CEEMarketWatch
Transit fees to grow from EUR 13.6 per ton to EUR 21 per ton

Ukrtransnafta also seeks ways to purchase oil on the border and resell it later

The Ukrainian Druzhba pipeline operator Ukrtransnafta wants to raise transit fees twice this year in June and August from the current EUR 13.6 per ton to EUR 21 per ton, Kommersant reported today, citing Argus price agency. It already raised transit fees three times since the beginning of the Russian-Ukrainian war from EUR 9 per ton pre-war level. Ukrtransnafta wanted an even steeper rise to EUR 27.2 per ton since April, but failed to reach agreement with oil buyers, Kommersant sources on the oil market claim. According to them, Ukrtransnafta discusses possible price increase with oil buyers in Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic and if they are successful it informs the Russian pipeline operator and the Ministry of Energy. The higher transit fees are then included in the oil price. Ukrtransnafta also wants to change this price mechanism so that the company would purchase the oil on the Belarus border and then resell it to European countries. Still, prices for Druzhba oil remain attractive for Hungary which even plans to extend the pipeline to Serbia in 2024. As Hungary cannot replace the oil deliveries through this pipeline, experts believe that higher transit fees would be agreed upon. In case Ukraine manages to change the pricing mechanism we would expect the Druzhba pipeline to be more sanction-proof as transit fees are an important source of revenue for Ukraine's budget.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020230428ej4s0001c


World; Europe
Pope Returns to Hungary, to Delight of Viktor Orban
By Jason Horowitz and Elisabetta Povoledo
1736 字
2023 年 4 月 28 日 08:17 GMT
NYTimes.com Feed
NYTFEED
英文
Copyright 2023. The New York Times Company. All Rights Reserved.
Francis wants to “re-embrace” Hungarian Christians, but some worry that the visit gives political cover to the country’s leader, who is on the opposite side of nearly every issue important to the pontiff.

Pope Francis, who has made welcoming migrants, embracing minorities and warning against nationalism central tenets of his pontificate, began his second visit to Hungary in less than two years on Friday and met with Prime Minister Viktor Orban, perhaps Europe’s chief opponent of migrants, closest ally of Russia and most vocal critic of gay rights.

The two men, who represent often diametrically opposed views of the future of Europe, had a tête-à-tête in the Castle District of Budapest. It was the start of a three-day visit by the pope to, as he put it, “re-embrace” Hungary’s large but declining Catholic population, and also to call attention to suffering Ukrainians across the eastern border.

Mr. Orban, an astute political opportunist who speaks out frequently against foreign migrants, meddling from Brussels and sanctions on Russia, seized the moment to characterize the pope’s quick return as a “re-confirmation” of their common defense of Christian values.

But the pope, whose top officials in the Vatican insisted he would not be made a pawn, made clear he sees those values very differently shortly after the meeting when, in a former monastery, he addressed dignitaries, including Mr. Orban in the front row.

Francis, making his 41st foreign visit and the first since being rushed to the hospital last month, said Christian values could not be demonstrated through “rigidity and close-mindedness.” And he warned against a “certain tendency, at times proposed in the name of native traditions and even of the faith, to withdraw into oneself.”

He spoke against the fading of mature statesmanship toward the building of a united Europe while “nationalism is on the rise and ever harsher judgments and language are used in confronting others.” He bemoaned an “adolescent belligerence” and “self-referential forms of populism,” and spoke of the need to “welcome other peoples and to refuse to consider anyone an eternal enemy.”

During a 10-year pontificate in which Francis has met with multiple strongmen and dictators to both protect his flock and safeguard human rights and peace, he has rarely confronted his hosts, looking instead for areas of agreement, even if it risks legitimizing policies he finds abhorrent.

In fact, Francis seemed far from antagonistic during his visit. He happily accepted a gag gift[https://www.nytimes.com/2023/04/27/world/europe/hungary-habsburg-ambassador-vatican.html?searchResultPosition=2] from the Hungarian ambassador to the Holy See, ate the bread presented to him by children in traditional dress and, abandoning his wheelchair for a cane, toured the Sandor Palace with President Katalin Novak, who spoke with him in Spanish.

The Vatican has said the pope’s visit showed he was close to Hungarian Catholics, who it said account for about 60 percent of the population, though experts say an increasing number of them have fallen away from the church. But Hungarian officials also said the visit was motivated by an understanding within the Vatican that Hungarians felt slighted after Francis made apostolic visits to Romania in 2019, and Slovakia in 2021.

Vatican officials said his trip, during which he will also meet with refugees and the poor, was completely different from a 2021 stopover he made in Budapest for a few hours to celebrate Mass at the end of a weeklong Catholic congress.

But critics of Mr. Orban worry that no matter how noble Francis’ intentions may be, his trip is simply playing into Mr. Orban’s able political hands.

“I don’t know how the Vatican is reading this, or why they have decided to do it,” said Stefano Bottoni, a historian at the University of Florence who lives in Budapest. “But in Hungary, the pope’s visit has become an extraordinary showcase for the regime.”

Mr. Orban made the most of it.

“In the history of the country, this is a really marvelous moment that you came to find us, your holiness,” Mr. Orban said as the two sat down together for a private meeting. He added that the two had to maintain a common line on the Christian way, “which is very hard in this present Europe” and “also in this war that cries out for peace.”

Mr. Orban was especially delighted, Hungarian officials said, because he wasn’t sure the pope would come back after his short 2021 visit.

“We thought that was it!” said Eduard Habsburg, the Hungarian ambassador to the Holy See.

Locals agreed that Mr. Orban would capitalize on the opportunity.

“He will use this,” said Kristof Polgar, 25, who walked near St. Stephen’s Basilica in Budapest after a fencing class on Thursday. He said that Francis was especially popular with the older generation of Catholics whom Mr. Orban relied on for political support, and that “Orban builds on it and he does it perfectly.”

In 2021, when Francis suggested he might not meet Mr. Orban on his way to a longer stay in Slovakia, Mr. Orban’s allies in the news media, where his party holds great sway, insulted Francis for slighting Hungary, for “behaving in an anti-Christian manner” and for “causing extraordinary damage to the Christian world.”

During that trip, Francis also indirectly sent Mr. Orban a message that God was not a strongman who muzzles foes, and that religious roots, while vital for a country, also allow it to open up and extend “its arms toward everyone.”

For years, Mr. Orban’s government has sought to paper over the differences between Hungary and the Holy See by emphasizing their areas of agreement, including Mr. Orban’s establishment of a State Secretary for the Aid of Persecuted Christians and his defense of the traditional family. Mr. Habsburg, the ambassador, said the Vatican had even back-channeled requests for Hungary to be more publicly supportive of the Holy See and its views on human sexuality and gender roles in multilateral settings.

On Friday, Francis lamented the imposition of what he called “ideological colonization” that, he said “would cancel differences, as in the case of the so-called gender theory.”

But Hungarian officials argue that as much as the pope and Mr. Orban are divided on the issue of migration, they are in alignment when it comes to their desire for peace in Ukraine.

“I ask myself, thinking not least of war-torn Ukraine,” Francis said Friday, “where are creative efforts for peace? Where are they?”

In the early months of the war, Francis failed to call out Russia’s aggression. But under criticism from Ukrainian leaders and with questions rising about his legacy, he spoke out more clearly against the invasion, saying in August that the Russian Federation had initiated a war[https://press.vatican.va/content/salastampa/en/bollettino/pubblico/2022/08/30/220830a.html] that was “morally unjust, unacceptable, barbaric, senseless, repugnant and sacrilegious.”

Mr. Orban, on the other hand, has refused to supply Kyiv with weapons and threatened to veto European Union sanctions against Moscow. Hungary still receives much of its gas from Russia, and it blocked efforts to sanction Patriarch Kirill I of the Russian Orthodox Church, Mr. Putin’s religious patron and apologist, whom Francis once warned not to “transform himself into Putin’s altar boy.”[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/07/14/world/europe/pope-francis-says-he-will-meet-the-head-of-the-russian-orthodox-church-in-september.html?smid=url-share]

Yet Mr. Orban, increasingly isolated and eager to demonstrate a papal seal of approval, has sought to portray himself and the pope as on the same page because they have both called for cease-fires and peace negotiations. During a speech in February he argued that they were alone in Europe in calling for peace in Ukraine.

“So they seem to have the same idea,” said Mr. Habsburg, who called them “the only two voices in Europe that have said it that way.”

Analysts say this is simply Mr. Orban doing what he does best.

“Orban is the king of opportunists,” said Matteo Zola, the editor of East Journal, an online newspaper focused on Central and Eastern Europe. “Hungary wants to show itself as the center around which one can imagine building a dialogue between Moscow and Europe or the West. And the pope’s trip legitimizes this role.”

But for Mr. Orban, he added, “it’s all capital to spend inside the country.”

Francis will meet on Saturday with some of the Ukrainian refugees who have remained in Hungary. When Mr. Orban visited the Vatican for his first official state visit last year, a development his government believed was critical for Francis’ official visit to take place, the pope thanked him for accepting the refugees.

“The issue of acceptance and welcome is a heated one in our time, and is surely complex,” Francis said, but he said Christians must welcome those “who flee in desperation from conflicts, poverty and climate change.” He added, “It is urgent then, as Europe, to work for secure and legal corridors and established processes for meeting an epochal challenge.”

But public opinion in Hungary, including among Catholics, is so supportive of Mr. Orban on the issue of migrants that even if Francis did throw down a gauntlet, analysts doubted it would matter.

“The weight of the things that he’ll say on migration,” said Mr. Bottoni, the historian, “is zero.”

The pope arriving in Budapest. During his 10-year pontificate, Francis has met with multiple strongmen and dictators, both to protect his flock and to push for human rights and peace. | Vincenzo Pinto/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images | Pope Francis during his visit to Slovakia two years ago. Hungarian officials said his visit to Hungary was motivated by an understanding within the Vatican that Hungarians felt slighted after his trips to Romania and Slovakia. | Martin Divisek/EPA, via Shutterstock | Eduard Habsburg, the Hungarian ambassador to the Vatican, in Rome this month. Mr. Habsburg said the Vatican had back-channeled requests for Hungary to be more publicly supportive of its views on human sexuality and gender roles. | Stephanie Gengotti for The New York Times | A photograph provided by Russian state media showed President Vladimir V. Putin and Mr. Orban at a news conference in Moscow last year. Mr. Orban has threatened to veto European Union sanctions against Moscow. | Mikhail Klimentyev/Sputnik | A billboard welcoming Pope Francis ahead of his visit to Budapest. He will meet on Saturday with some of the Ukrainian refugees who have remained in Hungary. | Marton Monus/Reuters

The New York Times Company

文件 NYTFEED020230428ej4s004ph


CE Noticias Financieras English
Russia-Ukraine war live: Moscow launched missile and drone attack, killing more than a dozen people
La Nacion
2225 字
2023 年 4 月 28 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Here's what to know today about the Russian invasion of Ukraine:

At least 19 people were confirmed dead after Russian shelling of Ukrainian cities this Friday morning.A UN committee expressed its concern over human rights violations by Russian forces and private military companies in Ukraine.498 days ago, Russia started the invasion in Ukraine.11.06 | Pope urges in Hungary to recover the "European soul" in the face of war andnationalismPope Francis, who arrived Friday in Hungary, urged to rescue the "European soul" that managed to establish peace after a war, against the "war childishness" that characterizes, according to him, the rise of nationalism and the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The Argentine pontiff, 86 years old, was received by a crowd of believers in Budapest, the Hungarian capital, where he will stay three days because of his fragile state of health. An imposing security device was deployed in the city, with closed streets and police surveillance. After his arrival, he delivered his first speech, in which he deplored the "sad decline of the choral dream of peace, while the soloists of war prevailed."

10.35 | Russian attack leaves 19 dead in Ukraine, which announces imminent counteroffensiveAwave of Russian missile and drone attacks hit several Ukrainian cities early Friday, leaving at least 19 dead, as Kiev announced preparations for a counterattack, AFP reported

."Preparations are coming to an end,"

UkrainianDefense Minister Oleksii Reznikov said, referring to the months-old expected counteroffensive to recapture Russian-occupied territories in eastern and southern Ukraine.

23.45 | Military man accused of leaking Pentagon documents made "violent" threats on the InternetAmember of the U.S. National Guard accused of leaking highly classified documents later disclosed on the Internet had a history of "violent" statements and possessed numerous weapons, federal prosecutors alleged before his hearing Thursday.

The Justice Department also stressed that the 21-year-old Jack Teixeira involved could still have access to classified documents and that "hostile" nations could help him flee if he is released from prison. The prosecution also argued that the young man posed "a continuing risk" to U.S. national security and should remain in jail until his trial begins.

Teixeira, an Air National Guard information technology and communications specialist, is accused of orchestrating the most damaging leak of classified U.S. documents in a decade.

20.15 | U.S. sanctions Russia and Iran againWashingtonimposed new sanctions on Iran's Revolutionary Guard and Russia's FSB intelligence agency, accusing them of "taking Americans hostage," including The Wall Street Journal reporter arrested last month in Yekaterinburg. The United States "shows that it is not acceptable to resort to this despicable behavior of using people as pawns, bargaining chips, without paying the consequences," a senior official said on condition of anonymity, AFP reported.

Both entities were already subject to sanctions by the U.S. State Department and the U.S. Treasury. These additional punitive measures are intended to "hold the culprits accountable and therefore prevent a new round of such cases from occurring," the official added.

18.02 | UkrainianPrime Minister visits the Order of Malta inRomeThursday, Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyal was received with military honors at the Magistral Villa by the Lieutenant Grand Master of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta, Fra' John Dunlap

.The visit, which coincides with the fifteenth anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the Sovereign Military Order of Malta and Ukraine, initiated in February 2008, represented an opportunity to discuss the programs developed by the Order of Malta in the country in light of its changing medical and humanitarian needs.

The UkrainianPrime Minister expressed his appreciation for the Order of Malta's continued support for Ukraine. "I thank them from the bottom of my heart on behalf of the government, the president and the

Ukrainianpeople for the important role they play in our country," Shmyhal said."

17.10 | Who is Evan Gershkovich, the American journalist imprisoned in Russia on espionage chargesTheWall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich was accused of starring in "a secret mission incompatible with journalistic work," according to the Russian intelligence service (FSB). On March 30, the American was arrested in Yekaterinburg and shortly afterwards transferred to a Moscow prison. After a closed hearing on April 18, the judge decided to "leave unchanged" the reporter's detention.

Gershkovich is the son of Jewish exiles born in the Soviet Union, according to The Wall Street Journal

. Hepreviously worked for the French news agency AFP and the Russian daily The Moscow Times.

16.08 | Stoltenberg: "NATO equipped more than nine new Ukrainianbrigades "NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg listed the amount of support the organization and the allies provided to Ukraine since the beginning of the war.

He explained that the allies sent huge amounts of ammunition to the country and "trained and equipped more than nine new

Ukrainianbrigades". "This will put Ukraine in a strong position to continue to retake the occupied territories," Stoltenberg told reporters in Brussels, AP reported.

15.11 | Basketball star Brittney Griner encourages Americans held in Russia to "stay strong "Brittney Griner, the women's NBA (WNBA) player who spent 10 months in prison in Russia, on Thursday encouraged Americans imprisoned in that country to "stay strong," in her first press conference since her release in December. The basketball player, who is preparing to resume her career with the Phoenix Mercury, vowed to keep fighting on behalf of unjustly detained people around the world.

Asked what her message would be to The Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich and U.S. citizen Paul Whelan, both detained in Russia, Griner replied and became emotional at several points, "Just keep getting up, find a little routine and stick to it as best you can, that's what helped me."

14.45 | Ukraine is wary of a diplomatic way out as long as the current Russian leadership ismaintainedUkrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov said he doubted there could be a diplomatic way out of the current crisis if the Russian leadership remained the same as those who advocated invasion and war.

"The diplomatic way is possible when the aggressor's resources are weakened and if they still want to negotiate, there is a reason. They will want to negotiate the removal of some sanctions, they will want to stop being outcasts so that their children can study and bargaining is already diplomacy," said Reznikov, and then added: "They may still be the same ideologically, but their surnames will be different and it will be easier for them to say that their predecessors ruined everything".

14.23 | Russia fines Wikipedia with another 24 thousand dollars for not removing information restricted byMoscowRussian Justice imposed on Thursday a new fine of two million rubles, 24,500 dollars, to Wikipedia for not removing information banned by the country's authorities. This is the seventh sanction imposed on the encyclopedic portal so far this year.

The Taganski district court in Moscow accused the Wikimedia Foundation, in charge of the Russian edition of Wikipedia, of failing to delete an article about a military unit that contained "classified military information".

The article detailed the location, composition and equipment of the military battalion, as well as information related to the so-called special military operation, a euphemism used by the Russian authorities to refer to the war in Ukraine.

13.32 | Erdogan talks with Putin on new initiatives to try to end the war in UkraineThepresidents of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and Russia, Vladimir Putin, held a conversation via videoconference on Thursday, in which, among other things, they discussed the crisis in Ukraine and in which the former proposed new initiatives to try to get out of the conflict

.Inaddition to regional and cooperation issues, EuropaPress reported that "both leaders exchanged views on the development of the war between Russia and Ukraine", as well as on the agreement to export

Ukrainianagricultural products through the Black Sea, and which was recently extended for another 120 days.

Inthat sense, Erdogan conveyed to Putin his interest in presenting new initiatives to get out of the conflict through a "working group" that is expected to be proposed by the Turkish authorities.

13.11 | NATO sent to Ukraine more than 1500 combat vehicles and 230 tanksSofar, NATO countries have delivered more than 98% of the combat vehicles promised to Ukraine in the midst of the war with Russia, announced Jens Stoltenberg, head of the military alliance, increasing Kiev's push as it looks set to launch a counteroffensive

.In addition to more than 1,550 armored vehicles, 230 battle tanks and other equipment, the allies sent "huge quantities of ammunition" to the country, Stoltenberg said.

12.50 | Kiev accuses Italian journalist wounded in Kherson of ignoring warnings of UkrainianforcesThursday, the Southern Operational Command of the Ukrainian Army reported that the Italian journalist wounded on Wednesday in Kherson, Corrado Zunino, "overlooked the warnings of the

Ukrainianmilitary" and stressed that this led to the death of his collaborator, a local citizen identified as Bogdan Bitik

.Thus, he stresses that the reporter of the daily La Repubblica "did not report his work in the city" to the responsible press officers. "Once on the spot, he ignored the first warnings of the

Ukrainianmilitary about the danger," said the Command.

The military authorities pointed out that Zunino, "as leader" of the group, was "obliged" to check that his collaborator "was wearing not only a vest with the inscription 'Press', but also a bulletproof vest" and insisted that "the Italian broke the rules of conduct of journalists in combat."

12.27 | Former Wagner Group member sentenced inNorwayThursday, a Norwegian court sentenced a former contractor for Wagner Group, the private Russian military company known for its brutal tactics, to 14 days in prison for disturbing public order and carrying a BB gun in a public space.

The Oslo court acquitted Andrey Medvedev, who is seeking asylum in Norway, of committing violence against police officers during his arrest, according to his lawyer, Brynjulf Risnes. Police detained the man outside a pub in the Norwegian capital in February after a fight broke out inside the bar.

Medvedev admitted he resisted arrest and spat at officers as they handcuffed him, but denied kicking them, the lawyer said after his client appeared in court Tuesday.

12.05 | Ukraine asks Pope Francis for help to repatriate children inRussiaThursday, during a private audience at the Vatican, Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal asked Pope Francis for support to help him facilitate the return of

Ukrainianchildren who were forcibly taken to Russia.

"I asked the Vatican and the Holy Father for help to recover the children forcibly taken by Russia," Shmyhal said. The brief Vatican statement on the audience did not go into details about the conversation, but did note that the premier met with the secretary of state and the foreign minister after his meeting with Francis.

11.40 | Zelensky asks London to strengthen air supportUkrainianPresident Volodimir Zelensky on Thursday spoke with Timothy Barrow, national security advisor to the British premier, about further consolidating defense support for Ukraine and asked him to lead the so-called "coalition air war" to supply the nation with fighter j

ets.The head of state stressed the UK's leadership in supporting Ukraine's defense. "I would like to ask you to continue to agree with your partners on the need to supply Ukraine with all necessary weapons and military equipment," Zelensky said.

The premier emphasized the importance of receiving Western fighter jets from international partners, as other types of weapons are needed to repel Russian invaders.

11.19 | Russian army prepares for eventual UkrainiancounteroffensiveAwaaitingthe announced counterattack by Ukraine, the Russian army built a defensive line of more than 800 kilometers, in some points tripled, and mobilized a large number of soldiers to maintain it, according to AFP.

After a Russian offensive in recent months, with limited advances, the Ukrainian army is preparing its counteroffensive, announced for spring, although it could be postponed until the summer. Moscow seems to have learned from the mistakes of the past and has organized its defenses with the aim of keeping the conflict as a war.of Wear.

11.04 | Ukraine invites Pope Francis to visit the countryThePrime Minister of Ukraine, Denys Shmyhal, had an audience with Pope Francis at the Vatican during which he formally invited him to visit the country. "We appreciate the efforts of the Holy See to put an end to the war. The best way to peace is the formula proposed by President Volodimir Zelensky," the premier wrote on his Twitter account and accompanied the message with a photo of the meeting.

10.45 | Russia rejected U.S. request to visit detained Wall Street Journal reporterTheRussian Foreign Ministry said Thursday that it denied a request from the U.S. embassy to visit detained Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich, in response to Washington's refusal to grant visas to a group of Russian journalists

.In this regard, it was reported that a senior U.S. diplomat was summoned to deliver a formal note of protest over Washington's decision not to grant visas to a group of Russian journalists who were to accompany Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov to a United Nations meeting in New York this week.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230429ej4s00185


POLICY
Nuclear power remains Putin's lever
Dominik Kalus
875 字
2023 年 4 月 28 日
Die Welt translated into English
DWLEN
WETR
6
83
英文
Copyright 2023. Axel Springer SE
Despite Ukraine war, many countries depend on Russia's state-owned Rosatom corporation

Dominik Kalus

Vladimir Putin described Turkey's Akkuyu nuclear power plant as an expression of "friendship" when he and Turkish President Erdogan gave the go-ahead for construction five years ago. This Thursday it will be inaugurated and the Kremlin chief will be there via video link. Russian state-owned Rosatom built the 20-billion-euro nuclear power plant and will also operate it. In the end, it will cover ten percent of Turkey's electricity needs.

But Putin did not enter into the cooperation for purely friendly reasons. For Russia, nuclear power exports are more a vehicle for exerting geopolitical influence and binding other countries to it. Since Putin has been in power, Rosatom has greatly expanded its international business and has become one of the most important players in the construction of nuclear power plants worldwide. Rosatom's foreign operations are estimated to be worth $100 billion; some sources put the figure at three times that amount. However: "Commercial profits are not the main goal of these transactions," sums up a study by the Heinrich Böll Foundation.

Because Rosatom, as a state-owned company, has virtually unlimited access to the Russian budget, it can offer its customers lucrative deals and financing models. The company can also provide many services, such as reprocessing or spare parts production, more cheaply than its competitors - something that is also readily accepted in the West. Rosatom is also popular with countries like Turkey that are new to nuclear power because the group offers them financing, expertise, construction and operation from a single source. According to the company website, Rosatom is currently planning 34 new nuclear power plants worldwide, including in Egypt, Bangladesh and India. Rosatom has also signed memoranda of understanding and research deals with African countries such as Rwanda and Ethiopia.

These countries are moving into the Russian sphere of influence not only because they must repay loans, but because any Rosatom power plant means dependence on Russian-designed fuel. "The sale of a nuclear power plant is usually accompanied by a fuel element supply contract for ten years or more," says Uwe Stoll of the Gesellschaft für Anlagen- und Reaktorsicherheit (GRS). And even if the contract were to expire or be terminated, only Russia can produce a certain type of fuel rods that many Rosatom power plants need.

A problem that also affects the EU. Finland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary operate nuclear reactors that run only on Russian fuel rods. In the case of Hungary, nuclear energy covers more than 40 percent of the country's electricity needs. Other EU countries, such as France, whose nuclear power plants are not of Russian design, nevertheless rely on Russia to meet their needs for enriched uranium. The EU gets about 20 percent of its uranium from Russia. "Western capacity is currently insufficient to replace Russian imports," says Uwe Stoll of GRS.

As a result, Rosatom and its subsidiaries have not been subject to EU sanctions so far and can continue doing business in Europe unhindered. In August, South Korea signed a $2.3 billion contract with Russia to cooperate on nuclear power plant construction sites in Egypt. In Slovakia, a new reactor that requires Russian-designed fuel assemblies came online in February. In Hungary, Rosatom is building two new reactors that should be ready in ten years. Germany, which shut down its last nuclear reactors in April, is also involved with the Russian nuclear company: A French-Russian joint venture is working on fuel elements in Lingen, Lower Saxony, and Siemens is also involved.

Finland made an attempt to at least not increase its dependence on Russia any further. Rosatom was supposed to build another nuclear power plant 500 kilometers north of Helsinki. But the Finnish company involved withdrew from the contract last May, officially because of delays in construction. Rosatom complained of a "politically motivated" cancellation and announced it would seek damages. The Czech Republic has also excluded Rosatom from new nuclear power plant construction in 2021 after a diplomatic rift - which does not change its dependence on Russia for existing nuclear power plants. According to Uwe Stoll, the West is working on producing the special fuel elements needed in East-Central Europe itself. However, this could be achieved in 2027 at the earliest.

Meanwhile, demands to sanction Rosatom are growing louder, most recently from Economics Minister Robert Habeck, among others. There are plenty of reasons for this: The Austrian Federal Environmental Agency attributes to Rosatom a "problematic link between the civilian and military use of nuclear energy". More than a third of its 250,000 employees are involved in the development of nuclear weapons, it says. Moreover, since Ukraine's Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant was captured by Russian troops, Rosatom has control over the largest nuclear power plant in Europe.

Russian President Vladimir Putin attends the ceremony for the nuclear power plant in Akkuyu, Turkey, from Moscow

Disclaimer: Translation automatically generated. Axel Springer is not liable for any automatically generated translation of written text, audio tracks or other translatable media items. Legally binding is exclusively the original German text or spoken word.

Axel Springer Syndication GmbH

文件 DWLEN00020230428ej4s0000a


Le Monde: France approves Framatome's involvement in Russia-led construction of nuclear reactors in Hungary
623 字
2023 年 4 月 29 日
The Kyiv Independent
KYIVIME
英文
Copyright © 2023 The Kyiv Independent
The French government has reportedly cleared ways for Framatome, a state-backed nuclear power operator subsidiary, to participate in a construction project in Hungary led by Russia's state-owned Rosatom.

In an article published[https://www.lemonde.fr/en/international/article/2023/04/28/in-hungary-paris-is-willing-to-help-build-russian-led-nuclear-reactor_6024637_4.html] on April 28, French newspaper Le Monde reported, citing its sources, that Paris has greenlighted Framatone to supply equipment for the construction of two new nuclear reactors at the Russian-backed Paks Nuclear Power Plant in Hungary.

"The French government has given the authorization to Framatome, but the German government has not done so for Siemens. So, we are now studying this problem in close cooperation with Framatome," a Hungarian source told Le Monde.

The report of France aiding the Russian-managed expansion of the nuclear power plant in Hungary comes amid Ukraine's repeated calls for the EU to sanction Russia's nuclear industry, urging that the West needs to do more to hurt Moscow's revenue amid a brutal war.

Despite some lawmakers and diplomats in the EU pushing[https://www.politico.eu/article/french-russian-nuclear-relations-radioactive-rosatom-sanctions/] to have severe links with Rosatom, Russia has a strong grip on Europe's nuclear energy landscape, and the progress has been slow. Russia exports nuclear fuel to reactors in Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, and Finland, and the continent still relies on Russian uranium.

While some countries like Bulgaria are looking for ways to reduce Russia's lingering reach on its Russia-dominated energy sector, Hungary in August issued a permit for the Rosatom-led construction of two new nuclear reactors in the southern city of Paks. Currently, the Paks plant runs on four nuclear reactors.

Though Germany has been reluctant to deliver the reactor control system to Hungary for the Russian-backed expansion project, Hungary has relied on French help, Le Monde reported. It added that the issue was "discreetly" discussed during a dinner between French President Emmanuel Macron and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban at the Elysée Palace on March 13, which was also reported[https://www.ft.com/content/52707196-4882-45af-9342-59413472c443] by the Financial Times.

Shortly after the formal dinner, Le Monde cited Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto as saying, "since the German government is blocking for political reasons the contractual participation of Siemens Energy, we wish to rely more on the French."

The Russian-backed expansion project of the nuclear power plant in Hungary is "expected to cost about $12.4 billion and will more than double the plant's capacity," according[https://www.rferl.org/a/hungary-russia-two-new-nuclear-reactors/32006788.html] to Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty's August article. It added that Russia would be providing a $10 billion loan for the project.

Orban struck[https://www.ft.com/content/52707196-4882-45af-9342-59413472c443] an agreement on the expansion project with Russian President Vladimir Putin shortly before the Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2014. Despite the delays, Orban has insisted on finishing the project by 2030.

The French participation in the project may indicate the two countries' readiness to take their nuclear cooperation to another level, the Financial Times reported[https://www.ft.com/content/52707196-4882-45af-9342-59413472c443] in late March.

Sources told the Financial Times that Russia's participation in the project could fade if the war in Ukraine lasts longer and the West continues to impose sanctions against Moscow. But the newspaper added that it's unclear whether it would mean constructing a new power plant or simply replacing Rosatom with a different partner.

Losing the Paks project would be "a serious blow" to Rosatom, the newspaper reported, citing Maxim Samorukov, a Russia expert at the Carnegie Foundation.

A French official told the Financial Times that both Paris and Budapest were ready to cooperate more on the nuclear power industry, but "we don’t know at this stage if there is a way for France to get a bigger share of the work on Paks."

Kyiv Independent Media Ltd

文件 KYIVIME020230728ej4t000cr


Govt official: Debate over EU funds on 'political blackmail, not rule of law'
336 字
2023 年 5 月 7 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2023 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, May 7 (MTI) - The debate over the disbursement of

European Union funding is about political pressure and blackmail

rather than the state of the rule of law in Hungary, state

secretary Csaba Domotor told public radio on Sunday.

Domotor told Kossuth Radio that MEP Daniel Freund, a member of

the Committee on Budgetary Control, had said that Hungary would not

receive EU funding unless it abandoned its stance on the war in

Ukraine, migration and child protection.

However, Hungarians have the right to decide whether they want

to send weapons to Ukraine, who they want to allow into the country

and how they want to protect their children, he said. "No matter

how many times and ways we are blackmailed, we shall not let those

rights slip from our fingers."

Domotor also called for a "change of direction" in European

Union leadership in next year's EP elections, insisting that the

current one did not represent European citizens' expectations.

According to Hungarian Szazadveg Institute's latest poll of all

EU countries, the majority of European citizens think that EU

sanctions imposed on Russia had harmed Europe, he said.

At the same time, the EU has prepared a proposal of the 11th

sanction package, "even though the previous ones have caused a lot

of damage without achieving their goal," he said.

Imposing sanctions on nuclear energy would bring further price

increases and supply insecurity, and so hobble Europe's

competitiveness, he said. Such steps would cause lasting damage,

putting economic growth and jobs at risk, he added.

Hungary is against sanctions on Russian nuclear products as

they would harm the ongoing upgrade of the Paks nuclear plant and

the operation of the current two blocks, he said.

Sanctions have already curbed Hungary's "economic room for

maneuver" by 4,000 billion forints this year alone, he said.

Hungary will "definitely say no to sanctions that would cause it

further economic harm", he added.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020230507ej570002t


UKRAINE: HUNGARIAN OTP BANK DECLARED "WAR SPONSOR"
169 字
2023 年 5 月 8 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2023. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
The Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Agency (NACA) has placed the Hungarian OTP Bank Group on its list of "international war sponsors". The reason is that the Hungarian bank is still cooperating with the aggressor, Russia.

The OTP Group also confirmed the classification. They stressed that the OTP Group operated in compliance with all international sanction measures and local legal requirements in all its markets, including Russia. The NACA justified its decision on the grounds that the Hungarian bank continued to operate in Russia.

According to the agency, the bank is acting under the provisions of a lending law that is subject to the Russian authorities of Donetsk and Luhansk regions. OTP provides loans to members of the Russian army on "favourable terms", including the possibility of deferring payment when repaying loans.

The Ukrainian national bank had earlier demanded that the OTP Group, which had a stake in Ukraine worth around $507 million, leave the Russian market. (Daily News Hungary/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020230508ej580001h


Serbia to build new oil pipeline with Hungary, new gas pipeline with Bulgaria
600 字
2023 年 5 月 11 日 14:44 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2023. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
Hungary and Serbia have reached an agreement to construct a new oil pipeline that will add to the transit of Russian oil from the Druzhba pipeline to Serbian consumers, the Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Economic Relations, Peter Szijjarto, said during a press conference in Belgrade on May 10.

"A new 128-km oil pipeline will be built between the Hungarian town of Algyo and Novi Sad, Serbia to ensure the security of supplies," Szijjarto said as cited by Tass during a joint press conference with Serbia’s Minister of Internal and Foreign Trade, Tomislav Momirovic.

At the same time, Serbian Energy Minister Dubravka Djedovic announced that the country is expecting to complete construction works on its territory for a natural gas link with Bulgaria by autumn.

Hungary’s oil major MOL will sign a construction contract with Serbia’s Transnafta during a Hungarian-Serbian summit on June 20, Szijjarto said on Facebook.

Previously, Serbia had received Russian oil via the Adriatic oil pipeline from a terminal in the Croatian port of Omisalj, located on the island of Krk. However, an EU embargo on crude imports that came into effect on December 5 halted the purchase of Russian oil, including its sea transportation, that forced the country to seek alternative means of delivery. Currently, imports into the EU via the Soviet-era Druzhba oil pipeline are exempted from sanctions.

In mid-2022, following the EU's adoption of another sanctions package against Russia, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic expressed his intent to collaborate with Hungary to establish a new route for receiving Russian oil. Vucic has refused to join the EU’s sanction regime against Russia and Serbia remains heavily dependent on imports of Russian energy.

Some reports suggest that the EU plans to impose a ban on pumping oil through the northern branch of Druzhba in an upcoming eleventh sanctions package that is being debated at the moment. However, the southern branch of the pipeline, which extends towards Hungary, Slovakia and Czechia, will remain unrestricted. Any new sanctions require the unanimous approval of all EU members, which a ban on Druzhba’s use is unlikely to muster. An exemption has previously been granted to these countries regarding the ban on using Russian oil.

Experts estimate the construction of the oil pipeline from Algyo to Novi Sad will cost around €100mn. The route may utilise the corridor of the gas pipeline from Serbia to Hungary, part of the onshore extension of the second string of the TurkStream gas pipeline, which is also still operating and remains unsanctioned, which could expedite the project's completion. Construction of the oil pipeline between the two countries is expected to take between one and a half to two years.

Serbia's is expecting to complete construction works of a new gas pipeline to Bulgaria this year. According to Serbia’s Energy Minister Djedovic, "On Serbian territory, 43% of the construction works on the Nis-Dimitrovgrad interconnection have been completed, running ahead of schedule,” the minister said May 9.

She further added: "A total of 93% of the contracted pipes have been delivered, while 80% have already been distributed along the route of the future gas pipeline."

Ground on the 170-km pipeline project was broken last year in February 2022, with Bulgaria beginning work on its part of the mooted link a year later.

Serbia, which currently depends on Russia for its natural gas supplies, started discussions with Azerbaijan last year with the goal of potentially diversifying its energy sources.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020230511ej5b001p5


Hungary This Week - May 12, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 5 月 12 日, 13944 字, (英文)
Hungarian government targets 2.9% deficit in 2024 budgetThe government expects the economy to rebound next year, enabling it to reduce its budget deficit to below 3% in 2023, head of the Prime Minister's Office, Gergely Gulyas said at a ...

Serbia This Week - May 12, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 5 月 12 日, 9888 字, (英文)
Bank of Serbia keeps key rate at 6%The Serbian central bank said on May 11 it decided to keep the key interest rate unchanged at 6% due to the country's resilient economic performance in the face of external challenges.

UPDATE - Szijjarto slams Ukraine for declaring OTP Bank 'international sponsor of war' (adds OTP)
573 字
2023 年 5 月 12 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2023 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, May 12 (MTI) - It is "scandalous" that Ukraine has

placed OTP Bank on its list of "international sponsors of war",

Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said in Stockholm on Friday,

adding that until that is withdrawn, it will be "very difficult"

for the Hungarian government to negotiate about further sanctions.

It is "outrageous" that while Hungary is participating in the

programme under which the European Union supports Ukraine with one

and a half billion euros per month, the Ukrainian anti-corruption

agency has placed the OTP Group on its list of "international

sponsors of war" because the financial institution is still present

in Russia, the foreign ministry cited Szijjarto as saying, in a

statement.

"OTP is Hungary's biggest bank. OTP has not violated any

international laws. Its operations fully comply with all kinds of

expectations and legislation. Placing it on the list of

international sponsors of war is unacceptable and scandalous," the

minister said on the sidelines of an informal meeting of European

Union foreign ministers.

"Therefore I made it clear today that as long as OTP stays on

this list, it will be very difficult for us to even enter into

negotiations on the eleventh sanctions package, it will be very

difficult for us to negotiate economic restrictions that require

additional sacrifices," Szijjarto said.

In a statement on Friday, OTP Bank rejected the accusations of

Ukraine's anti-corruption agency (NAZK), which placed the Hungarian

bank on its list of "international sponsors of war" on May 5.

OTP emphasised that it condemned all aggression against a

sovereign country, including the one committed against Ukraine, and

expressed its commitment to supporting Ukrainian citizens and the

country's economy. In addition to maintaining continuous service

and lending activities, OTP has helped Ukraine with humanitarian

aid worth a billion forints and provided long-term accommodation

and care to hundreds of war refugees in Hungary.

In response to the Ukrainian anti-corruption agency's argument

that OTP Bank plays an important role in the Russian economy, the

bank said that it had a market share of 0.17 percent in Russia.

International banks and other companies with a significantly larger

local presence were not included on the NAZK list, which in itself

questions the credibility of the decision, OTP notes in the

statement.

OTP Bank also dismissed the accusation that it conducted

activities in the occupied territories of Ukraine, and said that it

operates in full compliance with local and international

legislation in all its markets, including sanction regulations.

Accordingly, it duly and immediately terminated all its activities

in the occupied territories in 2014.

As regards the accusation that OTP Bank provides "preferential

loans" to members of the Russian armed forces, OTP emphasised that

the Russian Federation stipulates to all financial service

providers in a law that those participating in the "special

military operation" must be exempt from loan repayment and interest

payments until December 31, 2023. After that date, repayment will

continue. OTP Bank does not provide new loans to members of the

armed forces either under preferential terms or in any other way,

the bank said.

In response to the Ukrainian argument that OTP Bank recognised

the "people's republics of Luhansk and Donetsk", OTP stated that --

in line with the position of the European Union and Hungary -- it

never recognised the independence of these areas in any form.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020230512ej5c001gt


OTP reacts to being placed on "international sponsors of war" list
370 字
2023 年 5 月 15 日 16:30 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
OTP Bank rejects the accusations of Ukraine's anti-corruption agency (NAZK), which placed the Hungarian bank on its list of "international sponsors of war" earlier this month, the lender informed Hungarian state news agency MTI on May 5.

The bank dismissed the accusation that it conducted activities in the occupied territories of Ukraine and said that it operates in full compliance with local and international legislation in all its markets, including sanction regulations. The Hungarian bank believes that the NAZK decision stems from confusing the Donetsk region with that of a municipality in Russia by the same name.

They also recalled that OTP duly and immediately ceased all its activities in the occupied territories in 2014. The bank emphasised that it condemned all aggression against a sovereign country, including the one committed against Ukraine, and expressed its commitment to supporting Ukrainian citizens and the country's economy.

The bank refuted claims by the Ukrainian anti-corruption agency that OTP Bank plays an important role in the Russian economy, as it had a market share of 0.17% in Russia, while other large, international banks and other companies with a significantly larger local presence were not included on the NAZK list.

The Ukrainian central bank had earlier demanded that OTP Group, which has a stake in Ukraine worth approximately $507mn, leave the Russian market.

The weight of Russian assets in the consolidated total assets comprised 3.1% while net loans represented 2.7%, respectively by the end of Q1, the lender said in the recent earnings report. Under an unexpected and extremely negative scenario of deconsolidating the Russian entity and writing down the outstanding gross intragroup exposure as well, the effect for the consolidated CET1 ratio would be -69 bps.

At an EU foreign ministers' meeting on Friday, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Peter Szijjarto threatened to block the latest round of EU sanctions against Russia, condemning the inclusion of OTP in the list of potential targets.

As long as the Hungarian lender is on a Ukrainian list of supporters of the Russian war on Ukraine, the Hungarian government will not negotiate the new sanctions package, Szijjarto added.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230515ej5f001rx


Hungary This Week - May 19, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 5 月 19 日, 11741 字, (英文)
Forint flexes muscles, strengthens to one-year high against euroThe Hungarian forint extended gains on May 16 and touched its strongest level against the euro since April last year, temporarily hitting 368.2.

Szijjarto: Hungary committed to peace despite pressure
616 字
2023 年 5 月 22 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2023 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, May 22 (MTI) - Hungary's government will not give up its

commitment to peace or its national interests despite the "enormous

pressure" concerning arms deliveries to Ukraine and more sanctions,

Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said in Brussels on Monday.

The atmosphere in the EU remains combative, Szijjarto told a

press conference on the sidelines of a meeting of the Foreign

Affairs Council, according to a ministry statement, adding that

unlike the Hungarian government, most member states believed that a

military solution to the war in Ukraine was possible.

Szijjarto said this posed the risk of a protracted conflict,

but several member states believed that Ukraine was fighting for

Europe or "in the name of Europe".

"We believe that this is not our war; we are in no way

responsible for its outbreak, but we're also paying the price for

it … we continue to urge an end to the war and the start of peace

talks," the minister said.

Szijjarto said there was "enormous pressure" to approve another

500 million euro package for the European Peace Facility (EPF) as

well as an eleventh sanctions package against Russia.

"But in spite of the pressure, we will not give up our

commitment to peace," Szijjarto said. "We will not give up

protecting the Transcarpathian Hungarian community and despite the

pressure, we will not give up the representation of our national

interests".

Szijjarto said that so far 5.7 billion euros from the EPF has

been spent on financing weapons deliveries to Ukraine, and though

Hungary believed this risked escalation, the government had not

blocked the payments. But this time, he added, the government had

made it clear that it will oppose further payments until Ukraine

removes Hungary's OTP Bank from its list of "international sponsors

of war".

"The accusations against OTP are false and are not based on any

sort of facts, therefore we demand that the Ukrainians remove OTP

from the list of international sponsors of war," Szijjarto said.

Concerning the plans for the next sanctions package, Szijjarto

said the EU should learn from the "failed sanctions" imposed so

far, arguing that they "hurt Europe more than they did Russia", and

the newest sanctions would cause even greater problems.

Szijjarto said the new sanctions would make the export

activities of European businesses outside Russia more difficult,

hurting their competitiveness. He said it was also "dangerous and

irrational" that the EU wanted to sanction eight Chinese companies

as part of the latest package.

Sanctions against Chinese companies would have a serious effect

on EU-China relations, he said, adding that ruining economic

cooperation with China would result in a serious loss for the bloc.

He said that instead of conflict, the EU should strive for

cooperation with China based on mutual respect and benefit.

Meanwhile, Szijjarto said that several member states had again

urged imposing sanctions on the nuclear industry, but the

government was resisting such a move in the interest of

guaranteeing energy security.

Concerning the situation of Transcarpathian Hungarians,

Szijjarto said Hungary would only approve the advancement of

Ukraine's EU accession talks if Kyiv restored the rights of the

ethnic Hungarian community.

He said he had heard from a participant at the meeting that

Ukraine was claiming that the Venice Commission had already

approved the country's minority law, but added that the body had

yet to even adopt an opinion in the matter.

"Ukrainian propaganda is working when it comes to the minority

law," Szijjarto said, adding that the reality would become clear in

a few months when ethnic Hungarian schools would no longer be able

to operate in their current form from Sept. 1.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020230522ej5m000xd


Hungary's prime minister criticizes EU's sanctions policy targeting Russia
Gokhan Ergocun |
172 字
2023 年 5 月 23 日
Anadolu Agency
ANATOL
英文
© Copyright Andolu Ajansi
EU should stop escalation of Russia-Ukraine war instead of being involved in it, according to Viktor Orban

DOHA

Criticizing the EU's sanctions against Russia, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said, "sanction policy of EU simply does not work."

It is not reasonable to introduce sanction packages for the 11th time hoping that the outcome will be different, Urban said at Qatar Economic Forum on Tuesday.

After the beginning of the war between Russia and Ukraine in February 2022, the Western world, especially Europe, tries to paralyze the Russian economy by implementing sanctions, such as export bans and prohibitions to provide strategic products.

He stressed that instead of getting involved in the war, escalation should be stopped.

He also said Hungary has a nuclear power plant, which is based on Russian technology, and the country has to use Russian technology because using a different one is too risky.

Hungary's prime minister criticizes EU's sanctions policy targeting Russia[https://cdnuploads.aa.com.tr/uploads/Contents/2023/05/23/thumbs_b_c_805cdba2c37851036d4ea42336e6529a.jpg]

Anadolu Agency

文件 ANATOL0020230523ej5n000gr


UPDATE - Ukraine crisis - Orban calls for ceasefire as 'we lose lives daily' (adds details)
611 字
2023 年 5 月 23 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2023 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Doha, May 23 (MTI) - A ceasefire and peace talks are needed

instead of escalating the war in Ukraine, Prime Minister Viktor

Orban told the Qatar Economic Forum in Doha on Tuesday.

Hungary's viewpoint of the war differs from that of the

European mainstream because it is a neighbour of Ukraine, which has

a sizeable Hungarian minority, Orban said in a discussion with

Bloomberg editor-in-chief John Micklethwait. Many of those

Hungarians have lost their lives in the war, he added.

"This war is the failure of diplomacy. It should have never

happened," he said.

The main question is not "who invaded whom" but to save the

lives that would be lost if the war continues, Orban said.

After a ceasefire is negotiated, the issue of a new "security

architecture of the European continent" should also be on the

agenda, he said. Peace is only possible through an agreement

between Russia and the US, he said.

Commenting on Ukraine's decision to blacklist Hungary's OTP

Bank and Hungary's announcement that it would block the European

Peace Facility in response, Orban said: "It's a question of

principle ... if a country like Ukraine would like to get your

financial support ... they can't put your companies on the

blacklist ... So if you need our money, please respect us, and

don't sanction our companies."

Answering a question on Hungary "not being keen" on Sweden's

NATO accession, Orban said political relations between Hungary and

Sweden were "awfully wrong". "We would not like to import conflicts

into NATO", and they should be solved before Sweden joined the

alliance, he said.

Regarding the EU's decision to withhold funding for Hungary,

Orban said that differences of opinion regarding "decoupling"

concerning the bloc's policy vis-a-vis Beijing and its handling of

the Ukraine war were at the root of the decision.

Unlike the EU, Hungary stands for connectivity, and

strengthening commercial and political ties, he said.

Chinese investments offer a "huge opportunity". "Why should we

miss it?" Orban said. Whether China becomes a long-term opponent or

partner of the West is "our decision", Orban said.

Hungary's LNG purchases from Qatar, which Orban announced on

Monday, are expected to start in 2026, he said.

Besides energy security, Hungary also sees Qatar as a potential

partner in agriculture, information technology and security, he

said.

Christian and Muslim countries can find common ground along

traditional values such as God, the nation and the family, he said.

Regarding the upgrade of the Paks nuclear plant, under way

under a contract with Russian state-owned Rosatom, Orban said

acting along national interests in Europe quickly resulted in being

branded pro-Russian. But, Orban added, he stood for Hungary and

Hungarian national interests.

Regarding his government's ties with the US, Orban said

American Democrats were far more ideologically led than

Republicans, and Democrats "like to convince you and sometimes

force you how to live".

"I don't like it. We have our own culture, the culture defines

how we live, don't interfere, please!" Orban said.

"Don't educate us, don't say what is good, what is bad... we

don't like that. It's not your job." No nation should tell

Hungarians how to live their lives, he said.

Former President Donald Trump "understands" that, he added.

Orban travelled to Doha on Sunday on an official visit at the

invitation of his Qatari counterpart, Sheikh Mohammed bin

Abdulrahman bin Jassim Al Thani. Finance Minister Mihaly Varga and

Economic Development Minister Marton Nagy were part of the

delegation.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020230523ej5n001rx


Orban: Ties with Sweden need to improve to join Nato
Eszter Zalan
524 字
2023 年 5 月 23 日
EUobserver.com
EUSERCOM
英文
© 2023, EUobserver.com, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
The relationship between Hungary and Sweden must improve before the Nordic state can join Nato, Hungarian prime minister Viktor Orbán said at the Qatar Economic Forum on Tuesday (23 May).

Sweden and its neighbour, Finland, asked to join the military alliance last year after Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Sweden's application has been held up by Turkey and Hungary.

Budapest earlier delayed ratifying Finland's application, and has cited grievances with criticism from both Helsinki and Stockholm of Orbán's domestic record on democracy and the rule of law in Hungary.

Finland and Sweden have been two of the most vocal critics of Hungary among the EU's 27 member states.

"The political relations between Hungary and Sweden are awfully wrong," Orbán said. "We don't want to import conflicts into Nato," he added at an interview with Bloomberg at the event.

Hungary's parliament has set no date yet to vote on the Swedish bid for admission, which has to be ratified by all 30 Nato members, as the alliance holds a summit in July.

But Orbán did specify how he plans to mend ties with Sweden.

The Hungarian PM, who is at odds with EU policies on Ukraine, said that Ukraine's military effort is doomed and sending further aid will only lead to more deaths.

"Emotionally it's tragic, all of our hearts are with the Ukrainians," Orban said, adding that the main issue in the conflict is not who attacked whom, but what would happen the next, which is more deaths.

"There's no chance to win this war," he added, saying a ceasefire and peace talks are needed instead of an escalation of the war.

Orbán said the most important goal was achieving a ceasefire, and then "we could start negotiating a new European security system", MTI news agency quoted him as saying.

Sign up for EUobserver’s daily newsletter

All the stories we publish, sent at 7.30 AM.

By signing up, you agree to our Terms of Use[https://media.euobserver.com/assets/terms.pdf] and Privacy Policy[https://euobserver.com/static/privacy].

Nato secretary general Jens Stoltenberg has said that the alliance's main focus is to support Ukraine, ensuring that Kyiv wins the war and prevails as a sovereign, independent, democratic nation in Europe.

Orbán, who is the closest EU ally of Russian president Vladimir Putin, is blocking a €500m tranche of EU financial aid, offsetting the costs for member states who send military aid to Ukraine.

His government has also opposed the latest round of sanctions against Russia because authorities in Kyiv put Hungary's OTP Bank on a list of "war sponsors" and blacklisted the bank. Kyiv says that OTP's Russian branch is giving preferential loans to the Russian military.

In Doha, Orban said that if Ukraine needs more money, Kyiv should respect Hungary and not sanction Hungarian companies.

Orbán's foreign minister, Péter Szijjártó, on Monday reaffirmed Hungary's stance at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels —drawing criticism.

"I'm disappointed, or rather irritated, by the behaviour of our Hungarian friends," German defence minister Boris Pistorius told reporters.

EUobserver.com ASBL

文件 EUSERCOM20230523ej5n000b5


News
Hungary’s Orban says ‘poor Ukrainians’ cannot win against Russia
Al Jazeera Staff
441 字
2023 年 5 月 23 日 14:00 GMT
Al Jazeera English
AJAZEN
英文
Copyright 2023 Al Jazeera English.
Orban addresses a forum in Qatar, saying peace can only be achieved through diplomacy.

Click to view image[https://www.google-analytics.com/collect?v=1&tid=UA-1615344-99&dl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.aljazeera.com%2Fnews%2F2023%2F5%2F23%2Fhungarys-orban-says-poor-ukrainians-cannot-win-the-war&cid=cGFydG5lci1kb3dqb25lcw%3D%3D&t=pageview&cd2=post-aje-2213763&cd3=cGFydG5lci1kb3dqb25lcw%3D%3D]

Doha, Qatar – Hungary’s Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who is often[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2023/4/21/what-orban-tweets-frustration-as-nato-makes-ukraine-promises] out of step with his Western allies regarding the Ukraine war, has said Kyiv’s troops are unlikely to win the war against Russia.

Speaking at the Qatar Economic Forum in Doha on Tuesday, he said the conflict which started 15 months ago can only be resolved by diplomacy.

“Looking at the reality, the figures, the surroundings, the fact that NATO is not ready to send troops, it is obvious that there is no victory for the poor Ukrainians on the battlefield. That’s my position,” he said, offering an outlook few European leaders would publicly agree with, given their solidarity with Kyiv.

“The war can be stopped only if the Russians can make an agreement with the US. In Europe, we are not happy with that, but it’s the only way out.”

Hungary, which is an EU and NATO member, has been playing a balancing act[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2023/4/14/hungarys-loyalties-tested-as-russias-war-in-ukraine-grinds-on] since the war in Ukraine began.

Budapest has refused to break ties with Moscow and has opposed NATO enlargement. Like Turkey, Hungary has not yet ratified Sweden’s membership of the military alliance and Orban has laid out specific concerns on Ukraine’s NATO hopes.

A populist, the 59-year-old often heats up debates in Brussels whenever the bloc is tasked with making unanimous decisions on tougher sanctions against Russia or more financial and military aid to Ukraine.

Last week, Orban opposed sending more EU military aid to Ukraine after authorities in Kyiv put Hungary’s OTP Bank on a list of “war sponsors” and blacklisted the bank.

In Doha, Orban said that if Ukraine needs more money, Kyiv should respect Hungary and not sanction Hungarian companies.

He added that Budapest “does not belong to the mainstream European approach”.

“Hungary is in a unique position as Ukraine is not far away. We have ethnic minorities living in Ukraine and they are part of the war. They are conscripted, they are soldiers in the Ukrainian army and they die. So we lose lives – Hungarian lives – as well,” he said, referring to ethnic Hungarians within Ukraine.

“Our hearts are with the Ukrainians. We understand how much has happened,” he said. “But I am speaking here as a politician and the solution is to save lives.”

With reporting by Al Jazeera’s Hafsa Adil[https://www.google.com/search?q=hafsa+adil+al+jazeera&oq=hafsa+adil+al+jazeera&aqs=chrome..69i57l2j69i59l2.2979j0j7&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8] in Doha.

Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban has refused to break ties with Russia [Johanna Geron/Reuters][https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/2022-05-30T133710Z_260129694_RC2PHU9YG30V_RTRMADP_3_EU-SUMMIT.jpg]

Al Jazeera International

文件 AJAZEN0020230523ej5n000jk


Hungary’s Orban says Ukraine can’t win war as he justifies veto on aid
662 字
2023 年 5 月 23 日
Al Arabiya
ALARAB
英文
© 2023, Al Arabiya, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban dug in his heels over crucial European Union aid to Ukraine,[https://english.alarabiya.net/News/world/2023/05/19/US-to-help-train-Ukraine-pilots-on-F-16-fighter-jets-Official] offering sympathy for his neighbor but nothing more to help it fight off Russia’s invasion.

Speaking in a Bloomberg interview at the Qatar Economic Forum, Orban argued that Ukraine’s military effort is doomed and sending further aid will only lead to more deaths.

Advertisement

For the latest headlines, follow our Google News channel online or via the app.[https://news.google.com/publications/CAAqBwgKMOnQlwswi_quAw?oc=3&ceid=US:en&hl=en-US&gl=US]

“Emotionally it’s tragic, all of our hearts are with the Ukrainians,” Orban, 59, told Bloomberg Editor-in-Chief John Micklethwait on Tuesday. “But I’m talking as a politician who should save lives.”

“There’s no chance to win this war,” he added.

Hungary, the EU nation with the closest ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin, is blocking a €500 million-euro ($540 million) tranche of EU financial aid to Ukraine. It also opposes new sanctions against Russia.

Orban’s view runs counter to the analysis of Ukrainian allies who’ve been supplying Kyiv with weapons ahead of a counteroffensive that’s expected to begin this spring. While they are sober about the chances of a dramatic breakthrough, they support President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s plan to beat back the invaders and reclaim territory.

“The Ukrainians have already demonstrated the capability they have to liberate land and push back the Russians, and the importance of the support they get from NATO allies, the alliance’s secretary general,” Jens Stoltenberg said in Brussels in response to Orban’s comments. Stoltenberg added that he was confident that Ukraine can “ensure that President Putin does not win this war.”

The Hungarian leader reiterated his call for an immediate cease-fire — a stance panned by critics as tantamount to calling for Ukraine’s capitulation.

He also echoed the Kremlin by repeating a narrative that frames the war as a proxy conflict between Russia and the US, and said fighting can only stop when Moscow clinches an agreement with Washington. The US has said Ukraine must decide on how and when it’s ready to seek peace.

Ukraine’s Foreign Ministry denounced the comments as absolving “Russia of responsibility for its aggression.”

“Ukrainians will continue to fight until they completely liberate their territories from Russian occupation, spokesman Oleg Nikolenko wrote on Facebook. “This is the only way not just to restore peace in Ukraine, but to guarantee security in the whole of Europe.”

Orban’s approach to Ukraine and close ties with Russia have only exacerbated tensions with Hungary’s allies in the EU and NATO.

Last week, Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto announced Hungary would block further EU aid to Ukraine and anti-Russian sanctions, citing Kyiv’s decision to put OTP Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, on its list of international war sponsors.

The foreign minister reaffirmed Hungary’s stance on Monday at a meeting of EU foreign ministers in Brussels, drawing rebuke from other EU members.

“I’m disappointed, or rather irritated, by the behavior of our Hungarian friends,” German Defense Minister Boris Pistorius told reporters in Brussels.

OTP maintains business in Russia and Ukraine but it has said that a presidential decree is preventing it from selling its Russian unit. It has rejected claims of supporting Russia’s war and has publicly backed Ukraine.

“It’s a question of principles,” Orban said at the forum. “If a country like Ukraine would like to get your financial support, if you need our money, please respect us and don’t sanction our companies.”

Orban added that he hopes former US President Donald Trump will win reelection next year and that, while he has been at odds with President Joe Biden, it was not good for business to criticize the US.

Senators introduce bill to scrap last nuclear arms treaty with Russia[https://english.alarabiya.net/News/world/2023/05/19/Senators-introduce-bill-to-scrap-last-nuclear-arms-treaty-with-Russia]

Russia’s Medvedev: Western weapons to Ukraine make ‘nuclear apocalypse’ more likely[https://english.alarabiya.net/News/world/2023/05/23/-Russia-s-Medvedev-Western-weapons-to-Ukraine-make-nuclear-apocalypse-more-likely]

Advertisement

MBC Group

文件 ALARAB0020230524ej5n0000d


'No victory for poor Ukrainians on the battlefield': Hungarian Prime Minister Orban
Gokhan Ergocun |
286 字
2023 年 5 月 24 日
Anadolu Agency
ANATOL
英文
© Copyright Andolu Ajansi
EU's sanction policy does not work, Hungarian PM Viktor Orban says

DOHA, Qatar

It's obvious that there is no victory for poor Ukrainians on the battlefield, the Hungarian prime minister said on Tuesday, adding that everybody "should try to stop the escalation of the war" instead of "having a stronger involvement in it."

Viktor Orban stressed: "My position is the reality, looking at the figures looking at the surroundings looking at the fact that NATO is not ready to send troops."

People should rightly describe the situation that Russia invaded Ukraine, but the question is not "Who invaded?" he stressed, adding:

"The question is what will be the next morning. You know, the next morning, the fact is that more and more people will die and there is no chance to have a victory."

There is no chance to win this war, he repeated and noted: "So therefore what we should do more energy invest into to convince everybody that the only solution is a ceasefire."

Ukraine is not a country far away, it is a neighbor of Hungary, and there are 200,000 Hungarian ethnic minorities, who are part of the war and die, he stressed.

"So, therefore, we consider this whole situation for a special angle, so we do not belong to the mainstream European approach," he added.

Criticizing the EU's sanctions against Russia, Orban said, "sanction policy of EU simply does not work."

It is not reasonable to introduce sanction packages for the 11th time, hoping that the outcome will be different, he added.

No victory for poor Ukrainians on the battlefield': Hungarian Prime Minister Orban[https://cdnuploads.aa.com.tr/uploads/Contents/2023/05/24/thumbs_b_c_8fbbae156917900aa7d33af96a45cbe1.jpg]

Anadolu Agency

文件 ANATOL0020230524ej5o000e4


RÁBA Jarmuipari Holding Nyrt. - Q1 2023 Report of RÁBA Plc.
RÁBA Jarmuipari Holding Nyrt. published this content on 24 May 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 24 May 2023 15:24:29 UTC.
3295 字
2023 年 5 月 24 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://docs.publicnow.com/A460CD8E22ADA9B1FC05204B6CF53E26E050BC25]

Q1 2023 Report of RÁBA Plc.

Q1 2023 Report of RÁBA Plc.

Unaudited consolidated quarterly report

in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)

Company name:     RÁBA Automotive Holding Plc.
Company address:  H-9027 Győr, Martin u. 1.
Sector:           Machine industry
Period:           Q1 of 2023
E-mail:           ir@raba.hu
Investor contact: Éva Lang-Péli
EXECUTIVE REPORT

THE MAIN RESULTS OF THE COMPANY

* During the first months of 2023, the market demand for commercial vehicles was decidedly strong in almost all relevant geographical and product segments of Rába, which provides a sound basis for the increase in sales. The economic environment continues to be fundamentally im- pacted by the Russian-Ukrainian war, which is a considerable factor of uncertainty in terms of the long-term predictability of market processes. Raw material and energy prices, which sky-rocketed in H2 of 2022 seem to be somewhat more moderate in Q1 of 2023. The cost-pressure on energy prices decreased somewhat and the price of steel raw materials has not increased further either. Nevertheless, production activities have still not been impacted by any energy and raw material prices significantly more favourable than during the base period. The continuous increase in wages remains a substantial burden that risks international competitiveness and emphasizes the need to increase productivity as soon as possible.

* In Q1 of 2023, the Rába group achieved an outstand ing increase in sales turnover amounting to HUF 20.3 billion upon an increase by 53.3 per cent. The sales revenue exceeding HUF 20 billion is the highest Q1 sales of the past 20 years of the Rába group. What contributed to the record- level sales is that from Q3 2022, the Rába Group's portfolio was expanded, and REKARD LLC. which operates as a wholly owned Rába subsidiary, w as included in the consolidation of the Rába group. The sales reveue of REKARD LLC. was HUF 1.7 billion in Q1. The other subsidiar- ies of the group of companies also achieved sales exceeding that of the base period: the Axle business unit achieved HUF 13.7 billion through a 55.4 per cent growth, the Automotive Compo- nents business unit grew by 6.5 per cent to achieve HUF 4.7 billion, whereas the Vehicle busi- ness unit grew by 101.7 per cent to HUF 0.2 billion in sales. In terms of the exchange rate envi- ronment, the dollar, which accounts for a smaller share of the company's foreign exchange turn- over, saw an increase of 9.0 per cent, while the euro, which has a significant foreign currency weighting, saw an increase of 6.7 per cent compared to a year earlier.

* Production costs continue to be high, which puts continuous pressure on the production activity and consequently on profitability. The Rába group m akes considerable efforts to mitigate these negative impacts through both purchasing and sales measures and to neutralise their profit erod- ing impact.

* In addition to the significant increase in sales revenue, the portfolio expansion, the consistent improvement in production efficiency and passing on of production costs meant that the gross profit at group level amounted to HUF 3.6 billion upon an increase by HUF 1.7 billion. In Q1 2023, the gross profit ratio realised at group level exceeded the level of the base period: it amounted to 17.7 per cent, upon an increase by 3.2 percentage points. The gross profit surplus resulting from the portfolio growth amounted to HUF 431 million.

* The balance of other income and expenses reached a loss of HUF 206 million in the period under review, compared to a profit of HUF 242 million in the same period of the previous year. The result from other activities in the base period included a significant real property transaction with a value of HUF 342 million.

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on operations for Q 1 2023 under IFRS

* Q1 of 2023, burdened by substantial additional communal energy cost due to the energy prices, has nevertheless been concluded by profitable at group level operation through substantial in- crease in sales based on market activity and through the consistent improvement of efficiency. The operating result of the Rába Group in Q1 of 202 3 amounted to HUF 509 million, an increase of HUF 993 million compared to the base period in Q1 of 2022. The Automotive Components business unit achieved an operating profit of HUF 209 million upon considerable efficiency im- provement and the Axle business unit, with the most energy intensive activity, achieved an op- erating result of HUF 40 million, also far exceeding the result of the base period. The cyclical nature of the special activity of the Vehicle business unit resulted in the weaker operating profit during the first months of the year, accordingly the operating result was HUF 34 million in losses. The surplus in operating profit resulting from the portfolio growth due to REKARD LLC. amounted to HUF 106 million.

* Production costs continue to exert considerable pressure on profitability, thus regaining and maintaining cash generation capacity continue to be the primary objective for the Rába group. The focus of the measures, in addition to passing on the inflationary effects to customers, was to further increase the flexibility of manufacturing operations, renew manufacturing technology and structure and to exercise tight cost control. The Rába group's EBITDA for Q1 2023 was HUF 1,024 million above the previous year's result and reached a profit of HUF 1,161 million. The EBITDA result was second highest of the past decade, to which subsidiaries contributed as fol- lows: the Axle business unit achieved an EBITDA level profit of HUF 492 million, the Automotive Components business unit HUF 279 million, while the Vehicle business unit had a minimal loss of HUF 26 million at EBITDA level. The EBITDA surplus from the portfolio expansion due to REKARD LLC. amounted to HUF 158 million.

* The result of financial operations for the period under review is mainly affected by the non-cash loan revaluation. In Q1 2023, the result of financial operations showed a profit of HUF 662 million compared to a loss of HUF 64 million in the same period last year. The unrealised loss from loan revaluation amounted to HUF 1,010 million. In addition, the financial result includes a net interest charge of HUF 100 million.

* The total comprehensive income and profit for the year amounted to a profit of HUF 992 million in Q1 2023, HUF 1,562 million higher than during the previous year.

* Despite the uncertainties caused by the military conflict between Russia and the Ukraine, the financial situation of the Rába Group was character ised by a stable liquidity position. The level of net debt reached HUF 16.1 billion at the end of the period under review, an increase of HUF 4.0 billion compared to the base period. Factors influencing the level of the net debt portfolio included technological renewal and reorganisation far exceeding the capital expenditures of pre- vious years, operating profit realised since the base period and the working capital (increased inventory levels), which increased in order to increase the security of supply and due to inflation. The HUF 1,010 million worth of loan revaluation resulting from exchange rate changes, not in- volving cash movements, was another factor contributing to the net borrowing figure.

* Compared to the same period last year, equity increased by 15.5 per cent. The equity per share was HUF 1,767 per share.

 thousand HUF                                   Q1 2022              Q1 2023     Change  
                                                                      
                                                                                         
 Sales revenue                     13 265 153   20 332 293   53.3%    
 Gross profit                      1 917 941    3 597 605    87.6%    
 Gross margin                      14,5%        17,7%                3.2%p
 EBITDA                            137 480      1 161 008    744.5%   
 EBITDA level                      1,0%         5,7%                 4.7%p
 Operating profit                  -484 153     509 032      205.1%   
 Net financial result              -64 470      661 783      1126.5%  
 Profit after tax for current year -569 655     992 150      274.2%   
 Total comprehensive income        -569 655     992 150      274.2%   
Consolidated report of Rába Plc on operations for Q 1 2023 under IFRS

PURPOSE AND STRATEGY OF THE COMPANY

"The first months of this year were concluded with substantial profits and we succeeded in achieving the highest Q1 sales revenue of the past twenty years, in spite of the negative impact on our operating profitability as an export-oriented company, of the strengthening exchange rate of the Hungar- ian forint. High energy prices continue to represent a challenge. These results show that the strategic direction we have chosen is correct and underscore the importance of the implementation of the individual measures. We continue to dedicate substantial efforts to the implementation of our re- structuring, modernisation and capital expenditure plans since we believe that this is the way to ensure the stability and future of the group of companies," said Béla Hetzmann, Chairman-Chief Executive Officer of RÁBA Automotive Holding Plc. e valuating the results of the company.

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OF THE COMPANY

* During the first months of 2023, the uncertainty caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war continued to be a major economic factor and East-West supply channels and supply disturbances have not been normalised either. Nevertheless, the demand on the commercial vehicle market is consid- ered decidedly strong in nearly all our geographical and product segments, which provides a solid basis for expanding sales. Raw material and energy purchase prices, which sky-rocketed in H2 of 2022, seem to be somewhat more moderate in Q1 of 2023. The cost-pressure on energy prices decreased somewhat and the price of steel raw materials has not increased further either. The increase in wages, however, remains a substantial burden, which risks international com- petitiveness and emphasizes the need to increase productivity as soon as possible.

* Q1 of 2023 was a decidedly strong quarter for the European commercial vehicle market in terms of demand: the registration of new commercial vehicles increased by 19 per cent over the rate of the previous year. The market outlooks for 2023 are clearly positive, however projections re- main highly uncertain due to the substantial economic and political risks. The North American commercial vehicle market experienced a 28 per cent growth over the base period of 2022. De- mand for Rába's agricultural products remained stro ng in Q1 of 2023: turnover exceeded the level of the previous year by some 15 per cent. In compliance with the European sanction regu- lations in force against Russia, since the beginning of the Russian-Ukrainian military conflict Rába has not conducted any business with its Russia n partners. The European passenger vehi- cle market also saw considerable growth in the beginning of 2023: new car registrations in- creased by 18 per cent year on year in Q1.

* Substantial economic risks together with the drastic increase in energy prices have resulted in high volatility on the steel market. Purchase prices, however, seemed to somewhat stabilise and slightly decline in the first months of 2023. In Q1 purchase prices were 8.1 per cent lower, which impacted production activities.

* The labour market in Q1 of 2023 was still characterised by high labour shortages and extreme inflationary pressures, which further increased the risks of fluctuation, while projecting a signifi- cant increase in average wages. In January-February 2023, average gross national earnings increased by 17.3 per cent. Finding and implementing operational efficiency improvements in production technology to cover the years of steadily increasing wage costs remains a major chal- lenge for the Company.

* Energy prices, which sky-rocketed in H2 of 2022, were somewhat more moderate in Q1 of 2023, but were still 9.1 per cent above the level of the previous year. Energy prices are still considered high, purchase prices were still four times higher than the level prior to the energy crisis. Recently the Rába group has largely increased its flexibilit y in terms of energy purchase prices and product sales prices. It is safe to say, though, that there are considerable uncertainties in terms of both procurement and sales, which make the use of long-term solutions considerably more difficult.

* In terms of the exchange rate environment, the dollar, which accounts for a smaller share of the company's foreign exchange turnover, saw an increase of 9.0 per cent, while the euro, which has a significant foreign currency weighting, saw a more moderate increase of 6.7 per cent com- pared to a year earlier. 1

1 The average exchange rates were calculated based on the official FX exchange rates of the MNB.

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on operations for Q 1 2023 under IFRS

                                   Q1 2022     Q1 2023         Change  
                                                        
EURHUF - average                   364,3       388,6   6.7%   
EURHUF - end of period             369,6       381,0   3.1%   
USDHUF - average                   344,5       375,4   9.0%   
USDHUF - end of period             332,1       349,9   5.3%   
Changes in raw material prices*    185%        170%    -8.1%  
Wage level**                       461,0       540,6   17.3%  
Changes in energy prices***        793%        865%    9.1%   
*Rába indices - own calculation - base: 2007. Q1; a verage values for the period

**Central Statistical Office national gross average wage within companies (thousand HUF/month) - based on figures for Jan-Feb. 2023

***Rába indices - own calculation - base: Dec. 2004 . Average values for the period

SUMMARY OF THE CHANGES IN THE RESULT FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD

Rába Axle Ltd.

The sales revenue of Rába Axle Ltd. amounted to HUF 13.7 billion in Q1 2023, compared to HUF 8.8 billion in the 2022 base period. This corresponds to an increase of 55.4 per cent.

On the American market, revenue in USD for the period was USD 2.4 million in the review period, compared to USD 2.7 million in Q1 of 2022. This corresponds to a decrease of 11.1 per cent.

On the EU market, Rába Axle Ltd's sales figures in HUF terms increase d by 62.7 per cent, amounting to HUF 12.2 billion, compared to HUF 7.5 billion during the base period.

European exports in Q1 of 2023 were 73.0 per cent higher than in the base period, reaching EUR 27.5 million compared to EUR 15.9 million in Q1 2022.

Domestic sales revenue before consolidation amounted to HUF 1,482 million, a decrease of 10.2 per cent compared to HUF 1,650 million in the base period.

On the CIS and Eastern European markets Rába Axle Ltd. generated no sales revenue during t he review period, primarily due to the sanctions against Russia. The turnover during Q1 2022 was also minimal, amounting to a mere EUR 0.2 million.

Revenues from Other markets in euro terms amounted to EUR 1.7 million in the period under re- view, which was 41.7 per cent more than the EUR 1.2 million turnover in the base period of 2022. The sales figures and their comparison for the base period with the period in review are fundamentally affected by the fact that in the framework of efficiency improvement measures, the organisational and operational management of the Sárvár sit e of the Automotive Components business unit was transferred from the Automotive Components business unit to the Axle business unit in Q3 2022. As from 1 January 2023, the Rába Development Instit ute, performing R+D activities has been integrated into Rába Vehicles Ltd. from Rába Axles Ltd.

The operating result of the Company in Q1 2023 was a profit of HUF 40 million, compared to HUF 771 million during the same period of the previous year.

At EBITDA level, the operating profit of the Axle business unit was HUF 492 million compared to the loss of HUF 341 million registered a year earlier.

Source: http://www.mnb.hu/arfolyam-lekerdezes[http://www.mnb.hu/arfolyam-lekerdezes]

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on operations for Q 1 2023 under IFRS

 HUF million                 Q1 2022                 Q1 2023     Change    
 America             866     887             2.4%             
 EU - export         5 803   10 685          84.1%            
 EU - domestic       1 650   1 482           -10.2%           
 CIS and East-Europe 67      0       -100.0%          
 Other               451     678             50.3%            
 Total sales revenue 8 837   13 732          55.4%            
 EBITDA              -341    492             -244.3%          
 Operating profit    -771    40              -105.2%          
Rába Automotive Components Ltd.

The sales revenue of Rába Automotive Components Ltd . amounted to HUF 4.8 billion in Q1 2023, an increase of 6.5 per cent compared to the base period.

Rába Automotive Components Ltd. generates a signif icant part of its turnover on the European market.

European exports in Q1 2023 reached EUR 4.8 million, an increase of 26.1 per cent compared to EUR 6.5 million in the base period of 2022.

Domestic sales revenue before consolidation in the reporting period amounted to HUF 2,876 million compared to HUF 2,098 million in Q1 2022, an increase of 37.1 per cent.

The sales figures and their comparison for the base period with the period in review are fundamentally affected by the fact that in the framework of efficiency improvement measures, the organisational and operational management of the Sárvár sit e of the Automotive Components business unit was transferred from the Automotive Components business unit to the Axle business unit in Q3 2022.

At operating level, the Business Unit generated a profit of HUF 209 million in the period under review, compared to a profit of HUF 19 million in Q1 2022.

At the EBITDA level, the operating profit of the Automotive Components business unit for the period under review amounted to HUF 279 million, compared to HUF 141 million a year earlier.

 HUF million                 Q1 2022           Q1 2023     Change  
                                                
 EU - export         2 362   1 877     -20.5%   
 EU - domestic       2 098   2 876     37.1%    
 Other               4     0 0.0%     
 Total sales revenue 4 464   4 753     6.5%     
 EBITDA              141     279       97.9%    
 Operating profit    19      209       1000.0%  
Rába Vehicle Ltd.

The realised sales revenue of Rába Vehicle Ltd. in Q1 2023 was 101.7 per cent higher than the base period level, increasing from HUF 121 million to HUF 244 million.

The majority of Rába Vehicle Ltd. 's sales are real ised on the domestic market, while it sells on the European market on a project basis.

European exports in Q1 2023 did not show any considerable sales during either the base period or the review period amounting to HUF 3.0 million, due to the project nature of sales.

The domestic sales revenue before consolidation in the first three months of 2023 was HUF 242 million, an increase of 100.0 per cent.

As from 1 January 2023, the Rába Development Instit ute, performing R+D activities has been integrated into Rába Vehicle Ltd. from Rába Axles Ltd.

The operating profit amounted to HUF 34 million of losses during the reporting period, compared to the loss of HUF 28 million during the base period last year.

At the EBITDA level, the operating loss of the Vehicle business unit for the period was HUF 26 million compared to HUF 25 million in losses in Q1 2022.

This is an excerpt of the original content. To continue reading it, access the original document here[https://docs.publicnow.com/A460CD8E22ADA9B1FC05204B6CF53E26E050BC25].

* This content was originally posted here[https://www.bse.hu/site/newkib/en/2023.05./Q1_2023_Report_of_RABA_Plc._128897798]

Disclaimer

RÁBA Jarmuipari Holding Nyrt. published this content on 24 May 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 24 May 2023 15:27:32 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020230524ej5o00i4t


Why the EU’s plan to protect key industries spooks free traders
Henry Foy
940 字
2023 年 5 月 24 日 05:00 GMT
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
英文
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.
Also in this newsletter: Hungary digs in on Ukraine import bans and cash for weapons

Good morning. We start with a warning for the European economy as German exports to China recorded a double-digit drop since the start of the year, with a stronger euro and high energy prices dashing hopes that the EU’s biggest economy would benefit from a rebound in Chinese demand.

Today, our Brussels bureau chief assesses the fight over the future of EU trade rules and we have news on Hungary’s latest clash with Kyiv.

Trade off

These are anxious times for the EU’s free traders. With the enthusiastic backing of France and its allies, Brussels is seeking to build up the union’s geopolitical power in the pursuit of “strategic autonomy,” hardening trade defences and intervening ever more deeply in key industrial sectors, writes Sam Fleming. 

Context: Next month the European Commission will propose an economic security strategy aimed at further protecting the EU’s interests, in response to US pressure for a tougher approach to China in particular. 

This sits uncomfortably with EU governments that like to proclaim their enthusiasm for an open, rules-based global trading system. They aren’t alone: In a new policy paper, lobby group BusinessEurope makes the corporate case for the EU to stay in touch with its liberal roots.  

There cannot be strategic autonomy without openness, according to the paper. Trade agreements with New Zealand, Chile, Mexico and Mercosur should therefore be brought into force during the lifespan of the current commission, it says, calling for accelerated talks with Australia, India and Indonesia.

It strikes a notably sceptical note when assessing two key policy innovations likely to feature in the commission’s strategy paper: the possible creation of new powers to impose EU-wide export controls on key technologies, coupled with tighter scrutiny of outbound investment flows.

BusinessEurope says that, on principle, it does not support limitations on outbound investments, arguing these should only be used in “exceptional cases” to address serious security concerns.

Export controls, meanwhile, should only be imposed on a case-by-case basis in consultation with the private sector and in co-ordination with key international allies.

Businesses are not the only questioning voices. With EU trade ministers due to meet tomorrow, more “liberal-minded” member states are worried the EU is creating too many trade barriers, said one EU diplomat.

There is, accordingly, little chance of capitals reaching a quick consensus on the contentious topic of investment controls. When it comes to the commission’s wider economic security proposals, “the strongest proponents of a more liberal market economy are a bit concerned about what this will entail in terms of obstacles to trade,” the diplomat added.

Chart du jour: New world order

The G7 must accept that it cannot run the world, writes Martin Wolf, even if it is still the world’s most powerful and cohesive economic bloc and produces all leading reserve currencies.

So Hungary

It is almost a month since the European Commission trumpeted a deal to end a blockade of Ukrainian foodstuffs by several EU members by offering Brussels-blessed curbs instead and some bushels of cash.

But Hungary is delaying its implementation, according to the commission, holding up €100mn in EU cash to support farmers in Poland, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary, write Andy Bounds and Marton Dunai.

Context: Brussels lifted tariffs and quotas on Ukrainian produce last year and set up fast-track import procedures. But much got stuck in neighbouring countries because of a lack of onward transport, harming local farmers and prompting national import bans.

Budapest now says it must maintain its ban on goods imported under contracts signed before May 2 as the commission’s proposal does not cover them. “We are currently waiting for the commission to resolve this issue in a satisfactory manner and to ensure the protection of Hungarian farmers,” the country’s agriculture ministry said.

The other countries have lifted their bans and will put pressure on Hungary to bend at an EU agriculture ministers’ meeting on May 30, helped by a special guest: Ukrainian agriculture minister Mykola Solskyi.

The stand-off reflects growing tensions between Budapest and Kyiv. 

At yesterday’s meeting of EU defence ministers, Hungary continued to block the allocation of another €500mn to Ukraine for weapons on the grounds that Kyiv has declared Hungary’s OTP Bank supportive of Russia.

“If a country like Ukraine . . . needs our money, please respect us and don’t sanction our companies,” Hungarian leader Viktor Orbán told the Qatar Economic Forum yesterday.

A special EU fund has spent €3.6bn on providing reimbursement against some €10bn worth of weapons supplied to Ukraine, but needs a fresh top-up to continue paying out. 

Separately, Orbán made painfully clear his divergence from the rest of his EU and Nato allies by saying at the same Qatar event that Ukraine has “no chance to win this war.”

What to watch today

*

German president Frank-Walter Steinmeier meets Romanian president Klaus Iohannis in Bucharest

*

Nato secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg speaks at the Brussels Forum from 2:45pm.

Now read these

*

Olympic shame: Paris 2024 organisers have hit back at criticism over ticket prices that run to hundreds of euros per seat.

*

On rotation: Bulgaria’s two main parliamentary factions have agreed a power-sharing deal in an effort to end two years of political paralysis.

*

Boiling over: Germany’s coalition is in crisis (again) after the Liberals postponed the Greens’ pet project: banning gas boilers in new homes.

The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)

文件 FTCOM00020230524ej5o000jh


New EU ethics body and Moldova conference This WEEK
Eszter Zalan
607 字
2023 年 5 月 29 日
EUobserver.com
EUSERCOM
英文
© 2023, EUobserver.com, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
The EU Commission is finally unveiling long-awaited proposals for setting up an EU ethics body, with commission vice-president Vĕra Jourová set to unveil plans on Wednesday (31 May).

The European Parliament, which voted by a large majority in February for the EU to finalise plans for an independent ethics body, has been concerned that the proposals will fall short of earlier pledges.

Commission president Ursula von der Leyen in 2019 promised to back the creation of an ethics body common to all EU institutions, to win the backing of MEPs for her presidency.

But little happened until the Qatargate broke out last December, in which some MEPs allegedly received cash for influence from Qatar and Morocco.

Jourová has said previously that the commission had no legal competence to create an organisation that would investigate and sanction. The new body would only set minimum ethical standards, and install similar control mechanisms in the nine different EU institutions.

Meanwhile, on Thursday (1 June), Moldova will host 47 countries of the so-called European Political Community.

It is the second meeting of the EPC, the brainchild of French president Emmanuel Macron, and will bring together leaders from across Europe at Mimi Castle in the small town of Bulboaca.

Moldova's president Maia Sandu recently said that the EU should let Moldova into the bloc "as soon as possible" to better protect the country against rising Russian threats.[https://euobserver.com/world/157072]

Sandu also said that the EPC gathering "is important because we see that we are not alone, that we have many friends."

In the meantime, in Brussels, the European Parliament is set to hold a mini-plenary.

The final report of the special committee on foreign interference is set to be adopted on Thursday by MEPs.

The report calls on the EU to act urgently against foreign interference in democratic processes, particularly from Russia and China — especially ahead of the 2024 European elections.

Sign up for EUobserver’s daily newsletter

All the stories we publish, sent at 7.30 AM.

By signing up, you agree to our Terms of Use[https://media.euobserver.com/assets/terms.pdf] and Privacy Policy[https://euobserver.com/static/privacy].

"Europe continues to lag behind and is suffering from fragmentation and a lack of coordination. My report outlines clear and strategic recommendations on how to strengthen our institutions and develop tools to counter hostile disinformation", centre-right MEP Sandra Kalniete, who drafted the report, said.

Research shows that over two-thirds of Europeans encounter fake news at least once a week and that 83 percent of Europeans think fake news is a threat to democracy, according to the Kalniete's European People's Party.

MEPs on Thursday are also set to vote on a resolution on Hungary, which urges the council of EU governments to look into whether Hungary is fit to hold the EU's rotating presidency[https://euobserver.com/eu-political/157077] next year as prime minister Viktor Orbán's government is under intense scrutiny for backtracking on democratic norms.

"Hungary still needs to take specific actions. The frozen funds cannot be released without endangering the EU budget. The commission should find a legal way for funds to reach the Hungarian people directly, bypassing Orbán's control", Finnish MEP Petri Sarvamaa said.

MEPs want to hear on the issue from the commission and council on Wednesday.

Lawmakers are also set to vote on Thursday on their position on the proposal to urgently deliver ammunition and missiles to Ukraine and to help member states refill their own stocks.

After the parliament adopted its position, negotiations with the EU governments can start with the aim of adopting the act in the July plenary.

EUobserver.com ASBL

文件 EUSERCOM20230529ej5t00001


EU to blacklist nine Russians over jailing of dissident
Andrew Rettman
684 字
2023 年 5 月 30 日
EUobserver.com
EUSERCOM
英文
© 2023, EUobserver.com, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
EU countries are preparing to blacklist nine Russians for jailing dissident Vladimir Kara-Murza, if Hungary backs down.

The draft list names Russian deputy justice minister Oleg Sviridenko, four Russian judges, a notorious prison chief, and three officials.

Sviridenko had "direct responsibility" for enforcing a Kremlin "foreign agents" list, which included Kara-Murza, said the EU document, dated 24 May and seen by EUobserver.

The Foreign Agents project was "at the centre of a wave of repressive laws cracking down on [hundreds of] independent civil society, media as well as dissenting individuals," the EU said.

This helped send Kara-Murza to a penal colony for 25 years in April — a de facto death sentence for the disabled Kremlin-critic.

And two of the Russians on the draft blacklist were already involved in killing another high-profile Russian activist 15 years ago — Sergei Magnitsky, it added

Sergei Pododprigorov, one of Kara-Murza's judges, previously issued rulings against Magnitsky, who "was later persecuted and died in Russian prison," the draft EU sanctions said.

Dmitry Komon is currently head of the 'Vodnik' prison where Kara-Murza was being held, the EU said.

But Komon used to be "warden of 'Butyrka' pre-trial detention centre at a time when unbearable conditions led to the death of anti-corruption activist Sergei Magnitsky," the EU document added.

The 27 EU ambassadors will discuss the list in Brussels on Wednesday (31 May), diplomats said.

If approved, they will join an EU register of over 40 of the world's worst abusers, called a Global Human Rights Sanctions Regime, which also includes Chinese officials and African warlords.

The Kara-Murza listings were due to get the green light a week ago, but Hungary called a last-minute veto on the Russian deputy minister.

Its blockade was seen as putting extra pressure on the EU to force Ukraine to stop badmouthing a Hungarian bank.

It has also vetoed an 11th round of Russia sanctions and Ukraine arms deals in protest over the bank.

But its Kara-Murza gambit saw it hammered on moral as well as political grounds.

"The Hungarian government has made its affection for the Putin regime clear, but it is unacceptable when that position hijacks well thought out and moral EU policy," said 40 MEPs in a letter on 24 May.

Sign up for EUobserver’s daily newsletter

All the stories we publish, sent at 7.30 AM.

By signing up, you agree to our Terms of Use[https://media.euobserver.com/assets/terms.pdf] and Privacy Policy[https://euobserver.com/static/privacy].

Hungarian diplomats like to keep Brussels-based EU colleagues and media in the dark.

When asked if Budapest was likely to cave on Kara-Murza on Wednesday, a non-Hungarian EU diplomat following the process, said: "We'll see".

But the MEPs, who wrote to all 26 EU foreign ministers except Hungary in a symbolic move, had an alternative solution if it didn't.

"We call on the EU member states who already have Magnitsky Acts -the Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania — to use their existing legislation to sanction Vladimir Kara-Murza's Russian persecutors, since the EU legislation does not work," they said.

"We also call on other EU member sates to pass their own domestic Magnitsky Acts," they said.

The "EU Magnitsky Act[https://euobserver.com/world/151019]" is an informal name in Brussels for the Global Human Rights Sanctions Regime.

But several EU countries have parallel legislation at national level.

So called to honour the Russian late activist Magnitsky, the EU-level act imposes asset-freezes and visa-bans on those listed.

Bill Browder — a British financier and human-rights campaigner, who was Magnitsky's former employer — said none of the nine Russians are likely to be banking or holidaying in the EU anyway, even if their relatives might.

But the blacklist still sends a "strong message", he told EUobserver on Tuesday.

"The EU is saying Kara-Murza is so important to us that we are going after his persecutors," he said.

"It also says to the Russians: 'He's a valuable hostage, don't kill him'," Browder added.

EUobserver.com ASBL

文件 EUSERCOM20230530ej5u0002t


CE Noticias Financieras English
European Parliament raises the tone against Hungary by calling on the Council to veto its EU presidency
1113 字
2023 年 5 月 31 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The European Parliament has very serious doubts that Hungary should take over the six-month rotating presidency of the EU in the second half of 2024. The reason is the deterioration of the rule of law in that country. "It is questioned whether it can carry out with full credibility the tasks" of that responsibility, according to a resolution that has the support of the vast majority of the hemicycle - five parliamentary groups: popular, socialists, liberals, greens and minority left - subscribe to it. These groups, representing 73% of the MEPs, demand "that the Council find an appropriate solution as quickly as possible". The text, which will be voted on Thursday, does not specify what that "solution" should be. Several of its rapporteurs and other MEPs, who have spoken clearly, both when presenting the initiative and in the parliamentary debate, to prevent the government of the ultra Viktor Orbán to hold the presidency of the Council of the EU.

Against this text have been expressed by the representatives of the most right-wing groups, namely the European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR), which brings together Vox, and Identity and Democracy (ID), which integrates the League of Matteo Salvini.

For the European Parliament, Hungary is not a democracy, but a "hybrid regime of electoral autocracy". It said so last September. It then raised the tone much higher than previous resolutions on the drift of Budapest, which since Orbán returned to power in 2010 shows a steady and clear deterioration of the rule of law. And now it raises it even more, putting the focus on the six-month presidency of the EU, which in turn corresponds to the member countries, according to the treaties, and has never been taken away from any country. That role is "important to steer the Council's legislative work on EU legislation, ensure the continuity of the European agenda and represent the Council in its relationship with other EU institutions," the text introduces to justify the request to the Council to "find a solution" or else "the Parliament may take appropriate measures."

MEPs fear that Orbán, in addition to continuing the deterioration of the rule of law, will use his half-year at the helm of the EU to highlight his closeness to Russian President Vladimir Putin and thus undermine the European position of support for Ukraine. "Who will this presidency invite? Where will this presidency decide to go when it goes on an official mission on behalf of the EU? And what will this presidency say on behalf of the EU?" asked the rapporteur of the text, Green MEP Gwendoline Delbos-Corfield.

Thursday's vote is yet another warning to Hungary, say EU sources, which, however, believe that Orbán will turn a deaf ear to the warning. The sources consulted speak of the discomfort within the institutions with the behavior and the drift of Budapest, which has adopted blackmail as a practice by blocking policies such as the sanctions packages against Russia for aggression against Ukraine.

Outstanding accountsHungary already has several outstanding accounts with the EU institutions for devaluing the rule of law, failing to fight corruption, not respecting academic freedom or attacking the rights of the LGTBI community. Now it has more than 22,000 million euros corresponding to the Cohesion Funds suspended and, in addition, it is obliged to carry out reforms to guarantee judicial independence and the fight against corruption if it wants to access the money corresponding to its recovery plan (5,800 million). In addition, in the Council, together with Poland, it has had a sanction procedure open since 2018 that was launched by the Parliament itself. But five years later the sanctions are not coming and progress is scarce, and this angers MEPs, who both in the resolution and in public interventions show their anger with Hungary, but also with the EU Council and the European Commission. "There is no progress with Article 7 [official name of the sanctioning process]," said Isabel Wiseler-Lima of the European People's Party and France's Delbos-Corfield at the presentation of the initiative prior to the debate.

And if there is no progress, the parliamentarians understand, it is because of the responsibility of the Council. "I am tired of hearing that they have had a good discussion, a good debate and that yesterday's discussion [this Tuesday the issue was addressed for the sixth time by the Member States] to understand the problems. We must act now," Socialist Thijs Reuten noted. "It would be a disaster if this country managed to keep the presidency and Orbán did what he already said publicly, that he would push his agenda," stressed the Dutch MEP.

Even more forceful was his liberal compatriot Sophie in't Vent, who focused her words to the press on how to devalue Hungary's presidency in the second half of next year if the other institutions do nothing. "If the Council doesn't have the cojones [a word pronounced in Spanish, even though she was speaking in English] to take the presidency away, we should focus on how we can minimize the presidency."

The obvious anger of MEPs with the Council - and also with the Commission - grew on Tuesday. When at the press conference following the meeting of European Affairs ministers, the representative of the Swedish presidency, Jessika Rosswall, and the vice-president of the European Commission, Vera Jourova, replied four or five times with "the same laconic answer", described Delbos-Corfield, in which she said that the reaction to this resolution would be in accordance with the treaties.

Behind the forcefulness of these words there is also impotence. Parliament can do little more and, in fact, there are legal doubts that it can take the step of vetoing a member state's exercise of the six-month presidency. "Even the experts consulted are not clear what to do," Delbos-Corfield acknowledged, "the lines [of article seven] in the treaties are very short. So we have to invent. We know we have to start this debate and see how we address the situation." Among the solutions on the table is the report of the Meijers Committee, which brings together legal experts, and points to three possible solutions: two are that some of the functions of the Hungarian presidency would fall to the other countries and the third is that the European Council, that is, the heads of state and government, who decide by qualified majority how that presidency could be exercised.

Follow all the international information on Facebook and Twitter, or in our weekly newsletter.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230531ej5v00cbq


Russia: EU fails to agree on new sanctions package
218 字
2023 年 6 月 8 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2023. CEEMarketWatch
Hungary, Greece block sanction package in order to exclude their companies from "war sponsors" list

New package is expected to limit sanction circumvention

The EU countries could not reach consensus on a new sanction package during the meeting on Jun 7, Politico reported today citing four unnamed EU diplomats. Greece and Hungary oppose the new package because their companies were included in Ukraine's list of "war sponsors" (due to their presence on the Russian market). However, Politico sources said that the EU is close to an agreement and we recall that all previous sanction packages also faced opposition, usually coming from Hungary, but were finalized later. The new sanctions package is expected to target "circumvention of sanctions" and may include some third-country companies or a legal mechanism to sanction these companies for re-exports to Russia. The re-export operations drew significant attention as the EU trade with countries bordering Russia surged after the introduction of the sanctions, partially offsetting the decline of trade between the EU and Russia itself. Russia does not provide a country breakdown of its foreign trade since the beginning of the Ukrainian war, but the statistical reports from other CIS countries show a surge in trade with Russia in the last 12 months.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020230609ej6800010


Greece, Hungary blocking passage of eleventh sanctions package, seeking exemptions for their companies
Ben Aris in Berlin
393 字
2023 年 6 月 9 日 05:17 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
EU ambassadors’ talks on the eleventh package of sanctions reached a dead end after Greece and Hungary blocked approval during a meeting on June 7.

The two countries said that while they didn’t oppose the sanctions in principle, they were both holding out to have the names of several companies deleted from the proposed list.

The eleventh package is designed not to introduce many new sanctions, but to enforce the existing sanctions. Specifically, the package will apply secondary sanctions to companies deemed to be aiding Russia to avoid sanctions.

Greek shipping has been particularly active in helping Moscow, by providing logistic services that have allowed Russia to transport its oil, grain, coal and other commodities to global markets, and has increased its share of Russian transport since the war in Ukraine began.

Hungary remains heavily dependent on Russian energy and commodity imports, but its companies have also been accused of sanctions busting. Both Athens and Budapest have requested the removal of their respective companies from the list before consenting to the sanctions package, reports Politico.

Germany and France have also expressed concerns, particularly regarding the potential impact of the ban on circumventing sanctions on diplomatic relations.

Despite the presentation of an alternative version of the eleventh package by the European Commission, it failed to resolve the disagreements and secure the required consensus among member states.

The sanctions have proved extremely leaky. Russia’s Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak, who is in charge of energy reported the day before that Russia had exported more oil to Asia than Europe for the first time ever in 2022 and that the volume of oil exported to Asia was in excess of the volumes that were exported to Europe prior to the war.

Separately, officials in the US government admitted that Russia imported more technology last year than pre-war and was successfully avoiding the Western technology sanctions[https://bne.eu/russia-is-successfully-evading-western-technology-sanctions-271899/].

The eleventh package of sanctions is a key element in Western efforts to close many of the holes in the sanctions regime, but the reluctance of some members of the coalition to sanction their own businesses is adding to the problems of enforcing the regime.

The issue will be revisited during the next meeting of EU ambassadors scheduled for June 14.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230609ej69000xd


Hungary This Week - June 9, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 6 月 9 日, 13914 字, (英文)
Hungary's trade surplus narrows to €308mn in AprilHungary’s trade balance recorded a surplus for the third straight month as it narrowed to €308mn in April from €886mn in the previous month, according to preliminary data by the Central ...

Everyone's got something to say about Trump -- except world leaders who might have to deal with him
By RAF CASERT
Associated Press
1022 字
2023 年 6 月 14 日 15:06 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2023. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS (AP) — In the final days of the 2016 U.S. election campaign, European Union leader Donald Tusk could no longer contain himself: “One Donald is more than enough!” he wrote on Twitter. When Trump was elected less than a week later, it made for an awkward start to what proved to be four difficult years of trans-Atlantic relations.

As Trump becomes the first former president to face federal charges that could put him in jail, many Europeans are watching the case closely. But hardly a single world leader has said a thing recently about the man leading the race for the Republican party nomination.

NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg, who Foreign Policy Magazine named its “Diplomat of the Year” in 2019 for helping the alliance navigate an “ uncertain future” during the Trump years[https://apnews.com/article/north-america-donald-trump-ap-top-news-international-news-brussels-ac8335f396a143d49776d6e9246c9286], demonstrated his chops when asked about a second term: It took him less than three sentences to change the topic to the television series “The Crown.”

It's not that the global public isn't interested. Trump's court appearance grabbed headlines and figured prominently on evening newscasts across much of Europe.

As far away as New Zealand, most “are watching the Trump circus with the same sense of horror and fascination that marked his last days in office" in early 2021 when the U.S. Capitol was attacked, said David Capie, a professor of international relations at Victoria University of Wellington.

Few European leaders would welcome Trump's reelection. His policies on climate, trade and security clashed with European interests and sensibilities, and many fear that he would withdraw robust U.S. support for the war in Ukraine.

“The whole world has the same concern. We hope that the U.S. election restores a bit of rationality,” said José Pio Borges, president of the Brazilian Center for International Relations think tank said Tuesday. “Not that we have great appreciation for Biden, but there is no comparison.”

In other parts of the world where the U.S. feels farther away, like China and India, the trial passed by with much less notice.

And then, a minority of world leaders is openly cheering for Trump to make a comeback. In Hungary, Prime Minister Viktor Orban backed Trump in 2016, and said the war in Ukraine wouldn’t be happening if Trump was still president. In a speech last month, he cried: “Come back, Mr. President! Make America great again, and bring us peace!”

The nature of the allegations against Trump being tried now also matter to allied leaders. Prosecutors allege he was reckless with classified information, including secrets shared by or about intelligence partners.

“Were Donald Trump to be elected President, then absolutely, there will be certain governments that are going to be concerned,” said Leslie Vinjamuri, director of the U.S. and Americas Program at the London-based think tank Chatham House. She added that the current case was “very clear evidence, you know, of his willingness to play fast and loose with secret and top secret documents.”

With NATO allies and as far as Australia and New Zealand, the United States has a dense network of military security cooperation deals where secrecy, due diligence and trust in exchanging sensitive information are essential.

The indictment alleges Trump intentionally retained hundreds of classified documents[https://apnews.com/article/donald-trump-mar-a-lago-government-and-politics-9e8d683afe87389407950af7ccfdbdd6] after leaving office in January 2021, and then stored them in cardboard boxes in locations including a bathroom, a ballroom and a bedroom. The documents contained information on nuclear programs, defense and weapons capabilities of the U.S. and foreign governments, and a Pentagon “attack plan,” prosecutors wrote.

“It’s so far beyond the pale of the imagination of most people who work in intelligence that it really, you know, you do have to sort of laugh. But it’s obviously very grave, very serious,” Vinjamuri told the AP.

Governments themselves have shied away from addressing such sensitive issues on the record, but it's clear that most U.S. allies, especially in Europe, have embraced Biden as their best hope to rekindle old alliances and build cooperation to contain climate change.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has created Europe’s biggest crisis in decades, and many European nations have stood shoulder to shoulder with Biden in facing Putin and slapping sanction after sanction on the Kremlin.

The war has even driven reassessments in some countries that were once inclined toward Trump's view of the world.

In Poland, the nationalist conservative government did not hide its admiration for Trump when he was elected, and agreed with him on issues including opposition to large-scale migration, especially by Muslims. In 2017, Poland’s conservative President Andrzej Duda said that if the U.S. set up a base in Poland it would be called Fort Trump, and later Duda was one of the last world leaders to congratulate Biden after his election victory.

But Duda and others are grateful for Biden’s assurances to Poland and his two visits to Warsaw since Russia launched its full-scale invasion.

Ukraine itself has received vital aid from the Biden administration, but has shown no interest in commenting on Biden's political rival. President Volodymyr Zelenskyy tried not to take sides during Trump’s first impeachment saga despite playing a central role in it, much as he's welcomed China's peace plan for the conflict[https://apnews.com/article/china-russia-ukraine-envoy-0d2e546b5dcf099db0161f2ffa99bcb8] despite widespread perceptions that it favors Moscow.

But this time, European leaders are keeping their opinions about Trump to themselves.

“One of the most interesting questions here in the United Kingdom, across Europe and elsewhere, is: what are Europeans doing to prepare for the possibility that Donald Trump could return to the White House? And I think the reality is, not a lot right now," Vinjamuri said.

Donald Tusk is now running to lead Poland after elections in the fall. As a prime minister, the last thing he would want is to pick another fight with a Donald.

___

AP Writers from across the globe contributed.

Eds: UPDATES: With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020230614ej6e00cvx


News
Hungary’s OTP bank included in Ukraine's “international sponsors of war” list as part of the eleventh package of sanctions
Ben Aris in Berlin
1594 字
2023 年 6 月 23 日 12:33 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Hungary’s biggest bank OTP Bank is in trouble with Ukraine, after it remained on its “international sponsors of war” list that is part of the eleventh package of sanctions and maintains a large and successful banking business in Russia.

Inclusion in the list exposes OTP Bank to secondary sanctions for aiding Russia to avoid sanctions. The bank said last March that it was looking at options to exit the Russian market but more a year later no progress seems to have been made. The Hungarian government is actively working to get its best bank removed from Ukraine’s list but failed to prevent it being included in the recently adopted eleventh sanctions package[https://www.intellinews.com/eu-signs-off-on-eleventh-package-of-sanctions-282518].

The long-awaited latest sanctions were accepted by the EU foreign ministers on June 21 after months of haggling. The latest package contains few new measures and is designed to make the previous ten packages more effective by targeting companies and countries that are helping Russia circumvent the sanctions regime.

OTP Bank has been included on Ukraine’s list of offenders as it has maintained its business in Russia, where it is one of the top 50 biggest banks and has 2.4mn customers. OTP Bank’s Russian business contributes 8% of the group’s total earnings and is the fourth most profitable of its various branches, according to the bank’s reported results.

The OTP Group first announced that it was exploring options to exit the Russian market in March last year, citing the threat of a liquidity shortage for the subsidiary in Russia that would lead to the possibility that the subsidiary bank would require additional funding – funding that would be made difficult by sanctions on Russia’s financial system.

Many international banks have left Russia, including Société Générale which sold its Russian banking business back to oligarch Vladimir Potanin. However, many banks and companies, including Austria’s Raiffeisen Bank International (RBI), have been relucent to exit the large and lucrative Russian market[https://www.intellinews.com/top-100-foreign-companies-still-working-in-russia-see-profits-soar-by-half-in-2022-to-13bn-281226/]. In May RBI also said that it was planning to spin off its Russian business[https://intellinews.com/rbi-reportedly-planning-spin-off-of-russian-arm-to-shareholders-279561], but no deal has yet been announced.

OTP Bank has also said it is willing to sell, but no concrete deals or negotiations have been announced. The management of the bank said it is complying with all the international sanctions imposed on Russia.

The Kremlin has made exiting Russia harder as any deal has to be approved by the Central Bank of Russia (CBR), which also needs to give permission to transfer proceeds aboard. A decree issued by Russian President Vladimir Putin on August 5 last year means foreign companies wishing to leave Russia are also expected to offer large discounts to the fair valuation price of their assets. The Hungarian OTP Group was included in the decree’s list of non-resident companies working in Russia that need permission to exit.

The bank’s financial report for the first half of 2022 said that the “bank’s shareholders and its management were considering various scenarios, including the possible sale of the Russian asset ...at an acceptable price.”

That was followed by a statement from OTP Bank deputy CEO Laszlo Bencsik, published by Reuters, saying that “potential buyers are highly interested in the Russian bank,” but warned that Putin’s decreed made an exit difficult.

OTP Bank repeated its desire to exit in its latest annual report in March and said it was still exploring all strategic options. The group also clarified that it adheres to the principle of continuity of operations regarding its subsidiaries in Russia and Ukraine.

OTP Bank’s lack of progress in organising an exit from its Russian business caught the attention of Ukraine’s National Agency on Corruption Prevention (NACP), which included OTB Bank in a list of “international sponsors of war” in May.

The agency justified its decision by stating that the bank's management continues to operate in Russia and “effectively recognises the occupied territories in Eastern Ukraine” (Donetsk and Lugansk “people’s republics”), Ukraine’s local media reports. Specifically, NACP cited media reports as part of an investigation that claim OTP Bank Russia was offering preferential lending conditions to Russian military personnel.

"It is emphasised that russians [sic], called up for military service by mobilisation or contract, as well as their families, can apply for a deferment of payments for loans and credits. In this regard, the banks refer to the russian law of October 7, 2022 No. 377-FZ, effectively recognising the so-called Donetsk and Luhansk 'people's republics'", the agency says in its statement, as cited by mind.ua.

The bank denies the accusations: “The reasons given by the [NACP] for this decision are incorrect on several points. The OTP Group considers the reasons for its inclusion on the list to be not objective, as shown by the fact that a number of major international financial and other companies, active both in Ukraine and Russia, are currently missing from the [NACP] list, which should be included on these grounds,” OTP Bank’s press service told bne IntelliNews in an emailed comment. “OTP Group or any of its members are not sanctioned by the EU. Being on the list of Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Agency (NAZK) has no legal or sanctioning consequences, because it is not a sanction list, but it causes reputational damage and therefore harms our business interests.”

Hungary’s government has rallied to OTP Bank’s defence. Hungary's Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó reiterated that OTP had “not violated any international laws,” and “its operations fully comply with legal norms.” Szijjártó called the inclusion of the bank in the list of international war sponsors "unacceptable and outrageous". He warned that as long as OTP remains on the list of international war sponsors, Hungary will not be able to participate in the implementation of the eleventh package of sanctions on Russia.

In its defence, OTP Bank claims that it is significantly reduced its business in Russia.

“"The Group significantly reduced its presence in the market in 2022: the market share dropped to 0.17%, corporate lending was stopped and the corporate credit portfolio was cut by 75%. The OTP Group has repeatedly stated its search for opportunities to exit the market, including involving consultants from Rothschild Martin Maurel, but the sale procedure is legally blocked. The information about the recognition of the illegal formations ‘L/DPR’, and also about granting privileged loans to Russian military personnel, does not correspond to reality," the bank said in a statement, as cited by mind.ua.

The bank also pointed out that it has donated UAH100mn to the Armed Forces of Ukraine (AFU), hospitals and children’s home in Ukraine. The bank has also bought UAH5.5bn of government military bonds to help the Ukrainian government finance its war deficit.

However, under pressure from Brussels, Szijjártó walked that position back, and allowed the eleventh package of go through with OTP Bank’s name still on the war sponsor’s list, but has also made it clear that the question of OTP Bank’s inclusion is not over.

Eleventh package talks

Having built up a successful banking business in Hungary, in the last decade the group has been expanding eastwards looking for new markets. It has built up a large business in Russia, and also operates in Ukraine where it is one of the largest 100% foreign owned banks on the market since 2006 after taking over RBI’s Ukrainian business.

Today the bank is the 11th biggest in the Ukrainian market and considered to be a “systemically important bank” according to the National Bank of Ukraine (NBU). For the first four months of 2023, OTP Bank earned a net profit of UAH2bn ($32.6mn).

OTP Bank continues to develop its international business with an ongoing exit from the Romanian market and entry to the dynamic Uzbek market.

OTP is currently looking to exit from the Romanian market and is in talks with four potential buyers in a deal that is estimated to be worth €300mn that may go through later this year.

The bank also closed the acquisition of a 73.71% stake in Uzbekistan's Ipoteka Bank[https://www.intellinews.com/hungary-s-otp-closes-first-acquisition-outside-europe-in-uzbekistan-281634/] from the state on June 13. With this transaction, OTP Bank is in the vanguard of foreign banks setting up in the fast growing Uzbek market, following Georgia’s TBC Bank and Turkey’s Ziraat Bank into the market. OTB Bank has become the first foreign lender to participate in the privatisation of Uzbekistan's banking sector, the bank said in a statement[https://www.otpgroup.info/news/OTP-Bank-Uzbek-transaction-closed-Ipoteka-Bank-acquired].

The Hungarian government, together with Greece, held up the passage of the eleventh package of sanctions[https://www.intellinews.com/eu-signs-off-on-eleventh-package-of-sanctions-282518], which had been in negotiations since April, as they were lobbying for exemptions from the lists for their companies that maintain business ties with Russia.

Greece managed to persuade Ukraine to remove five Greek shipping companies from its list. Germany also got five from eight Chinese companies off the Ukrainian list, after eliciting promises from Beijing to pressure those companies to stop working with Russia, during a recent meeting between German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Chinese President Xi Jinping.

Budapest, however, failed to get OTP Bank’s name removed from Ukraine’s list and waived the package through. However, it said it would return to the issue when the EU discusses a new tranche of money for Ukraine from the European Peace facility in the coming months, reports Reuters.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230623ej6n001up


Hungary This Week - June 30, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 6 月 30 日, 11085 字, (英文)
April farm gate prices in Hungary decline for first time in two yearsAfter climbing double-digits for more than two years, farm gate prices in Hungary fell m/m for the first time in April. Agricultural producer prices fell 7.2% in April ...

News; Front Page, Teasers
Bigger is better: consolidation in Hungary
475 字
2023 年 7 月 1 日
The Banker
BKNA
1; National
74
英文
(c) 2023 The Banker
Russia's largest majority state-owned banks, Sberbank and VTB, have once again come in first and second place, respectively, among the top 25 banks by Tier 1 capital table for central and eastern Europe (CEE) - positions they both have held for well over a decade. Sberbank improved its Tier 1 capital base by almost 8%, to $78.63bn, while VTB's Tier 1 decreased by 12% to $21.77bn.

Sanctions imposed against Russian banks saw most of the country's leading lenders' profitability impacted in 2022, with VTB posting a $11.3bn loss in 2022 and Sberbank seeing its profits shrink by 71.4%.

The reporting of Russian banking sector data was curtailed last year as a sanction-proofing measure by the Russian central bank, which led to a dramatic fall in the number of banks in the 2022 ranking. However, eight Russian banks have returned to the Top 1000 World Banks ranking this year.

Hungarian banks have made their presence felt this year, with OTP Bank, the country's largest lender, rising from sixth to third place in the top 25 table for CEE. This is despite OTP's Tier 1 falling 2.9%, to $8.73bn, due to a strong US dollar, the currency in which the ranking is denominated.

MBH Bank, the country's new "megabank" following a triple merger between Budapest Bank, MKB Bank and savings group Takarékbank, is the highest mover in the CEE, with its Tier 1 capital expanding by a whopping 205.5%, to $1.98bn.

The legal merger of Budapest Bank and MKB Bank was finalised in March 2022, while the merger between MKB Bank and Takarékbank was completed in April this year. The megabank is now the second-largest banking group in Hungary behind OTP.

Other banks in the highest movers table by percentage in the region include: Bank of Georgia, which saw an almost 45% increase in Tier 1; the Czech Republic's J&T Banka, which boosted its Tier 1 by more than 33%; and another Georgian lender, TBC Bank, which saw its Tier 1 jump by 31.6%.

Ukraine's largest bank, PrivatBank, which was recapitalised by the Ukrainian government and nationalised in 2016, saw the highest return on capital (ROC) ratio, of 53.5%, in this year's CEE rankings. It has also ranked second in return on assets (ROA) with a ratio of 5.6%, just behind Russia's Bank Saint Petersburg with an ROA ratio of 5.7%.

Bank of Georgia has come second in ROC, with a ratio of 42.62%, and third for ROA at 5%. Bank Saint Petersburg places third for ROC (29.59%) and TBC Bank has taken fourth place with an ROC of 25.9%. The latter also finished fourth in ROA (3.46%).

FT Business Publications Limited

文件 BKNA000020230707ej710003e


Hungary’s OTP bank still in Ukraine's “international sponsors of war” list
bne Magazine, 2023 年 7 月 1 日, 1509 字, (英文)
Hungary’s biggest bank OTP Bank is still on Ukraine's “international sponsors of war” list despite months of pressure from Budapest because it continues to maintain a large and successful banking business in Russia.

Hungary wants Russia sanctions exemption extended, ensure oil exports to Czechia
Aneta Zachová
264 字
2023 年 7 月 4 日 07:29 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2023. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Hungary will ask the European Commission to extend the sanction exemption Slovak company Slovnaft – a subsidiary of Hungary’s MOL’s – currently benefits from by another year to ensure exports of refined products made from Russian crude oil arrive in Czechia, said Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó after meeting his Slovak counterpart Ludovic Ódor on Monday.

The current exemption from sanctions, expiring in December 2023, concerns oil refining company Slovnaft, which is in Slovakia and owned by the Hungarian MOL group. The Czech Republic is currently one of Slovnaft’s main export markets.

Szijjártó said MOL needs another year to complete investments in Slovnaft which would allow the refinery to process crude oil other than the Russian Urals type, the Czech News Agency reported.

“One more year is needed to make these investments, which is why we are asking the EU to extend by one year the exemption from sanctions that allows MOL and Slovnaft, part of the group, to export refined products made from Russian crude to the Czech Republic,” Szijjártó added.

MOL uses Russian crude supplied by the southern branch of the Druzhba pipeline for its refineries in Slovakia and Hungary. Slovakia takes almost all of its oil from Russia via the Druzhba pipeline but plans to reduce the share of Russian oil this year.

Last year, non-Russian crude oil accounted for only about 5% of Slovnaft’s oil consumption. By the end of this year, that share should rise to 30 to 35%.

(Aneta Zachová | EURACTIV.cz)

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020230704ej740000a


How Kremlin promotes Orban as the voice of 'real' Europe
MIKHAIL KOMIN
1620 字
2023 年 7 月 10 日
EUobserver.com
EUSERCOM
英文
© 2023, EUobserver.com, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
In July 1998, Viktor Orban assumed the role of Hungary's prime minister for the first time. Few could have predicted, 25 years ago, that Orban, once a proponent of liberal values and Hungary's integration into the EU, would later become a prime example[https://freedomhouse.org/country/hungary/nations-transit/2023] of authoritarian backsliding within an EU member state.

And the peculiar relationship between two authoritarian regimes — Russia and Hungary — has long been known, but after the full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022, Orbán has increasingly been dubbed as 'Putin's ally' within the EU.

Budapest has actively hindered European efforts to impose sanctions on Russia, refrained from supplying arms to Ukraine, and even impeded transit weapons shipments through Hungarian territory.

In return, Russia continues to provide Hungary with energy resources, contribute to the construction of the new Paks-II nuclear reactor[https://euobserver.com/green-economy/152035], and even supply spare parts for Budapest's Soviet-era metro system.[https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2023-06-22/hungary-wins-eu-exemption-to-let-russian-firm-service-metro-cars]

However, the most significant contribution Hungary offers to Putin's regime is symbolic.

Orban and other Hungarian politicians frequently appear on Russian TV screens and are featured prominently in state media, where they are heralded as the embodiment of the 'real Europe' with a 'sovereign' stance on the war in Ukraine — ie, effectively supporting Russia.

Orban's U-turn on Georgia

However, the relationship between Budapest and Moscow has not always been so innocent.

In 2007, when Viktor Orban and his Fidesz party were in opposition, a heated political debate[https://www.reuters.com/article/us-hungary-russia/hungarians-divided-over-fate-of-soviet-monument-idUSL3020538420070403] erupted in Hungary regarding the fate of a monument commemorating Soviet soldiers[https://dailynewshungary.com/everything-you-need-to-know-about-the-soviet-monument-on-budapests-freedom-square-photos/] who died in World War Two, situated in the heart of Budapest.

Orban was among those who supported the idea of relocating the monument elsewhere and even made strong statements suggesting that Hungary had "closed the door" to the Russians, the USSR, and communism, while remaining open to the West.

Despite these remarks, the Kremlin's fierce reaction prevented the monument from being move. Fast forward 15 years, and Hungarian police now occasionally stand guard at the monument, protecting it from activists during significant historical events in Russia, such as 9 May (Victory Day).

In 2008, also while still in opposition, Orban strongly condemned Russian aggression against Georgia[https://444.hu/2022/03/29/orban-2008-ban-ukrajnat-fel-kell-venni-a-nato-ba-orban-2022-ben-sose-vettunk-reszt-ebben-a-vitaban] — and even advocated for the immediate invitation of Georgia and Ukraine to join Nato .

However, despite Russia's subsequent 2014 annexation of Crimea, which did not strain the amicable relationship between Orban and Vladimir Putin, issues arose in 2016 when Russian propagandist Dmitri Kiselev referred[https://politrussia.com/istoriya/vosstanie-v-vengrii-509/] to the Hungarian uprising of 1956 as the first 'Orange Revolution' instigated by Western intelligence agencies in pro-Moscow states.

Although Fidesz , like most Hungarian parties, had previously portrayed the events of 1956 as a heroic attempt to liberate Hungary from Soviet control, Kiselev's statement did not lead to a major diplomatic scandal.

The Russian ambassador to Hungary at the time stated that Russia's official position[https://meduza.io/news/2016/10/26/posol-rossii-v-vengrii-otkazalsya-sravnivat-vosstanie-1956-goda-s-tsvetnoy-revolyutsiey] on the issue remained unchanged since Putin expressed regret[https://ura.news/news/1691] and a sense of "moral responsibility" in 2006 for suppressing the uprising.

Uptick in interest in Hungary

According to calculations by EUobserver, based on data from the GDELT database[https://blog.gdeltproject.org/gdelt-2-0-our-global-world-in-realtime/], up until 2022 Hungary had relatively low visibility in Russian state media, — with more attention given to right-wing or pro-Russian politicians from France, Germany, and Italy. These countries were perceived by Russians, or at least Russian broadcasters, as representing the 'real' Europe, generating more interest in their affairs.

However, joint data-research[https://www.currenttime.tv/a/peacekeepers-putin-and-orban-ru-hu-media-analysis/32408840.html] conducted by Russian and Hungarian journalists revealed that in 2022, Russian state online media began to cover Hungary twice as frequently compared to the previous year. And, in the first four months of 2023, the number of mentions increased by nearly a third.

In recent weeks, the Russia Today (RT) TV channel, known for its propaganda broadcast outside of Russia, has been highlighting close to every tweet by Orban.

For instance, RT reported on Orban's publication of a meme featuring John Travolta[https://russian.rt.com/world/news/1168179-orban-mem-travolta-byudzhet-es], seen as a criticism of the EU's budget issues. Another news item was created by RT based on just literally two words[https://russian.rt.com/world/news/1160973-vengriya-orban-soros] from Orban's tweet, where he compared George Soros' transfer of asset management to his son with an episode from The Godfather.

However, when it comes to Russian state media targeting its domestic audience, the Hungarian government is cited to create more complex propaganda narratives.

In an effort to uncover and describe these nuances, EUobserver analyzed thousands of mentions of Hungary in Russian state media over the past 500 days of the war.

Orban, the 'last peacemaker'

The prevailing narrative in Russian state media about Hungary portrays Budapest as a peacemaker, claiming it as the sole EU member state genuinely seeking peace in Europe.

Russian propaganda constructs this image by focusing on two types of events.

Firstly, they emphasise that Hungary is the only EU country not supplying weapons to Ukraine, refuses to train[https://ria.ru/20221114/vengriya-1831428901.html] Ukrainian soldiers, plus its attempts to block[https://ria.ru/20230515/transh-1872011362.html] military and financial aid to Kyiv from the wider EU.

Secondly, there is a surge in stories presenting Budapest as a peacemaker— whenever a peace settlement plan[https://novayagazeta.eu/articles/2023/07/02/sammit-prosit-mira] is proposed by a party aligned with a pro-Russian position. Russian media extensively covers[https://ria.ru/20230404/plan-1863039637.html] Orban and foreign minister Peter Szijjártó's support for China's plan, for instance.

However, beneath the ostensible surface of this coverage , it's apparent that Russia's intention is not merely to highlight Hungary's commitment to peace, but rather to pretend that peace on Russian terms, including the annexation of parts of Ukraine, is an acceptable proposition to at least some in the West.

Sign up for EUobserver’s daily newsletter

All the stories we publish, sent at 7.30 AM.

By signing up, you agree to our Terms of Use[https://media.euobserver.com/assets/terms.pdf] and Privacy Policy[https://euobserver.com/static/privacy].

This propaganda helps convince Russian citizens that Moscow's demands are reasonable, and any lack of progress in peace negotiations is primarily due to Kyiv's stubborn stance rather than Moscow's own actions.

Another prominent narrative propagated by Russian propaganda, based on the actions and public statements of Hungarian politicians, is the perceived lack of unity among Western countries.

Interestingly, Russian state media often highlights this lack of unity when it comes to Hungary's stance on Ukraine's Nato membership rather than its position within the EU.

Examples include Szijjártó's response[https://ria.ru/20230321/nato-1859485895.html] to the Ukraine-Nato EU Commission meeting or Orban's reaction to Jens Stoltenberg's[https://ria.ru/20230421/nato-1866913737.html] statement about supporting Ukraine's Nato membership receive significant coverage.

Additionally, Russian propaganda is tracking Hungary's efforts[https://ria.ru/20230329/nato-1861666813.html] to impede Sweden's accession to the alliance.

Less frequently, but still notable, is the portrayal of disunity within the EU[https://rg.ru/2022/11/28/pravitelstvo-vengrii-es-mog-by-dobitsia-mira-na-ukraine-esli-by-ne-vvodil-sankcii.html], with Hungary openly criticising sanctions against Russia and attempting to obstruct parts of new collective EU sanction packages.

And Russian propaganda links the tensions[https://www.mk.ru/politics/2022/12/13/es-zamorozit-sredstva-dlya-vengrii-izza-ee-pozicii-po-ukraine.html] between Brussels and Budapest over the rule of law to Hungary's "independent" stance on the war in Ukraine.

By propagating these narratives, the Kremlin aims to perpetuate the perception among the Russian population that "European bureaucrats" are hostile towards Russia, while ordinary Europeans and individual countries pursuing "sovereign" policies are somehow more aligned with Moscow .

Blurring of responsibility

The Kremlin has consistently promoted the narrative that Russia was compelled to launch the war, attributing the decision to actions taken by Kyiv , with the US seen as the driving force behind them.

For instance, the remarks made by Hungarian parliament speaker László Kövér, suggesting that the US strategy contributed to the war, are widely circulated[https://ria.ru/20220707/konflikt-1801088962.html] and repeatedly highlighted.[https://riafan.ru/23810434-spiker_parlamenta_vengrii_kever_raskril_glaza_na_oshibku_zapada_otnositel_no_ukraini]

Russian propaganda often cites Orban's criticisms[https://ria.ru/20230302/ukraina-1855466922.html] of the current US government and shares the view that Donald Trump could have swiftly resolved the conflict. These statements are used to shift blame for the continuation of the war from Moscow to Washington.

The narrative of a "reluctant" war serves the Kremlin's purpose of explaining to the Russian population why the conflict must persist — despite a year and a half of evident setbacks.

Linguistic minorities

Even prior to Russia's invasion , Russian propaganda closely monitored Hungary's position[https://riafan.ru/23384542-patrioti_provotsiruyut_vengrov_zakarpat_ya_strochkami_iz_gimna_ukraini] on Zakarpattya, one of the regions in Ukraine. The Orban government frequently accused Kyiv of violating the rights of the Hungarian-speaking population in this region, citing Ukraine's 2017 education law which mandated the use of Ukrainian as the primary language of instruction in all schools.

In the past 12 months , there has been a noticeable increase in references to Zakarpattya in Russian media. Orban's statements on the issue[https://ria.ru/20221221/sistema-1840388731.html] of national minorities in this region are often quoted, and any scandals[https://ria.ru/20230119/zverstva-1846106370.html] related to alleged "discrimination" that emerge in Hungarian media receive significant coverage.

Using such episodes, Russian state propaganda consistently tells audience that Russia's involvement in the war (both in 2014 and 2022) was driven by its purported aim to protect Russian-speaking populations in certain Ukrainian regions. This narrative attempts to portray discrimination against linguistic minorities as a common practice by the Ukrainian government.

A 'threat' from Ukraine

Russian propaganda about Hungary surprisingly also includes narratives aimed at portraying Ukraine as the aggressor.

State media consistently employs words like "insulted"[https://ria.ru/20220605/ukraina-1793278260.html], "threatened"[https://ria.ru/20210927/gaz-1752064876.html], and "stabbed in the back"[https://www.mk.ru/politics/2023/01/07/myl-polska-ukraina-vonzila-nozh-v-spinu-vengrii.html] to describe how Ukrainian politicians allegedly comment on Hungary's actions.

In March 2022, Russian media even attempted to portray Ukraine as a military threat to Hungary by extensively covering[https://iz.ru/1303961/2022-03-12/istrebiteli-vengrii-podnialis-v-vozdukh-iz-za-napravliaiushchegosia-so-storony-ukrainy-bpla] the case of a Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) that entered EU territory.

Furthermore, in 2021, Russian propaganda published numerous articles[https://ria.ru/20211215/vengriya-1763762151.html] following a careless statement from Ukraine, suggesting that a single Ukrainian brigade could defeat the entire Hungarian army.

Hungary's unique within the EU stance on various Ukraine issues provides ongoing fuel for Russian propaganda, with Budapest thereby providing another, and perhaps the most significant, service to the Kremlin.

EUobserver.com ASBL

文件 EUSERCOM20230710ej7a0005l


Bosnia & Herzegovina This Week - July 14, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 7 月 14 日, 5049 字, (英文)
Bosnia’s Intesa Sanpaolo Banka to back SMEs with new credit lineIntesa Sanpaolo Banka, the Bosnian unit of Italian banking group Intesa Sanpaolo, said on July 13 that it has signed an agreement with the Development Bank of the Federation to...

Hungary: Government wants to reach GDP per capita of 85-90% of EU average by 2030
540 字
2023 年 7 月 24 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2023. CEEMarketWatch
Government wants to reduce electricity import dependence to 0% by 2030

Quality of education, raising birth rate and upgrading army are other key priorities

Hungary to return to normal development path by Jul 2024

Orban suggests no compromise on some issues behind EU fund conflict

The government wants to reach GDP per capital of 85-90% of the EU average by 2030, PM Viktor Orban announced in a traditional speech at an annual festival in the Romanian town of Baile Tusnad, the state news agency MTI reported. The Hungarian economy has done well in the past 13 years with GDP per capita rising from 66% in 2010 to 78% in 2022, he pointed out. GDP has tripled to HUF 80,000bn and the government aims to boost it further to HUF 160,000bn in 2030, he added. The employment rate should be increased from the current 77% to 85% till 2030 and the government also aims to reduce the dependence on energy imports from 28% to 0%, Orban added. Local media interpreted his statement as referring only to electricity imports, rather than total energy imports. In this sense, Orban also confirmed that the government remained committed to building the two new reactors at the Paks nuclear power plant and added that solar electricity generating capacity will be significantly expanded. Other government priorities included improving the quality of education, further increasing the birth rate as well as upgrading the capability of the army and the national military industry, he said.

The economy can return to its normal development path, which was upset by the war in Ukraine, by Jul 2024, Orban stated. Economic growth will be strong at that time, supported by buoyant lending activity and the growth path will be well above the EU average, he explained. The worst has been left behind, he assured, reiterating the government expectations that inflation will fall to the single digits by the end of the year.

Orban did not fail to revive his criticism towards the EU, saying that it has become uncompetitive with the major EU economies set to lose places in the ranking of the world's biggest economies by 2030. The EU's sanction policy against Russia has failed as well, he argued, pointing out that a large number of Western companies continued to operate in Russia and the value of the EU's energy imports from Russia more than doubling to EUR 653bn in 2022. The EU has become divided between federalists and sovereigntists and the federalist movement has attacked the V4 and has used political corruption to try and change the government in Hungary, Orban said. He expressed hope that the 2024 EP elections would bring a favourable to Hungary change of the distribution of power in the EU. The most important thing is that Hungary sticks to the path, which was started in 2010, he stated. Orban signalled that the government will not compromise on family and child protection issues with the EU institutions, in our opinion clearly showing that there will be no swift and complete resolution on the EU fund conflict since it partially derives from the same grounds.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020230724ej7o0000n


Wider Europe Briefing: The Story Behind The EU's Latest Sanctions On Belarus
2466 字
2023 年 8 月 14 日
Gandhara online
GNDAR
英文
© 2023, Gandhara online, All rights Reserved - Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc.
Welcome to Wider Europe, RFE/RL's newsletter focusing on the key issues concerning the European Union, NATO, and other institutions and their relationships with the Western Balkans and Europe's Eastern neighborhoods.

I'm RFE/RL Europe Editor Rikard Jozwiak, and this week I'm looking at sanctions: specifically, the horse-trading behind the EU's latest restrictions on Belarus, and how Hungary is trying to get Russian oligarchs delisted.

Brief #1: The Complex Politics Behind The EU's Latest Sanctions On Belarus

What You Need To Know: When the European Union officially imposed another round of restrictive measures on Belarus on August 3, it put an end to one of the longest-running sanctions sagas in the bloc in recent years.

The new measures were the first targeting the regime of Alyaksandr Lukashenka since the summer of 2022. While early sanctions on Russia following the full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 were to a large degree imposed on Belarus as well, further EU sanctions on Moscow were not applied to Minsk. That was largely due to the belief in Brussels that Belarus's role in the Ukraine war couldn't be compared to Russia's.

Then a new problem appeared: Many of the sanctioned components that Russia requires for its war effort -- in particular, dual-use goods that can be used for both civilian and military purposes -- were being rerouted via Belarus. The latest round of sanctions on Belarus is partly meant to address this problem.

The original proposal from the European Commission, seen by RFE/RL, suggested measures such as a ban on EU companies providing IT, consulting, and polling services to Belarus; a ban on the export of luxury goods to the country; and a prohibition on the import of Belarusian gold and steel.

The final agreed-upon package, though, was a good deal watered down, with EU export bans on firearms, ammunition, and materials used in the aviation and space industries, along with restrictions on potential dual-use items, such as drones, semiconductors, and computer hardware. The rest from the original proposal was left out.

To understand why the final sanctions were weaker than originally envisioned, and why they took so long to come to fruition, it is helpful to understand two considerable drivers of EU policy. The first is the importance of the so-called Global South -- countries with growing political and economic clout in Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The second is classic Brussels horse-trading on political issues that are, at best, only tangentially linked.

Deep Background: The main reason for the delay in agreeing a new round of sanctions on Belarus -- apart from all the loopholes that needed to be closed -- was a proposed derogation, or exception, that would allow for the import of Belarusian potash, a key ingredient in fertilizers that the EU had already sanctioned as it is one of Minsk's main sources of income. A derogation on Russian potash exports had been agreed by the EU in December 2022, but a similar exception for Belarus was seen as being a little trickier.

Allowing the import of Belarusian potash would mean unfreezing the assets of the Belarusian tycoon Ivan Halavaty -- the CEO of Belaruskali, one of the biggest fertilizer producers in the world -- and those of Russian billionaire Mikhail Gutseriyev, who is building a potassium-chloride mining and processing plant in Belarus.

Crucially, allowing Belarusian exports of potash would mean the shipments being transported via Lithuanian ports, something which is deeply unpalatable to most Lithuanian politicians who tend to be the fiercest critics of the Lukashenka regime.

While Vilnius's refusal to agree on any potash derogations was backed by Estonia, Latvia, and Poland, there was a bigger group within the EU -- led by Portugal and other European countries with large ports -- that was pushing for the potash derogations.

This wasn't just a case of countries looking to secure vital income streams but also concerned issues of food security and allegations -- often stoked by the Kremlin -- that EU sanctions have led to food shortages in the developing world.

Drilling Down

* The EU has not sanctioned food exports, neither from Russia nor Belarus. However, those in favor of the potash derogation have argued that some countries, notably Brazil, a former Portuguese colony, have suffered because they have had to import alternative fertilizers for their agricultural sectors.

* Diplomats with knowledge of the matter but who are not authorized to speak on the record told me that Lisbon drove a hard bargain on the derogation issue because UN Secretary-General and former Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Guterres is particularly sensitive to the concerns of the Global South.

* Recent developments in Belarus have given new urgency to the sanctions issue. First, there was the signing of an agreement in May to allow the deployment of Russian nuclear warheads on Belarusian territory; and then, making the situation even more acute, Wagner troops moved to Belarus from Russia under a deal to end the mercenary group's June rebellion led by its leader, Yevgeny Prigozhin.

* The deal started to come together at a summit of the EU and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC) in Brussels at the end of July. With Spain now holding the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union, where ministers from EU countries convene to coordinate policies and adopt laws, Madrid was keen to show its partners -- including many of its former colonies in South America -- more than just goodwill.

* To show it meant business, Spain pushed for the EU to green-light the Post-Cotonou Agreement -- a pact between the EU and 79 African, Caribbean, and Pacific countries that had been only provisionally agreed upon. The first Cotonou Agreement -- signed in 2000 in the largest city in the west African country of Benin -- created the foundation for Brussels to strike deals with these countries, covering areas such as trade and migration, and was hailed as a groundbreaking development in the EU's relations with the Global South.

* The updated agreement, which would set the framework for EU relations with these countries for the next two decades, had been blocked by Hungary for the last three years. Hungary's reluctance to sign off was likely less to do with any objections to the pact but more about its tendency to bargain with the EU. Budapest made its support for the Post-Cotonou Agreement conditional on getting money from the EU budget that was still being withheld by the European Commission due to concerns about the rule of law in the country.

* While Budapest eventually came on board, Poland introduced its own veto. Warsaw also used the Post-Cotonou Agreement as a bargaining chip, noting the desperate situation of its own farmers in an attempt to get the 100 million euros[https://www.rferl.org/a/wider-europe-briefing-ukrainian-food-eu/32376735.html] ($110 million) promised to Warsaw by the European Commission to compensate for financial losses incurred due to Ukrainian agricultural imports. The commission, in turn, said it would not release the compensation until Poland implemented a Brussels-brokered deal that would allow Ukrainian agricultural products to pass through EU territory once again.

* While Poland received the money earlier this summer, Warsaw still blocked the Post-Cotonou Agreement, using its support as leverage to get the Belarus sanctions over the line before the EU's August break.

* After some intense horse-trading, the Post-Cotonou Agreement finally got the thumbs up on July 20, and the new Belarus sanctions were agreed without any exceptions for potash. The sanctions, however, were more limited in scope than the original European Commission proposal and came with a commitment to look into their possible impact on food security in the fall. The commission also made a pledge to explore further sanctions on Belarus going forward.

Brief #2: How Hungary Is Trying To Soften Sanctions On Russia

What You Need To Know: Before heading off on their summer break, the ambassadors of the 27 EU member states agreed to review some of the individual sanctions on the mainly Russian people and companies that the bloc deems to have undermined Ukraine's territorial integrity.

Since the February 2022 invasion of Ukraine, the bloc has slapped asset freezes and visa bans on more than 1,800 individuals and entities, including Russian President Vladimir Putin, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, and many oligarchs and businessmen close to the Kremlin. The rollover of these sanctions usually takes place in March and September each year, offering individual member states a chance to make changes as the six-month extensions require unanimity.

Although no individual sanctions have so far been removed, the discussions have given Hungary plenty of opportunities to voice its displeasure about the EU's general sanctions policy on Russia. While Budapest has eventually agreed to all the EU's restrictive measures to date, it has used its veto power to water down some sanctions -- for example, by not agreeing that the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill, should be targeted by the bloc; and by securing opt-outs for itself when it comes to the EU's embargo on Russian oil.

In September 2022, when the cases of sanctioned individuals were up for review, Budapest asked for the removal[https://www.rferl.org/a/eu-hungary-russia-sanctions/32020945.html] of three Russian oligarchs. It backed down, according to diplomats familiar with the file, after Hungarian officials were promised that the sanctions reviews would take place every six months and not every 12 as most other member states wanted, giving Budapest more opportunities to challenge the listings.

Hungary did just that. Ahead of the extension in March of this year, Budapest wanted nine people removed[https://www.rferl.org/a/hungary-eu-sanctions-list-russia-ukraine/32227730.html] from the sanctions list. Once again, Hungary backed down but only after getting a commitment from the legal service of the Council of the EU to thoroughly examine the legitimacy of some of the listings.

Deep Background: When discussing the legal review ahead of the upcoming September rollover, I was told by diplomats familiar with the issue but who prefer to remain anonymous as they aren't authorized to speak on the record that Hungary has once again pushed for nine removals. (It's not clear if these are the same people Budapest wanted taken off the sanctions lists in March.) In the talks that took place throughout July, it was clear that there would be some delistings, though not necessarily the ones Hungary was pushing for.

The Council of the EU's legal service has identified so-called "weak cases," ones that EU lawyers fear they would likely lose in the European Court of Justice (ECJ), if challenged. So far, over 70 individuals and firms -- often wealthy oligarchs using expensive European lawyers -- have lodged appeals against their listings in the ECJ. Many hearings have already taken place, and some rulings are expected to come this fall.

Brussels would very much like to avoid the humiliation of losing such cases as it could open legal grounds for even more delistings. The EU has already lost one case, on March 8, after Prigozhin's mother, Violetta Prigozhina, challenged her inclusion on the list.

She had been sanctioned by the bloc due to supposed business ties with her son, but the ECJ reasoned that these links were tenuous at best. She remains listed because the ruling only concerned the decision to sanction her in February 2022 and not the subsequent renewals of the restrictive measures in September 2022 and in March of this year when the scope of EU sanctions was widened to make it easier to target family members of oligarchs. A warning shot, however, had been fired.

Drilling Down

* According to several officials who are familiar with the talks but who are not authorized to speak on the record, the EU is set to delist three individuals ahead of the September renewal: Aleksandr Shulgin, Farkhad Akhmedov, and Grigory Berezkin. Blacklisted in April 2022, all of them have taken their cases to the ECJ, and EU lawyers have indicated they are likely to win in court.

* Shulgin was presented in the EU's official journal, where the bloc's reasons for blacklisting are stated, as the "CEO of Ozon, Russia's leading multi-category e-commerce platform." The journal also noted that "he attended a meeting of oligarchs at the Kremlin with President Vladimir Putin to discuss the impact of the course of action in the wake of Western sanctions." According to EU sources familiar with his file but not permitted to speak on the record, Shulgin has submitted documents that state that he no longer has a connection to the company and no new evidence to the contrary has emerged.

* Akhmedov, who according to the EU's official journal, is "close to the Kremlin and is a leading businessperson involved in economic sectors providing a substantial source of revenue to the Government of the Russian Federation," notably by owning gas companies. According to EU sources familiar with his case, he is set to be delisted because he was sanctioned based on old information.

* Berezkin is described as "a leading Russian businessperson and considered to be the 'henchman' of President Vladimir Putin." As the chairman of the board of the Russian private equity firm ESN, the EU journal notes that he has invested in industries that have provided "a substantial source of revenue to the Government of the Russian Federation." According to sources familiar with his case, even some members of the Russian opposition support his removal from the list because he isn't thought to be closely linked to the Kremlin.

* Three removals were not enough for Hungary, however, with Budapest lobbying for a fourth person to be delisted. That was Nikita Mazepin, the racing-driving son of oligarch Dmitry Mazepin. Hungary might not get what it wants, though, as sources within the EU legal service have suggested that there is likely enough evidence to show that Mazepin junior has financial ties with his sanctioned father.

* There is still one key name missing from the sanctions list: Belarusian oligarch Alyaksandr Moshensky. Nicknamed "the fish king" due to his ownership of Belarusian seafood giant Santa Bremor, Moshensky is believed to enjoy close links to the Lukashenka regime. Various EU member states have tried to get him blacklisted several times, only to come up against Hungarian opposition, with Budapest citing "food security" as the reason. It's worth noting that Syarhey Niadbaylau, Moshensky's aide and the managing director of Santa Bremor, is also the honorary Hungarian consul in Belarus.

That's all for now. I am traveling this week, so please look out for the next newsletter on August 28.

Until next time,

Rikard Jozwiak

If you enjoyed this briefing and don't want to miss the next edition, subscribe here[https://www.rferl.org/p/8961.html?nocache=1].

Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty

文件 GNDAR00020230815ej8e00002


RÁBA Jarmuipari Holding Nyrt. - Report of RÁBA Plc. for H1 of 2023
RÁBA Jarmuipari Holding Nyrt. published this content on 23 Aug 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 23 Aug 2023 15:26:20 UTC.
3582 字
2023 年 8 月 23 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://docs.publicnow.com/67DF8786E7BD47DA80315CADF5B2780278E02582]

Report of RÁBA Plc. for H1 of 2023

H1 2023 Report of RÁBA Plc.

Unaudited consolidated half-year report

in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)

Company name:     RÁBA Automotive Holding Plc.
Company address:  H-9027 Győr, Martin u. 1.
Sector:           Machine industry
Period:           H1 of 2023
E-mail:           ir@raba.hu
Investor contact: Éva Lang-Péli
EXECUTIVE REPORT

MAIN RESULTS OF THE COMPANY

* During the first half of 2023, the activity on the market of commercial vehicles was decidedly strong in spite of the uncertainty caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war. Market demand grew considerably in almost all relevant geographical and product segments of Rába, which provides a sound basis for the increase in sales. Market factors impacting production costs showed a mixed picture. Energy and steel purchase prices declining in Q2 had a positive impact on profitability, whereas the continued strong in- crease in wages had a negative effect. In Q2 of 2023, the marked strengthening of the HUF exchange rate emerged as a new factor, which had a negative effect on operating profitability through net exports.

* In H1 of 2023, the Rába group achieved an outstand ing increase in sales turnover amounting to the highest of both H1 and Q2 sales of the past 20 years. During the cumulative reporting period, the sales revenue grew by 33.4 per cent and amounted to HUF 40.0 billion, whereas in Q2 group- level sales amounted to HUF 19.7 billion through a 17.6 per cent increase. In terms of sales, Rába Axle Ltd. remains the largest subsidiary of th e group, generating HUF 26.7 billion in sales through a 33.5 per cent increase. The sales revenue of Rába Automotive Components Ltd. in H1 of 2023 exceeded HUF 9.1 billion, whereas Rába V ehicle Ltd. contributed HUF 1.1 billion in sales to the record-level sales revenue of the group. As from Q3 2022, the Rába Group's portfolio was expanded, and REKARD LLC. which operates as a wholly-owned Rába subsidiary, was included in the consolidation of the Rába group. Th e sales revenue of REKARD LLC. was HUF 3.2 billion in H1.

* Production costs continue to be high, in spite of the somewhat more moderate purchase prices in Q2, which puts continuous pressure on profitability. The Rába group makes considerable ef- forts to mitigate these negative impacts through both purchasing and sales measures and to neutralise their profit eroding impact.

* In addition to the significant increase in sales revenue, the portfolio expansion, the consistent improvement in production efficiency and passing on of high production costs meant that the gross profit at group level amounted to HUF 7.4 billion upon an increase by HUF 2.1 billion. In H1 2023, the gross profit ratio realised at group level exceeded the level of the base period: it amounted to 18.4 per cent, upon an increase by 0.7 percentage points. The gross profit surplus resulting from the portfolio growth amounted to HUF 810 million.

* The balance of other income and expenses reached a loss of HUF 279 million in the first 6 months of 2023, compared to a profit of HUF 287 million in the same period of the previous year. The result from other activities in the base period included a one-off real property transaction with a value of HUF 342 million. H1 of 2023, in spite of continued high purchase prices, burdened by substantial additional com- munal energy costs, and by the challenging increase in labour costs was nevertheless concluded by profitable operation at group level. All business units achieved positive operating results thus contributing to the operating profit of HUF 1,809 million achieved through a 141.3 per cent growth. The Axle business unit generated operating profits of HUF 645 million, thus considerably exceeding the level of the base period, the Components business unit generated HUF 344 million

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on operations for H 1 2023 under IFRS

in operating profit through an increase by 44.9 per cent, whereas the Vehicle business unit increased its result three-fold over the base period and contributed HUF 169 million in profit to the increase in group-level profit. The additional operating profit resulting from the portfolio growth due to REKARD LLC. amounted to HUF 328 million. The group-level result of the base period was surpassed during Q2 as well, the operating profit of HUF 1,300 million was achieved upon an operating margin of 6.6 per cent.

* In terms of cash generating efficiency, the group of companies managed to achieve EBITDA results exceeding the base level both during the six-month period and during Q2. During the cumulative period of H1 2023, the EBITDA result was HUF 3,094 million, which is an increase of

* * per cent over the base period. All business units contributed to the cumulative group-level results by increasing the EBITDA-level profit. Retaining and maintaining cash generation capac- ity continue to be the primary objective for the Rá ba group, to which end the group has made significant efforts recently. The focus of the measures, in addition to passing on the inflationary effects to customers, was to further increase the flexibility of manufacturing operations, renew manufacturing technology and structure and to exercise tight cost control. The additional EBITDA resulting from the portfolio growth due to REKARD LLC. amounted to HUF 428 million in H1 of 2023.

* The result of financial operations for the period under review is mainly affected by the non-cash loan revaluation. In H1 2023, the result of financial operations showed a profit of HUF 1,001 million compared to a loss of HUF 906 million in the same period last year. The unrealised gain from loan revaluation amounted to HUF 1,485 million. In addition, the financial result includes a net interest charge of HUF 170 million.

* The total comprehensive income and profit for the year amounted to a profit of HUF 2,402 million in H1 2023, considerably higher than during the previous year.

* Despite the uncertainties caused by the military conflict between Russia and the Ukraine, the financial situation of the Rába Group was character ised by a stable liquidity position. The level of net debt reached HUF 15.7 billion at the end of the period under review, an increase of HUF

* * billion compared to the base period. Factors influencing the level of the net debt portfolio included technological renewal and reorganisation far exceeding the capital expenditures of pre- vious years, operating profit realised since the base period and the working capital (increased inventory levels), which increased in order to increase the security of supply and due to inflation. The HUF 1,485 million worth of loan revaluation resulting from exchange rate changes, not in- volving cash movements, was another factor positively contributing to the net borrowing figure.

* Compared to the same period last year, equity increased by 20.5 per cent. The equity per share was HUF 1,871 per share.

thousand HUF

H1 2022

H1 2023

Change

Q2 2022

Q2 2023

Change

Sales revenue                     30 007 278 40 024 662 33.4%   16 742 125 19 692 369 17.6%
Gross profit                      5 312 939  7 363 867  38.6%   3 394 998  3 766 261  10.9%
Gross margin                      17,7%      18,4%      0.7%p   20,3%      19,1%      -1.2%p
EBITDA                            1 991 138  3 094 208  55.4%   1 853 659  1 933 200  4.3%
EBITDA level                      6,6%       7,7%       1.1%p   11,1%      9,8%       -1.3%p
Operating profit                  749 759    1 809 204  141.3%  1 233 912  1 300 172  5.4%
Net financial result              -906 194   1 001 386  210.5%  -841 724   339 603    140.3%
Profit after tax for current year -252 028   2 401 942  1053.0% 317 627    1 409 792  343.9%
Total comprehensive income        -252 028   2 401 942  1053.0% 317 627    1 409 792  343.9%
GOALS, STRATEGY OF THE COMPANY

"The Rába group relentlessly pursues the implementa tion of the Rába Modernisation Programme 2025, capital expenditures into machinery, real estate and sustainability, as well as efficiency improvement and the enforcement of the lean principles. Upon these reorganisation measures we managed to maintain the results defined in or business plan in spite of the unfavourable economic environment. Our goal remains to keep and increase the confidence of our customers, to improve the practical cooperation with various educational institutions and to put special emphasis on the development of the R+D area", said Béla Hetzmann, Chairman-Chief Executive Officer of Rába Automotive Holding Plc. evaluating the results of the company.

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on operations for H 1 2023 under IFRS

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OF THE COMPANY

* During H1 of 2023, the uncertainty caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war continued to be a major economic factor, nevertheless, the activity on the commercial vehicle market is considered de- cidedly strong. Market demand was considerable in nearly all our geographical and product seg- ments, which provides a solid basis for expanding sales. Raw material prices, which sky-rocketed in H2 of 2022, seem are somewhat more moderate in H1 of 2023. The decline in energy and steel raw material purchase prices reached a substantial 20 per cent or even higher rate in the second quarter of the year. The increase in wages, how- ever, remains a substantial burden, which jeopardises long-term international competitiveness and profitability. The substantial strengthening of the HUF exchange rate had a negative impact on operating profitability in Q2 2023.

* H1 of 2023 was a decidedly strong period for the European commercial vehicle market in terms of demand: the registration of new commercial vehicles increased by 19 per cent over the rate of the previous year. The market outlooks for the whole year of 2023 are also clearly positive, however projections remain highly uncertain due to the substantial economic and political risks. The North American commercial vehicle market experienced a considerable, 22 per cent growth over the base period of 2022. Demand for Rába's agr icultural products remained strong in H1 of 2023: turnover exceeded the level of the previous year by some 19 per cent. In compliance with the European sanction regulations in force against Russia, since the beginning of the Russian- Ukrainian military conflict Rába has not conducted any business with its Russian partners. The European passenger vehicle market also saw considerable growth in the first half of 2023: new car registrations increased by 18 per cent year on year.

* Substantial economic risks together with the drastic increase in energy prices have resulted in high volatility on the steel market. In 2023 both energy prices and the demand-supply relations were adjusted compared to the base period, which had a favourable impact on the development of the purchase price of steel. In Q3 of 2023, the purchase price level of steel was some 19.7 per cent lower. The 14.3 per cent lower purchase prices of the cumulative period impacted pro- duction activities.

* There were no significant changes on the labour market in the first months of 2023, thus labour shortages and inflationary pressures continued to have a significant impact on the increase in average wages. In January-May 2023, average gross national earnings increased by 17.9 per cent. Finding and implementing operational efficiency improvements in production technology to cover the years of steadily increasing wage costs remains a major challenge for the Company.

* Energy prices, which were more moderate in Q1 of 2023, continued to decline in the second quarter, as a result of which the energy price level for the cumulative period was lower than during the base period. The energy price drop in Q2 was 22.8 per cent, whereas the price drop during the cumulative period for the first half of the year reached 6.1 per cent. The gradually declining energy prices lead to somewhat reduced pressures on the cost side of production ac- tivities, it should be noted, though, that even so purchase prices remain three times higher than during the energy crisis. Recently, the Rába group has largely increased its flexibility in terms of energy purchase prices and product sales prices. It is safe to say, though, that there are consid- erable uncertainties in terms of both procurement and sales, which make the use of long-term solutions considerably more difficult.

* In terms of the exchange rate environment during the cumulative period under review, the dollar saw an increase of 2.6 per cent, while the euro, which has a significant foreign currency weighting, saw an increase of 1.6 per cent compared to a year earlier. For Q2 of the year, the exchange rate environment had a negative impact on the operating profit, for the USD, the de- cline in exchange rates was 5.5 per cent, for the EUR it was 3.4 per cent, which impacted the net export. 1

1 Average exchange rates were calculated based on the official FX rates of the National Bank of Hungary. Source: http://www.mnb.hu/arfolyam-lekerdezes[http://www.mnb.hu/arfolyam-lekerdezes]

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on operations for H 1 2023 under IFRS

                                     H1    H1           Change       Q2     Q2      Change  
                                                         
                                     2022  2023                2022  2023          
                                                                      
EURHUF - average                     375.1 380.9  1.6%         385.9 372.9  -3,4%  
EURHUF - end of period               396.8 371.1  -6.5%        396.8 371.1  -6,5%  
USDHUF - average                     343.6 352.5  2.6%         362.5 342.5  -5,5%  
USDHUF - end of period               380.0 342.4  -9.9%        380.0 342.4  -9,9%  
Changes in raw material prices* 199% 170%  -14.3%       213%   171%  -19,7%  
Wage level** 483.2                   569.9 17.9%        495.0  585.0 18,2%   
Changes in energy prices*** 755%     709%  -6.1%        717%   553%  -22,8%  
*Rába indices - own calculation - base: Q1 2007; av erage values for the period

**KSH (Central Statistical Office) national gross average wage within companies (thousand HUF/month) - based on figures for Jan-May. 2023.

***Rába indices - own calculation - base: Dec. 2004 . Average values for the period

SUMMARY OF THE CHANGES IN THE RESULT FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD

Rába Axle Ltd.

The sales revenue of Rába Axle Ltd. amounted to HUF 26.7 billion in H1 2023, compared to HUF 20.0 billion in the 2022 base period. This corresponds to an increase of 33.5 per cent.

On the American market, revenue in USD for the period was USD 5.8 million in the review period, which equalled the sales revenue generated during H1 of 2022.

On the EU market, Rába Axle Ltd's sales figures in HUF terms increase d by 38.5 per cent, amounting to HUF 23.4 billion, compared to HUF 16.9 billion during the base period.

European exports in H1 of 2023 were 49.8 per cent higher than in the base period, reaching EUR 53.4 million compared to EUR 35.7 million in H1 2022.

Domestic sales revenue before consolidation amounted to HUF 3,041 million, a decrease of 13.3 per cent compared to HUF 3,508 million in the base period.

On the CIS and Eastern European markets Rába Axle Ltd. generated no sales revenue during t he review period, primarily due to the sanctions against Russia. The turnover during H1 2022 was also minimal, amounting to a mere EUR 0.2 million.

Revenues from Other markets in Euro terms amounted to EUR 3.4 million in the period under re- view, which was 19.3 per cent more than the EUR 2.8 million turnover in the base period of 2022. The sales figures and their comparison for the base period with the period in review are fundamentally affected by the fact that in the framework of efficiency improvement measures, the organisational and operational management of the Sárvár sit e of the Components business unit was transferred from the Components business unit to the Axle business unit in Q3 2022.

As from 1 January, 2023, the Rába Development Insti tute, performing R+D activities has been integrated into Rába Vehicles Ltd. from Rába Axles Ltd.

The operating result of the Company in H1 2023 was a profit of HUF 442 million, compared to the loss of HUF 79 million during the same period of the previous year.

At EBITDA level, the operating profit of the Axle business unit was HUF 1,334 million compared to HUF 780 million registered a year earlier.

Million HUF

H1

H1

Change

Q2

Q2

Change

America             1 997  2 039  2.1%    1 131  1 152  1.9%
EU - export         13 381 20 354 52.1%   7 578  9 669  27.6%
EU - domestic       3 508  3 041  -13.3%  1 858  1 559  -16.1%
CIS and East-Europe 65     0      -100.0% -3     0      -100.0%
Other               1 057  1 280  21.1%   606    602    -0.7%
Total sales revenue 20 007 26 714 33.5%   11 170 12 982 16.2%
EBITDA              780    1 334  71.0%   1 121  842    -24.9%
Operating profit    -79    442    659.5%  692    402    -41.9%
Consolidated report of Rába Plc on operations for H 1 2023 under IFRS

Rába Automotive Components Ltd.

The sales revenue of Rába Automotive Components Ltd . amounted to HUF 9.1 billion in H1 2023, a decrease of 6.0 per cent compared to the base period.

Rába Automotive Components Ltd. generates a signif icant part of its turnover on the European market.

European exports in H1 2023 reached EUR 9.7 million, a decrease of 27.9 per cent compared to EUR 13.5 million in the base period of 2022.

Domestic sales revenue before consolidation in the reporting period amounted to HUF 5,429 million compared to HUF 4,639 million in H1 2022, an increase of 17.0 per cent.

The sales figures and their comparison for the base period with the period in review are fundamentally affected by the fact that in the framework of efficiency improvement measures, the organisational and operational management of the Sárvár sit e of the Components business unit was transferred from the Components business to the Axle business unit in Q3 2022.

At operating level, the Business Unit generated a profit of HUF 545 million in the period under review, compared to a profit of HUF 376 million in H1 2022.

At the EBITDA level, the operating profit of the Components business unit for the period under review amounted to HUF 684 million, compared to HUF 619 million a year earlier.

Million HUF

H1

H1

Change

Q2

Q2

Change

EU - export         5 069 3 714 -26.7%  2 707 1 837 -32.1%
EU - domestic       4 639 5 429 17.0%   2 541 2 553 0.5%
Total sales revenue 22    0     -100.0% 18    0     -100.0%
EBITDA              9 730 9 142 -6.0%   5 267 4 390 -16.7%
Operating profit    619   684   10.5%   478   405   -15.3%
EU - export         376   545   44.9%   357   336   -5.9%
Rába Vehicle Ltd.

The realised sales revenue of Rába Vehicle Ltd. in H1 2023 was 80.7 per cent higher than the base period level, increasing from HUF 622 million to HUF 1,124 million.

The majority of Rába Vehicle Ltd. 's sales are real ised on the domestic market, while it sells on the European market on a project basis.

European exports in the cumulative period of 2023 were equal to the sales generated during the base period amounting to HUF 0.6 million.

The domestic sales revenue before consolidation in the first six months of 2023 was HUF 907 million, an increase of 121.2 per cent.

As from 1 January, 2023, the Rába Development Insti tute, performing R+D activities has been integrated into Rába Vehicles Ltd. from Rába Axles Ltd.

The operating profit amounted to HUF 169 million during the reporting period, compared to the profit of HUF 57 million during the base period last year.

At the EBITDA level, the operating profit of the Vehicle business unit for the period was HUF 185 million compared to HUF 62 million in H1 2022.

 Million HUF              H1   H1                Change     Q2 Q2       Change  
                                             
                     2022 2023              2022 2023           
                                                             
 EU - export         212       217   2.4%        212    215    0.0%    
 EU - domestic       410       907   121.2%      290    665    129.3%  
 Total sales revenue 622  1    124   80.7%       501    880    75.6%   
 EBITDA              62        185   198.4%      87     211    142.5%  
 Operating profit    57        169   196.5%      85     203    138.8%  
REKARD LLC.

As of Q3 2022, the portfolio of the Rába Group has been expanded, REKARD LLC. will continue to operate as a wholly owned Rába subsidiary included in the consolidation of the Rába Group.

Attention: This is an excerpt of the original content. To continue reading it, access the original document here[https://docs.publicnow.com/67DF8786E7BD47DA80315CADF5B2780278E02582].

* This content was originally posted here[https://www.bse.hu/site/newkib/en/2023.08./Report_of_RABA_Plc._for_H1_of_2023_128941586]

Disclaimer

RÁBA Jarmuipari Holding Nyrt. published this content on 23 August 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 23 August 2023 15:28:30 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020230823ej8n0066h


Sport, geopolitics and the overwhelming public verdict
Gonzalo Bonadeo
721 字
2023 年 8 月 29 日
Around The Rings
ATR
英文
Copyright 2023. Around The Rings
The absence of Russians and Belarusians in Budapest 2023 was not the first such episode in the history of sports. Then and now, fans voted in favor of the show.

In May 1972, Yugoslav tennis player Nikki Pilic was the codename around which the probably biggest boycott in the history of men’s professional tennis would be built.

Pilic, who years later would represent and even be captain of the German national team, warned his country’s Federation -curiously chaired by an uncle of his- that, in the event that he advanced to the finals of a WCT (World Championship Tennis, a circuit rich in prizes and considered marginal by the International Tennis Federation) he would not participate in the Davis Cup series that Yugoslavia had to play in New Zealand. Pilic was automatically sanctioned for nine months in which he would not be able to participate in any event audited by the ITF, including the Grand Slams. Although the relatively new ATP managed to reduce that sanction to just one month, during that period the Wimbledon Tournament was to be held.

After long and fruitless negotiations, it was confirmed that more than 50 tennis players, including 13 of the 16 best in the standings, will be absent from the London SW16 classic.

Let’s imagine a similar scenario ten years ago and that players of the magnitude of Federer, Nadal, Djokovic, Murray, Berdych, Del Potro and Wawrinka, among others, miss the main event. A catastrophe.

From the organizers to the BBC itself, they imagined an unprecedented blow to the prestige of the enormous tournament.

A spectator holds a Ukrainian flag in support of tennis player Elina Svitolina in the women's semifinal of Wimbledon 2023. (DYLAN MARTINEZ/)[https://www.infobae.com/new-resizer/8jpPzcGzb68bf9zJAqsnbvRmNyA=/cloudfront-us-east-1.images.arcpublishing.com/infobae/JOEAHGKLBUVJ3V2PTBYGMICJWQ.jpg]

Far from it, the public gave their verdict: the 1973 verdict was, until that date, the one with the highest ticket sales in the history of the classic. Almost as much media coverage of the conflict acted as a boomerang against the effect sought by the measure of force.

That episode so far away was perhaps the most eloquent sign that nothing and no one manages the will of the spectator either to fill a stadium or to be indifferent to the call. There are many cases in which the stands are filled with fans who only think about those who play and dispense with those who are absent.

In this sense, it should be accepted that the forced absence stated by World Athletics of Russian and Belarusian athletes from the World Championsip that just ended in Budapest did not influence the interest of a public that filled the closing day every day at the stadium of the National Athletic Center.

And this is no small matter, not so much because of Belarusians but because of their neighbors who have historically occupied privileged places in the medal table of these tournaments and who have given this sport many of the most remarkable phenomena.

We have already talked about what I consider to be an unfair solution, whatever it may be: ignoring the seriousness of the Russian invasion of Ukraine or, as it finally happens, indiscriminately punishing athletes who, in many cases, are collateral victims of the regrettable decision of their head of state.

Without questioning, at least categorically, the decision taken - nothing that is considered unsolvable, such as a war, can have a pleasant solution - nor comparing government profiles as such aggression, I allow myself to wonder if such traumatic decisions would not be easier to accept if we were just as rigorous in our relations with all the countries whose possible governments are questioned almost daily on a planet in crisis.

Usain Bolt ran the 100 meters of the 2013 Moscow World Athletics Championships.[https://www.infobae.com/new-resizer/Gnnl1dmHorfOqlLNjC_7UnErkQY=/arc-anglerfish-arc2-prod-infobae.s3.amazonaws.com/public/EJI463MMG5ABRGXQXR2FJRIZ44]

In this sense, more than one will stop at the world championships in Moscow (Russia, 2013), Beijing (China, 2015) and Doha (Qatar, 2019). I suggest you go a little further.

Probably, if we went deep and analyzed geopolitical phenomena with subtlety, we would realize that the map of nations unquestioned would be dramatically reduced.

Sometimes it would be ideal to separate sport from politics.

It would always be healthy to avoid letting the athlete be the adjustment variable that management cannot find at their desks.

Click to view image.[https://www.infobae.com/new-resizer/ioE-r6kkOY0wPHuXlX4jrvSYDWc=/cloudfront-us-east-1.images.arcpublishing.com/infobae/E2KG43Q56VCJLFHC7KM375NZ2M.jpg]

Around The Rings

文件 ATR0000020230829ej8t00001


Hungary This Week - September 15, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 9 月 15 日, 11292 字, (英文)
Hungarian industrial production falls 2.6% y/y in JulyHungary’s industrial production fell 2.6% y/y in July (chart), according to both adjusted and unadjusted data, as growth in the country's automotive industry slowed. Industrial ...

Bulgaria
Bulgaria Celebrates Its Independence Day
Lyubomir Gigov
565 字
2023 年 9 月 22 日 04:00 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2023 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
On Friday, Bulgaria celebrates the 115th anniversary of the declaration of its independence.

On September 22, 1908, Bulgaria joined the family of independent states. After a prayer service at Tarnovo's historic Church of the Forty Holy Martyrs, in the presence of the Cabinet members, MPs and other officials, Prince Ferdinand I read a Manifesto which proclaimed the vassal Principality of Bulgaria an independent kingdom.

In the course of 30 years, Bulgaria gradually repudiated its vassal dependence on the Ottoman Empire, stopping to pay its annual tax, ignoring the capitulations regime, concluding international treaties and waging a war with Serbia without the Sultan's sanction and, most important of all, declaring a union with the Ottoman autonomous province of Eastern Rumelia on September 6, 1886.

The right international circumstances to match the de facto independence by a de jure act emerged in the summer of 1908, after the July 11 coup d'etat staged by the Young Turks.

On September 10 in Budapest, Prince Ferdinand and Austrian Emperor Francis Joseph secretly coordinated the proclamation of Bulgaria's independence, as a pretext for Austria-Hungary itself to repudiate the Treaty of Berlin and annex the provinces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the 30-year time limit for their occupation was to expire in September 1908.

The Bulgarian Government adopted a decision on immediate proclamation of independence on September 16, but the act was postponed on Ferdinand's orders. On board the train by which the Prince and the ministers travelled to the medieval Bulgarian capital of Tarnovo, Prime Minister Alexander Malinov wrote the Manifesto on the proclamation of independence at the railway station of Dve Mogili on the evening of September 21. On the next morning, Ferdinand arrived at the station of Trapezitsa and from there went on foot to the historic church of Forty Holy Martyrs. After a solemn prayer service in the presence of the Cabinet members, MPs and other officials, at 12:00 noon on September 22 (New Style October 5), 2008, the Prince read the Manifesto to the Bulgarian People.

Thereafter, National Assembly Chairman Hristo Slaveikov turned to the Prince, saying: "Your Majesty, on behalf of the national representatives, I beg you to assume the title of first Bulgarian Tsar." Ferdinand accepted "with pride and gratitude".

Turkey reacted strongly to the proclamation of Bulgaria's independence, but was not prepared to go to war. Two days later, on September 24, Austria-Hungary formally annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina.

In the spring of 1909, Turkey claimed 650 million gold francs from Bulgaria in compensation for the loss of territory. A settlement was arranged with the mediation of Russia, which wrote off a 125 million gold franc debt of Turkey in exchange for a withdrawal of the latter's claim to Bulgaria. For its part, Bulgaria undertook to pay Russia 82 million gold francs.

Bulgaria's independence was recognized by Russia (February 5, 1909), Turkey (April 6, 1909), Serbia and Montenegro (April 7, 1909), Britain, France and Italy (April 10, 1909), Germany and Austria-Hungary (April 16, 1909), and the United States (March 24, 1910).

The proclamation of independence upgraded Bulgaria's international standing and created prerequisites for the ensuing irredentist wars.

The Bulgarian Constitution was brought into conformity with the proclaimed independence by the Fifth Grand National Assembly (June 9 - July 9, 1911).

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/661963/570476.jpg]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020230922ej9m00002


Budapest interested in peace in Ukraine, as Hungarians also dying there - FM Szijjarto
574 字
2023 年 9 月 22 日 18:28 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS General Newswire
DANWS
英文
© 2023 Interfax-America, Inc.
NEW YORK, UN. Sept 22 (Interfax) - Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto has described the atmosphere of his talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov as mutually respectful and insisted that his country favors a diplomatic settlement of the situation in Ukraine.

"The atmosphere of our talks is always mutually respectful, which is something we base our foreign policy on. And we keep insisting that conflicts should be settled only through negotiations, and if you don't talk to each other and don't have a dialogue, you can't hope for peace, and this would be a huge mistake," Szijjarto told journalists following negotiations with Lavrov on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly.

"I told Minister Lavrov that Hungary is Ukraine's neighbor, and it's really interested in peace being achieved. Hungarian citizens are also dying there. Therefore, Hungary is interested in a ceasefire as soon as possible, because every new day of conflict causes more casualties and destruction. And conditions for peace are more favorable today than they might be tomorrow," he said.

Hungary "does not believe in a possible solution on the battlefield. A solution should be reached at the [negotiating] table," Szijjarto said.

Asked whether Lavrov and he discussed the grain deal at their meeting, Szijjarto said, "Our position is obvious: one of the negative consequences of this conflict is that the security of food supplies has been endangered in many countries around the world."

"And unfortunately, as the grain deal wasn't fully implemented, we offered our transit routes for Ukrainian grain to be shipped to Africa. And if the sea route doesn't work, there is a land one. But we don't see an interest in shipments to Africa via our territory. We see an interest in selling this grain to Central Europe, but that's something we can't allow."

Asked by journalists to comment on the U.S. plans to send more weapons to Ukraine, Szijjarto said, "We are the only NATO country that is not shipping weapons to Ukraine, and we are one of the few in Europe who doesn't do that. We aren't shipping weapons because this is our principled position: the more weapons are supplied to Ukraine, the more people are killed and the more destruction is caused."

Asked whether Hungary would join sanctions on Russia, Szijjarto said, "We don't see the sanctions working, they've failed. One of their goals was to put Russia on its knees and another to achieve peace. There has been the 11th sanction package now. We see that Russia is experiencing some difficulties, but Russia is not on its knees, and peace isn't closer."

At the same time, the sanctions have affected Europe and its residents, he said.

Szijjarto said he could not rule out that the relationship between Russia and Europe might be brought back to normal in the future. "Of course, peace should first be achieved. If there's peace, I think there's hope. I remember that the idea of a trade area from Lisbon to Vladivostok was discussed some time ago. And this idea could be revisited if we revisit principles of mutual respect. I'd like to see this happen, and it's in our common interests."

Va kp iz

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DANWS00020230922ej9m007k9


INTERVIEW: No need for more EU sanctions on Russia, says top Hungarian diplomat
227 字
2023 年 9 月 23 日 01:06 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
Budapest believes that there is no need for more packages of the European Union’s sanctions on Russia, Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Peter Szijjarto said in an interview with TASS following a meeting with top Russian diplomat Sergey Lavrov.

"Unfortunately, there has been no evaluation and analysis of the sanctions imposed by the European Union on a professional basis yet," Szijjarto noted, adding: "Whenever the sanctions are on the agenda, the discussion about the sanctions is emotional, political, and ideological."

"If I compare the impact on Russia and Europe, I mean, we are losing more," he pointed out. "So we think that no further sanction packages are needed. We hope that once we can come back to a civilized East-West cooperation, because that is our interest. And as I talked to the representatives of the economy themselves, they also are hoping for the same," Szijjarto said.

The EU is about to start discussing its 12th package of sanctions on Russia, which may be presented in the first half of October, Bloomberg reported, citing sources. According to the sources, the new package may include a ban on Russian diamond imports. In addition, some EU countries call for restrictions against Russia’s nuclear sector, LNG and IT services, the news agency added.

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020230923ej9n0002t


Orbán meets Putin in bid to ‘save everything possible’ in bilateral relations
Max Seddon in Riga and Marton Dunai in Budapest
658 字
2023 年 10 月 17 日 13:52 GMT
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
英文
Copyright 2023 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.
European head is first western leader to meet Russian president since issue of war crimes warrant for his arrest

Viktor Orbán has become the first western leader to meet Vladimir Putin since the International Criminal Court indicted the Russian president for alleged war crimes, in what the Hungarian prime minister said was a bid to “save everything that is possible from our bilateral contacts”.

At the meeting on the sidelines of the Belt and Road forum in Beijing on Tuesday, Orbán told Putin that Hungary “never wanted to confront Russia”, adding that Budapest’s goal “has always been to establish and expand mutually the best contacts”.

“We are interested in supporting this co-operation not only at the level of communication but also at the economic level,” Orbán said.

The China visit marks the first time that Putin has left Russia or the former Soviet Union since the ICC issued a war crimes warrant for his arrest. It is only the second such trip since Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Hungary is party to the ICC.

The meeting with the leader of Hungary, a member of Nato and the EU, is a major coup for the Kremlin, which is using the trip to defy western attempts to isolate Russia.

Western nations have criticised Hungary’s strongman leader for acting in Putin’s interests since his full-scale invasion of Ukraine, particularly by delaying sanctions, refusing to provide military assistance to Kyiv and objecting to its accession to the EU.

David Pressman, US ambassador to Hungary, condemned the meeting, posting on social media platform X, formerly Twitter, that Orbán “chooses to stand with a man whose forces are responsible for crimes against humanity in Ukraine, and alone among our allies”.

“While Russia strikes Ukrainian civilians, Hungary pleads for business deals,” he added.

No western leader has met Putin since Austrian chancellor Karl Nehammer made a failed attempt to convince him to end the war in April last year. France’s Emmanuel Macron and Germany’s Olaf Scholz had kept phone contacts with Putin last year, but no calls were reported recently.

Putin told Orbán that Hungary was among “many European countries where our relations have been preserved and are developing, [which] can only be to our liking”.

He added he was looking forward to “having the chance to exchange views with an EU country, Hungary in this case, not just about bilateral relations but also the situation in the world and in Europe”.

Orbán has insisted on maintaining ties with Moscow, especially in the field of energy where it claims that, unlike most other western nations, it cannot decouple from Russian sources.

“We have never been in such a difficult situation,” Orbán told Putin, according to a Russian translation of his remarks.

“Due to a military operation or sanction, these relations of ours unfortunately suffered a lot, it was deeply affected,” he added.

Orbán and Putin discussed oil and gas shipments and their co-operation in nuclear energy. Rosatom is building its only new nuclear power plant in the EU in Paks, Hungary. The Russian nuclear company is one of the few Kremlin corporate giants not under significant western sanctions.

Rosatom’s chief executive Alexei Likhachev is among a prominent group of senior Russian energy figures in Putin’s delegation at the forum.

At the meeting with Putin, Orbán reiterated his call for an end to the conflict — a step that has been rejected by Ukraine, which says a ceasefire would legitimise Russia’s occupation of its territory and give the Kremlin time to prepare for a fresh assault.

Péter Krekó, director of the Political Capital think-tank in Budapest, said that while Orbán claims to defend national sovereignty, “it seems he only fights for that against the EU and the United States”.

The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)

文件 FTCOM00020231017ejah003bh


Global Insolvency Outlook 2023-25 From maul to ruck?
Allianz Research Papers, 2023 年 10 月 18 日, 5235 字, (英文)
Executive summaryAdvantage running out and penalties looming: Most countries are seeing double-digit rebounds in business insolvencies as excess cash dwindles, leaving the most vulnerable corporates caught between a rock and a hard place in...

News feed for website 20231020
No space for rational dialogue is a huge problem in Europe: Hungarian FM
Globaltimes.cn
1803 字
2023 年 10 月 19 日
Global Times
GLOTWE
Global Times website news feed
英文
Copyright 2023. Global Times. All rights reserved.
Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó Photo: ScreenshotEditor's Note:

Hungary was one of the very first countries to join the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó (Szijjártó) came to Beijing to attend the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. For him, BRI cooperation has benefited Hungary through Chinese investments and the modernization of Hungary's national economy. During his China visit, Global Times (GT) reporters spoke to the foreign minister about Hungary's participation in the BRI and the country's "Look East" policy.

GT: What changes has the BRI brought to Hungary?

Szijjártó: I have to tell you that I'm personally proud of being the first foreign minister in the European Union to sign the implementation agreement of the BRI, which was called "One Belt, One Road" at the time. Foreign Minister Wang Yi visited me in Hungary in the summer of 2015 when we signed this agreement.

In the last eight years, we have taken a lot of profits out of this cooperation. First, we are now reconstructing the railway line between the Serbian capital of Belgrade and the Hungarian capital of Budapest, through which they will be able to offer the quickest delivery route from the Greek ports to the western part of Europe. The quantity of Chinese goods shipped to the Greek ports is increasing exponentially.

There have also been massive investments from China. 2020 and 2023 are the two years when China brought the most investments to Hungary. These investments are state of the art, the most modern impossible technology, creating tens of thousands of new jobs. These investments and the modernization of our national economy are all outcomes of the BRI.

GT: Hungary is known for its "Look East" policy. What areas were considered when coming up with this strategic decision?

Szijjártó: While the world has been changing a lot, it became obvious that the West has lost its competitive advantage toward the East. Eastern economies are developing very rapidly. They have huge financial reserves. There is a large work force and highly developed technologies. So it's obvious that a country cannot operate economically successfully if it doesn't have cooperation with the East. And that has paid off a lot over the last 13 years. We have increased our exports and trade a lot, and the investments coming from the East to Hungary have increased a lot as well.

GT: Does this policy have a demonstration effect on other European countries?

Szijjarto: Common sense and rationality is now lacking from Europe. It's very complicated to carry out a respectful and rational dialogue in Europe, especially since the war in Ukraine broke out. All questions are over idealized and over politicized. If you speak out of the mainstream or even a bit differently than the liberal mainstream, then you are immediately attacked, and then you are stigmatized; you are labeled a dictator, autocratic, even a Russian spy.

There's no space for rational dialogue. This is a huge problem in Europe. This used to be the case before the war as well, but since the war has broken out, this is an extremely frustrating situation. Most of the others are neither ready nor willing to look at the issue of cooperation with China in a practical way. They would rather look at it in an ideological and political way.

We have made huge efforts to make Hungary a meeting point of Eastern and Western investment. We are one of the three countries in the world; the other two are China and Germany, where the three German premium top carmakers are present. In the meantime, we were able to attract five of the top 10 global battery producers in the world, including the biggest.

This meeting point shows that it's not only possible, but it also makes a country successful. So the Eastern investors and the Western investors are meeting in Hungary in order to shorten the supply chain and work next to each other and inspire each other. That shows that this is a huge success for a country. If it had not happened, we would not have been able to keep the country's economy on a growth path, especially under such turbulent circumstances of the global economy. So Hungary can serve as a good example.

GT: More and more Chinese companies see Hungary as the bridgehead to the European market and set up branches in Hungary. What advantages does Hungary have to sustain the long-term development of Chinese companies?

Szijjártó: The global economy is going through a huge transformation, and this transformation is being led by the revolutionary changes of the automotive industry as the traditional combustion engineering is over and the new era of electric mobility is coming down.

The fact that the biggest electric battery manufacturers of the world committed themselves to set up their first European factories in Hungary gives us the chance to be a front runner of this technological revolution and for a country which has only 10 million inhabitants.

So ranking No.95 globally when it comes to population, this is a huge chance because it's very rare that such small countries can be front runners of such significant technological revolutions. Most of the small countries are just lagging behind in such kind of issues and being at the very end of the supply chain, if at all. But Hungary is at the top of the supply chain, because we have the electric automotive companies, the electric battery manufacturers and all of their suppliers. The presence of the Chinese companies does not only contribute to the growth path to be maintained, but it contributes to preserving a leading role of ours when it comes to this new technological revolution of the world.

GT: How do you view negative narratives such as "debt trap," "economic dependence" and that "BRI projects are not sustainable"?

Szijjártó: I do believe that politics is a job based on experience, so I can just offer my experience. I have never ever experienced any political pressure from Chinese counterparts. I have never been faced with the political expectations combined with economic decisions. We have never faced the problem of a Chinese investment not being modern or sustainable enough.

"Debt trap" this kind of expression can fly very well in liberal media where China should be described as an evil. But every country has the right to take loans. Nobody stands there with a gun and says, "Sign this agreement." If a country would like to take a loan, it can take it according to circumstances and conditions and make negotiations. If the circumstances and conditions are not preferable or sound, then they should not sign the agreement.

Those countries which criticize the BRI and China with this debt trap and loans and all this kind of stuff do not consider the other countries mature enough to make decisions on their own. When European politicians speak like this, I always tell them, "Look, I've been a foreign minister for 9 years now, currently, the second-longest foreign minister in Europe. Over the years, I have experienced a great deal, and I can tell you that I've been never confronted with such a problem. While talking to our Western partners, they always like to put pressure on us, trying to tell us what to do, what not to do, who to cooperate with, what kind of legislation to make. I have never heard from anybody in China saying to us not to cooperate with someone else, while our Western friends often say, 'Don't cooperate with this, don't cooperate with that because it's bad.'"

The Europeans should change their way of thinking, otherwise we will be lagging behind. No wonder China took over second place from the European Union last year when it comes to the share of global GDP, closing further the gap between it and the US.

GT: Hungary sticks to friendly China policies. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and yourself often speak up for China, which triggers some criticisms and pressures from politicians of certain countries. How do you cope with such pressures?

Szijjarto: To be honest, we don't really care because we are responsible for our country, and we are responsible for our own voters. Our job is not to satisfy other countries. What we regret, though, is that the EU is now applying a kind of financial sanction against Hungary now, because of two reasons.

First, our pro-peace policy in Ukraine, because we have a very clear position that peace must be made now. The other reason is our China policy, because we argue in favor of pragmatic and respect-based EU-China relations. This cannot be forgiven by those who are arguing the other way around.

GT: The conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the conflict between Palestine and Israel have increasingly highlighted a trend: Western countries very much hope that China can stand up and speak out, but they do not accept China's voice that is different from their own, and even think that China is favoring a certain party. However, China has always advocated peaceful dialogue and opposed the use of force and violence to resolve disputes. Hungary and China have similar positions on this issue. Both believe that war cannot solve problems and will only intensify them. How pragmatic and precious is this path, especially against the backdrop of the ever tense international situation?

Szijjártó: We Hungarians are very grateful for President Xi and the Chinese government to put forward the peace plan and put so much effort into promoting peace in the region. We are doing the same. The Hungarians are in favor of peace. We firmly believe that this war does not have a solution on the battlefield. The more people die and the more destruction takes place, the harder and more difficult it will be to come to peaceful circumstances.

Unfortunately, European politicians have entered a race with the US to see who delivers more weapons to Ukraine. We are the only member state in NATO and one of the very few in the EU which has never delivered weapons to Ukraine. We think that instead of weapon deliveries, peace talks should take place. We do believe that the more weapons are delivered there, the longer the war will take and the more people will die, and this should be avoided.

Regarding Israel, we do hope that this situation will not escalate. If the situation in Israel and the war in Ukraine were to escalate, this would amount to a big threat to global security.

Global Times Co Ltd

文件 GLOTWE0020231020ejaj00009


Hungary's flirt with Russia sends wrong signal – Lithuanian president
436 字
2023 年 10 月 26 日 13:29 GMT
Baltic Daily - Political/Social News
BALPOLE
英文
© 2023 Baltic News Service
VILNIUS, Oct 26, BNS – The Hungarian prime minister's flirt with Russia send a wrong signal to the international community and Ukraine as it's fighting against Russian invasion, Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda says.

"It's really more than strange to see that we start to flirt with the regime which is committing (...) very cruel atrocities in the territory of Ukraine. It sends a very wrong message to everybody, first of all, to the international society and also to Ukraine," the president said as he arrived for a European Council meeting in Brussels.

Nauseda argues that Ukraine's defeat would worsen the security situation across the EU.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban met with Russian President Vladimir Putin in China in mid-October. It was Putin's second meeting with a European leader since February 2022, when he launched the invasion of Ukraine, after he received Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer in April 2022.

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has already publicly slammed Orban's action, stating that he disappointed her.

Nauseda underlines that the EU must stay united and do not succumb in to war fatigue as "some countries start establishing some special kind of diplomacy".

"This is very important, especially now in this critical stage of the war, to stay united, not to split our foreign policy because, otherwise, it will be the policy of 27 members. We have no right to do that," the Lithuanian leader said.

He vows to raise the issue of financial support for Ukraine at the EU summit.

As the European Commission proposed last summer a review of the EU budget to allow for an additional 50 billion euros in aid to Kyiv, the Lithuanian president says such aid would not be sufficient, "unless we are committed to come back to this issue if needed".

As the EU continues discussions on the 12th sanction package for Russia, Nauseda reiterates the need to include Russia's nuclear energy giant Rosatom, drones and other technologies in it.

EU leaders are meeting in Brussels as Kyiv awaits the EC's conclusion on the country's chances of starting accession negotiations. The Commission is expected to announce its position November, and then EU leaders will be expected to take a final decision.

The European Council will also discuss the call for a so-called humanitarian pause in Israel's war against Hamas.

Speaking with journalists, Nauseda echoed the European Council's previously expressed position that Israel has the right to defend itself, but without violating international humanitarian law.

redakcija@bns.lt[mailto:redakcija@bns.lt], Vilnius newsroom

AS Postimees Grupp

文件 BALPOLE020231026ejaq003jt


Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - October 27, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 10 月 27 日, 9843 字, (英文)
Hungarian banks lower lending rates further as pressure mountsHungarian banks have agreed to voluntarily lower the interest cap on working capital loans, three weeks after a similar move, following calls by the government to stimulate ...

News Feed
Hungary threatens to veto new EU sanction package on Russia
Nate Ostiller
335 字
2023 年 10 月 28 日
The Kyiv Independent
KYIVIME
英文
Copyright © 2023 The Kyiv Independent
Hungary will veto the European Union's proposed 12th sanctions package if it includes the gas, oil, and nuclear energy sectors of the Russian economy, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Oct. 28 in an interview with Russian state-run media Ria Novosti.

"I can tell you for sure: if the next package contains something that contradicts our national interests, we will definitely not agree to its adoption," Szijjarto said, referring to the above-mentioned sectors as a "red line."

Russia has done nothing bad to Hungary, he said, adding that Russia actually saved the lives of Hungarians by providing access to vaccines.

The 12th sanctions package was announced[https://kyivindependent.com/eu-commission-confirms-work-on-12th-russia-sanctions-package-underway/] on Oct. 27, aimed at further restricting Russia's ability to circumvent previous sanctions, as well as introducing new restrictions on Russia's diamond exports. It would require a unanimous decision to pass.

Hungary has consistently opposed sanctions on Russia and maintained close relations with the country since the full-scale invasion.

Szijjarto said[https://kyivindependent.com/hungarian-official-new-sanctions-against-russia-cause-more-harm-to-europe/] on Sept. 22 that sanctions "cause more harm to Europe than to Russia" and are "not necessary."

Hungary has nonetheless eventually voted for the previous of 11 sanctions packages, but only after extracting some concessions or exceptions.

In addition to regularly giving interviews to Russian state-run media, Szijjarto has also visited[https://kyivindependent.com/hungarian-foreign-minister-visits-belarus-for-2nd-time-in-2023/] Russia five times and Belarus twice since the beginning of the full-scale invasion.

Hungary has also delayed the ratification of new members Finland and Sweden into NATO. Hungary finally ratified Finland's accession to the alliance nine months after the original application.

Even after the other remaining holdout, Turkey, agreed to move forward with Sweden's accession on Oct. 23, Szijjarto said[https://kyivindependent.com/hungarian-foreign-minister-no-change-to-hungarys-position-on-swedens-nato-accession/], "This changes nothing on our side."

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban previously said in September that Hungary was in no rush to ratify Sweden's membership.

Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto arrives in Moscow, Russia, on Oct. 12, 2023. (Peter Szijjarto / Facebook). [https://assets.kyivindependent.com/content/images/2023/10/387851178_854933612766600_4442753245138142903_n.jpg]

Kyiv Independent Media Ltd

文件 KYIVIME020231028ejas000gr


Lithuanian president hits out at Orban's meeting with Putin
396 字
2023 年 10 月 30 日 05:51 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
The Hungarian prime minister’s meeting with Vladimir Putin sends “a very wrong message”, said Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda, LRT.lt, the website of Lithuanian public broadcaster LRT, reported on October 27.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban met with Russian President Putin in China in mid-October. It was Putin’s second meeting with a European leader since February 2022, when he launched the invasion of Ukraine, after he received Austrian Chancellor Karl Nehammer in April 2022.

“It’s really more than strange to see that we start to flirt with the regime which is committing [...] very cruel atrocities in the territory of Ukraine. It sends a very wrong message to everybody, first to the international community and also to Ukraine,” the president said as he arrived for a European Council meeting in Brussels.

Nauseda insisted that Ukraine’s defeat would worsen the security situation across the EU.

Estonian Prime Minister Kaja Kallas has previously publicly slammed Orban, saying she was disappointed with the Hungarian leader.

Nauseda also urged the EU to stay united and not to succumb to war fatigue.

“This is very important, especially now in this critical stage of the war, to stay united, not to split our foreign policy because, otherwise, it will be the policy of 27 members. We have no right to do that,” he said in Brussels.

He vowed to raise the issue of financial support for Ukraine at the EU summit.

As the European Commission proposed last summer a review of the EU budget to allow for an additional €50 billion in aid to Kyiv, the Lithuanian president says such aid would not be sufficient, “unless we are committed to come back to this issue”.

As the EU continues discussions on the 12th sanction package for Russia, Nauseda reiterated the need to include Russia’s nuclear energy giant Rosatom, drones and other technologies in it.

EU leaders are meeting in Brussels as Kyiv awaits the EC’s conclusion on the country’s chances of starting accession negotiations. The Commission is expected to announce its position in November, and then EU leaders will be expected to take the final decision.

Speaking with journalists, Nauseda said Israel had the right to defend itself, but without violating international humanitarian law, echoing the European Council’s previously expressed position, LRT.lt said.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020231030ejau0008e


Kiev explained when it expects the 12th package of EU sanctions against the Russian Federation to be accepted or agreed on
272 字
2023 年 10 月 30 日
WPS: What the Papers Say
WHTPAP
英文
(c) 2023 WPS Russian Media Monitoring Agency. All rights reserved.
Advisor to the head of the office of the President of Ukraine Vladislav Vlasyuk said that the government expects that the 12th package of EU sanctions against Russia will be adopted or agreed by the member states of the community before December 15. This is reported by TASS.

In his opinion, the new sanctions package will be being formed for about two more weeks, and in the middle of November it will be approved by the EU states.

Prior to that, the head of the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Peter Szijjarto, said that Hungary was not ready to agree to the adoption of the 12th package of EU anti-Russian sanctions if it included the gas, oil, and nuclear sectors of the Russian industry.

On October 27, the head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, following the EU summit in Brussels, confirmed that the European Union is preparing the 12th package of sanctions. She noted that ways are being studied to block Russia's income related to diamonds.

Prior to that, Slovakia's new Prime Minister Robert Fico said he would not support EU sanctions against Russia. At the same time, he clarified that Bratislava can impose restrictions only if the consequences of the sanction for individual EU member states are known.

Earlier, the US Treasury expanded sanctions against Russia.

Kiev expects that the 12th package of sanctions against the Russian Federation will be adopted or agreed on by December 15, Gazeta.ru, October 29, 2023, 00:26

WPS USA, Inc.

文件 WHTPAP0020231105ejb50001y


Hungary This Week - November 3, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 11 月 3 日, 4238 字, (英文)
Hungary labour market remains close to full employment in SeptemberHungary’s labour market remained close to full-employment, despite the recession and the fallout of the energy crisis. The jobless rate stood at 3.9% in September, edging ...

News
Viktor Orban warns at party congress that EU could slide apart without radical change
666 字
2023 年 11 月 21 日 05:03 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Hungary must change the EU rather than leave it, but that is only possible with radical change in Brussels, Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban said at the party’s 30th congress on November 18, where he was re-elected with 100% votes.

Hungary's longest-serving prime minister was president of Fidesz from 1993 to 2000 and has been its leader again since 2003.

"If things continue like this, the bloc would not explode, fall apart or collapse, but simply slide apart," he added.

Orban argued the European Commission and the European Parliament were "unabashedly circumventing their own rules.

Hungarians had developed a "European counter-model" of their own based on the principles of zero migration, a work-based economy, full employment, strong families, low taxes and a "sensible green transition", he asserted.

"We will resist the crazy ideas of Brussels bureaucrats, the migrants' invasion, the gender propaganda, and we will resist the illusions over the war (in Ukraine) and Ukraine's unprepared EU membership"

Orban’s speech at the congress kickstarted the 2024 EP and local government elections to be held at the same time. Hungary’s strongman has high hopes that radical right-wing parties make a breakthrough next summer, which could ease his isolation within the community.

Addressing the biannual congress, the prime minister declared that his government intends to oppose talks scheduled for mid-December regarding the formal invitation of Ukraine to initiate membership negotiations.

Orban said that standing in the way of Ukraine joining the EU would be one of his government's top priorities in the coming months.

"Our task will be to correct the mistaken promise to start negotiations with Ukraine, since Ukraine is now light years away from the European Union," he claimed.

Earlier this week, Hungary's leader said the bloc's strategy of sending money and military aid to Ukraine had failed.

Hungary has blocked amending the EU budget needed to provide more funding to Ukraine on the grounds that the country violates the rights of ethnic Hungarians in western Ukraine to study in their own language.

As the amendment of the EU’s budget rules and the start of accession talks also require unanimous approval from member states, it provides Hungary’s nationalist leader a powerful veto power. The EU, however, could circumvent the veto by concluding bilateral agreements with member states on Ukraine, but won’t remedy Orban's obstructive policies, analysts said.

The Hungarian government launched campaigning heavily for European parliamentary elections over the weekend, rolling out a new national consultation survey, a tax-funded political marketing tool by the ruling party to dominate public discourse. It is aimed at stirring up the Fidesz core base. Less than 20% of eligible voters, or 1.7mn, filled out the last consultation in January, which gauged people’s view of the EU’s sanction policy against Russia, with 97% backing the government’s position.

Just as the Fidesz congress ended, the first billboards appeared on the streets of Budapest depicting EC President Ursula von der Leyen together with Alex Soros, the son of Hungarian-born billionaire and philanthropist George Soros.

The caption on the posters reads: "We won’t dance to Brussels’ tune." Orban has used this terminology before, comparing Brussels to Moscow in his speech at the commemorations of the 1956 revolution last month.

The latest version of the national survey includes 11 questions with two alternatives to choose from. Some of the questions include false assertions that the European Commission is calling on Hungary to phase out energy subsidies.

In fact, Brussels has asked Budapest to fine-tune the programme to target vulnerable groups. Another question on the survey claims "Brussels wants to establish migrant ghettos" in Hungary, while there is one which says "grants from Brussels to Palestinian organisations have also reached Hamas."

Hungarians are also asked whether the EU should allocate more funds to Ukraine or grant it membership.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020231121ejbl0002t


RÁBA Jarmuipari Holding Nyrt. - Report of Rába Plc. for Q1-Q3 of 2023
RÁBA Jarmuipari Holding Nyrt. published this content on 22 Nov 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 22 Nov 2023 16:25:27 UTC.
6165 字
2023 年 11 月 22 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://docs.publicnow.com/60E01EE2E1BCB03F27DEBEEB6EEE5648F40FD57C]

Report of Rába Plc. for Q1-Q3 of 2023

Q1-Q3 2023 Report of RÁBA Plc.

Unaudited, consolidated quarterly report

in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)

Company name:     RÁBA Automotive Holding Plc.
Company address:  H-9027 Győr, Martin u. 1.
Sector:           Machine industry
Period:           Q1-Q3 of 2023
E-mail:           ir@raba.hu
Investor contact: Éva Lang-Péli
EXECUTIVE REPORT

MAIN RESULTS OF THE COMPANY

* During Q1-Q3 of 2023, the activity on the market of commercial vehicles was decidedly strong in spite of the uncertainty caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war. Market demand grew consider- ably in almost all relevant geographical and product segments. A new phenomenon in terms of future market movements is that orders have started to decline in an increasing number of seg- ments. Market factors impacting production costs showed a mixed picture. Energy and steel purchase prices, which were earlier record high, have become somewhat more moderate, the increase in wages, however, remained unchanged. The bulk of the decline in steel prices was automatically realised by the customers, and the enforcement of the previously negotiated energy price com- pensation is becoming more difficult, their levels do not always reach the previous levels. To- gether with the drastic increase in wages, this meant a considerable burden on the operation. In Q3 of 2023, the marked strengthening of the HUF exchange rate emerged as a significant factor, which had a negative effect on operating profitability through net exports.

* In terms of sales, in Q3 of 2023, the Rába group m anaged to retain its record high performance, achieving the highest sales of both Q1-Q3 cumulative and Q3 of the past 20 years. In Q1-Q3 of 2023, the sales revenue increased by 22.1 per cent, amounting to HUF 56.0 billion, whereas the group-level sales in Q3 amounted to HUF 15.9 billion, upon an increase by 0.7 per cent. In terms of sales, Rába Axle Ltd. remains the largest subsid iary of the group, generating HUF 37.2 billion in sales through a 21.8 per cent increase in Q1-Q3 of 2023. The sales revenue of Rába Automo- tive Components Ltd. in Q1-Q3 of 2023 reached HUF 12.9 billion, whereas Rába Vehicle Ltd. contributed HUF 2.1 billion in sales to the record-level sales revenue of the group. As from Q3 2022, the Rába Group's portfolio was expanded, and REKARD LLC. which operates as a wholly- owned Rába subsidiary, was included in the consolid ation of the Rába group. The sales revenue of REKARD LLC. was HUF 4.0 billion in Q1-Q3.

* In spite of the somewhat more moderate purchase prices in Q3, production costs continue to be high, which puts continuous pressure on profitability. Steel purchase prices were 47 per cent higher compared to the average of the previous years, energy prices were still three times higher compared to the pre-crisis level and wages increased by some 56 per cent since 2019. The Rába group makes considerable efforts to mitigate these negative impacts through both purchasing and sales measures and to neutralise their profit eroding impact.

* In addition to the significant increase in sales revenue, the portfolio expansion, the consistent improvement in production efficiency and passing on of high production costs meant that the gross profit at group level amounted to HUF 9.7 billion upon an increase by HUF 1.8 billion. In Q1-Q3 2023, the gross profit ratio realised at group level exceeded the level of the base period: it amounted to 17.3 per cent, upon an increase by 0.2 percentage points. The gross profit surplus resulting from the portfolio growth amounted to HUF 933 million.

* The balance of other income and expenses reached a loss of HUF 259 million in Q1-Q3 of 2023, compared to a profit of HUF 405 million in the same period of the previous year. The result from other activities in the base period included a profit from a one-off real property transaction with a

Consolidated report of RÁBA Plc. on operations for Q1- Q3 2023 under IFRS

value of HUF 342 million.

* In Q1-Q3 of 2023, in spite of continued high pressure on the cost side and the negative impacts of the strong HUF exchange rate we managed to retain one of the best operating profit level of recent years: in Q1-Q3 of 2023, all business units achieved positive operating results thus con- tributing to the operating profit of HUF 1,927 million achieved through a 77.6 per cent growth. The Axle business unit generated operating profits of HUF 380 million, thus exceeding the level of the base period, the Components business unit generated HUF 491 million in operating profit, whereas the Vehicle business unit generated HUF 343 million in operating profit. The additional operating profit resulting from the portfolio growth due to REKARD LLC. amounted to HUF 343 million. In terms of profitability, Q3, cyclically a weak period was affected by the high cost pres- sure and the strong HUF exchange rate: the group-level result remained HUF 218 million below the level of the base period, amounting to HUF 117 million.

* In terms of cash generating efficiency, the group of companies managed to achieve the second highest EBITDA results of the past 10 years in Q1-Q3 2023, the EBITDA result was HUF 3,853 million, which is an increase in cash generation of 28.6 per cent over the base period. The largest member of the group of companies, the Axle segment increased the EBITDA generated during the cumulative period by 56.8 per cent, amounting to HUF 1,725 million. The other subsidiaries also contributed significantly to the outstanding group-level result: the Components business unit generated HUF 699 million and the Vehicle business unit generated HUF 366 million in EBITDA- level profit. The additional EBITDA resulting from the portfolio growth due to REKARD LLC. amounted to HUF 488 million in Q1-Q3 of 2023. Retaining and maintaining cash generation ca- pacity is increasingly a challenge for the Rába gro up, since there is an increasing pressure both from customers and from suppliers. The management of the group of companies continues to make considerable efforts to retain cash generating capacity. The focus of the measures, in ad- dition to passing on the inflationary effects to customers, was to further increase the flexibility of manufacturing operations, renew manufacturing technology and structure and to exercise tight cost control.

* The result of financial operations for the period under review is mainly affected by the non-cash loan revaluation. In Q1-Q3 2023, the result of financial operations showed a profit of HUF 263 million compared to a loss of HUF 1,693 million in the same period last year. The unrealised gain from loan revaluation amounted to HUF 366 million. In addition, the financial result includes a net interest charge of HUF 178 million.

* The total comprehensive income and profit for the year amounted to a profit of HUF 1,670 million in Q1-Q3 2023, considerably higher than during the previous year.

* Despite the uncertainties caused by the military conflict between Russia and the Ukraine, the financial situation of the Rába Group was character ised by a stable liquidity position. The level of net debt reached HUF 13.9 billion at the end of the period under review, a decrease of HUF 1.6 billion compared to the base period. Of the factors influencing the level of the net debt, men- tion must be made of the technological renewal and reorganisation far exceeding the capital expenditures of previous years, advance received in connection with received support, operating profit realised since the base period and the working capital (increased inventory levels), which increased due to inflation. The HUF 366 million worth of loan revaluation resulting from exchange rate changes, not involving cash movements, was another factor positively contributing to the net borrowing figure.

* Compared to the same period last year, equity increased by 17.2 per cent. The equity per share was HUF 1,817 per share.

Consolidated report of RÁBA Plc. on operations for Q1- Q3 2023 under IFRS

 thousand HUF                                   Q1-Q3 2022             Q1-Q3              Change              Q3 2022     Q3 2023     Change  
                                                                                                               
                                                           2023                                                        
                                                                                                                                       
 Sales revenue                     45 846 597   55 974 141      22.1%        15 839 320   15 949 479   0.7%    
 Gross profit                      7 832 260    9 669 886       23.5%        2 519 321    2 306 019    -8.5%   
                                                                                                               
 Gross margin                      17,1%        17,3%                  0.2%p 15,9%        14,5%               -1.4%p
                                                                                                               
 EBITDA                            2 996 045    3 853 150       28.6%        1 004 906    758 942      -24.5%  
                                                                                                               
 EBITDA level                      6,5%         6,9%                   0.4%p 6,3%         4,8%                -1.6%p
                                                                                                               
 Operating profit                  1 084 702    1 926 618       77.6%        334 944      117 414      -64.9%  
                                                                                                               
 Net financial result              -1 693 151   263 227         115.5%       -786 957     -738 159     6.2%    
                                                                                                               
 Profit after tax for current year -814 757     1 670 449       305.0%       -562 729     -731 493     30.0%   
                                                                                                               
 Total comprehensive income        -814 757     1 670 449       305.0%       -562 729     -731 493     30.0%   
GOALS, STRATEGY OF THE COMPANY

"Rába continues to successfully and consistently pursue the principles and goals defined in the Rába Modernisation Programme 2025, focusing on investing in sustainability and in machinery and property promoting modernisation. Our own renewable energy generation can offer an environmentally friendly and sustainable solution to hectically changing and extraordinarily high energy prices. The Company is committed to securing and developing our qualified staff, the basis for which lies in our partnership with educational institutions. Rába is building a career path for young specialists and supports them in acquiring superior, complex knowledge and skills ranging from university lectures to professional practice", said Béla Hetzmann, Chairman-Chief Executive Officer of Rába Automotive Holding Plc.

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OF THE COMPANY

* During Q1-Q3 of 2023, in spite of the uncertainty caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war, the activity on the commercial vehicle market was decidedly strong. Market demand increased sub- stantially in nearly all our geographical and product segments. A new phenomenon in terms of future market movements though is that orders have started to decline in an increasing number of segments. In terms of production costs, the purchase prices, which hit records high levels earlier, continued to become more moderate. The bulk of the decline in steel prices was automatically realised by the customers, the enforcement of the previously negotiated energy price compensation is be- coming more difficult, their levels do not always reach the previous levels. The continued drastic increase in wages, remains a considerable burden on the operation, jeopardising long-term in- ternational competitiveness and profitability. In Q3 of 2023, the marked strengthening of the HUF exchange rate had a negative effect on operating profitability.

* Q1-Q3of 2023 was a decidedly strong period for the European commercial vehicle market in terms of demand: the registration of new commercial vehicles increased by 21 per cent over the rate of the previous year. Since the major part of the year was characterised by significant growth, the market outlooks for the whole year of 2023 are positive. It is noteworthy, though, that orders started to decline in several geographic segments. The North American commercial vehicle mar- ket experienced a considerable, 16 per cent growth over the base period of 2022. Demand for Rába's agricultural products remained strong in Q1- Q3 of 2023: turnover exceeded the level of the previous year by some 21 per cent. In compliance with the European sanction regulations in force against Russia, since the beginning of the Russian-Ukrainian military conflict Rába has not conducted any business with its Russian partners. The European passenger vehicle market also saw considerable growth in Q1-Q3 of 2023: new car registrations increased by 17 per cent year on year.

* Substantial economic risks together with the drastic increase in energy prices resulted in high volatility on the steel market in 2022. In 2023 both energy prices and the demand-supply relations were adjusted compared to the base period, which had a favourable impact on the development of the purchase price of steel. In Q3 of 2023, the purchase price level of steel was some 13.8

Consolidated report of RÁBA Plc. on operations for Q1- Q3 2023 under IFRS

per cent lower. The 14.2 per cent lower purchase prices of the cumulative period impacted production activities.

* There were no significant changes on the labour market in the period under review, thus labour shortages and inflationary pressures continued to have a significant impact on the increase in average wages. In January-August of 2023, average gross national earnings increased by 17.2 per cent. Finding and implementing operational efficiency improvements in production technol- ogy to cover the years of steadily increasing wage costs remains a major challenge for the Com- pany.

* Energy prices, which declined in 2023, continued to do so in the third quarter, albeit to a lesser extent. Although the decline in energy prices during Q3 seems considerable (-53 per cent), it is due primarily to the striking base period price level. The energy price level during Q3 is even so 2.5 times higher than the purchase prices prior to the energy crisis. In Q1-Q3 of 2023, energy prices for the cumulative period were 26.4 per cent below the level of the base period. A negative phenomenon in terms of energy prices is that market partners are less and less willing to offer energy price compensation, accepting the market fact that the level of energy prices will not decline to the level before the crisis. All this also means that production activities in the future will be subject to pressures exerted by purchase prices that are 3 times higher than energy prices prevailing earlier.

* In terms of the exchange rate environment during the cumulative period under review, the dollar saw a decrease of 3.0 per cent, while the euro, which has a significant foreign currency weighting, saw decrease of 0.8 per cent compared to a year earlier. For Q3 of the year, the exchange rate environment had a strong impact on the operating profit, for the USD, the decline in exchange rates was 12.0 per cent, for the EUR it was 4.9 per cent, which impacted the net export. 1

                                           Q1-Q3              Q1-Q3              Change              Q3 2022     Q3 2023     Change  
                                                                                                              
                                           2022               2023                                                
                                                                                                                            
EURHUF - average                     385.0       381.9        -0.8%        403.5        383.7        -4.9%    
                                                                                                              
EURHUF - end of period               421.4       391.3        -7.2%        421.4        391.3        -7.2%    
USDHUF - average                     363.4       352.6        -3.0%        400.6        352.7        -12.0%   
                                                                                                              
USDHUF - end of period               428.6       368.8        -13.9%       428.6        368.8        -13.9%   
                                                                                                              
Changes in raw material prices* 193%       166%        -14.2%        181%        156%         -13.8%  
Wage level** 485.9                         569.6       17.2%         489.4       564.6        15.4%   
                                                                                                              
Changes in energy prices*** 888%           654%        -26.4%        1155%       542%         -53.0%  
*Rába indices - own calculation - base: Q1 2007; av erage values for the period

**KSH (Central Statistical Office) national gross average wage within companies (thousand HUF/month) - based on figures for Jan-May. 2023.

***Rába indices - own calculation - base: Dec. 2004 . Average values for the period

SUMMARY OF THE RESULT FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD

Rába Axle Ltd.

The sales revenue of Rába Axle Ltd. amounted to HUF 37.1 billion in Q1-Q3 2023, compared to HUF 30.5 billion in the 2022 base period. This corresponds to an increase by 21.8 per cent.

On the American market, the revenue in USD for the period was USD 8.2 million in the review period, which was 7.6 per cent lower than the USD 8.9 million in sales achieved in Q1-Q3 of 2022. On the EU market, Rába Axle Ltd's sales figures in HUF terms increase d by 27.7 per cent, amounting to HUF 32.5 billion, compared to HUF 25.4 billion during the base period.

European exports in Q1-Q3 of 2023 were 39.6 per cent higher than in the base period, reaching EUR 73.7 million compared to EUR 52.8 million in Q1-Q3 of 2022.

Domestic sales revenue before consolidation amounted to HUF 4,305 million, a decrease of 15.5 per cent compared to HUF 5,092 million in the base period.

1 Average exchange rates were calculated based on the official FX rates of the National Bank of Hungary. Source: http://www.mnb.hu/arfolyam-lekerdezes[http://www.mnb.hu/arfolyam-lekerdezes]

Consolidated report of RÁBA Plc. on operations for Q1- Q3 2023 under IFRS

On the CIS and Eastern European markets Rába Axle Ltd. generated no sales revenue during t he review period, primarily due to the sanctions against Russia. The turnover during Q1-Q3 of 2022 was also minimal, amounting to a mere EUR 0.2 million.

Revenues from Other markets in euro terms amounted to EUR 4.7 million in the period under re- view, which was 1.5 per cent more than the EUR 4.6 million turnover in the base period of 2022. The sales figures and their comparison for the base period with the period in review are fundamentally affected by the fact that in the framework of efficiency improvement measures, the organisational and operational management of the Sárvár sit e of the Components business unit was transferred from Rába Automotive Components Ltd. to Rába Axle Ltd. in Q3 2022.

As from 1. January, 2023, the Rába Development Inst itute, performing R+D activities has been integrated into Rába Vehicle Ltd. from Rába Axle Ltd.

The operating result of the Company in Q1-Q3 2023 was a profit of HUF 380 million, compared to the loss of HUF 225 million during the same period of the previous year.

At EBITDA level, the operating profit of the Axle business unit was HUF 1,725 million compared to HUF 1,100 million registered a year earlier.

Million HUF

Q1-Q3

Q1-Q3

Change

Q3

Q3

Change

America             3 241  2 906  -10.3%  1 244  867    -30.3%
                                                         
EU - export         20 332 28 155 38.5%   6 951  7 801  12.2%
                                                         
EU - domestic       5 092  4 305  -15.5%  1 584  1 264  -20.2%
                                                         
CIS and East-Europe 71     0      -100.0% 6      0      -100.0%
Other               1 779  1 791  0.7%    722    511    -29.2%
                                                         
Total sales revenue 30 514 37 157 21.8%   10 508 10 443 -0.6%
EBITDA              1 100  1 725  56.8%   320    391    22.2%
                                                         
Operating profit    -225   380    268.9%  -146   -62    57.5%
Rába Automotive Components Ltd.

The sales revenue of Rába Automotive Components Ltd . amounted to HUF 12.9 billion in Q1-Q3 2023, a decrease by 13.9 per cent compared to the base period.

Rába Automotive Components Ltd. generates a signif icant part of its turnover on the European market.

European exports in Q1-Q3 2023 reached EUR 12.9 million, a decrease of 26.9 per cent compared to EUR 17.7 million in the base period of 2022.

Domestic sales revenue before consolidation in the reporting period amounted to HUF 7,937 million compared to HUF 8,133 million in Q1-Q3 of 2022, a decrease by 2.4 per cent.

The sales figures and their comparison for the base period with the period in review are fundamentally affected by the fact that in the framework of efficiency improvement measures, the organisational and operational management of the Sárvár sit e of the Components business unit was transferred from Rába Automotive Components Ltd. to Rába Axle Ltd. in Q3 2022.

At operating level, the Business unit generated a profit of HUF 491 million in the period under review, compared to a profit of HUF 665 million in the base period in 2022.

At the EBITDA level, the operating profit of the Components business unit for the period under review amounted to HUF 699 million, compared to HUF 990 million a year earlier.

Consolidated report of RÁBA Plc. on operations for Q1- Q3 2023 under IFRS

 Million HUF                     Q1-Q3                 Q1-Q3         Change           Q3        Q3     Change  
                                                                                       
                            2022                2023                        2022         2023       
                                                                                                 
 EU - export         6 802       4 934          -27.5%       1 732   1 221  -29.5%   
 EU - domestic       8 133       7 937          -2.4%        3 494   2 508  -28.2%   
                                                                             
 Total sales revenue 22          0      -100.0%        0     0               
 EBITDA              14 957      12 871         -13.9%       5 226   3 729  -28.6%   
                                                                                     
 Operating profit    990         699            -29.4%       371     15     -96.0%   
                                                                                     
 EU - export         665         491            -26.2%       289     -54    -118.7%  
                                                                                                               
Rába Vehicle Ltd.

The sales revenue of Rába Vehicle Ltd. generated in Q1-Q3 2023 was 93.2 per cent higher than the base period level, increasing from HUF 1,071 million to HUF 2,069 million.

The majority of Rába Vehicle Ltd. 's sales are real ised on the domestic market, while it sells on the European market on a project basis.

European exports in the cumulative period of 2023 amounted to EUR 1.9 million, which is 69.6 per cent higher than the EUR 1.1 million during the base period.

The domestic sales revenue before consolidation in the first nine months of 2023 was HUF 1,355 million, an increase of 108.8 per cent.

As from 1. January, 2023, the Rába Development Inst itute, performing R+D activities has been integrated into Rába Vehicles Ltd. from Rába Axles Lt d.

The operating profit amounted to HUF 343 million during the reporting period, compared to the profit of HUF 130 million during the base period last year.

At the EBITDA level, the operating profit of the Vehicle business unit for the period was HUF 366 million compared to HUF 137 million in Q1-Q3 of 2022.

Million HUF

Q1-Q3

Q1-Q3

Change

Q3

Q3

Change

EU - export         423   711   68.1%  211 494 0.0%
EU - domestic       649   1 355 108.8% 239 448 87.4%
                                                
Other               0     3            0   3    
                                                
Total sales revenue 1 071 2 069 93.2%  449 945 110.5%
                                                
EBITDA              137   366   167.2% 75  182 142.7%
                                                
Operating profit    130   343   163.8% 73  174 138.4%
REKARD Kft.

As of Q3 2022, the portfolio of the Rába Group has been expanded, REKARD LLC. will continue to operate as a wholly owned Rába subsidiary included in the consolidation of the Rába Group.

REKARD LLC. realised HUF 4,009 million in sales revenue in Q1-Q3 of 2023.

REKARD LLC. realises a significant part of its sales on the European market.

The realised sales revenue of European exports in the first nine months of 2023 was EUR 7.6 million.

Domestic sales revenue before consolidation reached HUF 1,096 million in the review period.

The operating profit for Q1-Q3 of 2023 was HUF 343 million.

At EBITDA level, REKARD LLC's operating profit for the period was HUF 488 million.

Consolidated report of RÁBA Plc. on operations for Q1- Q3 2023 under IFRS

 Million HUF                Q1-Q3            Q1-Q3               Change               Q3        Q3     Change  
                                                                                       
                       2022             2023                            2022             2023       
                                                                                                 
 EU - export                0     2 899            n.a.* 753     641           -14.9%  
 EU - domestic              0     1 096            n.a.* 271     166           -38.7%  
 Other                      0     15               n.a.* 2     7        250.0%  
 Total sales revenue        0     4 009            n.a.* 1 026   813           -20.8%  
 EBITDA                     0     488              n.a.* 167     60            -64.1%  
 Operating profit           0     343              n.a.* 118     15            -87.3%  
* not applicable: in H1 of 2022 REKARD LLC. was not yet a full member of the consolidated companies

Rába Group

The Rába Group achieved consolidated sales revenues of HUF 56.0 billion in Q1-Q3 2023, an increase of 22.1 per cent compared to the HUF 45.8 billion in the base period of 2022.

The operating profit of the group during the current period amounted to HUF 1,927 million, compared to the HUF 1,085 million during the same period a year earlier.

During the reporting period, the financial result showed a profit of HUF 263 million, which includes, among other things, net interest payments of HUF 178 million and unrealised loan revaluations of HUF 366 million due to exchange rate decline.

Based on the above, the Rába Group achieved a net p rofit of HUF 1,670 million in Q1-Q3 of 2023 compared to losses of HUF 815 million in the same period last year.

At EBITDA level, the Rába Group achieved a profit o f HUF 3,853 million in Q1-Q3 2023, compared to HUF 2,996 million a year earlier.

The Rába Group - other data and events pertaining to the business activity

Sales revenue by business units

 Sales revenue              Axle       Components     Vehicle                Rekard     Rába Group  
 (HUF million)                                                  consolidated  
                                                                                       
 2022 Q1       8 837  4 464      121                  13 265
 2022 Q2       11 170 5 267      501                  16 742
 2022 Q3       10 508 5 226      449   1 026      15 839
 2022 Q4       12 670 3 730      819   1 257      18 500
 2023 Q1       13 732 4 753      244   1 704      20 332
 2023 Q2       12 982 4 390      880   1 492      19 692
 2023 Q3       10 443 3 729      945   813        15 949
Breakdown of the sales revenues for Q1-Q3 2023

 HUF million               America                             EU                     CIS     Other     Total  
                                                                                               
                                   Total              export      domestic                     
                                                                                                       
 Axle         2 906        32 460        28 155       4 305    0           1 791      37  157
 Components   0     12 871         4 934        7 937        0    0              12 871
 Vehicle      3     2 066          711          1 355        0    0              2  069
 Rekard       2     3 994          2 899        1 096        0    13                4 009
 Consolidated 2 911        51 259        36 703       14 557   0           1 804      55  974
Consolidated report of RÁBA Plc. on operations for Q1- Q3 2023 under IFRS

Operating profit of group companies

Q1

Q2

Q3

Operating profit

Q4 year Q1
         
Q2 Q3
    
year

Axle       -771 692   -146 643 418   40  402   -62 380
                                                    
Components 19   357   289  120 785   209 336   -54 491
Vehicle    -28  85    73   225 355   -34 203   174 343
                                                    
Rekard                118  -56 62    106 222   15  343
Other      296  100   1    27  424   188 137   45  370
                                                    
Total      -484 1 234 335  959 2 044 509 1 300 118 1 927
Companies involved in the consolidation

Name                            Share/Issue capital Ownership   Voting ratio 1 Classification 2
HUF thousand                    ratio (%)            
                                                               
Rába Axle Ltd.                  9 765 800           100.00      100.00         S
Rába Automotive Components Ltd. 300 000             100.00      100.00         S
Rába Vehicle Ltd.               835 100             100.00      100.00         S
REKARD LLC.                     100 000             100.00      100.00         S
1Voting right securing participation in the decision-making at the general meeting of the company subject to consolidation. 2Subsidiary (S); Jointly controlled (J); Affiliated (A).

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME UNDER IFRS (IFRS INCOME STATEMENT)

data in thousand HUF

Q1-Q3Q1-Q3

Description of item

Index

Q3

Q3 Index

2022 2023

2023

Domestic sales revenues                           12 415 798 14 556 613 117.2%  4 212 365  4 405 851  104.6%
Export sales revenues                             33 430 799 41 417 528 123.9%  11 626 954 11 543 628 99.3%
                                                                                                       
Sales revenues                                    45 846 597 55 974 141 122.1%  15 839 320 15 949 479 100.7%
Direct cost of sales                              38 014 337 46 304 255 121.8%  13 319 998 13 643 460 102.4%
Gross profit                                      7 832 260  9 669 886  123.5%  2 519 321  2 306 019  91.5%
                                                                                                       
Cost of sales and marketing                       353 280    482 389    136.5%  126 723    94 764     74.8%
General overhead and administration expenses      6 798 938  7 002 165  103.0%  2 175 063  2 113 948  97.2%
Other revenues                                    853 424    373 706    43.8%   184 288    122 260    66.3%
                                                                                                       
Other expenditures                                448 764    632 421    140.9%  66 880     102 152    152.7%
Total other operating expenses                    -6 747 558 -7 743 267 114.8%  -2 184 377 -2 188 604 100.2%
                                                                                                       
Revenue from operations                           1 084 702  1 926 619  177.6%  334 944    117 415    35.1%
                                                                                                       
Financial revenues                                1 126 277  783 498    69.6%   580 332    -1 110 585 -191.4%
Financial expenditures                            2 819 428  520 271    18.5%   1 367 289  -372 427   -27.2%
Net financial profit/loss                         -1 693 151 263 227    15.5%   -786 957   -738 159   93.8%
                                                                                                       
Profit from the acquisition of a subsidiary       0          0                  0          0           
Profit from the acquisition of an affiliated com- 108 611    0          0.0%    0          0           
pany                                               
                                                                                            
INVESTMENT INCOME FROM PURCHASES                  108 611    0          0.0%    0          0           
                                                                                                       
PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION                            -499 838   2 189 846  -438.1% -452 013   -620 744   137.3%
                                                                                                       
Profit tax                                        314 919    519 396    164.9%  110 715    110 749    100.0%
                                                                                                       
PROFIT AFTER TAXATION IN THE CUR-                 -814 757   1 670 449  -205.0% -562 729   -731 493   130.0%
RENT YEAR
                                                                                            
Basic earnings per share (HUF)                    -60        124                                       
                                                                                                       
Diluted earnings per share (HUF)                  -60        124                                       
1. EARNED REVENUES

In Q1-Q3 2023, Rába Plc. realised a turnover of HUF 55,974 million, a change of 22.1 per cent compared to HUF 45,847 million in the same period of the previous year. 74 per cent of turnover in the period under review was export, the rest was domestic sales.

Consolidated report of RÁBA Plc. on operations for Q1- Q3 2023 under IFRS

2. COSTS AND OTHER REVENUES, EXPENDITURES

2.1. Direct costs

Rába Plc's direct cost level in Q1-Q3 2023 was 82.7 per cent compared to 82.9 per cent in the base period. Direct costs amounted to HUF 46,304 million, which is 21.8 per cent more than in the base period (Q1-Q3 2022: HUF 38,014 million).

Changes in gross profit

The gross yield changed from HUF 7,832 million in the base period to HUF 9,670 million (an increase of HUF 1,838 million), which is the result of an increase in sales revenue by HUF 10,128 million and in direct costs by HUF 8,290 million.

2.2. Cost of sales

Cost of sales increased by 36.5 per cent to HUF 482 million in Q1-Q3 2023 compared to HUF 353 million in Q1-Q3 2022.

2.3. General overhead and administration expenses

The Company reports under general and administrative expenses (Q1-Q3 2023: HUF 7,002 million,

Q1-Q3 of 2022: HUF 6,799 million) the administrative expenses (Q1-Q3 2023: HUF 2,797 million)

and other general expenses (Q1-Q3 2023: HUF 4,205 million).

2.4. Other revenues, expenditures

The balance of other income and expenses was a loss of HUF 259 million in the period under review, compared to a profit of HUF 405 million in the same period of the previous year. The result of the period was significantly influenced by the impairment and write-off of stocks and receivables in the value of HUF 284 million. The result from other activities during the base period also included the proceeds from a one-off property transaction, amounting to HUF 342 million.

3. OPERATING PROFIT

The Company's operating result in Q1-Q3 of 2023 was HUF 1,927 million (Q1-Q3 of 2022: HUF 1,085 million). The increase in gross profit (HUF 1,838 million) is worsened by the combined change in sales and general overhead and administrative expenses (HUF -333 million) and the change in the balance of other income and expenses (HUF -663 million). Profitability changed from 2.4 per cent in the base period to 3.4 per cent. Profitability of operating profit + depreciation increased to 6.9 per cent compared to 6.5 per cent in the base period.

4. FINANCIAL REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES

The net financial result for Q1-Q3 2023 was a profit of HUF 263 million, compared to a loss of HUF 1,693 million in the base period.

The net result on interest income and expenses in Q1-Q3 2023 was HUF -142 million (HUF -85 million in the base period).

The net exchange rate difference on foreign exchange items in Q1-Q3 2023 was HUF 379 million (HUF -1,601 million in the base period).

The composition of financial income and expenses is shown in the table below:

 data in HUF thousand                     Q1-Q3 of 2022     Q1-Q3 of 2023  
                                                         
 Interest income              3 382       175 876
 Exchange rate gains          1 122 895   544 078
 Other financial revenues     0         63 543
 Financial revenues           1 126 277   783 498
 Interest payable             88 405      317 452
 Exchange rate loss           2 724 114   165 214
 Other financial expenditures 6 909       37 605
 Financial expenditures       2 819 428   520 271
5. PROFIT IN THE CURRENT YEAR

The profit before tax for Q1-Q3 2023 was HUF 2,190 million, which is HUF 2,690 million higher than

Consolidated report of RÁBA Plc. on operations for Q1- Q3 2023 under IFRS

in Q1-Q3 of 2022 due to the factors discussed in sections 1-4. The profitability margin at the profit before tax level corresponds to a profitability on sales of 3.91 per cent, compared to -1.09 per cent in the base period.

At group level, a tax liability of HUF 519 million was incurred in the period. Of this amount, the corporate tax liability amounted to HUF 100 million, the business tax liability to HUF 360 million, the innovation contribution liability to HUF 64 million and the deferred tax expense for the current period to HUF -5 million.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION UNDER IFRS (IFRS BALANCE SHEET)

data in thousand HUF

 Definition of item                                      31.12.2022              30.09.2023          Index  
 Real properties, machines, equipment         26 043 001              27 499 527              105.6%  
 Intangible assets                            47 336                  45 605                  96.3%   
 Other long-term assets                       0                     0                        
 Property for investment purposes             331 522                 331 522                 100.0%  
 Other investments                            205                     205                     100.0%  
 Deferred tax receivables                     32 405                  32 330                  99.8%   
 Total invested assets                        26 454 469              27 909 190              105.5%  
 Inventories                                  15 987 210              16 763 278              104.9%  
 Trade receivables and other receivables      9 073 011               9 181 106               101.2%  
 Profit tax receivables                       0                     0                        
 Other non-financial assets and receivables   3 010 864               3 409 568               113.2%  
 Cash and cash equivalents                    8 561 673               5 909 524               69.0%   
 Total current assets                         36 632 758              35 263 475              96.3%   
 Total assets                                 63 087 227              63 172 665              100.1%  
 Registered capital                           13 473 446              13 473 446              100.0%  
 Treasury shares                              -108 952                -108 952                100.0%  
 Retained earnings                            9 447 999               11 118 448              117.7%  
 Total equity and reserves                    22 812 493              24 482 942              107.3%  
 Long-term credits and loans                  14 382 585              13 429 621              93.4%   
 Provisions                                   0                     0                        
 Deferred tax liability                       238 635                 233 820                 98.0%   
 Leasing liability                            38 092                  26 007                  68.3%   
 Others long-term liabilities                 2 925 705               2 706 863               92.5%   
 Total long-term liabilities                  17 585 017              16 396 311              93.2%   
 Provisions                                   374 677                 374 677                 100.0%  
 Profit tax liability                         151 031                 38 047                  25.2%   
 Leasing liability                            41 789                  46 706                  111.8%  
 Short-term portion of loans and credits      7 964 535               6 366 384               79.9%   
 Trade liabilities and other liabilities      10 374 587              9 554 092               92.1%   
 Other non-financial liabilities              3 783 098               5 913 504               156.3%  
 Total short-term liabilities                 22 689 717              22 293 412              98.3%   
 Total equity and liabilities                 63 087 227              63 172 665              100.1%  
Analysis of principal balance sheet items and their changes

1. INVESTED ASSETS

1.1. Properties, machines and equipment

The consolidated net value of property, plant and equipment changed from HUF 26,043 million at the 31 December, 2022 to HUF 27,500 million. The change is a 5.6 per cent increase. Depreciation of tangible assets in Q1-Q3 2023 was HUF 1,927 million.

In accordance with IFRS 16, the value of the assets, forklift trucks and passenger cars, the right to use of which was transferred to Rába by the lessor, amounted to HUF 92 million on 1 January 2023,

Attention: This is an excerpt of the original content. To continue reading it, access the original document here[https://docs.publicnow.com/60E01EE2E1BCB03F27DEBEEB6EEE5648F40FD57C].

* This content was originally posted here[https://www.bse.hu/site/newkib/en/2023.11./Report_of_Raba_Plc._for_Q1-Q3_of_2023_128983080]

Disclaimer

RÁBA Jarmuipari Holding Nyrt. published this content on 22 November 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 22 November 2023 16:39:34 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020231122ejbm005q9


Interview
Charles Michel: 'I don't think this counteroffensive has failed'
Oleksiy Sorokin
2018 字
2023 年 11 月 23 日
The Kyiv Independent
KYIVIME
英文
Copyright © 2023 The Kyiv Independent
Ten years after Ukrainians took to the streets their dissatisfaction with what many saw as a nail into the coffin of the country's European future, the European Council president was in Kyiv promising that Ukraine would soon begin accession talks.

"My goal is to do everything to make a positive decision possible," Charles Michel told the Kyiv Independent on the 10th anniversary of the EuroMaidan Revolution that pushed the country back on the path of European integration.

In an interview with the Kyiv Independent, Michel talked about the need to convince Hungary to start accession talks with Ukraine, ramp up military production, the possible elections in Ukraine and the quite real ones in the U.S., and how the EU must be strong enough to continue providing Ukraine with what it needs to win the war and for the Kremlin to be stripped of its economic potential to continue the fight.

"The last package of sanctions is directly inspired by the cooperation with our intelligence services and the Ukrainian intelligence services based on what we can see on the battlefield," said Michel.

Watch the full video interview or read the Q&A below.

Charles Michel talks about Ukraine's counteroffensive, elections. Interview in Kyiv[https://www.youtube.com/embed/uwlj1cRcejY?feature=oembed]

Kyiv Independent: I will start with the question about the main roadblocks to starting accession talks with Ukraine in December. What are they?

Charles Michel: My goal is to do everything to make a positive decision possible, but you know we need to decide on unanimity in the European Council. It's always challenging.

Still, it's very important to give a very strong signal. Why? Because it's a question of moral duty. Ukrainians are fighting for our common democratic values and principles. Also, it's because the enlargement in those circumstances, more than ever, is an investment in peace, security, and prosperity for the future.

That's why I sincerely hope that the European Council and its members will recognize the huge efforts made by the Ukrainian authorities in implementing the reforms that are needed. I hope we can send a positive signal, but it will require proper efforts to prepare this decision in the European Council.

Kyiv Independent: How will you persuade Hungary to accept Ukraine? Will you unblock 13 billion euros in frozen funds?

Charles Michel: You know, some suspicions expressed by observers that the Hungarian position could be linked with some bilateral irritants between Hungary and the European Commission.

But the most important thing for me is to make sure that the EU is acting in a geopolitical way. It means that we need to understand what's at stake and what's at stake on the European continent. This is peace, security, prosperity.

This EU project is based on those fundamental principles. Russia has decided to launch a war, a full-scale invasion not only against Ukraine. But it's also a war against security in the world, including in Europe. That's why it is fundamental that the 27 members make the right choices to ensure we prepare a better future for our children and grandchildren.

Kyiv Independent: The European Union promised a million shells to Ukraine. Obviously, it won't be able to produce one million shells by the deadline. Do you see this as an inability of the European Union to adapt to the war in Ukraine 20 months in?

Charles Michel: Look, we have decided in a few months to mobilize more than 82 billion euros in total for supporting Ukraine. And we are going to do more. It is a proposal to increase the support with an additional package of 50 billion euros for Ukraine. But in terms of ammunition, you are absolutely right that we need to speed up. We need to accelerate.

We've already provided 300,000 rounds. These are the latest numbers by the end of October. And we are working very hard to make sure most are to come. We will increase our production, but this shows that we are right when we are making a decision to develop the European defense and capabilities to support Ukraine. But also to ensure that we will be stronger, more influential, and more resilient in the future.

Kyiv Independent: Do you think that Ukraine should hold elections in 2024 if the war is not over?

Charles Michel: First and foremost, this debate is for Ukrainians. It's my first point. The second part, we must be realistic. It is so difficult to do an electoral campaign in those circumstances. But, it is the responsibility of the Ukrainian authorities to make the decision.

Kyiv Independent: Will Zelensky have the same credibility if he doesn't hold elections on time?

Charles Michel: I can tell you that in Europe he has very strong credibility because he's very courageous. And it's also the image of the Ukrainian people. He's extremely active in defending the Ukraine interest, he's extremely brave, and we want to support him and want to support the people of Ukraine as much as we can for as long as it takes.

Kyiv Independent: Do you think that the slow arms production and delivery to Ukraine and also the inability to choke Russia economically is part of why the Ukraine counteroffensive failed to reach its goals?

Charles Michel: I don't think this counteroffensive had failed. Two examples. Firstly, how the Ukrainian Army made huge progress in the Black Sea is extremely important. This is a major step in the right direction. Secondly, the recent progress made on the left side of the Dnipro River is also very important.

But you are absolutely right that we need to support Ukraine with more military capabilities. This is what we want to do. For instance, we've already trained more than 30,000 soldiers and will do more.

This is also true if you mentioned the production within the European Union. The current situation shows that we need to speed up and ramp up our production to support Ukraine. And also because in the future, we understand that the EU, which is a very strong economic actor, is very strong and powerful in terms of spreading common standards and internal norms across the world. We need to develop more defense and security capabilities in the future.

Kyiv Independent: Europe always says it will support Ukraine for as long as it takes, but every new military and financial aid, sanction package takes longer and longer. Will Europe still be able to produce this amount of support for Ukraine in 2024 and 2025?

Charles Michel: I'm quite sure. If you observe what we have been doing since the start of the full-scale invasion, we succeeded in deciding on 11 packages of sanctions, and the 12th package is currently being discussed.

We reacted very quickly, and we always remember the hours following the full-scale invasion when we were at the European Council meeting in Brussels, we decided on the strategy, and we are following this strategy of fully supporting Ukraine as much as we can.

We know that sanctions take some time before they have a real and sustainable effect on a country. Can you imagine what the situation would be without this united support by the EU, the Americans, and other partners?

It's very clear that in terms of financial support, for instance, at the beginning, we made decisions case by case, then we decided to work on a multi-annual approach to provide more predictability to the Ukrainian authorities who are working closely with the IMF, for instance, to make sure that we support in terms of macro-financial assistance.

In each meeting I have with President Zelensky, each phone conversation, we have discussed in-depth what are the additional modalities and what are the additional concrete elements we can decide on and put in place to strengthen our support for Ukraine and to maximize the impact of sanctions against Russia.

Including by addressing the circumvention of sanctions and making sure that we convince many countries not to allow Russia to escape those things.

Kyiv Independent: Sorry, is it possible? Because Russia is able to obtain, for example, Czech parts[https://kyivindependent.com/investigation-czech-parts-make-their-way-to-russian-military-helicopters-despite-sanctions/] or U.S. parts for its missiles.

Charles Michel: The last pack of sanctions is directly inspired by the cooperation with our intelligence services and the Ukrainian intelligence services based on what we can see on the battlefield.

For instance, we are now targeting more and more what we call dual-use goods because it is so important to consider how Russia is trying to adapt its industrial base.

That's why, in terms of certain sanctions packages, we constantly need to adapt our framework to try to reduce the possibilities for Russia to escape these sanctions.

Kyiv Independent: You also mentioned the U.S. Is it fair to say that the U.S. elections will directly impact the European Union and support for Ukraine?

Charles Michel: I want to be clear. We are very important partners and allies with the United States. But we have our own destiny, and we need to demonstrate that we are able to make our own decisions. And I sincerely hope that we can count on the full support of the United States in the future. I'm very grateful to (President) Joe Biden and his administration for this very close cooperation and this common approach to Ukraine on the security of the European continent.

One thing is absolutely certain for the European Union, Ukraine, and candidate countries in the future, it's very important to make sure that we have more domestic tools with more capabilities to be more resilient and to have more influence in the future.

Kyiv Independent: Is the EU preparing for a potential Trump victory in the U.S. right now?

Charles Michel: We are determined to strengthen our support for Ukraine together with the United States. Last time, when I met with Joe Biden, we agreed on this principle that it is important for Congress and people in the United States to feel the support coming from the EU. And it is also important in the EU that we feel this strong commitment expressed by Joe Biden and his team.

There will be elections in the United States. There will be elections within the EU. Okay, this is clear. But it is our duty today to make sure that the public opinion, our citizens in the United States and Europe, understand the seriousness of the situation.

They have to understand that the support for Ukraine is a strategic investment for peace and security. And the world will be safer if we can support Ukraine and ensure the world's best order is protected and defended.

Kyiv Independent: Do you think the European Union, the U.S., and Ukraine have failed to persuade the Global South to support Ukraine?

Charles Michel: I have a nuanced answer.

I remember the bit of the war that was difficult because you were right that Russia started to develop a very aggressive narrative. As always, Russia was trying to persuade the Global South, giving the impression that it was provoked and that it had no other choice but to react to the 'NATO provocation,' etc.

I think we did a lot, which successfully convinced a big part of the Global South that Russia is making troubles across the world. And that Russian behavior has a dramatic and negative impact on the most valuable countries in terms of food and security, economic crisis, inflation, etc.

The situation in the Middle East is also used by Russia to try to attack the Western part of the world, trying to spread the idea that there will be double standards, which is not true. We defend international law always and everywhere.

What's wrong with Hungary? | This Week in Ukraine Ep. 34[https://www.youtube.com/embed/Jj0Hnc6YXWM?start=2&feature=oembed]

European Council President Charles Michel speaks with the Kyiv Independent in Kyiv, on Nov. 21, 2023. (Anna Yakutenko/Kyiv Independent)[https://assets.kyivindependent.com/content/images/2023/11/DSC02889-1.JPG]

Kyiv Independent Media Ltd

文件 KYIVIME020231123ejbn00005


Hungary This Week - November 24, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 11 月 24 日, 12913 字, (英文)
Hungary’s budget deficit widens to €9.1bn at end of OctoberHungary's cash flow-based general government deficit reached HUF3.48 trillion (€9.1bn) at the end of October, which is 102% of the initial target, the finance ministry said, ...

Szijjarto: EU economy beset by failure due to 'ideological sanctions'
560 字
2023 年 11 月 27 日
MTI Daily Bulletin - News in English
MTIDB
英文
© 2023 MTVA. All Rights Reserved
Budapest, November 27 (MTI) - The European Union's economy today

is characterised by "failure" due to "ideologically and emotionally

driven policies", Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said in Brussels

on Monday, insisting it was now clear that the sanctions imposed on

Russia had failed.

"The sanctions policy has failed, and the trouble and damage it

causes outweighs the ... benefits," Szijjarto told a press

conference after a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council. "The

mere fact that sanctions are being massively evaded is further

proof" of their failure, he added.

According to a ministry statement, the minister said common

sense would dictate that there was no sense in carrying on with

sanctions, adding that those who approached the issue on the basis

of ideology believed the restrictions should be tightened even

further.

"Now that we've discussed the twelfth sanctions package, we

again have to ask the fundamental question of where the analysis on

the first eleven packages is," he said. "Where's the report on

their effect? Who can say how much damage the first ten sanctions

packages have done to the European economy?"

"It was said again today that the sanctions are working because

Russia's revenues are diminishing," Szijjarto said. "That's what

the European Commission's extremely thorough, multifaceted and

data-heavy report sounds like today."

He lamented that certain member states had put forward

proposals that would present a danger to the energy security of

other countries, including Hungary. He cited the example of the

proposed sanctions on nuclear energy, saying Hungary's government

would never approve such a measure because it would hurt the

country's short, medium and long-term energy supply.

"Whose interests would such a sanction serve? Because it's

certain that it wouldn't be Europe's or member states' interests,"

he said.

Szijjarto said certain member states also favoured scrapping

exemptions to sanctions on Russian oil in 2025, adding that Hungary

would not support such a step, either.

He noted that the EC is set to send the proposal on the new

sanctions package to member states on Monday evening or Tuesday.

"We made it clear that we refuse to work under any kind of time

pressure, meaning that we won't give our opinion on the sanctions

until we've analysed their effect on the economy," Szijjarto said.

Meanwhile, the minister said the EU's competitiveness was "at

its worst level in decades" due to "an economic policy driven by

emotions and ideology".

"Fortunately there are counterexamples of this," he said. "If

economic policy is based on rationality, common sense and the

national interest, as it is in Hungary, it can be successful, which

is why the national economy's indicators are breaking records each

year."

Szijjarto said Hungary was set to double last year's record

investments this year, and exports are also seen rising by 6-8

percent.

He said efforts to sever cooperation between East and West and

rebuild geopolitical blocs were causing "operational problems" in

the global economy.

Severing ties between East and West would "deal a knock-out

blow to the European economy", putting hundreds of thousands of

jobs in jeopardy, he warned. "We therefore ask those here in

Brussels and EU governments not to interfere with the natural

course of business operations," he said.

MTVA

文件 MTIDB00020231127ejbr000p1


eu-countries-slam-hungary-for-opposing-aid-accession-to-ukraine
EU countries slam Hungary for opposing aid, accession to Ukraine
694 字
2023 年 12 月 11 日
Luxembourg Times
LUXTIM
英文
Copyright 2023 Mediahuis Luxembourg – All Rights Reserved
European Union member states are growing frustrated with Hungary’s attempt to block funding for Ukraine and obstruct the opening of accession talks, risking a showdown at a meeting of its leaders just as US funding for Kyiv is also in doubt.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has twice written to the head of the European Council, warning him to drop Ukraine membership talks from the agenda of the summit, which takes place Thursday and Friday. He’s also been unwilling to back a €50 billion support package for Kyiv.

The government in Budapest continued to block all issues related to Ukraine at a meeting of EU ambassadors over the weekend, souring the mood that an agreement will be reached later this week, according to people familiar with the matter.

“The only way I can read the Hungarian position, not just on Ukraine but on many other issues, is that they’re against Europe and everything that Europe stands for,” Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis told reporters ahead of a meeting with his counterparts in Brussels on Monday.

The impasse in Brussels comes during a critical week for Ukraine. With US President Joe Biden’s request for further military assistance stalled in Congress and Hungary continuing to block EU support for Ukraine, Kyiv may be left empty-handed after EU leaders meet later this week and US lawmakers leave for their holiday break on 15 December.

Such a scenario would mark a turning point in Western support for Ukraine with newly committed military assistance already at its lowest level since the invasion began almost two years ago. It may also embolden Russian President Vladimir Putin, who has been betting that Kyiv’s allies would eventually grow fatigued.

Ukraine’s leader Volodymyr Zelenskiy will press the case for further military assistance when he meets Biden and US congressional leaders in Washington on Tuesday.

Ukraine waiting

For Ukraine, “the mother of all decisions” will be whether member states agree to open the accession talks at the summit, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba told reporters ahead of the meeting in Brussels.

“I cannot imagine, I don’t even want to talk about the devastating consequences that will occur should the council fail to make this decision,” he added.

Kuleba said he would meet his Hungarian counterpart on the sidelines of the gathering of foreign ministers to press for clarity on its position, given Ukraine is implementing reforms, including those requested by Budapest related to national minorities.

While Hungary has previously opposed numerous sanction packages against Russia, the bloc would ultimately find a way to bring Budapest around. This time, some diplomats worry Orban’s position has become too entrenched to find a solution.

Hungary’s leader has argued in recent weeks that Ukraine isn’t ready for EU membership and said the bloc’s leaders need to rethink their overall strategy toward Kyiv before taking any new decisions. He’s also proposed the EU develop a strategic partnership with Ukraine instead. Orban has privately made similar points to EU leaders in recent days, said the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Finnish Foreign Minister Elina Valtonen told reporters that Hungary’s position has “been very, very deplorable over the course of the past months,” stressing that “it’s crucial that we keep on aiding Ukraine for as long as it’s needed.”

While the two issues haven’t officially been linked, Hungary’s position could soften this week once the EU unlocks around €10 billion of EU funds for Hungary, once its parliament concludes the adoption of some amendments to the reform of judiciary law.

The EU is separately working on a 12th package of sanctions against Russia, including plans to ban Russian diamonds and measures to better enforce the price cap on Russian oil. While some countries are continuing to try to water down the package, according to people familiar with the matter, there is hope the sanctions could be approved in the coming days or weeks.

©2023 Bloomberg L.P.

Hungary PM Viktor Orban[https://img.luxtimes.lu/public/luxembourg/3b9145-hungary-pm-viktor-orban/alternates/BASE_SIXTEEN_NINE/Hungary%20PM%20Viktor%20Orban]

Mediahuis Luxembourg

文件 LUXTIM0020231211ejcb0008e


CE Noticias Financieras English
Hungary passes Russian-inspired law to investigate "interference" in its sovereignty
671 字
2023 年 12 月 12 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Marcelo Nagy

Budapest, Dec 12 (EFE) - The Hungarian Parliament approved Tuesday a controversial law that tightens the veto on foreign funding in politics and creates an office that can investigate foreign "interference", something compared by the opposition and human rights advocates with Russian tactics of harassment of dissent.

Promoted by the ruling Fidesz party of ultra-nationalist Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, the law provides for up to three years' imprisonment for the use of foreign funds in election campaigns.

It also creates an "Office for the Defense of National Sovereignty", which "detects and investigates" foreign or domestic activities that "could endanger the sovereignty of Hungary", "influence the results of the elections", as well as "the electoral will".

According to local analysts, by talking about the "defense of sovereignty" in reality the law tries to serve the interests of the Orbán government.

"When the government speaks of national interests, it usually speaks or refers to its own interests, the interests of power, the interests of the regime," said 'Political Capital' institute analyst Bulcsú Hunyadi in a talk with journalists from international media in Budapest.

"We believe it is a conscious tactic of the Hungarian government to pass laws that can be interpreted in very broad ways," Hunyadi added.

The government claims it is defending the country's sovereignty and that the amendments are part of EU policies to defend against outside interference.

"Hungary's sovereignty is increasingly under threat," the introduction to the law states, adding that foreign attempts to influence the country's internal policies have been detected for years, "against Hungarian interests and standards."

The opposition Democratic Coalition and Momentum parties have criticized the legal proposal.

According to Momentum, it is "intimidating" and opens the door to a "lying smear campaign", similar to those in Vladimir Putin's Russia.

One of the most important criticisms is that the text does not clearly and unequivocally determine what "influence" or "manipulate information" means, says Márta Pardavi, co-chair of the Hungarian Helsinki Committee.

"These are deliberately very vague provisions," Pardavi told international journalists, adding that the body will prepare annual reports that will be made public and will include findings on its investigations.

The office could investigate any person or organization, including political parties, NGOs, churches and even individuals.

Even so, the office will not have the power to sanction, but neither will there be the possibility of filing appeals against the content of the reports and against the investigations themselves.

"This is the culmination of ongoing campaigns based on intimidation and harassment," said Pardavi.

The Council of Europe's Human Rights Officer, Dunja Mijatovic, called in late November for Hungary to renounce the project, mainly the establishment of the Office.

"The powers that such a body would have pose a significant risk" to human rights in Hungary, Mijatovic warned in a statement, adding that the entity's broad powers could be used as a weapon against anyone who might be considered a political opponent.

The amendments also modify electoral legislation and the penal code.

Currently, the use of foreign money in election campaigns is already prohibited, but now the penalties are toughened and the crime of "unlawfully influencing the electoral will" is introduced into the criminal code, which would be punishable by up to three years in prison.

In 2017 the Hungarian government pushed through a law that obliged NGOs receiving more than 23,000 euros from abroad to provide a list of donors and define themselves as a "foreign-funded organization."

Four years later this law was struck down by the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) on the grounds that it violated EU law.

In this same context, the president of Transparency International Hungary, Miklós Ligeti assured in declarations to the independent portal 24.hu that "the text does not have a single part that would not collapse in a real review by the Constitutional Court".EFE

mn/jk/ll/av

(photo)

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020231212ejcc00ldy


Loonela: Release of Hungary's money shows system is working
News.err.ee, 2023 年 12 月 13 日 11:07 GMT, 718 字, (英文)

CE Noticias Financieras English
Viktor Orbán, Putin's "strategic" friend who has defied the EU for more than a decade
736 字
2023 年 12 月 14 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The threat of a Hungarian veto on Ukraine' s aid and prospects for European Union (EU) membership hangs over the summit that closes Spain's rotating presidency, although in reality this should come as no surprise. The ultra-nationalist Viktor Orbán has been defying the EU bloc for more than a decade and showcasing his status as an ally of the West's number one enemy, Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Born in Székesfehérvár in 1963 and leader of the Fidesz party since 1993, he is the most veteran among EU leaders. There have been several attempts by opponents to remove him from power. But in April 2022, a few months after the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, he renewed without wrinkling the absolute majority with which he governs Hungary. Fidesz won 135 of the 199 seats in the Budapest Parliament, two more than in the previous general elections. The opposition coalition created to overthrow him collapsed. Orbán thus began a fifth term in office without qualms, while the EU bloc went from proclaiming its solidarity with President Volodímir Zelenski to supplying him with weapons and receiving millions of refugees from the war-torn country.

Fidesz was part of the European People's Party family, in part, thanks to the backing of the German Christian Democrats of then Chancellor Angela Merkel and its sister party, the Christian Social Union of Bavaria (CSU), Manfred Weber's party. But in 2021 he left this political family 'in extremis'Rusiautin, when the group in the European Parliament was preparing to expel him. He then moved to the alliance of the Conservatives and Reformists, the far-right group shared by the Spanish Vox, the Brothers of Italy of Giorgia Meloni and the Polish Law and Justice (PiS), the formation that on Tuesday transferred power to the pro-European and liberal Donald Tusk.

Affinity with Poland In the eight years in power of PiS, it shared with Poland many blocking positions -- especially on migration policy -- to the proposals of the European Commission. But, as far as Ukraine is concerned, Warsaw is at the antipodes of Budapest: the PiS, like the rest of the Polish political class, has been the great advocate of Zelenski's aspirations, despite the so-called "grain war" that pits Warsaw and Kiev against each other. If anything unites Poles and Ukrainians, it is fear of Russia, while Orbán boasts of being a "strategic" friend of Putin.

In domestic politics, Orbán's Fidesz has turned Hungary into a democracy with blurred boundaries with authoritarianism. He has described his political project as a conservative revolution and has promoted a reform of the Constitution based on "Christian principles", which has served as a platform for successive homophobic laws and harassment of LGTBI groups. The parallel approved an electoral reform or a gag law against freedom of press and opinion. It is a line similar to that followed by Poland in the eight years of PiS in power, which has included a judicial reform undermining the independence of justice and the extension of control over universities.

Brussels reacted to these initiatives, especially the homophobic harassment of justice and civil rights with successive sanctions, including the freezing of European funds destined for Budapest. Here, too, Hungary was twinned with Poland. While Warsaw reacted by abounding in solidarity with Kiev and reinforcing itself as a NATO pillar on the eastern flank, Orbán sought rapprochement not only with Russia, but also with China and Turkey. The Hungarian leader had no longer supported EU sanctions against Moscow after the annexation of Crimea in 2014. After the start of the Russian invasion, he positioned himself in what he describes as"neutrality", which for Brussels is closeness to Moscow, despite its status as a NATO partner.

Orbán's list of clashes with EU institutions is long. But he reacts to any reprimand from Brussels - which in 2018 took the form of a sanction for deeming that he violated the principles of the rule of law - by upholding the flag of Hungarian independence .

With the changeover of power in Warsaw, the ultranationalist bloc in the east goes to the summit somewhat weakened. But for the time being Orbán secured a triumph: the release of 10.2 billion in regional funds for Hungary, announced on the eve of the European Council.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020231214ejce00b6x


Hungary This Week - December 15, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 12 月 15 日, 18382 字, (英文)
Slowdown of European economies poses risks for Hungary’s industryThe output of the automotive industry, Hungary's biggest manufacturing sector, rose 4.9% year on year in October, accelerating from a 1.2% increase in the previous month; ...

Hungary vetoes $54B European aid package for Ukraine, dealing Zelenskyy another blow
FOXNews.com, 2023 年 12 月 15 日 14:22 GMT, 504 字, (英文)
The aid was vetoed by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, delivering another tough blow to Zelenskyy who is heavily dependent on the European Union and U.S. funding to stave off Russian forces.

News; International
IDF: Troops Mistakenly Killed Three Israeli Hostages In Gaza; Hungary's Orban Blocks New Aid To Ukraine; Ukrainian Lawmaker: Without Aid, We Are Going To Lose; Maersk Suspends Shipping Routes Through Red Sea. Aired 3-4p ET
Richard Quest, Alex Marquardt, Bianca Nobilo, Nick Paton Walsh, Wesley Clark, Eleni Giokos, John McCown
7393 字
2023 年 12 月 15 日
CNN International: Quest Means Business
CNNQMB
英文
Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2023 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[14:59:55]

RICHARD QUEST, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: The Israel military accidentally shoots and kills three hostages held in Gaza.

The EU vows to fund Ukraine's war effort despite a veto from Viktor Orban.

And some major shipping companies are halting journeys through the Red Sea after a series of attacks.

Live from New York, on Friday, it's December 15th. I am Richard Quest, and I mean business.

Good evening. The Israeli military says it has accidentally killed three hostages in northern Gaza. The IDF says that three men were shot after being mistakenly identified as a threat. The bodies have been taken back to Israel and were later identified.

Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has released a statement on X, saying he speaks of his unbearable tragedy. Forgive me if I look down while I read. It's only just come through.

Benjamin Netanyahu says, along with all the people of Israel, I bow my head with deep sorrow and mourn the death of three of our dear sons. This is an unbearable tragedy.

Alex Marquardt is with me in Tel Aviv. What happened, Alex?

ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, Richard, before we get into that, we've just gotten the name of the third man who was killed today in this horribly sad event. Alon Shamriz was the third hostage, whose name we did not have until just moments ago when we got it from the Israel Defense Forces. So Alon Shamriz, along with Yotam Haim, 28 years old. The two of them, both of them kidnapped from a kibbutz near the Gaza Strip, Kibbutz Kfar Aza.

And then there was a third man Samer Talalka, 25 years old. He was kidnapped from another kibbutz.

Richard, this happened in Shejaiya, which is a neighborhood in northeastern Gaza. It is where there has been heavy fighting for the past few weeks. The IDF has been trying to clear out northern Gaza, Shejaiya in particular, along with the Jabalya refugee camp nearby.

This incident happened earlier on Friday. We don't know if it was during the day or when it was still dark. But what we understand is that these three men were spotted by IDF troops who mistook them presumably for enemy combatants, fired on them, and killed them.

The troops then went over and looked to the bodies, grew suspicious that they might be hostages. The bodies were taken back to Israel, and they were identified and confirmed to be hostages.

Now, of course, the IDF tonight, showing incredible remorse and sorrow, but at the same time, they say they still have to investigate. The -- Daniel Hagari, the main spokesman for the IDF, was asked if, for example, the men, when they emerged, if they had their hands up, if they were speaking Hebrew. That's something that he did not have the answer to.

Hagari said it was possible that the men had escaped from captivity or that, during the fighting, they had gotten away or gotten left behind, that perhaps the Hamas militants had moved on and simply left them behind. So there are clearly a lot of unanswered questions.

But, Richard, until now, there were just over 130 hostages who remained in the Gaza Strip with around 20 of them believed to be dead. So just around 110 or so believed to be alive -- Richard.

QUEST: I mean, this is the worst nightmare, isn't it, in a sense from Israel's -- in Israel tonight. When the fog of war, as I say that awful phrase, these things happen.

MARQUARDT: It really is, and it is fog of war, but also -- it really highlights the fact that this is just incredibly fierce fighting. We've seen videos, really from both sides, emphasizing how it's such close quarters, it's house to house, it's room to room.

The IDF has had quite a few casualties -- 119 so far. They have had 13 friendly fire deaths which, of course, are tragedies as well one a soldier is killed by his brothers in arms. And then the other day, there was a single incident, which nine soldiers were killed in one attack by militants. And so, the IDF is taking heavy losses.

At the same time, they have been accused by the US and others of not being nearly careful enough when it comes to civilians. We had reporting on CNN just yesterday about the use of dumb bombs, imprecise unguided bombs. Almost half of the bombs that have been dropped on Gaza were dumb bombs.

[15:05:13]

I actually spoke with the National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan earlier today, asking him how he squares, you know, that use -- the high civilian death toll and the use of those dumb bonds with the US insistence that Israel really does have the intent to keep civilians safe. And the US is arguing that Israel needs to do more and that they continue to push them to do more. That was one of the main objectives of this visit by Jake Sullivan, was to tell Israel they need to be much more surgical, much more precise.

And now we know from the IDF that instructions have gone out to all of the troops in Gaza after this horrible incident in which three of the hostages were killed, instructions how to identify civilians, how to identify hostages, so another accident like this will not happen again -- Richard.

QUEST: Alex Marquardt with me. Thank you very much, in Tel Aviv.

Now, also now in Tel Aviv is Gil Dickmann, whose cousin Mel Gat is one of the hostages held in Gaza. Well, Gil, I mean, the news tonight, of course, and, first of all, thank God it wasn't your cousin. But what's your initial thoughts after you hear something like that when -- you know, Gil, there's always that possibility. But now that there's a sharp dose of this reality of the IDF in this case, what do you think? What are your thoughts?

GIL DICKMANN, FAMILY MEMBER HELD HOSTAGE BY HAMAS: We knew this would happen. We warned that that was going to happen. And now, we are keeping on the warning.

This is going to happen again if we do not change what we're doing. Israel must put an initiative on the table right now to get all the hostages back from Gaza because it's impossible to fight a war in these conditions. And it's clear now. The fact that only three hostages were killed, and they are the people that I've got to know their families and my heart goes to them, and, of course, to the soldiers who didn't mean to hurt innocent hostages, that the fact that it's only three is, in a way, lucky.

We don't want any of these events to occur again. We demand that Israel .

QUEST: Right.

DICKMANN: . and the US -- everyone who cares about life -- puts an initiative on the table to bring back all of the hostages home right now before .

QUEST: Right.

DICKMANN: . anything like this happens again.

QUEST: Okay. We'll come to the initiative that you would like to see in a second. But I was interested in your first answer -- bit of your answer where you said you were warned that this might happen. What did you mean?

DICKMANN: We heard the testimonies of the hostages who came back. They were all very vocal about it in the war cabinet meeting just 10 days ago. They said that the war conditions in Gaza puts their lives at risk, and it's certain.

We knew that that was a possibility because we heard their testimonies. And we know that the hostages who came back were saved from these conditions.

But the hostages who were there, their life is still in danger. And we know that that's a possibility. We pray that it's not going to happen, but now it happened. And it's so -- it's just unbelievably sad.

QUEST: But, Gil, this case, of course, it was a complete and utter horrific tragedy and mistake by the IDF, in a sense of they sort of. But if we -- you know, if you look at the conditions of the war being fought at the moment, as you say, one is not surprised if you suddenly hear that one of the stray dumb bombs or whatever has killed hostages as well.

I mean, this is .

DICKMANN: That's right.

QUEST: . this is urban warfare of the most brutal type. And do -- you know, it leaves me asking you -- and forgive me -- I know the difficult position you're in, but does it sometimes feel that Israel has -- the government, they want to get hostages out, but if that's the price we have to pay to beat Hamas, then we might have to pay it?

DICKMANN: No, no. I don't think it's a way of beating Hamas. And I don't think it's a way of a democratic country who cares for life to fight a war. It's not -- if you sacrifice the lives of more than 100 hostages, that's not a win, that's not a victory. That's not how you win a war, that's how you lose.

That's what -- that's why we said from the first moment, the first thing Israel must do before anything else is to make sure that all the hostages are home first. First thing, that's the most important thing because you can't win.

[15:10:11]

If you have hostages there, you can't annihilate Hamas. You can't defeat Hamas when Hamas still holds the hostages. That's why you have to put it first on the agenda.

And most of the Israel public believes this and agrees with us. That's the most important thing. First, get them out, then destroy Hamas.

QUEST: Gil Dickmann, I'm grateful that you, in very difficult circumstances, found time to discuss what is just plain and simply awful. We first have to talk about tonight, but it has happened, so we need to. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much.

DICKMANN: Thank you.

QUEST: To CNN, we now have the name of the third hostage accidentally killed. It's Alon Shamriz. He was kidnapped from the Kibbutz Kfar Aza by Hamas on October the 7th.

In just a moment, Hungary is now being extremely difficult, having blocked an EU aid package for Ukraine. The EU will now do its usual and try and find a workaround to get the money to Kyiv.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

QUEST: To Ukraine now, Hungary has blocked a $55 billion aid package from the EU. It happened at the latest summit. And the president, Charles Michel, said leaders will now have to revisit the issue at another meeting early this year. Viktor Orban was the one who decided against it.

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says there are other ways to help Ukraine even if Hungary stands in the way. EU leaders did offer to hold accession talks with Kyiv. But even that was only done after Orban excused himself -- diplomatically left the meeting.

Bianca Nobilo is in Brussels. The negotiations about the future and accession, that's one thing. Now, this business of preventing aid, how are they going to get out of it?

BIANCA NOBILO, CNN CORRESPONDENT: The money hasn't not run out yet. Leaders have said that they're optimistic, that at this extraordinary meeting in January that they'll be able to approve that $55 billion worth of aid.

[15:15:06]

But if that doesn't not happen, individual member-states could ratify the amount through their own parliaments that they're going to give. Germany's just doubled down on the amount of aid it's going to give, for example, so they're always around that. But it doesn't give Zelenskyy anywhere need the amount of reassurance and security that this would've done because this would've tied them over until 2027.

QUEST: I mean, this is core. The accession to the EU is another thing. This is actually -- I mean, what's Hungary's reason for not wanting to give the aid?

NOBILO: It's concerned about its own domestic issues about elections next year. It's long been a thorn in the EU side when it comes to giving more aid.

We know that Orban's allies as well have been over the Atlantic, in America, working with Republicans to hold up aid there as well. Orban is Putin's closest European ally. So all of this is contributing to this becoming a real headache for the EU.

And, Richard, you rightly point out that potential accession is one thing. That is a promise, a important symbolic victory for Zelenskyy, but that's a promise of the future. But the question is, how can Ukraine survive in the present without that $61 billion from the US and without this $55 billion from the EU?

QUEST: Bianca, thank you. Grateful, at the EU summit.

The real problem, of course is, that it's not just the EU that is now pulling back. United States, too, is also having some difficulty getting the aid it wants to give to the US. US Congress is struggling to pass the aid package, and it's putting Kyiv in a very precarious position.

So no money from the United States, and no money from the EU. And look at this graph. It shows the amount of foreign aid Ukraine has received month by month tapering off since last winter. And yet, of course, the war goes on.

CNN's Nick Paton Walsh taking this all of this into account gives us the gist from Zaporizhzhia.

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Richard, even if US and, indeed, EU billions do end up finding their way to Ukraine, the damage of this delay on both parts has been to Ukrainian morale. This has been a ghastly summer, frankly, for Ukrainian troops, trying to prosecute a counteroffensive that hasn't had the success they wanted.

Now they face a winter with an invigorated Russia using everything it possibly can -- drones, prisoners -- to attack their positions, but no longer they feel that pretty much the west, unified, has their back. That's, essentially, the big change that we've seen this week. And I think it's going to slowly deteriorate Ukraine's readiness here.

It is going to be a fairly difficult winter, but it's going to be, frankly, impossible for them to continue their defense if the US and the EU money dries up.

One medic I spoke to had lost a friend in the last months, and he said to me, look, without this aid, we're finished -- Richard.

QUEST: Nick Paton Walsh, tonight, in Ukraine.

Oleksandra Ustinova is a member of Ukraine's opposition. She joins me also tonight. So it's really getting rather tricky, isn't it? Because, you know, the EU wants to give the money and Orban says no, and they'll do a fudge.

The US wants to give the money, but it's being held hostage. How badly do you need this money or you'll lose?

OLEKSANDRA USTINOVA, UKRAINIAN OPPOSITION MP: Oh, I cannot agree more to the other Ukrainian that you just quoted, we're going to lose. The question is whether the west is ready for Ukraine to lose, because everybody keeps talking that Ukraine is winning, when Ukraine is going to win.

Well, at this moment, unfortunately, if you look at the morale, you see the number of the munitions that are coming not only to the frontlines, but to the civilian cities for their air defense systems, it is obvious that Ukraine is going to lose. And it's going to be totally bombed by all the Shahed drones from Iran and the air missiles .

QUEST: Right.

USTINOVA: . that Russia is producing three times more than they did last year.

QUEST: So why do you think it's got to -- I mean, when the war started, we all talked about war fatigue. And we actually thought that was going to happen maybe in 2020, 2022. But actually, it's taken longer, but it has happened, hasn't it? The west seems to be saying, well, we'd like to help you, but sorry, we can't get it -- get you the check.

USTINOVA: So one thing the west does not understand, it is much cheaper to give a check to Ukraine then later to fight in Europe a big war, having your boots on the ground and your soldiers die. So far, the United States has invested less than 0.5% of their budget to support Ukraine. And with this money, the Ukrainians managed to almost totally destroy the biggest second army in the world.

[15:20:10]

And I say this is a really good investment because Russian army has been the number one enemy to the US front.

QUEST: Right.

USTINOVA: So if the United States is saying that Ukrainians are going to win anyway because at the beginning of the war, everybody thought, oh, well, Ukrainians are going to go down in 24 then 72 hours. We survived and we kept their assets.

QUEST: Right.

USTINOVA: Well, right now, it's different.

QUEST: Okay. So what do you think of Viktor Orban? I mean, without his veto, tonight, you would have 60-odd billion.

USTINOVA: Viktor Orban is a puppet of Putin. And no matter what Ukraine does, no matter what bills were going to be pushing through the parliament to satisfy him as one of the European countries, he will be backing up Putin anyway.

And, unfortunately, this is a problem for the Europe because right now, EU shows there is a weak spot and there is, unfortunately, is nothing they can do about it.

QUEST: So one of the issues, of course, is elections. Do you think the elections should go ahead?

USTINOVA: The elections were -- in Ukraine?

QUEST: Yes, yes.

USTINOVA: Well, I can tell you the recent polls, 89% of Ukrainians do not support elections during the wartime because we will not be able to provide the right to vote for more than six million people who are outside of the country, to more than a million people who are on the battlegrounds. And, unfortunately, the election is something that is tearing always the country apart, which Ukraine cannot afford at the moment. And the majority of people, 89% of Ukrainians, think that the election should be held after the war is over.

QUEST: So at this point, I mean, the counteroffensive has now sort of tapered down because of winter. The money -- I think, you know, we all know the money will arrive eventually a day later and a dollar short, as the Americans say. But I'm wondering if you think the urgency is quite appreciated.

USTINOVA: I can give you an example. My best friend was killed in the war, and a lot of his comrades and combatants are now fighting there. And they called me and they said, Sasha, can you explain why we have to put the lives of our best friend to actually get every kilometer that we could last into? And now we have to give it back because there is fatigue or someone is still thinking whether they should be supporting us or not, and they don't think that there is an urgency. Well, there is an urgency to our soldiers because they had saved lives to take every kilometer back and now they have to return.

Second, if there is no urgency, Ukraine will be totally shelled and bombed by the Russian missiles. Russia has managed to produce three times more missiles this year than they did last year.

QUEST: Right.

USTINOVA: So being under sanction, they produced 1,200 missiles. And they are not actually shooting them right now at Kyiv. They're using the Iranian drones. Why? Because they want to do a massive .

QUEST: Right.

USTINOVA: . attack with 300 drones and 150 ballistic missiles, totally eliminating Kyiv and other .

QUEST: Right.

USTINOVA: . cities from the map.

QUEST: We'll talk more. We'll follow more. And you are always welcome back on QUEST MEANS BUSINESS. Thank you so much.

USTINOVA: Thank you.

QUEST: In difficult circumstances, I wish you a good weekend.

In a moment, Wesley Clark, he was the former SACEUR, the Supreme Allied Commander of NATO. There he is. And now, we'll have -- we'll speak to General Clark in a moment.

But I guessing, and he'll answer me yes or no when we speak to him, that this is the sort of thing that happens in war, the sort of thing that's happened in Israel tonight. In a moment.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[15:27:31]

QUEST: Hello, I'm Richard Quest. There's more QUEST MEANS BUSINESS in a moment.

Shipping giant Maersk has suspended its routes in the Red Sea. It's all too dangerous, apparently.

And I'm going to take you to Italy, to (inaudible). Now, we're going to talk about the business of truffles. Oh, I love a truffle, (inaudible) marvelous. But we'll only get to the truffles after the news, because this is CNN. And on this network, news comes before truffles.

The whereabouts of the Russian opposition leader, Alexey Navalny is unclear tonight. The Kremlin's critic spokesperson says he may have been moved to a distant colony. Navalny has gone missing before, but his legal team claims he has never gone for this long. The convict's family says they are holding on despite his disappearance.

Vindication in court for Prince Harry. On Friday, the UK High Court ruled his phone was hacked by Mirror Group newspapers from years 2006 to '11. The court found 15 stories -- sample stories, that were given by both sides, were published using illegally obtained information from hacked voicemails and private investigators.

A British boy who has been missing for nearly six years is finally home. Alex Batty, now 17, alleges that his mother kidnapped him in 2017 while visiting in Spain and that she's been hiding him ever since. Motorists found Batty wandering alone in France after escaping a spiritual commune. Batty returned to his family in England in the coming days.

A top story we're bringing you, the Israeli military says its troops accidentally killed three hostages after mistakenly identifying them as a threat in northern Gaza. The prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has described it as an unbearable tragedy. He says, I would like to send strength to our brave soldiers focusing on this sacred mission.

Colonel Jonathan Conricus is a spokesman for the IDF. He's with me now. Sir, grateful. Thankful, Colonel.

I know the details are few and far between at the moment, and I know that you are investigating. But what can you tell me about how this transpired?

[15:30:10]

LT. COL. JONATHAN CONRICUS, SPOKESPERSON, IDF: Hello, Richard. Thank you for having me.

What I can say is that happened earlier today, in Shejaiya, which is a neighborhood close to Gaza City in the northern Gaza Strip, and where a horrible incident occurred. A mistake by Israeli troops on the ground. There was combat on the ground (VIDEO GAP) and what our soldiers saw were three men approaching them, dressed in civilian clothes. They perceived a threat. And therefore, they responded with fire.

QUEST: Right.

CONRICUS: We learned it became apparent -- Richard?

QUEST: Yeah, look, I get it. I hear what you're saying. But I mean, what -- I guess, where they challenged? Did anyone call out in Hebrew? Just because you see three civilians, the assumption that they must be the other side, that is going to be what this is about, isn't it? Did they fire without even checking?

CONRICUS: The issue here is, I think, deeper than that. And, of course, we are still (AUDIO GAP) investigating. What we see on the battlefield, this is a report that continues by our troops and you can even see it in the Hamas propaganda videos. They fight in civilian clothing, gym shoes and civilian clothing.

That is how they fire RPGs towards our troops. That is how they placed the IEDs. That is how they fire and fight against us. That is how (VIDEO GAP)

And that is the challenge. It makes it more difficult to distinguish between combatant and non-combatant. What we have seen today is an unfortunate, a very unfortunate incident, probably very much related to the practice of Hamas.

QUEST: So, if that is the case, and I take you at your word, and I do take you, that that is the case, how do you prevent a repeat, or at least minimize the possibility of a repeat? Bearing in mind that there are still more than 100 Israeli hostages in Gaza. How do you stop it happening again?

CONRICUS: There's more than 100, I think 132 for the last 70 days, 17 of them women and children, many men there as well. And I don't think that -- I agree with you, I don't think that this will be the last such instance that we face a similar scenario.

There are ways, and we have disseminated lessons and guidelines for our troops stationed in Gaza. (AUDIO GAP) cannot share them with you or Hamas (AUDIO GAP) CNN. I can tell you that this is being clarified with the Israeli troops on the ground in order to prevent such an event happening again.

QUEST: Okay. The mood tonight, we were talking with one of the hostages' relatives, saying that they were warned that this was a possibility. That this was potentially, and likely, to happen. I think that is the truth of it, isn't it, Colonel? That in the fog of war these things will happen. Really, all the IDF can do is minimize the possibility.

CONRICUS: First of all, again, I think that this is a good opportunity to express our deepest, deepest, condolences to the families. We have said so from the beginning. They will be full transparency towards the families and to the Israeli public. And we are extremely sorry for this tragic event.

The environment that we are fighting in, and the situation (AUDIO GAP) is very challenging. What we have been busy doing ever since October 7th is collecting intelligence, preparing ourselves, where we have had the opportunity, also executed (AUDIO GAP) Israeli back.

So far, sadly, we've only gotten one live Israeli back and the rest have been the bodies of Israelis that were taken alive by Hamas and only recovered (AUDIO GAP) killed by Hamas during captivity, another war crime on the list.

But we remain committed to winning this war, defeating Hamas and getting our hostages home.

QUEST: Colonel, I'm grateful for your time tonight, on such short notice. Thank you, sir, for joining us.

General Wesley Clark is with me from Little Rock in Arkansas.

I am guessing, General, that you're not surprised that this happened. At some point, something like this was going to take place.

GEN. WESLEY CLARK (RET.), CNN MILITARY ANALYST: I think that's right, Richard. When you're in close combat like this and you are moving and fighting against people in civilian clothes, there's going to be something like this. The way I'm picturing it in my minds eye is, think of a squad of Israeli soldiers, half a dozen guys on the ground, a couple of them with automatic weapons, some rifles.

And they're told, they said, we're are going to go around this corner, the building, the building is wrecked. There's much rubble on the street. You're going to -- there is people moving up there, watch out.

So, they are on high alert. They go around, sure enough, they are engaged when they go around, they're engaged. And people start shooting at them. They returned fire.

There is a group of six or eight guys. They see three or four guys shooting at them. They take them out. Turns out that three of them were hostages, being moved from one location to another by Hamas.

That's one conceivable scenario. It is just speculation. We don't know right now. What this comes down to, what are the rules of engagement that you are required to hold fire until you're engaged? Can you -- can you engage when you have positive identification of the enemy, or somebody carrying a rifle at some enemy. Or are there other rules of engagement?

And then it is the discipline of the troops, they've got to follow the rules of engagement. So, you can expect that these troops been pulled offline, there will be a lot of talk. It will go right up the chain of command.

They will find out what the rules were, where they passed down. Who is in charge? Why didn't happen, and so forth. It is a real tragedy. But, unfortunately, these things do happen.

QUEST: I always think that, you know, we sit in the comfort of my studio talking about this with you, but, of course, in the reality, of being in Gaza with the adrenaline of the battle, then it's a very different world.

CLARK: That's exactly right. When you go around the corner of that rubble, and someone has told you that the enemy is around that rubble, you are going there with a finger on the trigger, with a round in the chamber. Probably got somebody behind you, hopefully, who's actually providing over watch.

QUEST: Right.

CLARK: But maybe you don't. Maybe you are just out there. You are moving carefully by (AUDIO GAP), and suddenly, bang, bang, bang, and shooting starts. You returned fire.

QUEST: Now, you're former head of -- you're SAC of NATO. Ukraine tonight, so the U.S. is stuck over -- won't give it to money because Republicans are holding it hostage. The E.U. now and give us money, at least for now, because of Viktor Orban. We had an opposition lawmaker on the program a moment ago saying that we are losing unless we get this money. What do you make of it?

CLARK: I think we are going to find a way to get the money.

Look, this is the kind of thing that happens in democratic society. It gives the other side the wrong impression, the impression of weakness.

Richard, you may remember, you may know from the history books that in 1940, the U.S. stood by while Britain was being pounded by Nazi bombing.

QUEST: Yeah, yeah.

CLARK: We only passed the friction (ph) by one vote in the Congress. It was that close and there was a strong isolationist sentiment. And President Roosevelt had to work against it with Churchill. Same kind of emotions are out there now, different rationale, different reasons, but it is basically the same thing.

But when America gets engaged, when democracies get engaged, they don't let go. Mr. Putin should understand this. He is -- he is provoking the tiger here with what he is doing in Ukraine. When democracies get a grip, he's run for office on that platform -- Russia is in trouble.

QUEST: General Clark, I'm very grateful, as always. Thank you, sir, for taking the time. Thank you.

QUEST MEANS BUSINESS, tonight, coming from New York. Glad to have you with us.

South Africa is an auto-making powerhouse. One of the world's biggest carmakers now have based plants in the country. And the reason, of course, is a quality of the product. High end luxury made cars there are exported to every corner of the world.

CNN's Eleni Giokos.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ELENI GIOKOS, CNN CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): Today, Mercedes-Benz, South Africa says, it has exported almost 2 million of the C class models to global markets, including the United States and to countries in Africa, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia.

ANDREAS BRAND, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, MERCEDES-BENZ SOUTH AFRICA: We started at a point where we only build right-hand drive. Then we edit (ph) the left hand drive, which opened up the markets based tremendously.

[15:40:03]

We have been building vehicles for Mercedes-Benz for 65 years now. The C class forms part of our so-called core. We have been building hybrid since 2016. We were the only and first OEM building hybrids here in South Africa. We are fully integrated member with a plant in Bremen and with our colleagues in China.

GIOKOS: The plant from where more than 100,000 luxury vehicles are exported annually is alongside the port of Eat London at the mouth of the Buffalo River.

BRAND: We can export to the U.S., which is a strong, strong market for us. So, we are also exporting the AMG to China, which is traditionally a market which builds for themselves. We are the only plan who can build there. Korea is quite a strong market and then Australia and Europe.

If a car stays in South Africa, it goes to any specific market. We apply Mercedes-Benz product quality to every unit we build.

GIOKOS: Human resources executive director, Abey Kgotle, credits the success of the plant to its people.

ABEY KGOTLE, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF HUMAN RESOURCES, MBSA: We have just over 3,000 people based in East London building these beautiful cars out of Africa for the world. You can look at an operator working at Mercedes-Benz South Africa and that colleague will be able to compete favorably with anyone within our network across the globe. And that's because of the quality of education, the quality of the training.

BRAND: What we really have with the C Class is a high end product. We have high and technology out there in the front. Without education, you cannot run a facility like that. So, there are 13.5 billion rand invested, and the core is education.

GIOKOS: The Mercedes-Benz learning academy has over four decades trained thousands of people.

KGOTLE: What the academy does is essentially prepare the skills that we need today, and the skills we need tomorrow. The learning academy is a very, very important part of our story. That is what helps us remain competitive as an organization.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

QUEST: The shipping giant, Maersk, has suspended its routes in the Red Sea. It is all about ship attacks. We'll talk about that and show you why and where in a moment.

QUEST MEANS BUSINESS on a Friday.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[15:45:08]

QUEST: Maersk, the German shipping line Hapag-Lloyd have suspended their routes through the Red Sea after a variety of attacks at different types on their vessels.

Now, look at the pictures here, you see. The Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen have claimed responsibility. Essentially what they are doing is attacking the ships believing they are on their way to Israel and that they are supporting Hamas.

Maersk says it's instructed in the vessels in the area to pass -- bound to pass through the Bab el-Mandeb Strait to pause their journey until further notice.

If you look at the map again I'll show you exactly the bit there you can see at the bottom that bit there as it comes up through that narrow 20 mile gap that you can see at the bottom, that is the bit where they are being attacked.

John McCown joins me, senior fellow at the Center for Maritime Strategy.

That's interesting, isn't it? I mean, if you have got to get from A to B and you have to go through there, what are you going to do?

JOHN MCCOWN, SENIOR FELLOW, CENTER FOR MARITIME STRATEGY: It is really throwing a wrench into the supply chains, Richard, to go all the way around Africa is 3 to 4 times longer. I guess the situation has been escalating. I guess in the past few hours, there are reports that two container ships were fired upon. The Maersk ship was missed, but there's a giant container ship by Hapag-Lloyd that reportedly was hit by one of these missiles.

QUEST: Right.

MCCOWN: So, that's really going to shake things up.

QUEST: Right. But, you know, the thing is, this is not like the pirates, is it? Where you can send a fleet in to take them through and dissuade the pirates. If somebody is firing missiles, perhaps even from quite a long distance away, that becomes much more difficult.

So, what can they do?

MCCOWN: Well, the safest thing to do is to avoid the area entirely. Not only avoid Yemen, but to not go through the Suez Canal. The Red Sea is a very narrow sea body, and to go around the tip of Africa, which, of course, has the effect of quadrupling the distance.

QUEST: Right.

MCCOWN: It has an immediate effect on supply. If you kind of think of shipping as a network, you know, if you have four times as much distance, you need four times as many ships to move the same amount. So, this is going to quickly escalate into a massive economic problem, causing, literally, billions a week.

QUEST: John, in the world which you work in, risk assessment, is it your view that this is simply too risky to continue going this route?

MCCOWN: I think, certainly, the news of two container ships, it is not clear -- these were large container ships moving containers from Asia to Europe, wasn't completely clear that the reason. Initially the attacks seem to be more targeted. Now they seem to be going after almost any ship.

So, this is going to get the attention, I would think, of navies, you know, in various countries. But the initial -- one of the fundamental reasons for a navy is to protect commercial shipping. This has the potential to have some pretty significant economic affects rather immediately.

QUEST: John, we will talk more as this develops. We will discuss more with you the ins and outs of it. Very interested in what you're saying about the economic importance of the route and, of course, the consequences.

Thank you, sir, for joining us on this Friday evening. I am grateful.

MCCOWN: Thank you very much.

QUEST: A reminder of the main news this hour. Israel says its military accidentally killed three hostages, mistakenly identifying them as a threat in northern Gaza. The bodies have been returned to Israel.

In Washington, the White House has said this is heartbreaking.

This is CNN.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[15:52:15]

QUEST: This weekend, world of wonder takes you to Bari in Italy. I took the opportunity, whilst I was there, to discover a whole new world of markets. Truffles, truffles! Love `em, enjoy `em, and I discovered just how expensive they are.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

QUEST: I can't wait to get in there.

Giuseppe Luli (ph) is an Italian farmer with a difference.

Half of his business is hunting for truffles, whilst the other half is making very large hands, with which you can make spaghetti.

First though, the truffles. Giuseppe and his dogs hunt the truffles throughout the season. The scouring of the dirt hunting for these truffles, require expertly trained dogs, whose noses are sensitive to the distinctive taste, and who go wild, almost, when they finally find them.

(SPEAKING ITALIAN)

QUEST: Looks as though he is getting uprising, there he is. That all happened so fast.

As for the truffles themselves, of course, they are an extremely valuable commodity. In his fridge back home, he has the proceeds of several days work. We are talking serious amounts of money.

Something this size would be how much?

(SPEAKING ITALIAN)

QUEST: So, 4,000 a kilo wholesale? And retail, what was this go for?

(SPEAKING ITALIAN)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Seven thousand, 8,000.

QUEST: Wow, you have to put a lock on.

Giuseppe loves his truffles and his dogs. But he realized that he needed more if he was going to make a living. So he noticed that local restaurants and hotels needed big pans.

Wow, you buy the steel tubes, you fabricate, interesting.

Yes, really big pans. These can feed up to 1,000 people.

[15:55:00]

Those pans, imagine what you could do with those pans. It could be a problem getting mine home though. Not going to fit that in the overhead compartment.

When Giuseppe made his spaghetti, he let me have a go. This is not an easy contraption to use.

(SPEAKING ITALIAN)

QUEST: But it's clever.

It's the perfect consistency of not too hard, not too soft. But not chewy.

That is better.

Once you add truffle as to the top it is a business making a serious profit.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

QUEST: Ah, truffle. You can see the rest of the truffle hunt on "QUEST WORLD OF WONDER FROM BARI" starts tomorrow morning at 6:30 in New York, 11:30 in London, 12:30 in Europe.

If you are not an early riser, again, you can watch it at 9:30 U.K., 4:30 - - you can look at the time. You can see them out on the screen. World of Wonder, truffles galore.

Markets holding onto gains, just barely, in the last few moments of trading.

Look at that, you see? Fascinating. Down, then up, and then down. Holding on to 88 -- 90 odd points. That's the range that we've seen so far during the course of this session.

We will have our profitable moment after the break on QUEST MEANS BUSINESS.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

QUEST: Tonight's profitable moment, Viktor Orban is the longest serving prime minister amongst E.U. nations. He's been there years. He's also now one of the most powerful and he's not backward and coming forward. We've known that for sometime. But the shenanigans at the latest E.U. Council takes it to something else.

First of all, Scholz of Germany suggests Orban leaves the room, diplomatically, when they're going to vote to allow negotiations to begin. So they give Ukraine a bit of a ticket, and the possibility for the future.

But Orban stays, and vetoes the aid package. And everybody else says, not a worry, next year, January, we'll find a way around it. Don't worry, we'll get the money there somehow. Look into the tea pot, maybe it's in the cupboard over there.

This is no way to run a railroad. The way in which one member nation was able to veto $50 billion worth of money to Ukraine, went on tonight's program, you heard one of the lawmakers basically say, I'm afraid we don't get the money, were lost.

And that's QUEST MEANS BUSINESS for this Friday. I'm Richard Quest in New York.

Whatever you're up to in the hours ahead, I hope it's profitable enough that you can truffles.

END

Content and programming copyright 2023 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2023 VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNQMB0020231216ejcf00001


News and Notes
Hungary's Paks II reactors excluded from EU sanctions against Russia: minister
Staff
336 字
2023 年 12 月 15 日
Platts Inside NRC
NRC
ISSN: 0194-0252, Volume 45, Issue 25
英文
© 2023 S&P Global
* Work by Rosatom not subject to restrictions

* Government has proposed to use non-Russian fuel

Hungary has convinced the EU to exclude nuclear power from the 12th set of sanctions to be imposed on Russia for its February 2022 invasion of Ukraine, according to Peter Szijjarto, Hungary's minister of foreign affairs and trade.

This means construction of the Paks II plant being carried out by Russia's nuclear corporation Rosatom will not be subject to restrictions, Szijjarto said in a Dec. 11 statement.

Western countries have imposed a range of sanction on Russia since the invasion, although direct sanctions on nuclear industry entities have so far been limited from the US and UK and have not been imposed at all by the EU.

Hungarian officials have consistently resisted the EU pressure to impose sanctions against the Russian nuclear energy sector. Hungary will by no means support sanctions against Russia's nuclear power industry, regardless of what EU package they may be part of, Szijjarto said Nov. 14.

However, Hungary's parliament supported the government's proposal to allow the use of non-Russian nuclear fuel at the Paks plant Nov. 23, Russian state news outlet Tass reported that day. The move was made in order to ensure the facility's long-term safety and functioning and in light of the EU's sanctions against the Russian corporation, Tass reported, citing the explanatory note for the decision.

The European Commission welcomes member states' actions aimed at supply diversification in the nuclear fuel cycle, a European official said Dec. 1, commenting on the Hungarian decision to allow the use of the non-Russian fuel at the Paks plant.

"This is paramount to prevent excessive dependence of EU users on any single third-country supplier and to achieve security of supply of nuclear fuels in the medium and long term," the official said on condition of anonymity to discuss politically sensitive matters.

Staff

S&P Global

文件 NRC0000020231229ejcf00006


Estonian MEP: Ukraine war increasingly coming off as an European affair elsewhere
News.err.ee, 2023 年 12 月 19 日 09:46 GMT, 444 字, (英文)

Inside Stories
Hungary's Paks II nuclear plant targets first concrete in late 2024
Staff
709 字
2023 年 12 月 20 日
Platts Nucleonics Week
NUC
Volume 64, Issue 51
英文
© 2023 S&P Global
* New VVER-1200 units will be built alongside existing reactors

* Hungary plans to manage risks from Russian sanctions

* Lifetime extension sought for existing Paks units

Hungary's planned Paks II nuclear units could see first concrete poured toward the end of 2024, with an eye to starting commercial power generation in the early 2030s, Gergely Jakli, CEO of project company Paks II Atomeromu Zrt, said at the EnergyCon industry conference in Budapest on Dec. 12.

In the Paks II project, Hungary is planning to build two new units totaling 2.4 GW next to the existing four-unit, 2-GW Paks I plant. The new reactors will be VVER-1200 units supplied by Russia's state nuclear company Rosatom.

Jakli said that that the company has completed the construction of slurry walls totaling 2.7 kilometers (1.7 miles) along the foundation areas of the two units. It has excavated the foundations of both reactors to a depth of 5 meters, and will excavate the construction pit of one of the reactors to its full planned depth of 23 meter in mid-2024. It also plans to erect 60 more on-site buildings in 2024, including workshops and other facilities.

Jakli noted that permitting procedures for the new units are still ongoing. The Hungarian Atomic Energy Agency, known as OAH, granted a provisional construction permit for the new units in August 2022, and said it would issue a final construction permit once it has reviewed Paks II's updated preliminary safety analysis report, submitted in late 2022.

The construction of the new Paks II units has suffered several delays since the project was announced in 2014 with a completion target date of 2024-25. Initial delays were caused by European Union probes into several aspects of the project; subsequent delays were mainly the result of a lengthy design and engineering phase, as Rosatom was asked to make its plant design compatible with EU safety regulations.

Managing sanction finance risk

Jakli said that the project company "does not foresee insurmountable obstacles" to the construction of the new units as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine and potential sanctions imposed on Russia. He recalled that currently there are no sanctions in place on Russia's nuclear industry. "This is simply a risk that we need to manage," Jakli said.

Earlier in 2023, Hungary's government and Rosatom made several amendments to the Paks II project agreement. Among others, the new contract allows the parties to flexibly pick financing banks on the Russia side. Paks II is financed by a Eur10 billion inter-government loan. The changes came after Russia's Vnesheconombank, the original banking partner on the Russian side, was placed under sanctions in 2022.

Paks II is intended to ultimately replace the existing four Paks I units. These also use VVER technology, and currently supply about one-third of Hungarian power demand and account for about half of domestically produced electricity.

The operating licenses of the original Paks units are set to expire between 2032 and 2037, but state-owned energy holding company MVM, which owns the plant, is now working to extend the lifetime of the units by another 20 years. Paks I was originally commissioned in the 1980s for 30 years and was granted a 20-year extension in the 2010s.

At a press conference on Dec. 5., Peter Janos Horvath, CEO of Paks I operator Paksi Atomeromu Zrt, said that the company has already notified Euratom of the planned 20-year lifetime extension project. He said the company expects to submit its first license extension application to the OAH in 2028. Horvath added that the project is expected to cost around Forint 550 billion ($1.57 billion).

Speaking at the EnergyCon conference on Dec. 12, Mark Alfoldy-Boruss, deputy state secretary at Hungary's Ministry of Energy, said that the government is fully supporting the 20-year lifetime extension project at Paks I.

Alfoldy-Boruss added that the government is also keeping an eye on technological and market developments related to small modular reactors, but did not say whether the government was actually considering the construction of such reactors.

Staff

S&P Global

文件 NUC0000020240103ejck00004


Hungarian PM hits out at Ukraine funding; overnight drone strikes destroy warehouse | Ukraine latest
Sky News, 2023 年 12 月 21 日 15:24 GMT, 1323 字, (英文)
Your questions answered: Is Putin sitting this out until the West gets bored or Trump wins US election?Ukraine's parliament has approved the legalisation of medical cannabis in response to a growing number of people suffering with ...

World news
EU plots £17.4bn workaround funding for Ukraine in boost for Zelensky
By Joe Barnes, BRUSSELS CORRESPONDENT
879 字
2023 年 12 月 27 日 17:54 GMT
The Telegraph Online
TELUK
英文
The Telegraph Online © 2023. Telegraph Media Group Ltd.
Officials prepare ‘Plan B’ after Hungarian leader Viktor Orban vetoed £43.5bn aid package for Kyiv

The European Union has drawn up a £17.4 billion workaround fund to overcome Hungary’s opposition to further support for Ukraine, it has emerged.

Officials were forced to prepare the “Plan B” after Viktor Orbán, the prime minister of Hungary, vetoed a £43.5 billion aid package for Kyiv[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2023/12/15/hungary-viktor-orban-blocks-aid-ukraine-war/] at a EU leaders’ summit in Brussels earlier this month.

Under the new plan, participating member states would issue guarantees to the bloc’s shared budget to allow the European Commission to borrow money for Ukraine on international markets, the Financial Times reported.

Support from Brussels is seen as crucial for propping up Ukraine’s economy while US President Joe Biden’s own aid package remains blocked[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/us/comment/2023/12/14/joe-biden-vlodimir-zelenskyy-ukraine-aid-funding-senate/] and a slowdown in Western support has forced Kyiv’s forces to downsize military operations.

The Kremlin said any fresh EU attempts to aid Kyiv would not change the course of the war and would only hurt the bloc’s economy.

Dmitry Peskov, the Kremlin spokesman, said it was up to the EU’s taxpayers to realise their money was being misspent.

While the latest scheme is expected to deliver less than the original £43.5 billion promised, it cannot be blocked by Hungary when EU leaders reconvene for emergency talks on Feb 1.

It only requires member states with top credit ratings to agree to lend a guarantee for the planned loans.

Some countries, including Germany and the Netherlands, would have to secure backing from their national parliaments for the plan.

The plan has a similar structure to a £86.9 billion arrangement used to provide cheap financing to EU countries for short-term work-support schemes during the coronavirus pandemic in 2020.

People briefed on the talks said if EU leaders agree on this plan on Feb 1, the reassurance would be enough to release a £782 million tranche of funding to Ukraine from the International Monetary Fund.

That will be enough to prevent Kyiv from resorting to printing money to sustain its deficit, which could risk inflation spiralling out of control.

The EU’s money is expected to arrive in March, a date for new financial aid promised to Kyiv during a meeting of G7 finance ministers last week.

One downside discussed by officials involved in the process is that the workaround would only provide low-cost loans to Ukraine, and not grants that need not be repaid.

The previous scheme had hoped to deliver £14.7 billion in grants and €28.7 billion in loans over the next four years.

Individual member states will be invited to offer their own bilateral grants in an effort to support Kyiv in the short term.

Hungary expects more funds before Ukraine aid restarts

A second back-up option being considered by EU capitals could use existing structures to offer Ukraine cheap loans for just a few months.

It would require a majority of member states to vote for its approval before being put into action.

Both packages are under discussion with the final amounts not yet agreed upon.

The £43.5 billion package, however, originally worked up in June, remains the priority and there is still hope in Brussels that Mr Orbán’s opposition can be overcome.

The Hungarian prime minister was offered £8.7 billion in funding withheld from Budapest over fears of an erosion of democratic standards before the summit earlier this month as part of an attempt to get him to approve the support.

Mr Orbán’s aides have made clear that they expect another £17.4 billion to be dispersed before talks over the aid for Ukraine can be restarted.

Hungary is seen as Russia’s closest ally in Europe. The Central European state has not sent weapons to Ukraine and has opposed the EU’s attempts to sanction Russian energy exports.

The report of the EU’s workaround came as it emerged that at least 33 Russian sailors were missing yesterday[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2023/12/27/ukraine-russia-news-latest-novocherkask-warship-crimea-sunk/]/on Wednesday following a Ukrainian missile strike on a warship in occupied Crimea.

About 20 others were wounded and a 64-year-old port worker was killed in the attack on the Novocherkassk, according to Astra, a Russian opposition news outlet.

Debris from a British-donated Storm Shadow cruise missile[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2023/12/26/russian-warship-destroyed-in-ukrainian-attack-on-crimea/] was found near the destroyed vessel at the port of Feodosia.

“The ship completely burned out and sank,” Astra reported on the Telegram messaging app.

Russia’s defence ministry confirmed the missile strike on the Novocherkassk, but said it had been only lightly damaged by the attack.

As many as 77 sailors were believed to have been onboard the vessel when it was hit at 3am local time on Tuesday morning.

The ship was also thought to have been carrying Iranian-made Shahed-type kamikaze drones, used by Russian forces to bombard Ukraine.

Satellite footage published by Planet Labs appeared to show the vessel partially submerged after it had been struck.

Video footage of the attack showed a fireball illuminating the skies above the Crimean peninsula.

Analysts suggested there had been secondary explosions from the munitions based on board cooking off.

Telegraph Media Group Ltd.

文件 TELUK00020231227ejcr003h2


EU imposes twelfth sanctions package on Russia, including a ban on diamond imports but not tanker sales
Business New Europe, 2024 年 1 月 1 日 21:00 GMT, 1532 字, (英文)
European Union countries have collectively endorsed the implementation of the 12th sanctions package against Russia, which encompasses a range of measures, notably the prohibition of Russian diamond imports. The decision, set to be ...

Hungary This Week - January 5, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 1 月 5 日, 10278 字, (英文)
Hungary's FDI soars to over €13bn in 2023Foreign direct investment (FDI) in Hungary was a little over €13bn in 2023, double the previous €6.5bn record in 2022, creating 19,000 jobs, also a new record, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade ...

News Feed
FT: EU prepares concessions to Hungary over Ukraine funds
Abbey Fenbert
358 字
2024 年 1 月 12 日
The Kyiv Independent
KYIVIME
英文
Copyright © 2024 The Kyiv Independent
The European Commission is ready to grant Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban certain concessions in order to advance a four-year funding agreement for Ukraine worth 50 billion euros ($55 billion), the Financial Times (FT) reported[https://www.ft.com/content/ab8c1524-6d79-45d3-8b87-cb0ff0b187f9] on Jan. 11, citing senior officials.

The EU will convene at a special summit on Feb. 1 to revisit the support package, which Hungary alone opposed[https://kyivindependent.com/hungary-blocks-50-billion-euro-eu-aid-for-ukraine/] in December. With U.S. aid to Ukraine also stalled, securing a funding agreement has taken on new urgency.

The Commission is open to giving Orban an opportunity to stop the funding agreement in 2025 in exchange for his approval now, three officials close to the matter told FT.

Politico reported[https://kyivindependent.com/politico-hungary-may-unblock-ukraine-aid-if-annual-funding-review-is-introduced/] on Jan. 9 that Hungary might be willing to withdraw its veto if the funding were subject to annual renewal. Such a deal would allow Budapest to extract new concessions from the EU each year.

The EU has already released[https://kyivindependent.com/orban-takes-ukraine-hostage-in-eu-blackmail/] over 10 billion euros ($11 billion) in frozen funds to Hungary as Orban continues to block sanction against Russia and vocally oppose Ukraine's accession to the EU.

The officials told FT that potential concessions would entail annual audits of the support package and the inclusion of an "emergency brake" clause, allowing any member state to raise concerns about Ukraine funding at future summits.

The clause would not allow Hungary an additional opportunity to veto the funds, the officials said.

While it is "still uncertain" whether the concessions will persude Orban to support the deal, the Hungarians "are in a negotiating mood," the officials said.

Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba will meet[https://kyivindependent.com/kuleba-to-meet-hungarian-counterpart-discuss-potential-zelensky-orban-meeting/] his Hungarian counterpart Peter Szijjarto in Uzhhorod on Jan. 29 to prepare for a potential high-level meeting between President Volodymyr Zelensky and Viktor Orban, ATV reported on Jan. 11.

Officials close to the negotiations told[https://kyivindependent.com/bloomberg-italian-pm-urges-orban-to-support-ukraine-aid-in-back-channel-talks/] Bloomberg on Jan. 10 that Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni was also urging Orban to improve his relationship with Zelensky in back-channel talks.

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban arrives at the European Council summit in Brussels on Dec. 14, 2023. (Jean Catuffe/Getty Images)[https://assets.kyivindependent.com/content/images/2024/01/GettyImages-1846897484.jpg]

Kyiv Independent Media Ltd

文件 KYIVIME020240112ek1c00002


Wider Europe Briefing: What To Expect From the EU In 2024
GlobalSecurity.org, 2024 年 1 月 16 日 15:11 GMT, 2241 字, (英文)
What You Need To Know: This year the EU will be focused on the European Parliament elections taking place across the 27-member bloc on June 6-9. The vote will open up a scramble for the selection of the top three institutional positions in ...

World
EU chief under fire for releasing Hungary funds
970 字
2024 年 1 月 17 日 17:24 GMT
DW English
DEUEN
英文
© 2024. DW
Many EU lawmakers accuse the European Commission of giving in to "blackmail" by Budapest. Brussels released billions to Hungary — but concerns over democratic backsliding and the country's ties with Russia remain.

Billions of euros in once-frozen European Union funds are flowing to Hungary again after the European Commission said the central European state satisfactorily reformed its judicial system.

Though billions more remain blocked over alleged violations of LGBTQ and migrant rights — plus concerns about academic freedom — many EU lawmakers are furious over last month's funding releaseand have threatened legal action against the EU's executive.

The timing of the European Commission's move raised eyebrows — just before a crucial summit as EU states sought to get Budapest on board with plans to open membership talks with Ukraine and offer the country long-term financial aid. Hungary eventually got out of the way for progress on Kyiv's membership aspirationsby leaving the room when the issue came to a vote, but Prime Minister Viktor Orban's government continues to block agreement on long-term aid.

Orban broke rank with the bloc over the past year by criticizing EU moves to sanction Russia. He has called for Ukrainians to lay down arms in a cease-fire and was also photographed shaking hands with the Russian president last year, drawing criticism from some EU counterparts.

European Commission accused of 'giving in to blackmail'

"We don't understand why the Commission decided to give in to Victor Orban's blackmail," Hungarian opposition lawmaker Katalin Cseh told DW.

"He has been using his veto powers on behalf of Vladimir Putin," Cseh said, adding that the move leaves "the door wide open for further abuse."

The Commission insisted the move was not part of a quid pro quo deal.

"We had a deadline to meet, and this is unrelated to any other discussions or developments," European Commission spokesperson Christian Wigand told DW. "What we are doing is applying the rule of law. Hungary has fulfilled the legal conditions, and therefore, we unblocked the funds concerned.

"We had to assess the progress, and there were strict deadlines for every step, and this is what we have done. We have asked questions in a lot of detail to Hungary to make sure the reforms were really what we needed."

Hungary wants more EU funds released

In a debate with EU lawmakers on Wednesday, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said around €20 billion ($21.7 billion) in EU funds remain out of Budapest's reach. Hungary called this unjust and claimed it was the victim of a political "witch hunt."

"Every euro cent should be paid to Hungary without any further delay. Ideological blackmail is not acceptable," Balazs Hidveghi from Hungary's ruling Fidesz party told fellow lawmakers.

Von der Leyen said the frozen cash "will remain blocked until Hungary fulfills all the necessary conditions."

"These are the rules," she said. "We have all agreed to them, and we will follow them. This is what makes the rule of law stand out from arbitrary power."

Compromise on Ukraine funding may be close

As the spat between Hungary and the EU rumbles on, Ukraine has been left with little certainty concerning long-term financial support from the EU. For now, the bloc's plan to offer €50 billion in aid over the next four years remains stalled.

Hungary said it does not oppose aid for Ukraine in principle, but it still appears staunchly against long-term financing.

"We do not even know what will happen in a quarter of a year, never mind four," Orban said in a video posted on social media platform X on Tuesday.

But a compromise may now be nearing. On Tuesday, a source close to discussions in a meeting of EU finance ministers told DW that Hungary had "expressed a willingness for constructive talks going forward." Details of the potential deal remain closely guarded, but von der Leyen said she was "confident" the bloc would find a solution.

If all else fails, the 26 other EU member states could club together to offer aid to Ukraine outside the bloc's official procedures, though diplomats say this Plan B may send undesirable signals of disunity to Russia — and Washington, where US lawmakers are still debating details of their support for Kyiv.

Will EU be left hamstrung by Hungarian whims?

If EU officials succeed in getting Budapest's backing for funds to Ukraine, it won't remove the threat of political roadblocks at every turn. One EU diplomat who asked not to be named told DW that Hungary must not be allowed to "keep a gun to everyone's head year on year."

Sergio Carrera, a researcher at the Center for European Policy Studies, said EU rules requiring unanimous backing for foreign policy moves lie at the crux of the issue. Under this setup, Carrera said a single government "may jeopardize the entire union and put the entire union at risk."

Changes to those rules, however, would themselves require a unanimous vote.

"Then we are back in square one," Carrera explained."We are letting governments like the Hungarian government backslide on the rule of law for years," he warned, arguing Brussels should use existing legal tools to get tougher on Budapest.

Hungary will take over the EU Council's rotating presidency for the second half of 2024, giving it greater power over the bloc's policy-making agenda.

On February 1, EU leaders will gather in Brussels in a bid to hash out an agreement on support for Ukraine and changes to the bloc's budget.

Additional reporting from Jack Parrock.

Edited by: Sean M. Sinico

Many EU parliamentarians have criticized the European Commission's move to release funds for Hungary (Ludovic MARIN/AFP)[https://static.dw.com/image/63879338_401.jpg]

Deutsche Welle

文件 DEUEN00020240117ek1h000jh

跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
CE Noticias Financieras English
The EU facing the European Parliament elections: the center right can lead Europe
829 字
2024 年 1 月 20 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Elections to the European Parliament will take place between June 6 and 9. Depending on the results, the next presidents of the Commission, Council, European Parliament and High Representative for Foreign Affairs will be elected.

Belgium will hold the EU Council presidency until July, followed by Viktor Orbán's anti-European Hungary. Until 2030 only Italy among the four large EU economies (Germany, France, Italy and Spain) will have a rotating Council presidency. Olaf Scholz and Emmanuel Macron, although pro-European, have worn themselves out with the internal management of their states. Because of the presence of French companies in Russia, Macron has often disassociated himself from the Western coalition and called for negotiations to end the war in Ukraine. He also went to Beijing with his own agenda, undermining that of the European institutions.

Without a powerful Franco-German axis, we lack the traditional engines to pull the European cart. A majority of EU countries are governed by the pro-European center right: Poland with the return of Donald Tusk, Sweden, Finland, Austria, the Netherlands in office, Luxembourg, Ireland, Croatia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Cyprus. There are fewer center-left Europeanist governments: Portugal, Belgium, Denmark, Romania and Malta. Bulgaria has a government of national concentration. Although they play an important role, some of these governments must focus on maintaining the coalitions that sustain them and adopt difficult measures in the face of low growth and inflation still above 2%.

Europe lacks charismatic pro-European leaders such as Helmut Kohl, François Mitterrand, Felipe González, Jacques Delors, Romano Prodi or Angela Merkel. Likewise, far-right anti-European governments such as that of Viktor Orbán in Hungary since 2010 and the pro-Russian nationalist Roberto Fico in Slovakia are torpedoing integration. It took the EU twelve years to finally sanction Hungary with the loss of 6.3 billion euros in European funds.

Since the founding of the ECSC in 1952 and the EEC and Euratom in 1957, there has been a tension between further integration and enlargement to more states. Serbia and Montenegro have already closed many chapters of their negotiations, while North Macedonia and Albania will be able to start them after two years of Bulgaria's veto. Bosnia and Herzegovina is a candidate, but the Serbian leadership continues to undermine the functioning of federal institutions. Five EU member states do not recognize Kosovo's independence. Negotiations with Turkey are frozen due to its authoritarian drift. In December, the opening of negotiations with Ukraine and Moldova was approved.

The EU is the largest common market in the world, with 448 million inhabitants. It is the leading exporter of manufactured goods and services. It is the leading trading partner of eighty countries and has signed trade agreements with sixty states. Twenty of its members share the euro.

Future enlargements must be combined with further integration. Countries that meet the Maastricht requirements must adopt the euro, unless a majority rejects it in a referendum, as happened in Sweden in 2003. Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania and Bulgaria - unlike Denmark - have no clause exempting them from entering the third stage of Economic and Monetary Union and introducing the single currency. The budgetary discipline of the Stability and Growth Pact must be enforced in the post-Covid era. Other priorities are further tax harmonization, fining anti-competitive practices of technology giants and coordinating the EU's green agenda with that of the US. A common energy policy that cuts Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) from Russia and imports more LNG from the US, Qatar, Norway and Australia is essential. Consensus with Washington on a firm policy against Chinese military aggressiveness and illegal economic practices (subsidies, espionage, non-respect of intellectual property) is also possible.

Due to the weakness of the Council presidencies and the difficulties of its major economies, the EU's top positions will be more important than ever. They should be elected on merit and not on the basis of national or other quotas. European political families should hold primaries to choose their respective candidates, who would test their strength in televised debates and campaign in several countries. Currently there is a majority of center-right governments in the EU.

The MEPs in the current European Parliament are distributed in seven groups: European People's Party 178 MEPs; S&D (social democrats and socialists) 141; Renew Europe 101 (liberals); Green Group 72; Conservatives and reformists (ECR, Eurorealists) 67; Identity and Democracy (anti-European far-right) 58; and Left Group (neo-communists) 36. If they improve somewhat on their 2019 results, the EPP and Renew Europe could obtain an absolute majority. Achieving it with ECR would mean that the European left would activate the discourse of the PSOE, Sumar and their pro-independence partners. S&D integrates moderate social democrats with radical socialists. The center right must lead the European renewal.

Dr. Alexandre Muns Rubiol. Professor, EAE Business School.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020240121ek1k002cv


World news
EU leaders enter showdown with Viktor Orbán over €50bn Ukraine package
Lisa O'Carroll in Brussels
942 字
2024 年 2 月 1 日 05:00 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
22
英文
© Copyright 2024. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
Member states hope to persuade Hungary to remove its block on funding at Brussels emergency summit

EU leaders have returned to Brussels for a second showdown in two months with Hungary’s Viktor Orbán over his refusal to sanction a new €50bn assistance package for Ukraine.

A mixture of frustration and anger prevailed in the city as leaders arrived for dinner on Wednesday night on the eve of the emergency summit, with aides lamenting the failure of the Hungarian PM to shift position since December, when he first blocked the funds.

“We are really at a crossroads,” said one EU official.

Diplomats in Brussels stress that Ukraine will not run out of funding for military equipment and ammunition as this comes through individual member states through the European Peace Facility.

But they are worried about liquidity in the Ukrainian economy and the signal a lack of unity will give to Putin.

This EU fund, combined with support from the International Monetary Fund and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, has allowed the salaries of teachers, doctors and soldiers to be paid, cash machines to continue working and buildings to be reconstructed where possible in the past two years.

Efforts to persuade Orbán to budge have redoubled in the past 24 hours, with representatives of the other 26 EU states agreeing to insert a compromise paragraph in the draft text of the agreement being sought at the summit on the budget.

In recent days Hungary said it would lift its veto but only if the budget was revisited every year of the four-year funding period.

Related: Germany warns EU falling short on pledge to supply Ukraine with ammo[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/jan/31/eu-has-fallen-short-on-pledge-to-supply-ukraine-with-ammunition]

On Wednesday morning member states’ ambassadors proposed an annual debate rather than a vote on the Ukraine fund facility.

The new draft text of the official agreement being sought pledges an annual European Commission review of the implementation of the funds facility.

On that basis “the European Council will hold a debate each year on the implementation of the facility with a view to providing guidance on the EU approach”, the draft text says.

Weighing on leaders’ minds is the prospect of Ukraine running out of money in the spring to pay civil servants, teachers, doctors and to keep pension funds topped up.

There are also increasing concerns among some member states that Russia, which has intensified its ammunition production, could win the war against Ukraine.

The EU’s chief diplomat, Josep Borrell, said on Wednesday that the EU expected to reach just 52% of its target to send 1m rounds of shells to Ukraine by March this year, according to the latest production data compiled by the commission.

The data had been collected after Germany put pressure on the EU’s External Action Service to try to nail down reliable data on each member state’s contributions.

Some say it was out of a sense of frustration in Germany, which has so far contributed €17bn (£14bn) with another €7.4bn committed for 2024, that other member states, particularly the large economies of France, Italy and Spain, were not doing enough.

Diplomats confirmed the survey had been completed but “some member states did not provide data”.

They expect it will be raised by the German chancellor, Olaf Scholz, and the Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, at the summit on Thursday.

Speaking after an EU ministers’ meeting in Brussels, Borrell also said EU countries planned to train another 20,000 Ukrainian soldiers, on top of 40,000 already trained.

On Wednesday five EU prime ministers including Scholz issued a blunt warning in an open letter that the EU had already fallen short of its ammunition promises[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2024/jan/31/eu-has-fallen-short-on-pledge-to-supply-ukraine-with-ammunition].

Scholz, Rutte and the leaders of Denmark, Estonia and the Czech Republic said: “Russia doesn’t wait for anybody and we need to act now. If Ukraine loses, the long-term consequences and costs will be much higher for all of us.”

One diplomat said the letter had a “dual message” to pile pressure on member states to increase military support but also to send a message to Vladimir Putin that time was on the EU’s side as it would not waver in its support for Ukraine.

A final push on Wednesday to win over Orbán at a meeting of EU representatives appeared to have failed.

One source said the Hungarian representative, who spoke first, told counterparts Hungary was “working intensively and constructively towards a solution that would be acceptable for everyone within the MFF [multi-annual financial framework]”.

But the representative then went on to request an annual review accompanied by a “unanimous vote on the funding” which one diplomat said would “in other words be establishing a yearly veto mechanism”.

This was “a clear red line mentioned by almost all delegations”, said a source.

They pressed upon Hungary that the annual review was a workable compromise.

Officials have expressed perplexity with Hungary’s hardline position.

The emergency summit was called just before Christmas, after Hungary blocked the package arguing more funds would prolong the war in Ukraine.

One senior official said: “We really are at a deadlock. We will not know what he thinks until we are inside the room.”

Officials have worked up a plan B, which would involve the 26 member states agreeing the money outside the EU budget.

Raising the money, a mixture of loans and state contributions, that way is more complicated, requiring parliamentary approval in some cases.

“It is not the end of the world, but it’s a very difficult situation,” said a source.

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020240201ek21000dx


Europe,World
EU faces showdown with Hungary’s Orban over crucial aid for Ukraine to fight Putin’s forces
Tom Watling
1117 字
2024 年 2 月 1 日 10:08 GMT
Independent Online
INDOP
英文
© 2024. Independent Digital News and Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
Hungary remains opposed to a €50bn aid package to Ukraine ahead of a European Union summit on Thursday

Hungary[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/hungary] leader Viktor Orban has sat down with the European Union[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/european-union]’s five most powerful leaders ahead of a summit that could decide the future of the bloc’s financial aid to Ukraine[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/ukraine] during a key juncture in its war against Russia.

Mr Orban remains the last member of the EU opposing a €50 billion (£43bn) support package for Kyiv[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/kyiv] -the motion requires unanimity to be passed -and the bloc’s leaders arrived this morning nervous to finally push through a deal that has been delayed multiple times.

The Hungarian leader, who met with Russian autocrat Vladimir Putin last October in Beijing, has refused to approve military aid to Ukraine and has proved a permanent obstacle to the bloc’s ambitions to send communal support to Kyiv.

Posting a picture of his meeting with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, European Council President Charles Michel, French leader Emmanual Macron, German Chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni, he described the sit down as a “casual morning conversation”.

Casual morning conversation before the #EUCO[https://twitter.com/hashtag/EUCO?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] with @EmmanuelMacron[https://twitter.com/EmmanuelMacron?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] @GiorgiaMeloni[https://twitter.com/GiorgiaMeloni?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] @Bundeskanzler[https://twitter.com/Bundeskanzler?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] @CharlesMichel[https://twitter.com/CharlesMichel?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] and @vonderleyen[https://twitter.com/vonderleyen?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] . pic.twitter.com/eTnUH2jpcN[https://t.co/eTnUH2jpcN]

— Orbán Viktor (@PM_ViktorOrban) February 1, 2024[https://twitter.com/PM_ViktorOrban/status/1752980537373859955?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

But the stakes for Ukraine, for the European Union and for the collective opposition to Russian aggression has never been higher.

Poland’s new prime minister Donald Tusk, a staunch ally of Ukraine, said he had “nothing nice” to say to Mr Orban when he arrived in Brussels this morning.

Kaja Kallas, the Estonian leader, another strong ally of Kyiv, made portentous comments about the state of Hungary’s economy when asked about her hopes of a deal today.

Her comments were a thinly-veiled reference to an EU plan leaked on Sunday to strong-arm Hungary into approving the bill by threatening to permanently shut off all funding to Budapest if Mr Orban continued to block the bill.

“If you look at the economy of Hungary... the interest rate of their central bank is 9 percent, that shows how well his economy is going,” she said. “Hungary needs Europe, so he should also look into what is in it for Hungary, being in Europe."

But other leaders were more optimistic.

Germany’s Chancellor Scholz, as he arrived for the summit, said: “My strong conviction is that this should be possible. It’s time to make this happen.”

Outgoing Dutch prime minister Mark Rutte said he was “cautiously optimistic”, adding “I do believe we have come to an agreement today with the 27, including Hungary.”

The European Union last night made a last-ditch attempt to convince Hungary and its pro-Kremlin leader to cease blocking further aid to Ukraine by offering the chance to debate funding annually.

EU ambassadors, following a meeting on Wednesday ahead of the summit today, agreed to the proposal of an annual debate over the package to Ukraine worth around €50 billion (£43bn), according to a draft summit.

The EU aid is to help cover Ukraine’s needs for 2024-2027[https://www.independent.co.uk/news/ukraine-ap-hungary-viktor-orban-russia-b2488031.html], with €33 billion in cheap loans and €17 billion in grants from the bloc’s budget to give Kyiv stable financing as it fights off Russia’s invasion. It is not a military package.

Mr Orban has been pushing for an annual review[https://www.independent.co.uk/news/viktor-orban-ap-ukraine-russia-brussels-b2486639.html] that would give Hungary a right to veto the disbursements every year.

This goes against the idea of predictable funding and other EU countries reject it, but if the money is to come from the EU budget, it requires unanimity among the 27 EU countries, so Hungarian consent is necessary.

In an attempt to win Hungary over, the EU ambassadors agreed to propose to Budapest that they hold yearly debates on how the bloc money is being spent by Ukraine, based on reports by the European Commission.

This would not give Hungary a right to veto the money -but it would allow them to air concerns.

“The European Council will hold a debate each year on the implementation of the facility with a view to providing guidance on the EU approach towards the situation stemming from Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine,” the draft read.

It remains unclear if Hungary’s Prime Minister Viktor Orban[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/prime-minister-viktor-orban] will agree to such a deal.

But Hungary’s representative at the EU ambassador meeting on Wednesday allegedly responded to the proposal by reiterating that Budapest demands an annual veto on the funding.

Multiple attempts to convince Hungary to give its consent have failed over the past few months.

EU diplomats told Politico last week that if Mr Orban blocks Ukraine aid again during the meeting on Thursday, Brussels could look to invoke Article 7, the most serious political sanction on a member country that involves suspending its right to vote on EU decisions.

“If Mr Orban really blocks again an agreement [on the budget and the €50 billion for Ukraine] at the February summit, using Article 7 to strip Hungary of its voting rights could become a real option,” said one EU diplomat.

But Poland’s Mr Tusk said this morning that there was no “plan B” if Mr Orban remains obstinate.

During the last round of talks, Mr Orban refused to back down despite the EU releasing €10.2bn of bloc funding to Hungary the night before the meeting. The money had been previously withheld on grounds that Mr Orban was violating the rule of law prerequisites of EU membership.

After those talks concluded with no deal on Ukraine aid, Mr Orban told Hungarian state radio: “[The EU] wants to give the money of the Hungarians to continue the war. This is not acceptable.”

He did, however, allow Ukraine and Moldova to start membership to the bloc talks; he did so not by approving the application but by going “for a coffee” while the vote was taking place.

European Council President Charles Michel said at the time it was important that “no member states opposed this decision”, a reference to Mr Orban’s lack of approval.

Failure to pass additional aid to Ukraine would force the bloc to rethink again how best to fund the prospective member in its war against Russia.

The most obvious option would be to extend an existing loan scheme for 2024, which does not require unanimity.

The 26 countries would need to set up two intergovernmental schemes to allow the bloc to transfer grants and loans to Ukraine, but this would require parliamentary approval from individual countries.

Independent Digital News and Media Ltd.

文件 INDOP00020240131ek1v006st


Post-summit debrief with MEP Daniel Freund: EU power play worked
Georgi Gotev
956 字
2024 年 2 月 1 日 15:36 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2024. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
Minutes after the European Council President Charles Michel announced[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-agrees-unanimously-on-e50-billion-financial-aid-for-ukraine/] the agreement for 50 billion euros in Ukraine aid, Euractiv spoke to German MEP Daniel Freund (Greens), who has been among the most outspoken critics of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in the run-up to this extraordinary EU summit.

The summit was held mostly because of Orbán’s obstructions, after he vetoed the EU aid for Ukraine at an inconclusive December summit.

EU leaders set for February summit on special budget, Ukraine support[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-leaders-set-for-february-summit-on-special-budget-ukraine-support/]

EU leaders are expected to convene for an emergency summit on 1 February to have another go at agreeing on the bloc’s budget and financial aid to Ukraine

Freund expressed his satisfaction at the news that EU leaders won the arm-wrestling match with Orbán and overcame the Hungarian leader’s veto.

“They told Orbán there will be no more concessions, some of them openly discussed taking Hungary’s voting rights away or freezing additional funds, and this seems to have worked,” Freund told Euractiv.

“Orbán folded and agreed to the deal, it seems, without additional concessions. For me, the lesson learned is that Orbán only understands this language of power.”

Freund however regretted that the warning of triggering Article 7, which would strip Budapest of its voting rights, was not because but as a result of negotiating tactics.

Orban’s son-in-law faces new probe over EU funds[https://www.euractiv.com/section/justice-home-affairs/news/organs-son-in-law-faces-new-probe-over-eu-funds/]

Hungarian prosecutors have launched an investigation into European Union-funded projects run by a company once controlled by the son-in-law of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, weeks after the conclusion of a probe by the EU’s anti-fraud office OLAF.

The EU’s Article 7 has been described as a “nuclear option” in terms of punishing an EU member gone astray.

However, Freund regretted that EU leaders referred to Article 7 only when they faced an uphill battle with Orbán at EU summits, and not when addressing “the bigger picture of democracy in decline in Hungary for the last 14 years”.

Orbán has turned his country into an autocracy, “with his friends and family stealing EU funds by the billions”, the MEP said.

Asked what he would like to know from what has not been announced, he said:

“I hope there have been no side arrangements”.

The actor behind the scenes

Asked if he believed that a decision to strip Hungary of its voting rights, which should be taken by unanimity of the other 26 members of the Union, was realistic, Freund said:

“From what I hear from EU leaders in the last few days, certainly the frustration has gone up quite a bit. Everyone having to come back to Brussels just because of Orbán, with the risk of another summit failing again, with another veto having severe geopolitical consequences, probably made leaders very strong towards Orbán.”

As for whether another actor behind the scenes – the United States – could have played a role in taming Orbán, he said:

“The actor that has definitely been there behind the scenes is Vladimir Putin”.

Freund continued:

“Orbán was very proud shaking his [Putin’s] hand in Beijing, no other [EU] government has been in such contact with Russia in the past three years, the Hungarian foreign minister has been there five times since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.”

“We have seen time and again that Orbán has been doing Putin’s bidding, by deleting individuals from the (EU) sanction list, by negotiating op-outs to continue to import Russian oil. Against this background, what’s the role of the US – I can only speculate.”

Asked if Orbán’s interest was for Ukraine to lose this war because some in Hungary hope they could then grab parts of the Ukrainian territory, he said:

Hungary far-right would lay claim to neighbouring region if Ukraine loses war[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/hungary-far-right-would-lay-claim-to-neighbouring-region-if-ukraine-loses-war/]

Hungary’s far-right Our Homeland party would lay claim to a western region of Ukraine that is home to about 150,000 ethnic Hungarians if Ukraine loses its statehood due to Russia’s invasion, the party’s leader said late on Saturday (27 January).

“I don’t know what Orbán’s motivation is, but anyone believing that Ukraine losing the war is good for anyone in Europe, is fully mistaken. Hungary taking parts of Ukraine is not a scenario that may occur in any type of future. The only scenario, if Ukraine loses this war, is that Russian tanks will not stop at the Ukrainian border. And Hungary may be one of the countries next in line.”

Freund pointed out that Russian President Vladimir Putin had stressed that “this war is not about Ukraine”.

“He wants to re-establish the Soviet empire’s past grandeur, who knows what falls under the territory he wants to get back for Russia.”

Asked if Council President Charles Michel’s prestige has now been rehabilitated, after his announcement – which he later withdrew – that he would run in the European elections drew heavy criticism, and even opened up the possibility of Orbán temporarily chairing the European Council, he said:

“I was not present and cannot say if this happened thanks to Michel or despite Michel. I hear quite a lot of frustration as to his dealings as Council president. I was not happy with his zigzags, but I’m happy there is a deal now, and that our united support for Ukraine faces no obstacles.”

Hungary will hold the rotating presidency of the Council of the EU from July to December, which in theory could have allowed Orbán to chair the European Council had Michel indeed stepped down to run in EU elections in June.

[Edited by Zoran Radosavljevic]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020240201ek210005p


Europe,World
EU agrees £43bn of vital aid to Ukraine after Hungary’s Orban finally bows to pressure
Tom Watling
1328 字
2024 年 2 月 1 日 18:15 GMT
Independent Online
INDOP
英文
© 2024. Independent Digital News and Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
The Hungarian prime minister had been the sole holdout for weeks

The European Union[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/european-union] has agreed a vital €50bn (£43bn) aid package to Ukraine[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/ukraine] after the bloc’s top leaders broke through the opposition[https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/russia-ukraine-war-live-putin-pows-crimea-b2488555.html] of Hungary’s prime minister Viktor Orban following weeks of stalemate.

Mr Orban, the closest ally Russian president Vladimir Putin[https://www.independent.co.uk/news/ukraine-ap-kyiv-moscow-black-sea-b2488816.html] has within the EU, has questioned the idea of committing years worth of funding to Kyiv despite unanimous support from the other 26 EU states. The Hungarian leader had previously blocked an agreement in December, but the pressure from other leaders[https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/ukraine-war-russia-zelensky-general-b2488236.html] finally broke his opposition and a deal was announced soon after the summit beginning.

“We have a deal,” Charles Michel[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/charles-michel], the European Council president wrote on Twitter/X, just five minutes after the summit officially began.

“All 27 leaders agreed on an additional €50bn support package for Ukraine within the EU budget. This locks in steadfast, long-term, predictable funding for Ukraine.

“The EU is taking leadership and responsibility in support for Ukraine; we know what is at stake.”

With the US – the largest single supplier of military aid to Kyiv – struggling to sign $60bn (£47bn) of fresh funding thanks to strong resistance from Donald Trump-supporting Republicans in Congress, pressure had been building on EU leaders to back up their strong words over steadfast support for Kyiv with action, particularly as Ukrainian forces have spoken of shortages of ammunition and weaponry on the front line. The tone was set by Polish prime minister Donald Tusk, who was asked what he would say to Mr Orban while on his way to the summit. “Nothing nice,” was his brief response.

Mr Orban sat down with the European Union’s five most powerful leaders – including Mr Michel, European Commission leader Ursula von der Leyen, French president Emmanuel Macron, German chancellor Olaf Scholz and Italian prime minister Giorgia Meloni – ahead of the summit. The speed with which the deal was signed off once the summit began suggests that this was where Mr Orban realised he had run out of road.

“[Orban] tried to raise his bets as high as possible. But I’m not sure he got much,” Sebastien Maillard, an associate fellow of the Europe Programme at the Chatham House think tank, said.

The EU aid, known as the Ukraine Facility, will help cover Kyiv’s needs for 2024 to 2027. It includes €33bn in cheap loans and €17bn in grants from the bloc’s budget to give Ukraine stable financing as it fights off Russia[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/russia]’s invasion. It is not strictly a military package, although Western loans and grants help maintain internationally-supplied arms. It will also help fill any gaps in Ukraine’s budget as money has been pushed towards the war effort, such as salaries for public servants. It also means that Kyiv will not face the requirement to divert funds away from military efforts to support other wider societal needs. The first €4.5bn is expected to arrive in March.

Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/volodymyr-zelensky] thanked the EU for its “very important decision” but called for more military assistance, particularly the provision of artillery shells.

“It is very important that the decision was made by all 27 leaders, which once again proves strong EU unity,” Mr Zelensky said. “Unfortunately, the implementation of the European plan to supply one million artillery shells to Ukraine is being delayed.”

On Wednesday, the EU’s top foreign policy chief said they hoped to have 52 per cent of the shells they promised to Ukraine last year by the end of 2024.

EU leaders stressed an “urgent need” to accelerate the delivery of ammunition and missiles to Ukraine in a statement after Mr Zelensky’s remarks.

Grateful to @CharlesMichel[https://twitter.com/CharlesMichel?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw] and EU leaders for establishing the €50 billion Ukraine Facility for 2024-2027.

It is very important that the decision was made by all 27 leaders, which once again proves strong EU unity.

Continued EU financial support for Ukraine will strengthen…

— Volodymyr Zelenskyy / Володимир Зеленський (@ZelenskyyUa) February 1, 2024[https://twitter.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1753009323515531449?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

Ukraine’s top diplomat, Dmytro Kuleba, described the EU package as one of “historic proportions”, adding that it showed that talk of war fatigue among Kyiv’s backers was “simply false”.

“This is a step of historic proportions. It demonstrates that any talk about alleged ‘fatigue’ or ‘waning support’ is simply false.

“Europe has once again demonstrated its strength and ability to make major decisions independent of others. The EU is leading the way and setting an example for the rest of the world to follow.”

Mr Maillard said he believed the EU passing their bill now puts increased pressure on US Congress to finally reach their own deal.

Republicans have proved equally obstinate in the face of the Joe Biden administration’s attempts to pass a new military support package to Ukraine, which has been blocked since last October in Congress. Negotiations on linking policy changes over migration at the US southern border with wartime aid for Kyiv – with the aim of unlocking Republican support – continue.

“The fact that the EU has delivered definitely puts pressure on Congress,” Mr Maillard said. “If the EU had failed, it would have put less political pressure on the US.

“The message from Brussels today is: ‘Now it’s your turn Washington’.”

Mr Orban was well aware that the EU support package for Kyiv required unanimity to be passed – and the bloc’s leaders arrived this morning nervous to finally push through a deal that was first proposed in June last year. The Hungarian leader, who met with Putin last October in Beijing, had been expected to provide tough resistance again.

Diplomats told Reuters that, in exchange for the green light from Hungary for the Ukraine aid, the bloc did not commit to releasing any of the billions of euros of EU funds intended for Hungary but frozen by Brussels over concerns about human rights and the rule of law in the country. They said the aid deal included a yearly discussion of the package and the option to review it in two years "if needed", but no clear veto right for Budapest.

Mr Maillard said the two-year review would allow the EU to suspend or freeze additional money but it would not allow the bloc to cancel the funding – a power that Hungary had hoped to wield going forwards.

Mr Orban tried to spin the results of the summit. Hungary accepted the deal with conditions that withheld EU funds from Hungary will not end up in Ukraine and that Ukrainian aid will be used sensibly, the leader said. But his remarks bear little relation to what other EU leaders said was agreed.

Multiple attempts to convince Hungary to give its consent had failed over the past few months as EU leaders explored progressively more extreme ways of winning Budapest over.

EU diplomats told Politico last week that if Mr Orban blocked Ukraine aid again during the meeting on Thursday, Brussels could look to invoke Article 7, the most serious political sanction on a member country that involves suspending its right to vote on EU decisions.

On Sunday, a plan was leaked to the Financial Times detailing an EU idea to strong-arm Hungary into approving the bill by threatening to permanently shut off all funding to Budapest. Mr Orban described the plan as “blackmail”.

Kaja Kallas, the Estonian leader, a staunch supporter of Ukraine, made portentous comments about the state of Hungary’s economy this morning when asked about her hopes of a deal, in a thinly-veiled reference to this plan.

“If you look at the economy of Hungary... the interest rate of their central bank is 9 per cent, that shows how well his economy is going,” she said. “Hungary needs Europe, so he should also look into what is in it for Hungary, being in Europe."

Independent Digital News and Media Ltd.

文件 INDOP00020240201ek21004bu


Viktor Orbán: what is the endgame for Europe’s chief disrupter?
Ben Hall and Marton Dunai in Budapest and Henry Foy in Brussels
2627 字
2024 年 2 月 1 日 12:27 GMT
Financial Times (FT.Com)
FTCOM
英文
Copyright 2024 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.
The Hungarian prime minister has a long history of extracting EU concessions. He hopes a shift to the right could work in his favour

Viktor Orbán was asked on Hungarian TV late last year whether his antagonism towards Brussels and Washington would lead Hungary away from the west and out of the EU.

“Our plan is not to leave the EU,” he replied. “Our plan is to conquer it.”

Orbán was speaking shortly after he vetoed a €50bn EU aid package for Ukraine at a summit in December. EU leaders returned to Brussels on Thursday to persuade him to back down. 

What was shaping up to be an epic showdown between Orbán and the EU’s 26 other leaders never materialised. The Hungarian prime minister dropped his veto at the last minute before the full summit began.

His brinkmanship, however, has exasperated EU leaders, especially the European Commission and its president Ursula von der Leyen, who has spearheaded efforts to support Kyiv. Few will be under the illusion that Orbán will cease to be the EU’s chief internal antagonist.

The veteran Hungarian leader has performed such pivots before. He is still blocking an EU fund that pays for weapons transfers to Ukraine. He is dragging his feet on ratifying Sweden’s accession to Nato and will have multiple opportunities to veto Ukraine’s path to EU membership.

“The relations between Orbán and the commission had totally broken down. There was zero trust between him and von der Leyen,” says a person involved in the negotiations. “That shifted a little today but hasn’t fundamentally changed.”

The Hungarian premier may be more isolated than ever, but Orbán is convinced that politics is shifting to the right on both sides of the Atlantic, favouring his agenda. He told Hungarian TV that the EU would come round to his way of thinking — that it should be pressing Ukraine to negotiate with Russia, not supporting its resistance — just as he believes it did on immigration.

Diplomats say he relishes being centre stage. The shrewd negotiator has a long history of blocking EU decisions to extract concessions. But the greater Orbán’s intransigence, the more uncertain European diplomats and officials became about his objectives — and his price.

One view is that he was once again trying to force Brussels to release money for Hungary that remains frozen over concerns about the country’s rule of law and anti-corruption measures.

“This [was] primarily about blackmail, leverage and unblocking his money,” says a senior EU diplomat.

Others suspect Orbán wants to go further and undermine EU institutions that constrain his actions, particularly the commission and its president von der Leyen.

Not that Orbán appears deterred by EU concerns over the state of Hungarian democracy and the rule of law. 

On the same day as EU leaders convened, a new Sovereignty Protection Authority starts work in Budapest, with the aim of rooting out foreign influence in politics, academia and the media. It is the latest step in the Hungarian leader’s decade-long project curtailing political freedoms and legal rights.

The body has sweeping investigative powers and no judicial oversight. Its legal basis is “so vague that the invasive scrutiny of the proposed office could be weaponised against anybody who may be considered an adversary due, for instance, to ‘activities aimed at influencing democratic debate’”, the Council of Europe, the continent’s rights watchdog, warned in November.

“If anyone is perceived to endanger sovereignty, such as me talking to you right now and saying the EU should send no money [to Hungary], they could become subjects of the deepest investigations without any kind of legal oversight or the ability to complain,” Ákos Hadházy, an independent MP and former member of Orbán’s Fidesz party turned critic, tells the FT.

“Now . . . it is blatantly clear for everybody why it is a problem to cultivate autocrats inside Europe, why it is a challenge not only for the people of certain countries, but for all people in the European Union,” says Katalin Cseh, a Hungarian opposition member of the European parliament.

Orbán insists that Hungary’s political system is more open than other countries — he highlights as evidence the legal proceedings that Donald Trump faces in the US and alleged surveillance of the far-right Alternative for Germany party. “No one can seriously think that the way we lead this country is any worse than [the west],” he told Hungarian TV.

To his European and US allies, Orbán crossed a rubicon by blocking EU financial and military aid for Ukraine and by delaying ratification of first Finland and now Sweden’s entry into Nato. Such actions go against their fundamental foreign policy interests at a time of war on the continent. Some have accused him of doing the Kremlin’s bidding.

One EU diplomat says vetoing aid for Ukraine in December had been “the final straw”. Orbán’s past behaviour was “political posturing . . . This has an impact in the real world.”

In an interview with the Financial Times, the US ambassador to Hungary, David Pressman, was unusually blunt. “This government is not listening to or engaging with us in a productive dialogue on issues that are core to the US national security interests,” he says.

The Hungarian premier is friendly towards Moscow and broke ranks last October by becoming the first EU leader to meet Vladimir Putin since the Russian president ordered the full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Budapest’s relations with Kyiv have been poor for years, partly over the issue of minority rights for ethnic Hungarians living in western Ukraine. It has blocked Nato-Ukraine co-operation since 2017.

Whatever his intentions, Pressman says, Orbán’s policy choices have been “helpful to Putin and harmful to careful efforts to keep the alliance and our partners together”.

Such was the exasperation with Orbán’s stubbornness before Thursday’s climbdown that Hungary’s partners sought ways to retaliate.

Officials in Brussels last week drew up a plan to punish his “unconstructive behaviour” in which member states would rule out any further EU funding for Hungary with the aim of undermining confidence in the Hungarian economy. Budapest said it was EU “blackmail”.

Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson hinted that a Hungarian lease of 14 Gripen fighter jets — which account for the entire fixed-wing combat section of Hungary’s air force — could be at stake if Budapest continued to block Sweden’s path into Nato.

European diplomats say there has been discussion in several capitals of triggering the EU’s so-called Article 7 sanction, which can ultimately result in the suspension of a member state’s voting rights, the heaviest punishment possible. Other officials have rebuffed such a step, given that it requires unanimous support from its members and many countries are reluctant to deploy such a tool. 

Daniel Hegedüs, a senior fellow at the German Marshall Fund think-tank, says member states should at least initiate the first phase of the procedure, which only requires a fourth-fifths majority “if the goal is to give the message to the Hungarians that you have to change your behaviour. If nothing else it is naming and shaming.”

The defeat of the Eurosceptic but pro-Ukrainian government in Poland following elections last year has left Orbán with few friends, say officials and diplomats. He has a potential ally in Robert Fico, the populist prime minister of Slovakia who returned to power last year and has voiced pro-Russian leanings. But although the Slovak premier raises rule of law concerns of his own, he appears more flexible than his Hungarian counterpart, and changed his stance on Ukraine following a visit to the war-torn country earlier this month.

Before the EU summit in Brussels in December — where Orbán took a one-man stand against helping Ukraine — the Hungarians proposed to Fico that the two leaders arrive together and give a joint statement to the press. Fico refused, according to people briefed on the discussions, and proceeded to contradict Orbán’s arguments in the room.

“Orbán came to [the December summit] expecting to find silent allies around the table who would emerge and say, ‘Viktor has a point here,’” says a senior European diplomat. “But none emerged.”

Orbán’s allies brush off his apparent isolation. 

“This is not a position that we enjoy,” says János Bóka, Orbán’s EU minister and a former adviser on Europe. However, he says, “being alone . . . in the European Union is not something that prevents the Hungarian government from pursuing a specific position. In Hungary, our political community expects the Hungarian government to be firm and uncompromising on national interests.”

On the contrary, the Hungarian government sees the balance of power tilting in its favour this year, with the strong possibility of Trump’s return to the White House and gains for the populist, nationalist right and far right in European parliamentary elections in June and several other national polls supporting its Eurosceptic positions. 

This will be a “year of political opportunity” for Hungary, says Bóka.

Orbán will do everything to take it.

Ironically for someone who decries foreign interference in his country’s affairs, the Hungarian leader is not afraid to directly intervene in politics elsewhere. France’s far-right National Rally party received a loan from a Hungarian bank run by Orbán associates. The Hungarian government is reported to have funded anti-immigration adverts in Polish ahead of last year’s election. Protests by farmers against the EU in Brussels last week were organised by a Hungarian think-tank chaired by a close aide to the prime minister.

As the US gears up for elections, Orbán is openly advocating Trump’s return to the White House while denigrating the Biden administration, says ambassador Pressman.

“I am sure that if President Trump were president, then today Ukraine and Europe would not be stricken by any kind of war,” Orbán told a Republican-aligned Conservative Political Action Conference in Hungary last May. “Come back Mr President, make America great again and bring us peace!”

In Europe, Orbán is a keen student of political developments across the continent, even conducting surveys in all other EU member states to understand political dynamics. According to close allies, the Hungarian leader has watched the slide in support for mainstream parties in Germany and elsewhere in the EU and is betting that voters will end up wanting things such as energy links with Russia restored and better social protections, rather than spending on Ukrainians or immigrants. 

Orbán sees “a very large playground among all the people who have now found themselves outside the old dual order [of established parties]”, says one person with knowledge of the premier’s thinking.

The polls in Europe put right-wing parties in a strong position. Surveys suggest the nationalist European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR), led by Italy’s Giorgia Meloni, and the more radical Identity and Democracy Group (ID), home to the French and German far-right parties, will gain ground in June’s European parliament elections at the expense of the greens and liberals.

Their gains would be enough to shift parliament to more conservative positions on environmental legislation and laws on immigration and asylum, according to a study by the European Council on Foreign Relations.

Orbán dreams of uniting ID and ECR into one large Eurosceptic bloc but the two groups remain deeply divided between relative moderates and extremists and over the question of support for Russia. His party, Fidesz, which was forced out of the mainstream conservative family in 2021, is a member of neither but would be a natural fit for the ECR, were it not for its position on Ukraine and Russia.

The Hungarian leader believes the upcoming European parliament elections will signal a new political order in Europe following the far-right’s victory in last year’s Dutch elections and probably later this year in Austria. His calculation, say allies, is that within a few years he will never be alone again in the European Council.

In the meantime, Hungary will press for a looser, less integrated EU, says Bóka, an objective that unites all Eurosceptic parties in Europe.

“We need a Brussels that stands up for the self-esteem of nations, allows countries to choose their way of life, regulates the market but won’t tell a Pole, a Hungarian or a Portuguese how they should live,” Orbán told Hungarian TV.

Indeed, several EU officials involved in the discussions with Hungary say the aim of Orbán’s confrontational tactics has been to erode the commission’s standing and its rule of law safeguards.  

“This is about a sustained campaign to shift power from Brussels to the member states,” says one senior EU diplomat involved in the negotiations with Hungary. “That’s his game plan.”

Shortly before he wielded his veto against the Ukraine support package in December, the commission released €10bn in blocked funding following legal changes by Hungary to strengthen judicial independence. The commission said it could have faced legal action if it had not released the money given that Budapest had acquiesced to the concessions Brussels had requested.

But the release of EU funds was hugely contentious with Orbán’s domestic opponents and his critics in the European parliament, who are threatening legal action against the commission.

“We cannot expect Hungary to return to the rule of law through narrow and technical changes,” says Cseh, the MEP. “It was very clear that the justice reforms . . . weren’t complete, the guarantees were not there.”

Cseh points out that Brussels released the €10bn in frozen funds less than 24 hours after the final judicial reform was passed into law by Hungary’s parliament, hardly time for proper scrutiny.

Any further compromise by Brussels could damage the credibility of the conditionality mechanism, a tool used against Hungary in 2022, and the standing of von der Leyen in the eyes of MEPs and national leaders. She requires the backing of both to win a second five-year mandate at the top of the commission this autumn.

Orbán opposes a second term for von der Leyen and has vilified her in campaign posters plastered around Budapest and other cities. Undermining her is a critical part of his anti-Brussels campaign, officials say.

“He is playing a very long game, and has more time than most,” says a second EU diplomat present during the summit talks. “Quite honestly, he is better at playing the game than most, too.”

Orbán’s opponents reject the idea that there is some higher ideological or even foreign policy purpose to his obstructive behaviour in Brussels. Everything, they say, is about keeping control in Hungary through politicised public institutions and crony capitalism, a system he has dubbed the System of National Cooperation — one that requires the continued flow of EU funds.

Confrontation with Brussels serves to polarise the electorate, turn the opposition into enemies and deflects attention from real problems, such as Hungary’s weak economy, says independent MP Hadházy.

“It is not about conviction or ideology. It is about preservation of power,” he says.

“If everyone’s against him, then back home he’s a freedom fighter, at least to his voters,” says Ágnes Vadai, an opposition MP. “He’s not pro-Russia, he’s not pro-Putin; he’s pro the Putin system.”

Additional reporting by Andy Bounds in Brussels

This story has been updated since first published to include details of the EU’s new $50bn support package for Ukraine.

Letter in response to this article:

Expat Hungarian pleads with Orbán to end the grandstanding / From Istvan Dobozi, Sarasota, FL, US

The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)

文件 FTCOM00020240201ek21000v0


US lawmakers call on Hungarian leader Viktor Orbán to immediately approve Sweden's NATO membership
By JUSTIN SPIKE
Associated Press
608 字
2024 年 2 月 2 日 10:40 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2024. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
BUDAPEST, Hungary (AP) — A bipartisan group of U.S. lawmakers are urging Hungary to immediately ratify Sweden's application to join NATO[https://apnews.com/article/turkey-sweden-nato-explainer-b5a94a1aa0a4088a60b920eaa09737a5#:~:text=STOCKHOLM%20(AP)%20%E2%80%94%20Sweden's%20bid,Nordic%20country%20into%20the%20alliance.], saying patience with the Central European country is “wearing thin” as it continues to delay its approval for the Nordic nation.

Hungary is the only country in the 31-nation military alliance that hasn't yet backed Sweden's membership bid[https://apnews.com/article/hungary-sweden-nato-membership-orban-last-holdout-13cb5837bc1819382a08531a879fa348], and frustration has mounted within NATO as Budapest has repeatedly pushed back a vote on ratification for more than a year.

In a joint statement released Thursday, U.S. Sens. Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat, and Thom Tillis, a North Carolina Republican, called on Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán[https://apnews.com/hub/viktor-orban] to “advance Sweden’s accession protocols to NATO without further delay,” and said continuing to hold up the process would harm Budapest's relations with its allies.

“Despite its numerous prior public commitments, Hungary is the last remaining NATO member to have not ratified Sweden’s bid and both time and patience are wearing thin. Hungary’s inaction risks irrevocably damaging its relationship with the United States and with NATO,” the senators wrote.

Orbán, a staunch nationalist that has led Hungary since 2010, has long promised that his country wouldn't be the last NATO member to approve Sweden's application. But as Turkey's parliament voted to back Stockholm's bid in January, attention has shifted to Budapest as NATO members seek to expand the alliance amid Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine].

A vote on the protocols for Sweden’s NATO accession hasn’t yet appeared on the Hungarian parliament’s agenda, and the matter is unlikely to go before lawmakers until at least late February when the parliament reconvenes.

In a separate statement, U.S. Sen. Ben Cardin, a Maryland Democrat and chair of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, raised the prospect of imposing sanctions on Hungary for its conduct, and called Orbán “the least reliable member of NATO.”

Cardin said that the Biden administration should examine whether Hungary should continue to participate in the U.S. Visa Waiver Program, which allows passport holders from 41 countries to enter the United States for business or tourism without a visa for up to 90 days.

He also said that “given the level of corruption” in Hungary, the U.S. should examine initiating sanctions against Hungarians under the Global Magnitsky Act, a program that allows Washington to sanction foreign individuals for human rights and corruption violations.

Cardin said he was “grateful” that the European Union on Thursday approved a 50-billion euro ($54 billion) aid package to Ukraine[https://apnews.com/article/ukraine-war-russia-hungary-eu-summit-budget-6d0f11bc16b4b21073f92925de2046e4], but noted that it had only done so by overcoming a veto by Orbán that had threatened to derail the funding.

Orbán had opposed financing the aid through the EU's common budget, but ultimately consented to the measure under pressure from othe leaders in the 27-nation bloc.

Speaking in an interview with state radio on Friday, Orbán, seen by his critics as the Kremlin's closest EU ally[https://apnews.com/article/putin-orban-russia-hungary-china-beijing-2265f08fcfa37e28f4b890d5ecce5d2e], cast doubt on Ukraine's ability to defeat Russia's invasion.

“Westerners still think that time is on our side, that the longer the war lasts, the more Ukraine’s military situation will improve. I think the opposite is true,” he said. “I think that time is on the side of the Russians, and the longer the war lasts, the more people will die, and the balance of power will not change in Ukraine’s favor. Then why do we continue the war?”

Eds: UPDATES: Updates Media.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020240202ek2200fa1


Russia This Week - February 2, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 2 月 2 日, 37339 字, (英文)
Ukraine’s bought some breathing space after EU signs off on €50bn support packageAll 27 leaders of EU member states agreed on an additional €50bn support package for the so-called Ukraine Facility within the EU budget, European Council ...

US senators urge Hungary to ratify Sweden's NATO membership 'without further delay'
FOXNews.com, 2024 年 2 月 2 日 12:18 GMT, 515 字, (英文)
"Despite its numerous prior public commitments, Hungary is the last remaining NATO member to have not ratified Sweden’s bid and both time and patience are wearing thin. Hungary’s inaction risks irrevocably damaging its relationship with the...

Business
What is the endgame for Europe's chief disrupter?
Ben Hall; Marton Dunai ; Henry Foy
2435 字
2024 年 2 月 2 日
Financial Times
FTFT
1; Asia
15
英文
Copyright 2024 The Financial Times Ltd. All rights reserved. Please do not cut and paste FT articles and redistribute by email or post to the web.
The Hungarian prime minister has a long history of extracting EU concessions and exasperating Brussels. Although more isolated than ever, Orbán hopes a shift to the right will work in his favour.

By Ben Hall, Marton Dunai and Henry Foy

V iktor Orbán was asked on Hungarian TV late last year whether his antagonism towards Brussels and Washington would lead Hungary away from the west and out of the EU. "Our plan is not to leave the EU," he replied. "Our plan is to conquer it."

Orbán was speaking shortly after he vetoed a €50bn EU aid package for Ukraine at a summit in December. EU leaders returned to Brussels yesterday to persuade him to back down.

What was shaping up to be an epic showdown between Orbán and the EU's 26 other leaders never materialised. The Hungarian prime minister dropped his veto at the last minute before the full summit began.

His brinkmanship, however, has exasperated EU leaders, especially the European Commission and its president Ursula von der Leyen, who has spearheaded efforts to support Kyiv. Few are under the illusion that Orbán will cease to be the EU's chief internal antagonist.

The Hungarian leader has performed such pivots before. He is still blocking an EU fund that pays for weapons transfers to Ukraine. He is dragging his feet on ratifying Sweden's accession to Nato and will have multiple opportunities to veto Ukraine's path to EU membership.

"The relations between Orbán and the commission had totally broken down. There was zero trust between him and von der Leyen," says a person involved in the negotiations. "That shifted a little today but hasn't fundamentally changed."

The Hungarian premier may be more isolated than ever, but Orbán is convinced that politics is shifting to the right on both sides of the Atlantic, favouring his agenda. He told Hungarian TV that the EU would come round to his way of thinking that it should be pressing Ukraine to negotiate with Russia, not supporting its resistance just as he believes it did on immigration.

Diplomats say he relishes being centre stage. The shrewd negotiator has a long history of blocking EU decisions to extract concessions. But the greater Orbán's intransigence, the more uncertain European diplomats and officials became about his objectives.

One view is that he was once again trying to force Brussels to release money for Hungary that remains frozen over concerns about the country's rule of law and anti-corruption measures. "This [was] primarily about blackmail, leverage and unblocking his money," says a senior EU diplomat.

Others suspect Orbán wants to undermine EU institutions that constrain his actions, particularly the commission and its president von der Leyen.

Not that Orbán appears deterred by EU concerns over the state of Hungarian democracy and the rule of law. On the same day as EU leaders convened, a new Sovereignty Protection Authority started work in Budapest, with the aim of rooting out foreign influence in politics, academia and the media. It is the latest step in the Hungarian leader's decade-long project curtailing political freedoms and legal rights.

The body has sweeping investigative powers and no judicial oversight. Its legal basis is "so vague that the invasive scrutiny of the proposed office could be weaponised against anybody who may be considered an adversary due, for instance, to 'activities aimed at influencing democratic debate'", the Council of Europe, the continent's rights watchdog, warned in November.

"If anyone is perceived to endanger sovereignty, such as me talking to you right now and saying the EU should send no money [to Hungary], they could become subjects of the deepest investigations without any kind of legal oversight or the ability to complain," Ákos Hadházy, an independent MP and former member of Orbán's Fidesz party turned critic, tells the Financial Times.

"Now ... it is blatantly clear for everybody why it is a problem to cultivate autocrats inside Europe ... not only for the people of certain countries, but for all people in the EU," says Katalin Cseh, a Hungarian opposition member of the European parliament.

Orbán insists Hungary's political system is more open than other countries. He highlights as evidence the legal proceedings that Donald Trump faces in the

US and alleged surveillance of the farright Alternative for Germany party. "No one can seriously think that the way we lead this country is any worse than [the west]," he told Hungarian TV.

To his European and US allies, Orbán crossed a Rubicon by blocking EU financial and military aid for Ukraine and by delaying ratification of first Finland and now Sweden's entry into Nato. Such actions go against their fundamental foreign policy interests at a time of war on the continent. Some have accused him of doing the Kremlin's bidding.

One EU diplomat says vetoing aid for Ukraine in December had been "the final straw". Orbán's past behaviour was "political posturing ... This has an impact in the real world."

In an interview with the Financial Times, the US ambassador to Hungary, David Pressman, was unusually blunt. "This government is not listening to or engaging with us in a productive dialogue on issues that are core to the US national security interests," he says.

Orbán broke ranks last October by becoming the first EU leader to meet Vladimir Putin since the Russian president ordered the full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Budapest's relations with Kyiv have been poor for years, partly over the issue of minority rights for ethnic Hungarians living in western Ukraine. It has blocked Nato-Ukraine co-operation since 2017.

Whatever his intentions, Pressman says, Orbán's policy choices have been "harmful to careful efforts to keep the alliance and our partners together".

S uch was the exasperation with Orbán's stubbornness before yesterday's climbdown that Hungary's partners sought ways to retaliate. Officials in Brussels last week drew up a plan to punish his "unconstructive behaviour" in which member states would rule out further EU funding for Hungary with the aim of undermining confidence in the country's economy. Budapest said it was EU "blackmail".

Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson hinted that a Hungarian lease of 14 Gripen fighter jets which account for the entire fixed-wing combat section of Hungary's air force could be at stake if Budapest continued to block Sweden's path into Nato.

European diplomats say there has been discussion in several capitals of triggering the EU's so-called Article 7 sanction, which can result in the suspension of a member state's voting rights, the heaviest punishment possible. Other officials have rebuffed such a step, given that it requires unanimous support from its members and many countries are reluctant to use the tool.

Daniel Hegedüs, a senior fellow at the German Marshall Fund think-tank, says member states should at least initiate the first phase of the procedure, which only requires a fourth-fifths majority "if the goal is to give the message to the Hungarians that you have to change your behaviour. If nothing else it is naming and shaming."

The defeat of the Eurosceptic but pro- Ukrainian government in Poland following elections last year has left Orbán with few friends, say officials and diplomats. He has a potential ally in Robert Fico, the populist prime minister of Slovakia who returned to power last year and has voiced pro-Russian leanings. But although the Slovak premier raises rule of law concerns of his own, he appears more flexible than his Hungarian counterpart, and changed his stance on Ukraine following a visit to the wartorn country earlier this month.

Before the EU summit in December where Orbán took a one-man stand against helping Ukraine the Hungarians proposed to Fico that the two leaders arrive together and give a joint statement to the press. Fico refused, according to people briefed on the discussions, and proceeded to contradict Orbán's arguments in the room.

"Orbán came to [the December summit] expecting to find silent allies around the table who would emerge and say, 'Viktor has a point here,'" says a senior European diplomat. "But none emerged."

Orbán's allies brush off his apparent isolation. "This is not a position that we enjoy," says János Bóka, Orbán's EU minister. But "being alone ... is not something that prevents the Hungarian government from pursuing a specific position," he adds. "Our political community expects the Hungarian government to be firm and uncompromising on national interests."

On the contrary, the Hungarian government sees the balance of power tilting in its favour this year, with the strong possibility of Trump's return to the White House and gains for the populist, nationalist right and far right in European parliamentary elections in June and several other national polls supporting its Eurosceptic positions.

This will be a "year of political opportunity" for Hungary, says Bóka.

O rbán will do everything to take it. Ironically for someone who decries foreign interference in his country's affairs, the Hungarian leader is not afraid to directly intervene in politics elsewhere. France's far-right National Rally party received a loan from a Hungarian bank run by Orbán associates. Protests by farmers against the EU in Brussels last week were organised by a Hungarian think-tank chaired by a close aide to the prime minister.

As the US gears up for elections, Orbán is openly advocating Trump's return to the White House, says ambassador Pressman. "If Trump was president, then today Ukraine and Europe would not be stricken by any kind of war," Orbán told a Republican-aligned Conservative Political Action Conference in Hungary last May. "Come back

Mr President, make America great again and bring us peace!"

In Europe, Orbán is a keen student of political developments across the conti- nent, even conducting surveys in all other EU member states to understand political dynamics. According to close allies, the Hungarian leader has watched the slide in support for mainstream parties in Germany and elsewhere in the EU and is betting that voters will end up wanting things such as energy links with Russia restored and better social protections, rather than spending on Ukrainians or immigrants.

Orbán sees "a very large playground among all the people who have now found themselves outside the old dual order [of established parties]", says one person with knowledge of his thinking.

The polls in Europe put right-wing parties in a strong position. Surveys suggest the nationalist European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR), led by Italy's Giorgia Meloni, and the more radical Identity and Democracy Group (ID), home to the French and German far-right parties, will gain ground in June's European parliament elections at the expense of the greens and liberals.

Their gains would be enough to shift parliament to more conservative positions on environmental legislation and laws on immigration and asylum, according to a study by the European Council on Foreign Relations.

Orbán dreams of uniting the ID and ECR into one large Eurosceptic bloc but the two groups remain deeply divided between relative moderates and extremists and over the question of support for Russia. His party, Fidesz, which was forced out of the mainstream conservative family in 2021, is a member of neither but would be a natural fit for the ECR, were it not for its position on Ukraine and Russia.

The Hungarian leader believes the upcoming European parliament elections will signal a new political order in Europe following the far-right's victory in last year's Dutch elections. His calculation, say allies, is that within a few years he will never be alone again in the European Council.

In the meantime, Hungary will press for a looser, less integrated EU, says Bóka. "We need a Brussels that stands up for the self-esteem of nations, allows countries to choose their way of life, regulates the market but won't tell a Pole, a Hungarian or a Portuguese how they should live," Orbán told Hungarian TV.

Indeed, several EU officials involved in the discussions with Hungary say the aim of Orbán's confrontational tactics has been to erode the commission's standing and its rule of law safeguards.

"This is about a sustained campaign to shift power from Brussels to the member states," says one senior EU diplomat involved in the negotiations with Hungary. "That's his game plan."

Shortly before he wielded his veto against the Ukraine support package in December, the commission released €10bn in blocked funding following legal changes by Hungary to strengthen judicial independence. The commission said it could have faced legal action if it had not released the money given that Budapest had acquiesced to the concessions Brussels had requested.

But the release of EU funds was hugely contentious with Orbán's domestic opponents and his critics in the European parliament, who are threatening legal action against the commission.

"We cannot expect Hungary to return to the rule of law through narrow and technical changes," says Cseh, the MEP.

Cseh points out that Brussels released the €10bn in frozen funds less than 24 hours after the final judicial reform was passed into law by Hungary's parliament, hardly time for proper scrutiny.

Any further compromise by Brussels could damage the credibility of the conditionality mechanism, a tool used against Hungary in 2022, and the standing of von der Leyen in the eyes of MEPs and national leaders. She requires the backing of both to win a second fiveyear mandate at the top of the commission this autumn.

Orbán opposes a second term for von der Leyen and undermining her is a critical part of his anti-Brussels campaign, officials say. "He is playing a very long game, and has more time than most," says a second EU diplomat present during the summit talks.

Orbán's opponents reject the idea that there is some higher ideological or even foreign policy purpose to his obstructive behaviour. Everything, they say, is about keeping control in Hungary through politicised public institutions and crony capitalism, a system he has dubbed the System of National Cooperation one that requires the continued flow of EU funds.

Confrontation with Brussels serves to polarise the electorate and deflects attention from real problems, such as Hungary's weak economy, says independent MP Hadházy. "It is not about conviction or ideology," he adds. "It is about preservation of power."

Additional reporting by Andy Bounds in Brussels

'He is playing a very long game, and has more time than most'

The Financial Times Limited (AAIW/EIW)

文件 FTFT000020240202ek220000b


Hungary objects to further anti-Russian sanction in energy, nuclear sector - top diplomat
170 字
2024 年 2 月 5 日 14:38 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
Hungary objects to further EU sanctions against Russia and will spare no effort to prevent any additional restrictions on energy and nuclear cooperation with Russia, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said after a phone call with his Estonian counterpart, Margus Tsahkna.

According to Szijjarto, this topic was raised during their telephone conversation. "We think that the sanction policy has failed. So, we see no point in adopting new sanction packages," he said.

He said that during the EU ambassadorial meeting in Brussels last weekend, Hungary made it clear that it "will not allow any punitive measures impacting the energy sector and nuclear power generation or threatening EU’s foreign relations."

"Discussions on this topic are underway in Brussels and I issued clear instructions to our ambassador on this matter," he said in a video address posted on his Facebook page (Facebook is banned in Russia due to its ownership by Meta, which has been designated as extremist).

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020240205ek2500165


BBCM: Highlights from Czech Newspapers, News Websites 6 Feb 24
818 字
2024 年 2 月 6 日 11:19 GMT
BBC Monitoring Europe
BBCEUP
英文
(c) 2024 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
By BBC Monitoring

Trump's possible second presidency, Hungary's foreign policy, nuclear tender decisions, and US gas imports are among the topics in Czech newspapers and websites on 5-6 February.

Paper calls for EU unity ahead of second Trump presidency

The business daily Hospodarske Noviny warns of the consequences of a potential second Donald Trump's US presidency, arguing that "European politicians should admit… that they are not ready for Donald Trump's second presidential term in the White House which can have much more dramatic impact on defence and security than the first". Facing the truth, the paper says, would be a good preparation for "what is inevitable in the future anyway", such as "taking on a greater responsibility for own defence". And this would require "greater expenses and tougher demands for EU politicians". The paper warns that "just as the EU has built some confidence in a joint foreign policy by the relatively strong support of Ukraine, 12 sanction packages, and a surprising unity after 24 February 2022, it will lose from foreign policy weakening and division by Trump". Hospodarske Noviny says that "even if Trump does not win… the EU needs to work on strengthening its political unity, its common market, and its defence with a stronger Nato pillar". (Hospodarske Noviny, 6 February)

A warning over Hungary

In a different article, Hospodarske Noviny reacts to the approval of EU financial aid for Ukraine by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, opining that the outcome "has been satisfactory for all sides". According to the daily, the EU has found out that "it can achieve its goals if it is persistent and makes it clear to Orban that it will make no more concessions on the structural funds status". The paper says that "for Orban, games over the most fundamental issues … have become a regular thing and in the end are linked with broader efforts to assert power on the international scene. Allies and friends can now become mere pawns to blackmail along this path". The paper warns that although "the European leaders may have to their own surprise convinced Orban to get back into the ranks, the dilemma has not been resolved". Hospodarske Noviny concludes by saying that "his growing authoritarianism is a precondition for his risky moves. As long as he is not afraid of losing power at home, he can engage in foreign policy risks in Europe and elsewhere". (Hospodarske Noviny, 6 February)

Cabinet is criticised for postponing nuclear reactor decision

Centre-right news website Lidovky.cz comments on the Czech cabinet's decision to ask for bids for four new nuclear reactors. The paper says that "it might appear that the cabinet finally knows what it wants", but "this is a misguided impression". The paper notes that Czech Finance Minister Zbynek Stanjura said recently that "when the cabinet receives the bids, it will decide whether to build one, two, or four nuclear reactors". The paper says that as the government has funds, it is not clear why it has been hesitating about the number of reactors; also "the politicians themselves admit that there is no viable alternative to building several reactors, because we will need their energy in the future. Renewable sources are unstable, dependency on gas imports is dangerous, and burning coal does not pay off". The paper suggests that the indecision is due to the fear of criticism "uncomfortable ahead of elections which take place almost every year in the Czech Republic. So, it is better to leave everything open to avoid responsibility and wait – a kind of ostrich strategy". (Lidovky.cz, 5 February)  

Newspaper cautions against relying on US natural gas

Business news outlet E15 says that the EU and the Czech Republic "should pay attention" to the Joe Biden administration's decision to stop issuing LNG export licences, noting that the United States is the EU's second largest LNG supplier. E15 opines that "if such a source drops out for some reason, the problem becomes larger in proportion to the supplier's share". It admits that "comparing the risks of supplies from Russia and those from the USA is like the proverbial comparison of apples and oranges, but as far as energy security is concerned, vigilance is always appropriate". E15 warns that "the EU and we along with it cannot therefore be satisfied with the fact that its needs are met for now. If the recent years were to teach us anything, it is that in energy, more than in anything else, there is a need for strategic planning and preventing risks". Therefore, E15 concludes, "we should consider LNG to be more of a tool that buys us time needed to make our energy more resilient and primarily more sustainable". (E15, 6 February)  

Source: BBC Monitoring 6 Feb 24

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCEUP0020240206ek26000rt


CE Noticias Financieras English
From Transcarpathia to Bessarabia: the far-right in Hungary and Romania dream of annexing Ukrainian territories
2392 字
2024 年 2 月 6 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Around 60% of Ukrainian grain traffic passes through Romania. The government in Bucharest is pro-NATO and pro-EU, without making a secret of it, and the country has been one of the most important logistical supports for Kiev in the war against the Russians. There are, however, ghosts on the political horizon. The rise of the Union of Romanians (AUR, radical right) in the polls, where it is in second place for the 2024 parliamentary elections, is a cause for concern in Brussels and Kiev.

The AUR has 20% of the vote. It is behind the ruling PSD (Social Democrats, 30%), but ahead of the other party in the governing coalition, the liberal PNL (18%). The AUR does not hide its fierce Euroscepticism, which in Romania is tempered by conspiracy theories, and its nostalgic tendency towards the days of the USSR. Russian propaganda has fertile ground here. And the new banner of the AUR leaders is the recovery of the territories that were once part of Romania and now belong to Ukraine.

Claudiu Tarziu, one of the two main leaders of the AUR, said last week that his country should "reunify" with Moldova and the Ukrainian border regions of Bessarabia, Northern Bukovina and Transcarpathia, according to the Romanian website "G4media", which has since been translated by other media, such as the "Kyiv Post". In January 2023, Tarziu was in Portugal at the invitation of Chega.

"We will only be truly sovereign once we restore the Romanian state within its natural borders," said Tarziu, who specified: "Bessarabia must return home. Northern Bukovina must not be forgotten, Southern Bessarabia, Transcarpathia, everything that was and is part of the Romanian nation must return to its state borders." It remains to be seen whether the idea is to buy a war with Hungary over the latter region, which the Hungarian far right has also been calling for, as we shall see.

The historic region of Northern Bukovina is part of the Chernivtsi district in southwestern Ukraine, while Bessarabia covers Moldova and parts of today's Chernivtsi and Odessa districts, also to the south, but already on the Black Sea coast. At the end of the Second World War, the whole of Bukovina was in the hands of the Soviet Union. In 1947, the Treaty of Paris made the northern half of Bukovina part of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, while the southern half became part of Romania. After the dissolution of the USSR in 1991, Northern Bukovina passed directly to the current Republic of Ukraine, an annexation that some AUR members believe was illegal.

The war is "not ours" As a NATO member that has already provided extensive military aid to Ukraine, Romania is considered a country involved in the Western effort to prevent the fall of Kiev. AUR leader George Simion disagrees, and recently wrote on Facebook: "It's not ours", referring to the war between Ukraine and Russia, which has been going on for almost two years. The hardliner opposes the transit of agricultural products from Ukraine through Romania and any kind of military aid, which includes plans to train Ukrainian pilots with F-16 fighter jets.

With almost a quarter of the vote and an electoral calendar that includes parliamentary, presidential, European and local elections in 2024, can the AUR undermine the relationship between the two countries? "This issue of territories has always been a topic for the far right, which resurfaces at certain times. The last time it was an important issue, I'd say very important, was in 1997, when Romania signed a friendship treaty with Ukraine, in which we recognized mutual borders, or we wouldn't have been able to join NATO," Romanian political analyst Vlad Adamesco told Expresso. "There were many protests from the far-right party of the time, which was called the Greater Romania Party, and from the name you can see that the opposition was severe," continues the co-founder of the political analysis website Politica La Minut.

The far-right "has dug up the issue again because there is a war, but the rise in voting intentions on the far-right has nothing to do with this Ukraine issue, it's linked to economic reasons, the rise in the cost of living, inflation, the great inequality that exists in Romania, the impact of the lockdown, all these things that are accumulating," he explains.

A NATO highway Romania is one of the major targets of the Kremlin's investment in propaganda. The website "PropaStop", which denounces fake news planted by Russia in Eastern Europe, recently published an analysis of a Russian post on Facebook which stated that the highway being built by the Bucharest government to connect the country to Ukraine would be a NATO project to annex parts of Ukraine.

"Romania's case is complex, because it is connected to the Black Sea and, although it is quite sure of its connection to the West and NATO, there are still tinges of mistrust towards the West and there may be more room than in other Alliance countries for Russian action. The narrative of polarization sets in and people start to worry exclusively about their internal problems, leaving aside concerns about the slaughter in Ukraine, which suddenly ceases to be important," researcher Olga Lautman, from the Centre for European Policy Analysis (CEPA), who specializes in relations between the Western far right and the Kremlin, told Expresso.

Since 2014, a disinformation campaign orchestrated by the Kremlin has repeatedly claimed that Ukraine's allies, including Romania, are planning to divide the country. There are several examples. "Romania, Hungary and Poland are going to steal territory from Ukraine" is one of the headlines dismantled by journalists on this site. Another is "Zelensky ready to unite Ukraine with Poland". More recently, "news" emerged that NATO troops were concentrating on Romania to "absorb Bukovina, Odessa and Moldova".

Adamesco stresses that "the question of territories is just a rehash of what Moscow says, adapted to the local reality. Kremlin newspapers periodically publish maps of how Ukraine will be divided between Russia and other states, for example, and that's how they keep this narrative alive."

A much more important topic, and one that everyone cares about, is the rights of the Romanian minority in Ukraine, but that too is being resolved between Bucharest and Kiev. "The idea that the Romanian minority in Ukraine is losing its identity isn't a fabrication of the far right, it's true. When it comes to this, Ukraine enters the dialogues as a topic, because politicians from the center often talk about it. But even this is being resolved, there is pressure for common and mutual standards, because these issues must be resolved before Ukraine can enter the EU."

The trauma of Trianon In Hungary, the issue is just as cyclical. And it came up again recently at a meeting of European far-right parties in Hungary. The Hungarian far-right party Mi Hazank (Our Nation) believes that if Russia succeeds in imposing its regime on Kiev, the lands that were Hungarian until the end of the First World War should revert to Magyar territory.

"As far as the war in Ukraine is concerned, our message is very simple: an immediate ceasefire, peace and resolution through talks," Mi Hazank leader Laszlo Toroczkai said at his party's conference, which was attended by members of the far-right parties Alternative for Germany and Forum for Democracy (Netherlands). He then added, quoted by Reuters: "If this war ends up with Ukraine losing its statehood, which may also be about to happen, then, as the only Hungarian party to take this position, let me signal that we claim Transcarpathia". He drew applause from those present.

"In the case of Hungary, propaganda penetrates by exploiting narratives that have to do with customs, or with what some Hungarians perceive as the end of traditional customs. The West is presented by these parties as a place without rules, where the family doesn't matter and where legislation is only passed to protect LGBTQ+ minorities. The idea of tradition is linked to the past, when everything was almost immutable for years, and that's what the far right relies on to sell ideas like these," analyzes Lautman.

It is through these extremist politicians that "the Kremlin is trying to normalize the idea of annexation". "The ultimate idea is to destroy the order that was created after World War II and to get it into the heads of some people who are more permeable to these discourses that it is normal for a certain country to annex territory belonging to another sovereign state, on the grounds that in the past those lands had been part of some empire."

Mi Hazank MPs (7 out of 199 in the Hungarian parliament) openly talk about their dream of conquering Transcarpathia again. The "trauma of Trianon" is one of the topics most dear to the Magyar far right and refers to the outcome of the Treaty of Trianon, through which Hungary, defeated in the war, lost two thirds of its former territory and almost half of its population.

"We can never give up on the Hungarians who live on the land that was taken away," argued one of the best-known supporters of "Greater Hungary", Mi Hazank MP Andras Bartal, in an interview with the international affairs website Balkan Insight (BIRN), which focuses on the East and the Balkans.

The Hungarian government's complaints that the Ukrainian-speaking population is looked down upon in Ukraine are not new; they only resurfaced, and intensified, with the Russian invasion, which used the same arguments to justify not only the large-scale intervention of 2022, but also the annexations of Crimea and territories to the east. According to President Vladimir Putin, the Russian-speaking population is allegedly being genocided there.

Hungarian associations happy with legislative changes Budapest has clashed with Kiev over what it says are restrictions on the rights of around 80,000 Hungarians to use their mother tongue. Kiev denies that it has acted to limit the rights of minorities and defends itself with the need to strengthen its national identity.

As the process of joining the European Union begins in 2022, one of the areas that has received attention from European leaders is the preservation of European languages in Ukraine. Volodymyr Zelensky's government changed the law that had been passed in 2017 and made Ukrainian the compulsory language of study from fifth grade onwards, a change that at the time was seen as an attack on their identity by the Romanian, Bulgarian and Hungarian minorities.

European Union

EU responds to "persistent problem" with threat and Orbán finally gives inRead also

Now, the reverse side of some of these paragraphs has brought peace to the non-Ukrainian speaking communities. "The legislative changes have given the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia the opportunity to ensure its existence for another 30 years," said László Zubánics, head of the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Ukraine, an association that represents the rights of the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia, quoted by the Associated Press. He praised the Ukrainian government for the way in which it "has moved beyond the nation-building efforts that have characterized recent years and is taking into account the interests not only of the majority nation, but also of all the minorities and indigenous peoples living in the territory".

Unlike other areas that were part of the glittering Austro-Hungarian empire, this region, with 1.25 million inhabitants, is one of the least developed and poorest in Ukraine, affected by high unemployment, poor infrastructure and a shadow economy that takes an excessive toll on family budgets. It doesn't help that Transcarpathia is separated from the rest of Ukraine by the Eastern Carpathian fold, the third highest mountain range in all of Europe. The road back to Hungary seems much less tortuous than that of integration with the huge Ukraine on the other side of the icy mountains.

Orbán loses ground In the areas close to the Hungarian border, people speak more Hungarian than Ukrainian, funding for cultural activities comes from Hungary, especially from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's Fidesz party, and many streets are named after Hungarian heroes. There are Hungarian-language newspapers and radio stations, theaters, cinemas, traditional dance schools, etc. Orbán has made it easier for people from the region to apply for Hungarian nationality, which in turn allows them to vote.

In Berehove, says the same BIRN report, a small town in this region, about two kilometers from the Hungarian border, the Hungarian government helped set up a branch of the Matthias Corvinus Collegium, a conservative private educational institution that has 23 universities throughout Hungary and neighbouring countries.

War in Ukraine

Hungary says EU wanted to hand over Hungarian funds to KievRead also

The nostalgia that hangs over some politicians in Budapest doesn't seem to find an echo on the other side of the border, and even less so since Russia invaded Ukraine and Orbán positioned himself, if not openly on Putin's side, at least against the EU's efforts to sanction Moscow. A report in the Financial Times shows that the Hungarian prime minister's ambiguous stance on the war has wiped out his support among the Hungarian community.

The two main associations of Hungarians in Transcarpathia - the Hungarian Democratic Federation in Ukraine and the Cultural Alliance of Sub-Carpathian Hungarians - do not give any space to ideas of annexation. Speaking to BIRN, Karolina Darcsi, spokeswoman for the latter, said that "ethnic Hungarians will not insist on changes to the Ukrainian language law or any kind of autonomy" because "there is neither such an aspiration nor such an initiative".

Laszlo Zubanics, too, called the ideas of secession from the Ukrainian region "theater and propaganda" from Budapest. Support for policies to protect minorities is the central theme in this region, but support for Ukraine's EU candidacy is also very high. The Hungarian Prime Minister is not in favor of such an accession and has even said that it is "light years away" from happening.

Expresso was unable to get a response from either Bucharest or Budapest on the positions of these parties.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020240206ek2600qhy


Hungary Vows to Block EU Sanctions Against Tucker Carlson over Putin Interview
Breitbart News Network, 2024 年 2 月 8 日 05:00 GMT, 427 字, (英文)
Hungary has vowed to block censorious attempts from globalist Eurocrats such as Guy Verhofstadt to impose sanctions on Tucker Carlson for interviewing Russia’s Vladimir Putin.

Hungary This Week - February 9, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 2 月 9 日, 9527 字, (英文)
Hungary’s retail sales deliver positive surprise in DecemberRetail sales in Hungary are showing signs of recovery as the decline slowed to 1% (chart) in December, the best monthly figure for the year.

Hungarian President Resigns Following Outrage Over Pardon In Child Sex-Abuse Case
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 2024 年 2 月 10 日 18:05 GMT, 8046 字, (英文)

Russia: Hungary blocks new EU sanction package
183 字
2024 年 2 月 16 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2024. CEEMarketWatch
Hungary opposes sanctions on Chinese companies

Hungary blocked every sanction package before

EU wants to announce new sanction on 24th Feb

EU envoys failed to unanimously support the 13th sanction package as Hungary again opposed it, Vedomosti reported today. The 13th sanction package is expected to be rather insignificant economic-wise (not too costly for the EU, not too damaging for Russia) and to focus mostly on sanctions against specific individuals and entities. However, Hungary opposes the idea to include three Chinese companies in the EU blacklist. China is an important investor for the Hungarian economy, but we also cannot rule out that this is only a pretext for Hungary to oppose the new sanctions. Hungary previously argued against all sanction packages to gain something in return from the EU for its cooperation. We are sure that it will support the new sanctions eventually as it always does. The EU wants to agree on the new sanctions before 21st Feb and announce them on the second anniversary of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on 24th Feb.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020240216ek2g0001j


Hungary This Week - February 16, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 2 月 16 日, 15087 字, (英文)
PWC survey shows less than half of Hungarian CEOs expect revenue growthHungarian CEOs are more optimistic about economic growth in general than about the prospects of their own company’s, a survey of 297 company leaders by consultancy PwC ...

Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - February 16, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 2 月 16 日, 9582 字, (英文)
Hungary’s MOL comfortably beats $2.8bn Ebitda forecast for 2023Fourth-quarter clean CCS Ebitda of MOL decreased by 8% year-on-year to $992mn in Q4, up 2% y/y. For the full year, it came close to $3.1bn, well above the average in the last 10...

Nation
Hungary and several other EU countries delay approval of 13th package of sanctions over caution of adding Chinese companies
515 字
2024 年 2 月 18 日
The New Voice of Ukraine (NV)
NVOUK
英文
2014 - 2024, VYDAVNYCHYY DIM MEDIA-DK LLC. All rights reserved
The Ukrainian President’s Office expects the European Union to approve the 13th package of anti-Russian sanctions[https://english.nv.ua/nation/eu-sanctions-target-ammunition-deliveries-from-north-korea-to-russia-report-50391228.html] next week, presidential advisor Vladyslav Vlasiuk said on national television on Feb. 17.

There is still a “small” discussion about Chinese companies that helped the Wagner PMC receive satellite photos. Hungary and some other countries are “cautious” about adding them to the sanctions list.

“But, in my opinion, this discussion does not carry fundamental categorical positions,” he said.

“I think this package will be adopted in the near future.”

On Feb. 15, Hungary blocked the 13th package of EU sanctions against Russia due to the presence of measures against China.

Earlier, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that the EU would enforce the 13th package of sanctions against Russia on the “symbolic” date of Feb. 24 - the two-year anniversary of Russia’s full-scale military aggression against Ukraine.

The “mini-sanctions,” according to EUobserver, do not include any major items[https://english.nv.ua/nation/belarus-and-russia-military-to-be-sanctioned-50390676.html], such as new EU embargoes on Russian metals, liquefied natural gas or nuclear companies, because they need to be agreed quickly after the 12th round of Russia sanctions on Dec. 19 and in time for the anniversary.

On Feb. 8, Bloomberg wrote that the EU would sanction more than 60 individuals and some 55 companies, including shipping companies involved in moving North Korean ammunition to Russia.

RFE/RL journalist Rikard Jozwiak commented on Feb. 4 that the upcoming EU sanctions package might be the weakest so far.

China’s assistance in Russia’s war on Ukraine - what is known

On Feb. 16, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken met[https://english.nv.ua/nation/us-secretary-of-state-met-with-chinese-fm-and-called-to-stop-support-russian-war-against-ukraine-50393630.html] with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi during the Munich Security Conference. Blinken raised concerns about China’s backing of Russia’s actions in Ukraine, including support for the Russian military-industrial base.

Ukraine has listed 48 companies, including 14 from China, as “international sponsors of war” whose business activities it says indirectly contribute to the Russian war effort, Reuters reported on Feb. 1. Beijing warned Kyiv that the move could damage the bilateral relations.

Earlier, a Pentagon report on China’s policy, citing information from Russian customs, revealed that Russia had been procuring dual-use products and secondary military items from China. These acquisitions included small arms, spare parts, navigation equipment, and protective gear.

According to an investigation by UK newspaper the Telegraph[https://www.telegraph.co.uk/world-news/2023/08/19/china-helping-arm-russia-helicopters-drones-metals-xi-putin/?s=09], Russian companies have received tens of thousands of military items from China since the start of the full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine. Notably, these items are produced by companies manufacturing missile systems, armored vehicles, and strategic bombers.

The report highlighted that, aside from direct military equipment and material supply, China may also be providing raw materials to Russia through intermediary nations.

China has increased its supply of high-precision machine tools to Russia tenfold and is massively exporting computer numerical control (CNC) devices, which are vital for Moscow’s military industry, the Financial Times[https://www.ft.com/content/d16c688d-9579-4f1d-a84f-ca29ca2f0bc0?share] reported on Jan. 3.

European Union[https://static.nv.ua/shared/system/Article/posters/002/831/114/original/4dac6250ba8b07d86eb28c71cbe319a2.jpg?q=85&stamp=20240218154320&w=900]

Publishing House «Media- DC» LLC

文件 NVOUK00020240218ek2i0005n


UPDATE 4-EU moves closer to new Russia sanctions as Navalny widow pins blame on Putin
834 字
2024 年 2 月 19 日 17:43 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2024 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
*

Thirteenth package of EU restrictions could be approved on Wednesday

*

Hungarian minister says Budapest won't veto it

*

Germany leads calls for extra Navalny-related sanctions

*

First indications suggest those would be 'symbolic'

(Updates with final statement, adds Hungary won't block package)

By Gabriela Baczynska

BRUSSELS, Feb 19 (Reuters) -

The European Union on Monday moved closer to new sanctions against Moscow over its war on Ukraine, as Yulia Navalnaya, the widow of Russia's top opposition leader who died in prison last week, said President Vladimir Putin must be held accountable.

Germany, Lithuania and Sweden were among EU countries calling for specific new penalties against Russia over the death of Alexei Navalny in a remote penal colony in Russia's Arctic.

That came during a meeting of the 27 EU foreign ministers, which had been scheduled before Navalny's death, to discuss a package of fresh penalties to mark two years since Russia's unleashed a full-scale invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24.

Hungary, the last EU country needed to pass the proposed new restrictions against nearly 200 more firms and people deemed involved in the war, said it would not stall the bloc's 13th package of Russia sanctions since Moscow invaded Ukraine.

The EU's top diplomat suggested that Russian prison officials linked to Navalny's death could be added to the list of those subjected to asset freezes and travel bans.

There was no immediate word of any more hard-hitting measures that could target Russia's broader economy and an EU diplomat said so far it seemed any specific new sanctions related to Navalny's death would be "symbolic" and come later.

"The EU will spare no efforts to hold Russia's political leadership and authorities to account, in close coordination with our partners; and impose further costs for their actions, including through sanctions," EU foreign ministers said in a joint statement after their meeting with Navalnaya in Brussels.

They said Putin and Russian authorities held the ultimate responsibility for the death of Navalny and called for "an independent and transparent international investigation".

German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said she hoped the 27-nation EU would agree on the package of sanctions soon. EU officials say that could happen on Wednesday.

"We have seen the brutal force with which the Russian president represses his own citizens who take to the streets to demonstrate for freedom or write about it in newspapers," she said. "We will propose new sanctions in light of the death of Alexei Navalny."

The bloc's top diplomat said he expected EU countries to seek targeted sanctions against certain Russian officials over the death of the 47-year-old former lawyer who built his profile on fighting state corruption in Russia.

"(EU) member states will propose sanctions for sure against those responsible," said the bloc's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell who chaired Monday's talks.

"We can go down the institutional structure of the penitentiary system in Russia," he said indicating whom the bloc might sanction next for what he called "slow murder" of Navalny in Russian jails.

Navalny collapsed after a walk at the "Polar Wolf" penal colony last Friday, Russian authorities said, where he was serving a three-decade sentence following years of persecution that included poisoning with a nerve agent in Siberia in 2020.

His wife, who attended Monday's meeting in Brussels, said separately she would continue her late husband's fight, and called on supporters to hold Putin accountable and fight him with more determination than ever.

HUNGARY SAYS IT WON'T BLOCK SANCTIONS

Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said that imposing more EU sanctions on Russia made no sense and would only hurt the bloc's economy. But he added Budapest would not veto the package.

"There is no reason to veto it," he said. "Although I think the EU is making a wrong decision."

Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, who has said in the past that he is "proud" about his Russia contacts, has stalled previous rounds of sanctions, as well as EU agreements on financial assistance to Kyiv.

The EU says it has cut Russia trade by some 135 billion euros since the invasion through military, energy, aviation, transport and financial sanctions, among others.

While Orban is the leading critic of the EU's support for Ukraine and sanctions against Russia, some others in the bloc have questioned whether trade cuts are effective since they have not forced Moscow to change tack.

Lithuania is among EU Russia hawks countering such view.

"If Ukraine falls... we will be next. Putin has no intention to stop, he wouldn't be able to stop," Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis said. (Additional reporting by Bart Meijer, Piotr Lipinski, Johan Ahlander, Gyori Boldizsar and Andrew Gray, Writing by Gabriela Baczynska, Editing by Gareth Jones, Philippa Fletcher and Nick Macfie)

Released: 2024-2-19T18:43:42.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020240219ek2j015wd


Nation
Hungary will not oppose further EU sanctions against Russia
178 字
2024 年 2 月 19 日
The New Voice of Ukraine (NV)
NVOUK
英文
2014 - 2024, VYDAVNYCHYY DIM MEDIA-DK LLC. All rights reserved
Hungary[https://english.nv.ua/opinion/what-hungary-is-after-in-europe-50389556.html] won't block the European Union's latest round of sanctions against Russia, Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó said[https://www.facebook.com/watch/live/?ref=watch_permalink&v=418026177276248] in a Facebook statement on Feb. 19.

Szijjártó said that all provisions conflicting with Hungarian interests had been removed from the proposal.

"Hungary will not obstruct the imposition of sanctions on Russia, as every point counter to our interests have been excised during the preparatory phase," said the minister.

At the same time, he suggested that the upcoming second anniversary of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine should prompt ceasefire negotiations.

On Feb. 15, the Financial Times reported that Budapest was opposed to EU's 13th sanction package over restrictions on trade with China.

Embargoes on imports of Russian metals, liquefied natural gas, or nuclear fuel weren't included in the 13th package to avoid delaying its introduction after the December 19 implementation of the previous sanctions.

Reports on Feb. 8 indicated that the sanctions would impact companies engaged in shipping ammunition from North Korea to Russia.

Péter Szijjártó[https://static.nv.ua/shared/system/Article/posters/002/831/950/original/4121bc0cb339ffb672e7f3dc9a859bfb.jpg?q=85&stamp=20240219223752&w=900]

Publishing House «Media- DC» LLC

文件 NVOUK00020240219ek2j000b5


EU moves closer to new Russia sanctions as Navalny widow pins blame on Putin
Cyprus Mail, 2024 年 2 月 20 日 17:24 GMT, 1518 字, (英文)

RÁBA Jarmuipari Holding Nyrt. - Report of Rába Plc. for Q1-Q4 of 2023
RÁBA Jarmuipari Holding Nyrt. published this content on 21 Feb 2024 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 21 Feb 2024 16:22:25 UTC.
6522 字
2024 年 2 月 21 日
Public Companies News and Documents via PUBT
LCDVP
英文
Copyright 2024. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://docs.publicnow.com/CBF333426098C548E2004E5FC35F2D36ED5F150E]

Report of Rába Plc. for Q1-Q4 of 2023

Q1-Q4 2023 Report of RÁBA Plc.

Unaudited, consolidated quarterly report

in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)

Company name:     RÁBA Automotive Holding Plc.
Company address:  H-9027 Győr, Martin u. 1.
Sector:           Machine industry
Period:           Q1-Q4 of 2023
                   
E-mail:           ir@raba.hu
Investor contact: Éva Lang-Péli
EXECUTIVE REPORT

MAIN RESULTS OF THE COMPANY

* Although everyday business was still heavily impacted by the Russian-Ukrainian war, the auto- motive industry, more specifically that of commercial vehicles adapted to the changed conditions and concluded a solid year. On an annual level, market demand grew considerably in almost all relevant geographical and product segments. Market trends, however, do not suggest positive prospects for future demands: orders have started to decline in Q3 and in Q4 there is a slow- down or clear decline in the registration figures in most segments. Production costs within the Rába group were more mo derate in Q1-Q3 of 2023 after the earlier peak, this trend, however came to a clear halt in Q4. The bulk of the change in steel prices was automatically realised by the customers, and the energy price compensation agreed upon earlier became increasingly difficult to enforce, their levels not always reaching the previous ones. The continued and drastic increase in wages remained a considerable burden in 2023. In Q3 and Q4 of 2023, the significantly stronger than during the base period exchange rate of the HUF had a negative effect on FX settlements and through that on operating profitability.

* Although Q4 sales suggest a negative turn in market demand, for the whole of 2023, the Rába group managed to retain its record high performance of the past 20 years. The sales revenue of the Rába group exceeded HUF 72.8 billion, an increa se by HUF 8.5 billion over the value for the base period a year earlier. In terms of sales, Rába Axle Ltd. remains the largest subsidiary of the group, generating HUF 48.2 billion in sales through a 11.7 per cent increase during the cumula- tive period of 2023. The sales revenue of Rába Auto motive Components Ltd. in Q1-Q4 of 2023 reached HUF 17.2 billion, whereas Rába Vehicle Ltd. contributed HUF 2.6 billion in sales to the record-level sales revenue of the group. As from Q3 2022, the Rába Group's portfolio was ex- panded, and REKARD LLC. which operates as a wholly-owned Rába subsidiary, was included in the consolidation of the Rába group. The sales r evenue of REKARD LLC. was HUF 5.0 billion in Q1-Q3. A decline in demand occurred in the case of the determining market segments in Q4, as a result of which the group-level sales revenue of the last quarter amounted to HUF 16.9 billion, upon a decline by HUF 1.6 billion. Of the subsidiaries, the sales figures of Rába Axle Ltd. and REKARD LLC. suggest considerable market sensitivity: both subsidiaries suffered substantial sales decline in all their relevant geographical segments. Compared to the base period of Q4, the 12.7 per cent decline in the sales of Rába Axle Ltd. exceede d HUF 1.6 billion, whereas in the case of REKARD LLC., the decline in sales revenue reached 23.0 per cent.

* Purchase prices stabilised at a high level in Q4, which puts continuous pressure on profitability. Steel purchase prices for the whole of 2023 were still 45 per cent higher compared to the average of the previous years, energy prices were still three times higher compared to the pre-crisis level and wages increased by some 57 per cent since 2019. The Rába group makes considerable efforts to mitigate these negative impacts through both purchasing and sales measures and to neutralise their profit eroding impact.

* The decline in sales during Q4 and the continued significant pressure exerted by production costs resulted in that gross profit at group level amounted to HUF 11.1 billion upon an decrease

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on its operation du ring Q1-Q4 of 2023 under IFRS

by -1.5 per cent. The gross profit of 2023 ratio remained below the base period: it amounted to

* 15.2 per cent, upon a decrease by 2.3 percentage points. The gross profit surplus resulting from the portfolio growth due to REKARD LLC. amounted to HUF 1.1 billion.

* The balance of other revenues and expenditures reached a profit of HUF 117 million in 2023, compared to a profit of HUF 439 million in the same period of the previous year. The result from other activities in the base period included a profit from a one-off real property transaction with a value of HUF 342 million.

* Following the outstanding profitability during H1, the high pressure on the cost side and the neg- ative impacts of the strong HUF exchange rate and the marked decline in sales have impacted operating profitability in Q4, and thus on the operating profit for the entire year. In 2023, the Rába group achieved operating profits of HUF 1,340 million upon a decline of 34.4 per cent. Of the business units, Rába Automotive Components Ltd., Rá ba Vehicle Ltd., and REKARD LLC. con- tributed profitably to the group-level result by HUF 672 million, 432 million and 404 million re- spectively, whereas Rába Axle Ltd. generated negati ve operating results (HUF -290 million). A similar trend was manifest for the operating profit during Q4: with the exception of the Axle business unit all other business units generated profit at operating level: the operating profit of the Automotive Components business unit was HUF 181 million, that of the Vehicle business unit was HUF 89 million and of the Gearbox business unit amounted to HUF 61 million. The losses of Rába Axle Ltd. during Q4 amounted to HUF 670 million.

* The clear decline in market activity, the increase in production costs and the price sensitivity of the customer side clearly impacted the EBITDA-level profitability. In Q1-Q4 of 2023, the EBITDA on sales declined by 1.8 percentage points to 5.4 per cent and consequently was 15.8 per cent, some HUF 730 million lower than the profit during the base period a year earlier. The EBITDA- level profit generated amounted to HUF 3,900 million. The group-level EBITDA is a sum of the negative profit contributions by the Axle and Automotive Components business units, whereas the Vehicle business unit contributed an increase in EBITDA. The additional EBITDA resulting from the portfolio expansion because of the Gearbox business unit amounted to HUF 587 million in Q1-Q4 of 2023. Retaining and maintaining cash generating capacity is an increasing challenge for the Rába group in 2023, since there is an increasing pressure both from customers and suppliers. The management of the group of companies continues to make considerable efforts to retain cash generating capacity.

* The result of financial operations for the period under review is fundamentally affected by the non-cash loan revaluation. In Q1-Q4 of 2023, the result of financial operations showed a profit of HUF 613 million compared to a loss of HUF 1,075 million in the same period last year. The unrealised gain from loan revaluation amounted to HUF 688 million. In addition, the financial result includes a net interest charge of HUF 145 million.

* The total comprehensive income and profit for the year amounted to a profit of HUF 1,185 million in Q1-Q4 of 2023.

* In Q1-Q4 of 2023, the financial situation of the Rába group was characterised by a stable liquidity position. The level of net debt reached HUF 13.1 billion at the end of the period under review, a decrease of HUF 1.9 billion compared to the base period. Of the factors influencing the level of the net debt, mention must be made of the technological renewal and reorganisation far exceed- ing the capital expenditures of previous years, operating profit realised since the base period and the working capital (decreased inventory levels), which decreased considerably since the base period. The financing of the Company's capital expenditure activity is largely assisted by the successful participation in the Industry Salvage Programme, within which a substantial advance payment was drawn in 2023. The HUF 688 million worth of loan revaluation resulting from ex- change rate changes, not involving cash movements, was another factor positively contributing to the net borrowing figure.

* Compared to the same period last year, equity increased by 5.2 per cent. The equity per share was HUF 1,781 per share.

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on its operation du ring Q1-Q4 of 2023 under IFRS

 thousand HUF                                      Q1-Q4               Q1-Q4               Change                  Q4        Q4     Change  
                                                                                                                    
                                              2022              2023                                  2022            2023       
                                                                                                                              
 Sales revenue                     64 346 577      72 841 899   13.2%         18 499 979   16 867 757      -8.8%    
 Gross profit                      11 234 684      11 065 958   -1.5%         3 402 423    1 396 071       -59.0%   
                                                                                                                    
 Gross margin                      17,5%           15,2%               -2.3%p 18,4%        8.3%                    -10.1%p
                                                                                                                    
 EBITDA                            4 629 995       3 900 078    -15.8%        1 633 950    46 928          -97.1%   
                                                                                                                    
 EBITDA level                      7,2%            5,4%                -1.8%p 8,8%         0.3%                    -8.6%p
                                                                                                                    
 Operating profit                  2 043 973       1 340 187    -34.4%        959 271      -586 432        -161.1%  
                                                                                                                    
 Net financial result              -1 075 169      613 094      157.0%        617 982      349 867         -43.4%   
                                                                                                                    
 Profit after tax for current year 1 632 170       1 184 619    -27.4%        2 446 927    -485 831        -119.9%  
                                                                                                                    
 Total comprehensive income        1 632 170       1 184 619    -27.4%        2 446 927    -485 831        -119.9%  
GOALS, STRATEGY OF THE COMPANY

"The fourth quarter was unfavourable but for the year as a whole, we managed to maintain the sales performance and high quality we set for ourselves. The company is committed to maintaining competitiveness and profitability, while exploring further growth opportunities. Our dedication to sustainability and green energy continues to be our priority. We are particularly proud that last year we successfully started developing our solar panel farms that will provide substantial green energy for our production activities. Rába's commitment to sustainability remains of paramount importance. We see the use of sustainable energy and the development of modern and sustainable production processes as the keys to our future," said Béla Hetzmann, Chairman-Chief Executive Officer of RÁBA Automotive Holding Plc.

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT OF THE COMPANY

* Although everyday business was still heavily impacted by the Russian-Ukrainian war, the auto- motive industry, more specifically that of commercial vehicles adapted to the changed conditions and concluded a solid year. On an annual level, market demand grew considerably in almost all relevant geographical and product segments. Market trends, however, do not suggest positive prospects for future demands: orders have started to decline in Q3 and in Q4 there is a slow- down or clear decline in the registration figures in most segments. Production costs within the Rába group were more mo derate in Q1-Q3 of 2023 after the earlier peak, this trend, however came to a clear halt in Q4. The bulk of the change in steel prices was automatically realised by the customers, and the energy price compensation agreed upon earlier became increasingly difficult to enforce, their levels not always reaching the previous ones. The continued and drastic increase in wages remained a considerable burden in 2023. In Q3 and Q4 of 2023, the significantly stronger than during the base period exchange rate of the HUF had a negative effect on FX settlements and through that on operating profitability.

* 2023 was a decidedly strong year for the European commercial vehicle market in terms of de- mand: the registration of new commercial vehicles increased by 15 per cent over the rate of the previous year. It is important to note, though, that Q4 registration data, however, already showed a clear, 13 per cent decline. The slow-down during Q4 was notable on the North-American com- mercial vehicle market as well, there was still a 7 per cent increase over the base period of 2022. The demand for Rába's agricultural products decline d to a lesser extent in H2 of 2023: turnover however, exceeded the level of the previous year by 20 per cent even so. In compliance with the European sanction regulations in force against Russia, since the beginning of the Russian- Ukrainian military conflict Rába has not conducted any business with its Russian partners. The European passenger vehicle market also saw a clear slow-down in Q4 of 2023, but the whole of 2023 was still characterised by a significant growth in demand: new car registrations increased by 14 per cent year on year.

* Substantial economic risks together with the drastic increase in energy prices resulted in high volatility on the steel market in 2022. In 2023 both energy prices and the demand-supply relations were adjusted compared to the base period, which had a favourable impact on the development of the purchase price of steel. In Q4 of 2023, the purchase price level of steel was some 12.1

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on its operation du ring Q1-Q4 of 2023 under IFRS

per cent lower. The 13.7 per cent lower purchase prices of the cumulative period impacted production activities.

* There were no significant changes on the labour market in the period under review, thus labour shortages and inflationary pressures continued to have a significant impact on the increase in average wages. In January-November of 2023, average gross national earnings increased by

* * per cent. Finding and implementing operational efficiency improvements in production tech- nology to cover the years of steadily increasing wage costs remains a major challenge for the Company.

* Energy prices declined compared to the record high levels of 2022. H1 of 2023 was characterised by a strong price adjustment and H2 was marked by stabilisation at a still high level. Energy prices in Q4 2023 were 52.1 per cent lower than during the base period, this is, however, largely due to the exorbitant prices during the base period. The energy price level during Q4 is even so

* * times higher than the purchase prices prior to the energy crisis. In Q1-Q4 of 2023, energy prices for the cumulative period were 34.4 per cent below the level of the base period. A negative phenomenon in terms of energy prices is that market partners are less and less willing to offer energy price compensation, even though the price level remains 2.5-3.0 times the levels before the energy crisis. All this also suggests that European energy purchase prices will probably not be returning to the earlier competitive levels.

* In terms of the exchange rate environment during the cumulative period under review, the dollar saw a decrease of 5.3 per cent, while the euro, which has a significant foreign currency weighting, saw decrease of 2.4 per cent compared to a year earlier. For Q4 of the year, the exchange rate environment was significantly different from the base period, for the USD, the decline in ex- change rates was 11.8 per cent, for the EUR it was 7.0 per cent, which had a negative effect on the net export. All this exerted a clearly negative impact on the quarterly operating profits. 1

                                           Q1-Q4              Q1-Q4             Change              Q4 2022     Q4 2023     Change  
                                                                                                             
                                           2022               2023                                               
                                                                                                                           
EURHUF - average                     391.3       381.9        -2.4%       410.9        382.1        -7.0%    
                                                                                                             
EURHUF - end of period               400.3       382.8        -4.4%       400.3        382.8        -4.4%    
                                                                                                             
USDHUF - average                     373.1       353.3        -5.3%       402.9        355.3        -11.8%   
                                                                                                             
USDHUF - end of period               375.7       346.4        -7.8%       375.7        346.4        -7.8%    
                                                                                                             
Changes in raw material prices* 190%       164%        -13.7%       181%        159%         -12.1%  
Wage level** 493.8                         574.4       16.3%        526.2       599.1        13.9%   
                                                                                                             
Changes in energy prices*** 969%           635%        -34.4%       1210%       579%         -52.1%  
*Rába indices - own calculation - base: Q1 2007; av erage values for the period

**KSH (Central Statistical Office) national gross average wage within companies (thousand HUF/month) - based on figures for Jan- Nov. 2023.

***Rába indices - own calculation - base: Dec. 2004 . Average values for the period

SUMMARY OF THE RESULT FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD

Rába Axle Ltd.

The sales revenue of Rába Axle Ltd. amounted to HUF 48.2 billion in Q1-Q4 of 2023, compared to HUF 43.2 billion in the 2022 base period. This corresponds to an increase by 11.6 per cent.

On the American market, the revenue in USD for the period was USD 10.8 million in the review period, which was 6.9 per cent lower than the USD 11.6 million in sales achieved in Q1-Q4 of 2022. On the EU market, Rába Axle Ltd's sales figures in HUF terms increase d by 16.5 per cent, amounting to HUF 42.3 billion, compared to HUF 36.3 billion during the base period.

European exports in Q1-Q4 of 2023 were 28.3 per cent higher than in the base period, reaching EUR 96.1 million compared to EUR 74.9 million in Q1-Q4 of 2022.

Domestic sales revenue before consolidation amounted to HUF 5,627 million, a decrease of 19.4

1 Average exchange rates were calculated based on the official FX rates of the National Bank of Hungary. Source: http://www.mnb.hu/arfolyam-lekerdezes[http://www.mnb.hu/arfolyam-lekerdezes]

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on its operation du ring Q1-Q4 of 2023 under IFRS

per cent compared to HUF 6,979 million in the base period.

On the CIS and Eastern European markets Rába Axle Ltd. generated no sales revenue during t he review period, primarily due to the sanctions against Russia. The turnover during Q1-Q4 of 2022 was also minimal, amounting to a mere EUR 0.2 million.

Revenues from Other markets in euro terms amounted to EUR 5.5 million in the period under re- view, which was 14.1 per cent less than the EUR 6.4 million turnover in the base period of 2022. The sales figures and their comparison for the base period with the period in review are fundamentally affected by the fact that in the framework of efficiency improvement measures, the organisational and operational management of the Sárvár sit e of the Components business unit was transferred from the Components business to the Axle business unit in Q3 2022.

As from 1 January, 2023, the Rába Development Insti tute, performing R+D activities has been integrated into Rába Vehicle Ltd. from Rába Axle Ltd.

The operating result of the Company in Q1-Q4 of 2023 was a loss of HUF 290 million, compared to the loss of HUF 418 million during the same period of the previous year.

The operating profit of 2023 includes one-off items not related to the core activity, improving the results. These include the profit generated through the sale of CO2 and the result from the settlement of a one-off claim within consolidation

At EBITDA level, the operating profit of the Axle business unit was HUF 1,513 million compared to HUF 2,212 million registered a year earlier.

million HUF

Q1-Q4

Q1-Q4

Change

Q4

Q4

Change

America             4 337  3 803  -12.3%  1 096  897    -18.2%
                                                         
EU - export         29 309 36 698 25.2%   8 977  8 543  -4.8%
EU - domestic       6 979  5 627  -19.4%  1 887  1 322  -29.9%
                                                         
CIS and East-Europe 71     0      -100.0% 0      0       
Other               2 489  2 093  -15.9%  711    302    -57.5%
                                                         
Total sales revenue 43 185 48 221 11.7%   12 670 11 064 -12.7%
EBITDA              2 212  1 513  -31.6%  1 112  -212   -119.1%
                                                         
Operating profit    418    -290   -169.4% 643    -670   -204.2%
                                                         
Rába Automotive Components Ltd.

The sales revenue of Rába Automotive Components Ltd . amounted to HUF 17.2 billion in Q1-Q4 of 2023, a decrease by 8.0 per cent compared to the base period.

Rába Automotive Components Ltd. generates a signifi cant part of its turnover on the European mar- ket.

European exports in Q1-Q4 of 2023 reached EUR 17.3 million, a decrease of 15.2 per cent compared to EUR 20.4 million in the base period of 2022.

Domestic sales revenue before consolidation in the reporting period amounted to HUF 10,592 million compared to HUF 10,663 million in Q1-Q4 of 2022, a decrease by 0.7 per cent.

The sales figures and their comparison for the base period with the period in review are fundamentally affected by the fact that in the framework of efficiency improvement measures, the organisational and operational management of the Sárvár sit e of the Components business unit was transferred from the Components business unit to the Axle business unit in Q3 2022.

At operating level, the Business unit generated a profit of HUF 672 million in the period under review, compared to a profit of HUF 785 million in the base period in 2022.

At the EBITDA level, the operating profit of the Components business unit for the period under review amounted to HUF 938 million, compared to HUF 1,180 million a year earlier.

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on its operation du ring Q1-Q4 of 2023 under IFRS

 million HUF                Q1-Q4  Q1-Q4     Change       Q4    Q4   Change  
                                            
                     2022   2023             2022   2023         
                                                           
 EU - export         8 001  6 605  -17.4%    1 200  1 670 39.2%  
 EU - domestic       10 663 10 592 -0.7%     2 530  2 655 4.9%   
 Total sales revenue 22     0      -100.0%   0      0               
 EBITDA              18 686 17 197 -8.0%     3 730  4 325 16.0%  
 Operating profit    1 180  938    -20.5%    190    240   26.3%  
 EU - export         785    672    -14.4%    120    181   50.8%  
Rába Vehicle Ltd.

The sales revenue of Rába Vehicle Ltd. generated in Q1-Q4 of 2023 was 39.9 per cent higher than the base period level, increasing from HUF 1,890 million to HUF 2,645 million.

The majority of Rába Vehicle Ltd. 's sales are real ised on the domestic market, while it sells on the European market on a project basis.

European exports in the cumulative period of 2023 amounted to EUR 1.9 million, which is almost equal to the turnover for the 2022 base period.

The domestic sales revenue before consolidation in the 2023 business year was HUF 1,922 mil- lion, an increase of 65.7 per cent.

As from 1 January, 2023, the Rába Development Insti tute, performing R+D activities has been integrated into Rába Vehicle Ltd. from Rába Axle Ltd.

The operating profit amounted to HUF 432 million during the reporting period, compared to the profit of HUF 355 million during the base period last year.

At the EBITDA level, the operating profit of the Vehicle business unit for the period was HUF 462 million compared to HUF 365 million in Q1-Q4 of 2022.

 million HUF               Q1-Q4 Q1-Q4         Change      Q4 Q4       Change  
                                              
                     2022  2023                2022   2023            
                                                               
 EU - export         730   712         -2.5%   307    0       0.0%    
 EU - domestic       1 160 1 922       65.7%   512    567     10.7%   
 Other               0     12                         0    9                   
 Total sales revenue 1 890 2 645       39.9%   819    576     -29.7%  
 EBITDA              365   462         26.6%   228    96      -57.9%  
 Operating profit    355   432         21.7%   225    89      -60.4%  
REKARD LLC.

As from Q3 2022, the portfolio of the Rába Group ha s been expanded, REKARD LLC. will continue to operate as a wholly owned Rába subsidiary includ ed in the consolidation of the Rába Group.

REKARD LLC. realised HUF4,977 million in sales revenue in Q1-Q4 of 2023.

REKARD LLC. realises a significant part of its sales on the European market. The realised sales revenue of European exports in 2023 was EUR 9.1 million.

Domestic sales revenue before consolidation reached HUF 1,450 million in the review period.

The operating profit for Q1-Q4 of 2023 was HUF 404 million.

At EBITDA level, REKARD LLC.'s operating profit for the period was HUF 587 million.

 million HUF              Q1-Q4       Q1-Q4             Change         Q4 Q4   Change  
                                             
                     2022       2023                    2022   2023        
                                                                        
 EU - export              0     3 493       n.é.* 865   594    -31,3%   
 EU - domestic            0     1 450       n.é.* 385   354    -8,1%    
 Other                    0     34          n.é.* 6     19     216,7%   
 Total sales revenue      0     4 977       n.é.* 1 257 968    -23,0%   
 EBITDA                   0     587         n.é.* 5     99     1880,0%  
 Operating profit         0     404         n.é.* -56   61     -208,9%  
* not applicable: in H1 of 2022 Rekard LLC. was not yet a full member of the consolidated companies

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on its operation du ring Q1-Q4 of 2023 under IFRS

Rába Group

The Rába Group achieved consolidated sales revenues of HUF 72.8 billion in Q1-Q4 of 2023, an increase of 13.2 per cent compared to the HUF 64.3 billion in the base period of 2022.

The operating profit of the group during the current period amounted to HUF 1,340 million, compared to the HUF 2,044 million during the same period a year earlier.

During the reporting period, the financial result showed a profit of HUF 613 million, which includes, among other things, net interest payments of HUF 145 million and unrealised loan revaluations of HUF 366 million due to exchange rate decline.

Based on the above, the Rába Group achieved a net p rofit of HUF 1,185 million in Q1-Q4 of 2023 compared to losses of HUF 1,632 million in the same period last year.

At EBITDA level, the Rába Group achieved a profit o f HUF 3,900 million in the review period, compared to HUF 4,630 million a year earlier.

The Rába Group - other data and events pertaining to the business activity

Sales revenue by business units

 Sales revenue              Axle       Components     Vehicle                Rekard     Rába Group  
 (HUF million)                                                  consolidated  
                                                                                       
 2022 Q1       8 837  4 464      121                  13 265
 2022 Q2       11 170 5 267      501                  16 742
 2022 Q3       10 508 5 226      449   1 026      15 839
 2022 Q4       12 670 3 730      819   1 257      18 500
 2023 Q1       13 732 4 753      244   1 704      20 332
 2023 Q2       12 982 4 390      880   1 492      19 692
 2023 Q3       10 443 3 729      945   813        15 949
 2023 Q4       11 064 4 325      576   968        16 868
Breakdown of the sales revenues for Q1-Q4 2023

 HUF million               America                              EU                              Other     Total  
                                   Total               export      domestic                            
                                                                                                       
 Axle         3 803        42 325        36 698        5 627       2 093                 48 221  
 Components   0     17 197         6 605        10 592          0           17 197  
 Vehicle      12           2 633         712           1 922       0               2 645  
 Gearbox      2     4 943          3 493        1 450           33                 4 977  
 Consolidated 3 816        66 900        47 511        19 389      2 125                 72 842  
Operating profit of group companies

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4

Operating profit

Year

Q1

Q2

Q3

Q4 Year

Axle       -771 692   -146 643 418   40  402   -62 -670 -290
Components 19   357   289  120 785   209 336   -54 181  672
Vehicle    -28  85    73   225 355   -34 203   174 89   432
Gearbox               118  -56 62    106 222   15  61   404
Other      296  100   1    27  424   188 137   45  -248 122
Total      -484 1 234 335  959 2 044 509 1 300 118 -587 1 340
Companies involved in the consolidation

Name

Share/Issue capital

HUF thousand

Ownership Voting ratio 1
ratio (%)
          

Classification 2

Rába Axle Ltd.                  9 765 800 100.00 100.00 S
Rába Automotive Components Ltd. 300 000   100.00 100.00 S
Rába Vehicle Ltd.               835 100   100.00 100.00 S
REKARD LLC.                     100 000   100.00 100.00 S
1Voting right securing participation in the decision-making at the general meeting of the company subject to consolidation. 2Subsidiary (S); Jointly controlled (J); Affiliated (A).

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on its operation du ring Q1-Q4 of 2023 under IFRS

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME UNDER IFRS (IFRS INCOME STATEMENT)

data in thousand HUF

Q1-Q4Q1-Q4

Description of item

Index

Q4

Q4 Index

2022 2023

2023

Domestic sales revenues                           17 753 083 19 389 332 109.2% 5 337 285  4 832 719  90.5%
                                                                                                      
Export sales revenues                             46 593 494 53 452 567 114.7% 13 162 695 12 035 038 91.4%
Sales revenues                                    64 346 577 72 841 899 113.2% 18 499 979 16 867 757 91.2%
                                                                                                      
Direct cost of sales                              53 111 893 61 775 941 116.3% 15 097 556 15 471 687 102.5%
                                                                                                      
Gross profit                                      11 234 684 11 065 958 98.5%  3 402 423  1 396 071  41.0%
                                                                                                      
Cost of sales and marketing                       493 963    590 728    119.6% 140 683    108 339    77.0%
General overhead and administration ex-           9 135 675  9 251 690  101.3% 2 336 737  2 249 526  96.3%
penses
                                                                                           
Other revenues                                    982 762    970 042    98.7%  129 338    596 336    461.1%
Other expenditures                                543 835    853 395    156.9% 95 071     220 974    232.4%
                                                                                                      
Total other operating expenses                    -9 190 711 -9 725 771 105.8% -2 443 153 -1 982 503 81.1%
Revenue from operations                           2 043 973  1 340 187  65.6%  959 271    -586 432   -61.1%
                                                                                                      
Financial revenues                                551 933    1 479 680  268.1% -574 344   696 183    -121.2%
                                                                                                      
Financial expenditures                            1 627 102  866 586    53.3%  -1 192 326 346 316    -29.0%
Net financial profit/loss                         -1 075 169 613 094    57.0%  617 982    349 867    56.6%
                                                                                                      
Profit from the acquisition of a subsidiary       428 209    0          0.0%   428 209    0          0.0%
                                                                                                      
Profit from the acquisition of an affiliated com- 714 352    0          0.0%   605 741    0          0.0%
pany
                                                                                           
INVESTMENT INCOME FROM PUR-                       1 142 561  0          0.0%   1 033 950  0          0.0%
CHASES
                                                                                           
PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION                            2 111 365  1 953 281  92.5%  2 611 203  -236 565   -9.1%
                                                                                                      
Profit tax                                        479 198    768 662    160.4% 164 276    249 266    151.7%
                                                                                                      
PROFIT AFTER TAXATION IN THE CUR-                 1 632 170  1 184 619  72.6%  2 446 927  -485 831   -19.9%
RENT YEAR
                                                                                           
Basic earnings per share (HUF)                    121        88                                       
                                                                                                      
Diluted earnings per share (HUF)                  121        88                                       
1. EARNED REVENUES

In Q1-Q4 of 2023, RÁBA Plc. realised a turnover of HUF 72,842 million, a change of 13.2 per cent compared to HUF 64,347 million in the same period of the previous year. 73.4 per cent of turnover in the period under review was export, the rest was domestic sales.

2. COSTS AND OTHER REVENUES, EXPENDITURES

2.1. Direct costs

RÁBA Plc's direct cost level in Q1-Q4 of 2023 was 8 4.8 per cent compared to 82.5 per cent in the base period. Direct costs amounted to HUF 61,776 million, which is 16.3 per cent more than in the base period (Q1-Q4 of 2022: HUF 53,112 million).

Changes in gross profit

The gross yield changed from HUF 11,235 million in the base period to HUF 11,066 million (a decrease of HUF 169 million), which is the result of an increase in sales revenue by HUF 8,495 million and in direct costs by HUF 8,664 million.

2.2. Cost of sales

Cost of sales increased by 19.6 per cent to HUF 591 million in Q1-Q4 of 2023 compared to HUF 494 million in Q1-Q4 of 2022.

2.3. General overhead and administration expenses

The Company reports under general and administrative expenses (Q1-Q4 of 2023: HUF 9,252 mil-

lion, Q1-Q4 of 2022: HUF 9,136 million) the administrative expenses (Q1-Q4 of 2023: HUF 3,689

million) and other general expenses (Q1-Q4 of 2023: HUF 5,563 million).

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on its operation du ring Q1-Q4 of 2023 under IFRS

2.4. Other revenues, expenditures

The balance of other income and expenses was a profit of HUF 117 million in the period under review, compared to a profit of HUF 439 million in the same period of the previous year. The result of the period was significantly influenced by the impairment and write-off of stocks and receivables in the value of HUF 290 million. The result from other activities during the base period also included the proceeds from a one-off property transaction, amounting to HUF 342 million.

3. OPERATING PROFIT

The Company's operating result in Q1-Q4 of 2023 was HUF 1,340 million (Q1-Q4 of 2022: HUF 2,044 million). The decrease in operating profit is the result of the decline in gross profit (HUF -169 million), the combined change in sales and general overhead and administrative expenses (HUF - 213 million) and the change in the balance of other income and expenses (HUF -322 million). Profitability changed from 3.2 per cent in the base period to 1.8 per cent. Profitability of operating profit + depreciation decreased to 5.4 per cent compared to 7.2 per cent in the base period.

4. FINANCIAL REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES

The net financial result for Q1-Q4 of 2023 was a profit of HUF 613 million, compared to a loss of HUF 1,075 million in the base period.

The net result on interest income and expenses in Q1-Q4 of 2023 was HUF -145 million (HUF -125 million in the base period).

The net exchange rate difference on foreign exchange items in Q1-Q4 of 2023 was HUF 755 million (HUF -940 million in the base period).

The composition of financial income and expenses is shown in the table below:

 data in HUF thousand                     Q1-Q4 of 2022     Q1-Q4 of 2023  
                                                         
 Interest income              10 320      298 841
 Exchange rate gains          541 613     1 144 882
 Other financial revenues     0         35 958
 Financial revenues           551 933     1 479 681
 Interest payable             135 207     443 893
 Exchange rate loss           1 482 106   390 187
 Other financial expenditures 9 789       32 507
 Financial expenditures       1 627 102   866 587
5. PROFIT IN THE CURRENT YEAR

The profit before tax for Q1-Q4 of 2023 was HUF 1,953 million, which is HUF 158 million less than in Q1-Q4 of 2022 due to the factors discussed in sections 1-4. The profitability margin at the profit before tax level corresponds to a profitability on sales of 2.68 per cent, compared to 3.28 per cent in the base period.

At group level, a tax liability of HUF 769 million was incurred in the period. Of this amount, the corporate tax liability amounted to HUF 134 million, the business tax liability to HUF 472 million, the innovation contribution liability to HUF 83 million and the deferred tax expense for the current period to HUF 80 million.

Consolidated report of Rába Plc on its operation du ring Q1-Q4 of 2023 under IFRS

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION UNDER IFRS (IFRS BALANCE SHEET)

data in thousand HUF

 Definition of item                                      31.12.2022                   31.12.2023           Index  
 Real properties, machines, equipment         26 043 001                   29 788 760              114.4%   
 Intangible assets                            47 336                       42 066                  88.9%    
 Other long-term assets                       0                     0                 -35.7%      
 Property for investment purposes             331 522                      331 522                 100.0%   
 Other investments                            205                          2 655                   1292.6%  
 Deferred tax receivables                     32 405                       34 240                  105.7%   
 Total invested assets                        26 454 469                   30 199 244              114.2%   
 Inventories                                  15 987 210                   14 096 904              88.2%    
 Trade receivables and other receivables      9 073 011                    7 392 915               81.5%    
 Profit tax receivables                       0                     0                             
 Other non-financial assets and receivables   3 010 864                    2 118 108               70.3%    
 Cash and cash equivalents                    8 561 673                    4 412 412               51.5%    
 Total current assets                         36 632 758                   28 020 339              76.5%    
 Total assets                                 63 087 227                   58 219 583              92.3%    
 Registered capital                           13 473 446                   13 473 446              100.0%   
 Treasury shares                              -108 952                     -108 952                100.0%   
 Retained earnings                            9 447 999                    10 632 618              112.5%   
 Total equity and reserves                    22 812 493                   23 997 112              105.2%   
 Long-term credits and loans                  14 382 585                   10 459 174              72.7%    
 Provisions                                   0                     23 748                          
 Deferred tax liability                       238 635                      320 180                 134.2%   
 Leasing liability                            38 092                       41 569                  109.1%   
 Others long-term liabilities                 2 925 705                    2 730 159               93.3%    
 Total long-term liabilities                  17 585 017                   13 574 830              77.2%    
 Provisions                                   374 677                      382 608                 102.1%   
 Profit tax liability                         151 031                      169 004                 111.9%   
 Leasing liability                            41 789                       37 649                  90.1%    
 Short-term portion of loans and credits      7 964 535                    5 816 514               73.0%    
 Trade liabilities and other liabilities      10 374 587                   8 679 011               83.7%    
 Other non-financial liabilities              3 783 098                    5 562 855               147.0%   
 Total short-term liabilities                 22 689 717                   20 647 641              91.0%    
 Total equity and liabilities                 63 087 227                   58 219 583              92.3%    
Analysis of principal balance sheet items and their changes

1. INVESTED ASSETS

1.1. Properties, machines and equipment

The consolidated net value of property, plant and equipment changed from HUF 26,043 million at 31 December, 2022 to HUF 29,789 million. The change is a 14.4 per cent increase. Depreciation of tangible assets in Q1-Q4 of 2023 was HUF 2,545 million.

In accordance with the provisions of the Standard IFRS 16, the value of the assets, forklift trucks and passenger cars, the right to use of which was transferred to Rába by the lessor, amounted to HUF 92 million on 1 January 2023, and acquisitions in the period under review amounted to HUF 58 million. Depreciation on these assets amounted to HUF 66 million in the period.

1.2. Intangible assets

The net value of intangible assets changed from HUF 47 million to HUF 42 million. The change is a

11.1 per cent decrease. The amount of depreciation accounted during the period was HUF 15 million.

Attention: This is an excerpt of the original content. To continue reading it, access the original document here[https://docs.publicnow.com/CBF333426098C548E2004E5FC35F2D36ED5F150E].

* This content was originally posted here[https://www.bse.hu/site/newkib/en/2024.02./Report_of_Raba_Plc._for_Q1-Q4_of_2023_129020161]

Disclaimer

RÁBA Jarmuipari Holding Nyrt. published this content on 21 February 2024 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 21 February 2024 16:24:44 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 LCDVP00020240221ek2l00rh0


Russia: EU may blacklist Chinese electronics exporters in new sanction package
269 字
2024 年 2 月 22 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2024. CEEMarketWatch
EU allegedly targets relatively small Chinese companies

Hungary previously opposed decision to blacklist Chinese entities

Companies from Thailand, Sri Lanka, Serbia, Kazakhstan are also at risk

There is a possibility that the EU will sanction three Chinese electronics exporters in the new sanction package aimed at Russia, EU Observer reported yesterday. The companies in question - Guangzhou Ausay Technology, Shenzhen Biguang Trading and Yilufa Electronics - are not the biggest players on the Chinese market, so the sanctions against them will work as a signal for other Chinese companies. AFP also reported that the EU may sanction companies from Turkey, Sri-Lanka, Serbia, Thailand and Kazakhstan, which seems more likely as these countries will not put political and economic pressure on the EU for such a decision. Earlier the media reported that Hungary had blocked the new sanction package because of Chinese companies being included in it, but later the Hungarian envoy to the EU said that all measures that Hungary opposed were excluded from the package. However, we cannot rule out that initially the EU targeted bigger fishes on the Chinese electronics market and due to the pressure from Hungary had to sanction only smaller exporters. The EU previously introduced a mechanism to sanction companies from third countries for the circumvention of sanctions, however, so far it has not applied the regulation to Chinese companies out of fear of a standoff with China. Russian legal experts comment that the sanctions on financial infrastructure look now more threatening for Russian-Chinese trade than the direct sanctions on a few exporters.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020240222ek2m00015


U.S. Department of State - Department Press Briefing – February 26, 2024
U.S. Department of State published this content on 26 Feb 2024 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 26 Feb 2024 22:39:16 UTC.
9055 字
2024 年 2 月 26 日
U.S. Government News and Documents via PUBT
USGND
英文
Copyright 2024. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/]

Department Press Briefing - February 26, 2024

Home[https://www.state.gov] Office of the Spokesperson[https://www.state.gov/bureaus-offices/under-secretary-for-public-diplomacy-and-public-affairs/bureau-of-global-public-affairs/office-of-the-spokesperson/] Briefings[https://www.state.gov/department-press-briefings] … Department Press Briefing - February 26, 2024

hide

Department Press Briefing - February 26, 2024

Matthew Miller, Department Spokesperson[https://www.state.gov/biographies/matthew-miller/]

Washington, D.C.

February 26, 2024

Article Index

* SWEDEN / HUNGARY / NATO[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-SWEDENHUNGARYNATO]

* RUSSIA / DETAINEES[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-RUSSIADETAINEES]

* UKRAINE[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-UKRAINE]

* CHINA / NORTH KOREA / RUSSIA[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-CHINANKRUSSIA]

* ISRAEL / PALESTINIAN TERRITORIES[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-ISRAELPALESTINIANTERRITORIES]

* IRAQ / KURDISTAN REGIONAL GOVERNMENT[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-IRAQKRG]

* ISRAEL / PALESTINIAN TERRITORIES[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-ISRAELPALESTINIANTERRITORIES2]

* MEXICO[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-MEXICO]

* RUSSIA[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-RUSSIA]

* QATAR[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-QATAR]

* IRAN / SYRIA[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-IRANSYRIA]

* ISRAEL / PALESTINIAN TERRITORIES / REGION[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-ISRAELPALESTINIANTERRITORIESREGION]

* MIGRATION[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-MIGRATION]

* PAKISTAN[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/#post-538833-PAKISTAN]

1:20 p.m. EST

MR MILLER: Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for being here. Happy Monday. Matt, you want to start us off?

QUESTION: You have nothing to say at the top?

MR MILLER: Do you want me to step - do you want me to -

QUESTION: You don't want to say anything about NATO expansion?

MR MILLER: Do you want me to step out for a minute to give you a second to start your recording, which is what I think you're doing? Stalling for time?

QUESTION: Well, no. I was just wondering if you don't have anything to say about Sweden and Hungary and -

MR MILLER: We certainly welcome the - we certainly do welcome the vote in the Hungarian parliament today and look forward to it being finalized, and are ready to receive the instruments here in Washington and welcome Sweden as the 32nd member of NATO.

QUESTION: Okay. But so you're waiting for the formal -

MR MILLER: Yeah. We'll wait for the formal process to conclude. The Hungarian parliament voted, but that's not the end of the process. They have to formally - as I think you remember with the Turkish vote a few weeks ago, they have to formally present the instrument here, and then we deposit it in our vault for it to be final.

QUESTION: Right. And of course you know that that has not yet -

MR MILLER: Has - it has not yet been finalized, and certainly hasn't been presented to us.

QUESTION: And do you know if that's going to happen today?

MR MILLER: I do not anticipate it happening today.

QUESTION: Okay.

MR MILLER: I think there are still a couple of formalities that need to take place inside Hungary before they can be presented to us.

QUESTION: Okay. And then just one other one, which is kind of way off - way off-topic. But you've - I'm sure you've seen the reports about this guy, Alexander Smirnov, Israeli-U.S. dual citizen, who's the guy who is an FBI informant and he has just been ordered jailed.

MR MILLER: Oh, yeah, right.

QUESTION: The only reason I'm asking about it here is that he is a dual citizen, so I'm just wondering if there's been any contact, but with the - between the Israelis and you about consular access or anything like that.

MR MILLER: I'm not aware of any. I'll have to check and see. I don't know.

QUESTION: Okay. Thanks.

MR MILLER: Humeyra.

QUESTION: Hi, Matt. So I just want to ask about this thing about Navalny. One of his - a close ally of him basically said he was close to being freed in a prisoner swap. I mean, is there anything you can tell us about that? The U.S. did put forward a substantial proposal; I think it was - you made it public in early December. Was he part of that?

MR MILLER: We put forward a proposal in early December to secure the release of Paul Whelan and Evan Gershkovich, as we said at the time. I have always made it a practice from this podium - and I think you've seen it across the United States Government - not to comment on the details of our negotiations or the details of our work to try to secure the release of prisoners in Russia or in other countries. All I will say about this matter is that we have long called for the release of Aleksey Navalny, and that was our position on the matter.

QUESTION: Do you also - does the U.S. Government also agree with the assessment of this ally that he was killed because he was close to being freed in a prisoner swap?

MR MILLER: I think - so I do not have any assessment on that - I don't have any comment on that specific assessment. As we have said, we believe that Vladimir Putin and the Russian Government are responsible for his death. But I couldn't comment beyond that.

QUESTION: I have other questions, but if anybody else -

MR MILLER: Do other people want to do Navalny? Yeah, yeah, go ahead.

QUESTION: If I could follow up on that. Just to understand how this works, is it at all possible for the U.S. Government to discuss a prisoner swap on his behalf without designating him wrongfully detained?

MR MILLER: I don't want to try to get into a hypothetical that's going to, by necessity, implicate me commenting on a specific situation. As I said, I'm not going to do so. I'm going to refrain from - I'm just going to refrain from commenting on any aspect of negotiations to secure the release of anyone around the world.

QUESTION: I'm sorry. Can I - this is - the question -

MR MILLER: Yeah.

QUESTION: - contains a premise that I don't think is accurate. Is there any authority under which the U.S. can make a determination that a -

MR MILLER: No.

QUESTION: - non-U.S. citizen is wrongfully detained?

MR MILLER: No, but I took Alex's question to be can we try to secure the release of people who are non-U.S. citizens, which of course - well, maybe I misunderstood - which of course we can. But we - the wrongful detention statute only applies to U.S. citizens and other U.S. nationals.

QUESTION: I mean, there's - as you know, there's Levinson Act that actually expands beyond the U.S. citizens (inaudible) -

MR MILLER: To U.S. nationals, right, of which he was not.

QUESTION: Please come back to me.

QUESTION: Can I -

MR MILLER: Go ahead, yeah.

QUESTION: I understand there were some early discussions on this front involving a potential swap for Navalny and U.S. citizens. Is there anything you can say about that -

MR MILLER: I'm just not going to speak -

QUESTION: - and when these conversations were happening?

MR MILLER: I'm not going to speak to either internal deliberations or our work to secure the release of people held overseas. As I said, we had long called for Aleksey Navalny's release.

QUESTION: And were there any conversations with the Germans on a -

MR MILLER: I'm just not going to speak to our conversations with any of our diplomatic partners about the work that we do to try to secure the release of wrongfully detained Americans or others held around the world.

QUESTION: But you don't deny it, that there - I mean -

MR MILLER: I did not deny it, but I didn't confirm it. I didn't comment on it one way or the other. And you can read or not read whatever you want; sometimes people read things into that, mistakenly. But no, I didn't comment on it at all.

QUESTION: Have you put forward any additional proposals to the Russians for the release of the Americans since that initial one you spoke about a couple of months or so ago?

MR MILLER: Our work to try to secure the release of Evan Gershkovich and Paul Whelan continues. It's something we are working on every day, trying to figure out the best way to secure their release. As it pertains to any further proposals or any further conversations, I just don't have anything to announce today. As I said, there are times when we feel it's in our interest to make public - or in the interest of the work we're trying to do to make public - certain details. But beyond that, we typically try not to comment at all because we don't want to jeopardize the status of what are very - the very sensitive work that we're doing to try to secure their release.

QUESTION: Can I follow up on this?

QUESTION: Staying on Navalny -

MR MILLER: Go ahead.

QUESTION: Thank you.

MR MILLER: Is this - let me - is this Navalny?

QUESTION: Ukraine.

MR MILLER: Let me go - let me just close out on Navalny and I'll come to you next.

QUESTION: Thank you.

MR MILLER: Go ahead.

QUESTION: It's not related to the hostages but it's related to Navalny, the question being: Has the U.S. come to a determination at all as to whether the death of Navalny was coincidental or a concerted effort by the Kremlin?

MR MILLER: I don't have any assessment to offer on the circumstances surrounding his death other than that the Russian Government is responsible for it.

QUESTION: Is the U.S. seeking to independently come to a conclusion as to whether his death was -

MR MILLER: We are always seeking more information about incidents of this nature. That's certainly true in this - with respect to this incident, but I don't have any assessment to offer.

QUESTION: Has there been diplomatic engagement with the Russian Government to seek answers about Navalny specifically?

MR MILLER: I don't have any comment - any conversations to read out.

QUESTION: Okay. Relatedly, there was - there were reports from U.S. officials that the U.S. had engaged diplomatically on the matter of the anti-satellite capability that Russia has been developing. Can you provide any update as to whether the Russians have responded to that outreach?

MR MILLER: I'm not going to speak to those conversations. We do have the ability to deliver messages to Russia. We did engage in diplomatic outreach to Russia to make clear our concerns about their pursuit of an anti-satellite capability. We've also had concerns with allies and partners of the United States as well as - conversations with allies and partners of the United States, as well as conversations with other countries around the world who think we ought to be concerned about Russia's pursuit of this specific capability.

QUESTION: Well, does the U.S. believe that it's making progress in altering the likely trajectory of what Russia may or may not do with this capability, either via the Russian Government or with its partners?

MR MILLER: So all I will say about that - because, again, there are limits to what I can say; there's a very limited amount of information that's been declassified because of concerns that the Intelligence Community has about making more information public - we have had what we feel to be very productive conversations with a range of countries around the world. We think it is incumbent on other countries who share our concern to make those concerns known. We expect that they will, and I will leave it at that.

QUESTION: I know Michele had a question on Navalny.

MR MILLER: Yeah, go ahead.

QUESTION: I just wanted to -

MR MILLER: You guys are confusing me sitting far - at the back.

QUESTION: I just wanted to get back to this -

QUESTION: There was no room.

MR MILLER: Yeah.

QUESTION: - back to this (inaudible) -

MR MILLER: There's a seat. You can come sit up front, walk and - (laughter) - go ahead. Sorry. Two - three seats up front.

QUESTION: I just wanted to go back to, like, the video itself, because you say you don't like to have - you don't like to publicize some of these negotiations. But these guys went out very publicly today and said that there was a deal. Are they wrong?

MR MILLER: Again, I don't want to comment to any extent on this beyond what I already have. So -

QUESTION: Matt, also just on this.

MR MILLER: Go - I told Janne I would come to her next, so go ahead.

QUESTION: Thank you. Thank you, Matt. Ukraine and Russia and North Korea - first question. Regarding Ukraine's defense industry corruptions, has the U.S. confirmed anything about Ukraine's internal defense industry corruption, including artillery shells?

MR MILLER: So I'm not sure what specific report you're referring to.

QUESTION: Because there are reports that Ukraine is involved with the - in defense industry corruption worth tens of billions of dollars, including the - I'm sorry, including the embezzlement of hundred thousand artillery shells.

MR MILLER: So I haven't - I haven't seen that specific report to which you're referring. But we have long engaged in conversations with the Ukrainian Government about the need to take anti-corruption measures. We've seen them take a range of measures to crack down on corruption over the last couple of years. We think there's more that we can - that they can do and we're engaged in ongoing dialogue with them about that topic.

QUESTION: Secondly, Russia is using North Korean ballistic missiles against Ukraine, as you know that. But China's role - what role does the U.S. seek from China, which is tolerating arms trade between North Korea and Russia? And will you impose additional sanctions on China?

MR MILLER: So we have made it clear to a number of countries that we think that the increased relationship when it comes to weapon-sharing between North Korea and Russia ought to be a topic of concern, that North Korea's providing weapons to Russia for use on the battlefield in Ukraine ought to be a topic of concern, and we'll continue to do that.

QUESTION: Thank you.

MR MILLER: Go ahead, Humeyra, and then, Leon, I'll come to you next, and then -

QUESTION: So I'll go to Israel. I have a couple of questions, Matt, on what Secretary said in Buenos Aires on Friday. He said the Israeli settlements are inconsistent with international law. So I'm wondering why the administration - why it took the administration three years to sort of make that point? Was that something that you guys believed at the beginning of the administration and somehow decided to wait, or you landed at this decision just last week?

MR MILLER: So I'll say two things. From a policy point of view, we have always been clear that we believe settlements are a barrier to peace and that they weaken, not strengthen, Israel's security and position in the region. As a legal question, it is - excuse me, I still have this cough I've had for a week or so now - as a legal question, it is something that had been under review here at the department for some time. And as you know, the Secretary over the last several months has embarked on a process to try to ensure lasting peace in the region, to establish an independent Palestinian state, and we thought, as we were engaged in that important process, it was important to avoid any ambiguity about the U.S. position on this matter. And so that's why he made the announcement he did on Friday.

QUESTION: Right. You said that there was a review that's been underway. Can you - can you say when that started?

MR MILLER: No, we -

QUESTION: Was that at the -

MR MILLER: Only that we had been looking at this question for some time.

QUESTION: Right. And this is - I mean, I understand what you're saying in terms of you have said that it is an impediment to peace before. But saying that it is inconsistent with international law is like a step sort of ahead of that, beyond that. What are you trying to achieve with this? Are you expecting that this would put some additional pressure on Israel about the settlements? Because this has been an ongoing conflict, dispute between you and the Israeli Government that you just can't seem to agree.

MR MILLER: So what we are trying to achieve is the establishment of an independent Palestinian state with security guarantees for Israel. That is the ultimate policy objective that we are trying to achieve. You've seen the Secretary focus his diplomatic efforts on it. You've obviously heard me speak to that a number of times from this podium. And so we thought, as we go about that process, it was important that we be clear and avoid any ambiguity about this particular legal question.

QUESTION: Would you have not said this the way Secretary said it if you have seen Israeli Government not unveil or like not have any plans to sort of add new housing units? Could this have gone in a different way?

MR MILLER: It's hard to speak to a counterfactual, but we have seen the Israeli Government announce and explore new housing settlements, and we've had deep concerns about those. And as you heard the Secretary say on Friday, we think the settlements that they've announced prior to this date, the settlements that they announced they were exploring last week, are fundamentally a barrier to peace.

QUESTION: Have you given them a heads-up before? Have you spoken to them privately since then?

MR MILLER: I'm sure that we've engaged in conversations about them. As you know, we engage in conversations with the Israeli Government at a number of different levels, but I'm not aware of any specific conversation around this.

QUESTION: Matt, can I just ask you -

QUESTION: Can I follow up?

MR MILLER: Yeah.

QUESTION: You say that this removes ambiguity in this - but actually what it does is restores ambiguity, the ambiguity that was in the original Hansell memorandum, which doesn't say that settlements are illegal. It says that they are inconsistent -

MR MILLER: Inconsistent.

QUESTION: - or illegitimate. It doesn't use the word illegal. So I'm not sure I understand how this removes the - it restores the previous ambiguity that had existed. Why don't you guys just come out and take a position once and for all - are settlements okay, or are they actually quote/unquote "illegal" under international law?

MR MILLER: So I don't think you should hear me saying that settlements are okay. You should see us - hear loud and clear - well, let me - hear loud and clear me saying from a policy perspective we believe they are a barrier to peace. From a legal perspective, we believe they're inconsistent with international law.

QUESTION: Yeah, but you don't believe that they're illegal.

MR MILLER: I will let the lawyers, of which I am not, speak to the difference between those two terms if any, but on behalf of the United States, we -

QUESTION: (Inaudible.)

MR MILLER: - if any - we do not believe they are consistent with international law.

QUESTION: Because this is the entire - the entire point of the whole - the entire point of the Hansell memorandum when it was written in 1978 - believe me, I've done a lot of looking into this - was that it was ambiguous; that it did not put the United States down as having a position that settlements were illegal or not illegal or totally fine, but that it was intended to show unhappiness or your disagreement with settlement policy. But the fact of the matter is, is that when you say that this announcement on Friday removes the ambiguity, I just - that doesn't - it restores the ambiguity. Because -

MR MILLER: So - I'm sorry.

QUESTION: - what the previous administration did, what the previous secretary of state did, was to say that the U.S. no longer regards settlement activity, quote/unquote "per se" -

MR MILLER: Per se.

QUESTION: - as being inconsistent or illegitimate. That seemed to remove ambiguity. This restores the previous ambiguity. How am I wrong?

MR MILLER: So I don't find anything ambiguous about a statement from the United States that we believe the Israeli Government settlement program is inconsistent with federal law. I find that to be a very clear -

QUESTION: Not federal, international -

MR MILLER: - excuse me, international law, of course - a very clear, unambiguous statement. I cannot speak to the reasoning behind a memo that was written in 1978. Obviously, I was not here, but I can tell you our intention now is to be very clear about what we believe.

QUESTION: Yeah, so can I -

MR MILLER: Said, go ahead.

QUESTION: I'm glad you mentioned 1978 because there was a lawyerly or a legal definition that was established then and so on. Plus, you guys are signatories to all the UN resolutions - 242 and so on - that basically say that settlements are illegal. So I don't know why we - you - every so many years you feel that you have to reassert or dispel the ambiguity and so on. Let me ask you a couple -

MR MILLER: You would rather we hadn't made this statement?

QUESTION: No, I'm saying you make these statements -

MR MILLER: Okay. Fair.

QUESTION: - all the time, especially -

MR MILLER: Fair enough. I'm just -

QUESTION: No, no, no. No, the statement is -

MR MILLER: I'm just being clear.

QUESTION: The statement is important because the previous administration basically sought to undo that.

MR MILLER: Mm-hmm.

QUESTION: And that's why it is timely and it is important. I'm not saying it's not important.

I want to ask you a couple questions, but also I want to say for the record, Matt, with all sympathies with Navalny and so on, but a Palestinian president has died in Israeli jails almost on weekly basis under torture. It would be - it would be great for the United States of America to say this should be unacceptable as well.

MR MILLER: We - so just to be very clear, we want every prisoner, every detainee anywhere -

QUESTION: Right.

MR MILLER: - in the world to be treated humanely, to be treated in accordance with international law. That is not just true in Russia. It is true -

QUESTION: Including - including in Israeli prison?

MR MILLER: Hold on, Said, just let me finish. And I will say what I - what I have to say. As I was going to say, is that's true in Russia, it's true in Israel, it's true everywhere in the world.

QUESTION: Okay, excellent. Let me ask you about Samaher Esmail, the Palestinian American woman that was arrested early in February. Can you update us to any new development of this case?

MR MILLER: So I will say that we have obtained consular access and have - officials from our embassy have met with her. We are in contact with her and her family. We are providing all appropriate consular assistance, as we always do in these cases. There's not a lot I can say about the case. It remains a legal matter, but we are in contact with her - her and her family.

QUESTION: Yeah, but she was apparently arrested for a Facebook post, I mean, nothing else. Let me ask you about the humanitarian situation in Gaza. It seems that Israel is doing everything possible to hinder the entry of the humanitarian assistance into Gaza by denying visas for humanitarian workers, by shooting policemen that try to organize these things and so on. So - so what are you doing to facilitate these human - human assistance shipments and so on? I mean, kids are coming out and saying we want a piece of bread. I mean, it's really - it's hard to imagine this is happening in the 21st century.

MR MILLER: So let me say a few things about that. First, as I've said a number of times, we continue to be at the forefront of advocating for increased, sustained humanitarian assistance to benefit innocent Palestinian in Gaza. We continue to be the largest humanitarian donor to the Palestinian people.

With respect to two specific points you raise there, first the delivery of humanitarian assistance inside Gaza, which right now is a difficult situation - so you have had this situation where the - the problem right now is not just getting humanitarian assistance into Gaza through either Rafah or Kerem Shalom, but getting it distributed inside Gaza, because of a lack of ability to secure shipments. There is a problem in that the police that were providing security to those shipments inside Gaza, some of them are members of Hamas; some of them are not. And so Israel does have a legitimate right to try to hold members of Hamas accountable as part of the ongoing military operation that they're conducting.

But at the same time, we want to see the ability of shipments to be safely delivered inside Gaza and not looted by criminal gangs and others. So that's a matter that we are in ongoing conversation with both the Government of Israel and our humanitarian partners on the ground about how to solve. It is a live question that we are dealing with every day. We haven't reached a solution yet, but it's something we're actively engaged on - because it's important not just that the humanitarian assistance get into Gaza, but that it get to the people that need it.

With respect to the second question that you raised, as it pertains to visa, so our position is clear: it's that all regional governments must do what is necessary to enable this humanitarian response. That includes allowing international staff the freedom of movement to ramp up and help the response, and we hope all governments in the region will rapidly approve all requested visas for UN and INGO workers in an expeditious fashion.

QUESTION: Lastly, yesterday the Israeli prime minister told Face the Nation that any deal or any pause would only delay entry into Rafah. Do you have any comment on that?

MR MILLER: So I don't want to speak to a hypothetical. Because right now, we are trying to secure a pause that would get hostages out, that would get humanitarian assistance in, and would greatly alleviate the suffering of the Palestinian people. What happens after that? I think it's too early to say. We are focused right now on trying to achieve that pause. We've had various officials from the United States Government engage in conversations last week and over the weekend to try to secure it. We think a deal is possible. We think a deal can be reached, and ultimately that's where we're focusing our efforts.

QUESTION: Can I follow on that (inaudible) -

MR MILLER: Leon. I told Leon I'd come to him.

QUESTION: Yeah.

QUESTION: (Off-mike.)

MR MILLER: I'll come to you next.

QUESTION: I'm just - I'm interested to hear what your take is - your reaction on the government of the Palestinian Authority which has resigned. That resignation has been accepted by President Abbas. How do you see that? Do you welcome that? Do you think it's a first step to - towards a reform? And who would you support as a future government?

MR MILLER: So with respect to both the resignation and a future government, ultimately the leadership of the Palestinian Authority is a question for the Palestinians themselves to decide. It's not a matter that I'm going to comment on from here. But we do welcome steps for the PA to reform and revitalize itself. The Secretary has encouraged the PA to take those steps in - when he's been in conversations with President Abbas and others when we've traveled to Ramallah. That's something you've heard this President speak to, and it's something that we will continue to pursue. We think those steps are positive; we think they're important - an important step to achieving a reunited Gaza and West Bank under the Palestinian Authority, so we will continue to encourage them to take those steps.

QUESTION: So you think they're - the actual resignation is a step in that direction?

MR MILLER: Again, I don't want to speak to the actual resignation, because when it comes to personnel matters, those are questions that should be left to the Palestinians. But we have been engaged with them on the need to reform and revitalize the government, and we have seen them start to take steps in that direction, and we welcome them.

QUESTION: But again, you say you don't want to comment on specific resignations, but then you - but then you welcome it.

MR MILLER: I - we are welcoming steps towards PA reform. There have been a -

QUESTION: Okay, so they - are the resignations part of the steps towards - toward reform?

MR MILLER: The - so I - I suspected you might ask -

QUESTION: I mean, come on. What's -

MR MILLER: I just don't want to speak -

QUESTION: We're not idiots here.

MR MILLER: I just don't want to speak to - I'm well aware of that, Matt. (Laughter.) I don't want to speak to a personnel matter. But I think you have seen -

QUESTION: It's not just the personnel.

QUESTION: It's not a personnel (inaudible) -

MR MILLER: I understand, a government matter. When it comes to the personnel who are leading the government, it's not something we have ever wanted to speak to. But -

QUESTION: Well, I know.

MR MILLER: But - but -

QUESTION: But then - then you say that, and then you come out and say -

MR MILLER: Let me finish.

QUESTION: - well, this is a good thing.

MR MILLER: President Abbas has said he is going to take steps towards reforming and revitalizing the Palestinian Authority. He has said that directly to the Secretary, and we welcome him taking those steps.

QUESTION: So you welcome him bringing in fresh blood?

MR MILLER: We certainly would welcome a revitalized, reformed Palestinian Authority.

Go ahead.

QUESTION: Thank you.

QUESTION: But not to comment on the actual resignation in any way. (Laughter.)

MR MILLER: Go ahead, Nadiya.

QUESTION: Allow me just -

MR MILLER: Yeah.

QUESTION: - one last thing on this. You think it was necessary for the government to resign in order to move forward?

MR MILLER: That I am not - that I am not going to comment on. I will let the Palestinian Authority speak to that. I don't think it's appropriate for me to comment on that from here.

Go ahead.

QUESTION: Thank you, Matt. Two questions, one to follow up on Said's question. So you're aware that the UN humanitarian organizations in Gaza said that 85,000 Gazans could die as a result of starvation, disease, or bombing. So what practically can the administration do to alter this reality? So you want to be seen as literally repeating rhetoric when you said we asked the Israelis to allow human aid organization to expedite the visas, to allow trucks to come, et cetera, so that these things on the ground does not happen?

MR MILLER: So -

QUESTION: So can we make sure that these people won't face this death either by starvation or by disease?

MR MILLER: So there are two incredibly important things we are trying to pursue to alleviate the suffering of the [Palestinian] people. One is, as I said, to increase the flow of humanitarian assistance into Gaza, to make sure it's sustained, and to break down any obstacles to it actually being delivered to those who are in need. But there is a second - and that work ongoing. It's something we've been working on for some time. And there - as you know, we are involved at a really kind of granular, technical level with the Government of Egypt, the Government of Israel, and international partners in the region, and have been engaged with it really since the immediate days after October 7th.

But there is another way that we could help alleviate the suffering of the Palestinian people, and that is to achieve a humanitarian pause that would allow more humanitarian assistance to come into Gaza and would allow more humanitarian assistance to get to those who need. It would allow people better freedom of movement to move around Gaza and get to humanitarian assistance. And we have worked with the governments of Egypt and Israel and Qatar to achieve such a proposal, and we need Hamas to say yes. And so if Hamas wants to alleviate the suffering of the Palestinian people, they could agree to the proposal that we have put forward to achieve a humanitarian pause and get more humanitarian assistance in.

So when I see people calling for more to be done to allow humanitarian assistance in, we fundamentally agree with that. And everyone in the United States Government that is responsible for this brief is working on it, but Hamas plays a role too. And they -

QUESTION: So Hamas is -

MR MILLER: Hamas - I'd say Hamas plays a role too, and the people that are calling for us to do more should be calling for Hamas to get out of the way and allow more humanitarian assistance to come in as well.

QUESTION: You think the Netanyahu government is fine with all the conditions that will allow the humanitarian aid to come in?

MR MILLER: There are issues that we have to work through with the Government of Israel all the time, and we've been quite clear. I've spoken to them from this podium a number of times. The Secretary has spoken to them. I'm just saying that's not the only impediment to humanitarian assistance getting in. If Hamas would agree to a humanitarian pause, a temporary ceasefire, that would go a long ways to alleviating the immediate suffering of the Palestinian people.

QUESTION: Okay. My second question is the Secretary was asked during the trip to comment about the Netanyahu plan for Gaza, and he said he's not going to comment because he haven't seen it. So the U.S. Government has not seen it officially. The White House dismissed it somehow as disagreement among friends. This plan - I'm sure you've seen it; not officially, but you read about it - fundamentally clashes with everything that administration calling, including just now when you talk about two-state solution. So is really the two-state solution a mirage, considering Netanyahu himself and his government don't believe in it at all? So who are you going to implement it with?

MR MILLER: So with respect to the plan, first of all, again, we have not - you're right that we have not engaged with the Government of Israel. We've seen press reporting, but we haven't sat down to have a detailed - had a detailed conversation with the Government of Israel about this plan yet, so I will refrain from a specific comment until we have had the chance to do so.

But we have been very clear about what our position is with respect to the governance of Gaza moving forward, when it comes to questions about the reoccupation of Gaza and the reduction or potential reduction of any territory of Gaza. And we'll continue to be very clear about that publicly and privately.

And when it comes to this question of the two - of two states, all we can do - and you've heard me say this before - is present our vision for peace and security in the Middle East, and make clear to the Government of Israel and make clear to the people of Israel that there is a path forward for lasting security, for better relations with Israel's neighbors, and they have to take it. And if they are ready to do it, we are ready to work with them on how to achieve that vision.

QUESTION: But you have so many - you have so many tools - just the last - my last follow-up, sorry.

MR MILLER: Go - yeah.

QUESTION: But you have so much leverage over the Israelis, and this is fundamental vision of the President. So you can use all the leverage you want, including weapons that you sell to Israel -

MR MILLER: So -

QUESTION: - to make sure that this plan is on the - at least on the right path for implementation, considering we have, like, short time between now and November.

MR MILLER: So one thing I will say about that that people often tend to forget is that Israel, like other countries in the region, is a sovereign country that makes its own decisions. The United States does not dictate to Israel what it must do, just as we don't dictate to any country what it must do. We present what we believe are the -

QUESTION: Unless you invade them.

MR MILLER: We present what we believe are the - (laughter). Good one, Matt.

QUESTION: Well, sorry -

MR MILLER: No, I mean - but come on. Yeah. We present standup hour at the - in the briefing room. We present what we believe are the best proposals to achieve peace and security, and we will continue to do that. But Israel has to make its own decisions, just as every sovereign independent country has to make its own decisions.

QUESTION: Can I just ask what did you say - what did you mean you mean when you just said to - that they have to take it?

MR MILLER: They have to - it doesn't mean that they have to take it in that we can dictate to them. What I meant by "they have to take it" is we can present all the options in the world; we can't control whether they take it or not.

QUESTION: Okay.

MR MILLER: Go ahead.

QUESTION: Thank you, Matt. A question about today's meeting between Secretary Blinken and the KRG prime minister. Why this meeting has happened at this time? Is there any connection between this invitation to the KRG prime minister and your discussion with the Iraqi Government about the evolution and the future of your forces in Iraq?

MR MILLER: So with respect to that meeting, the Secretary and the prime minister today underscored the importance of the U.S. partnership with the Iraqi Kurdistan Region in the context of their mutual enduring commitment to regional security and their shared values, including good governance and respect for human rights. Secretary Blinken expressed support for constructive collaboration between the Iraqi Government and the KRG as well as greater unity within the IKR to advance stability and economic prosperity for all of Iraq's people.

This is not the first time the Secretary has met with the prime minister; we have done so in other contexts. With respect to the timing of the meeting, there's nothing more about it than that we wanted to continue the conversations we've had.

QUESTION: And you talked about the unity among the Kurds, and Secretary Blinken in his remarks said at the beginning of the meeting he touched that issue too. What concerns do you have about the unity among the Kurds?

MR MILLER: I don't want to speak to that beyond what the Secretary said in his remarks.

Go ahead.

QUESTION: Thanks, Matt. Appreciate it. I wanted to circle back to the question that Said asked about the American woman detained in the West Bank and as well as the two brothers in Gaza. I know you are constantly doing assessments. Are you entertaining the possibility that these three or - and any other Americans detained by Israel post October 7th may be detained unlawfully or wrongfully detained?

MR MILLER: I don't have - I don't have any ability to offer that assessment at this point. We did meet with the two brothers today. We received consular access to them. Officials from our embassy in Jerusalem met with these two brothers at a detention facility inside Israel. We had been in contact with their family. This was our first time to speak directly to the two brothers, and so I don't have any assessment to offer about their case other than that, as is true for all Americans in Israel or anywhere around the world, their safety and security is our first priority.

QUESTION: But like you often say when Americans are detained, say in Russia, I mean, that it's something - I know - is there - there's a process that you go through to establish that?

MR MILLER: There is a process that we go through, but we are just at the beginning stages of gathering information about these individual cases. We just met with the first detainee you mentioned last week. We just met with the two brothers today. So we're nowhere near making that determination.

Go ahead.

QUESTION: Thank you. My question is on Mexico. Has there been any engagement with the Mexican Government about the president of Mexico's decision to publicly broadcast the cell phone number of a New York Times reporter? In the end she's an American citizen, and U.S. press groups have called this action as dangerous.

MR MILLER: So I don't have any diplomatic conversations to read out, but you might have heard the White House press secretary speak to this question on Friday. We support the independent free press when it does its work around the world. That includes in Mexico, includes any country in the world, and we wouldn't want to see any action taken that would jeopardize any individual or any reporter's safety.

Alex, go ahead.

QUESTION: Thank you, Matt. Going back - going back to -

MR MILLER: Then I'm come to Jen and then Guita.

QUESTION: Thank you. Going back to Russia, does the department have any position on Russia's forthcoming presidential election given the events of past couple weeks - not only murdering of Navalny but also they didn't let the main challenger, Nadezhdin -

MR MILLER: Well, I don't think it should be a surprise to anyone in the world that this will not be a free and fair election.

QUESTION: And on hostages, if I may, do you have any reaction to criticism that - coming from different corners - from the Hill, from other branches of government - saying that your approach towards dual citizens actually does embolden folks like Putin to go after more dual citizens. When the Secretary last year promised that the State Department will consider Kara-Murza designation as wrongfully detained, it was a year ago. Now you have more and more U.S. and dual citizens who have been arrested in Russia. Do you see any connection there? Because the criticism that your -

MR MILLER: I do not. All I'll say - sometimes I get this question about dual citizens - we don't see - we don't look at dual citizens differently than any other citizen. An American is an American, and we try to do what we can to ensure the safety and security of every American overseas.

Jen and then Guita and then Olivia. Go ahead.

QUESTION: Matt, I know you don't typically comment on hostage negotiations, but any comment on the discussions in Qatar today? We understand there has been some movement on the Hamas position that's positive. Do you have anything on this?

MR MILLER: I don't want to offer any comment other than what I said a moment ago, which is we did make progress in these conversations over the weekend and in the last few days. We continue to believe that a deal is possible and we are going to continue to pursue it.

QUESTION: And do you have any updates on the Americans who are believed to be hostages? Is it still your assessment that there are six?

MR MILLER: It's still our assessment that it's six, and I don't have any information about their condition, unfortunately.

QUESTION: And then separately, there is an IAEA report that just came out saying that the Iranian of near-bomb-grade uranium has fallen. Do you have any comment or confirmation on this?

MR MILLER: So my understanding is that report has not been made public, and so I don't have any comments on reports that have not been made public. But we remain seriously concerned about Iran's continued expansion of its nuclear program in ways that have no credible civilian purpose, including its continued production of highly enriched uranium. And we appreciate the IAEA's extensive efforts to engage Iran on longstanding questions to - related to Iran's safeguard obligations.

Guita, go ahead.

QUESTION: Syrian Observatory has reported that there was a missile attack on the U.S. base in the - in Syria's Koniko gas field yesterday, and then today there was an attack on a fuel tanker of the Syrian Democratic Forces and, it says, likely by ISIS. Now, the U.S. forces are in Syria in that area to control the resurgence of ISIS. I was wondering if the administration has seen any kind of a collaboration between ISIS and the Iranian-backed forces over there, the militia, post October 7th attack on Israel.

MR MILLER: So I'm not aware of any reports or assessments of such collaboration. I'm happy to take that back and get you a more detailed answer. And with respect to the attack, I would refer to my colleagues at the Pentagon.

Olivia.

QUESTION: Thank you, Matt. Just to clarify, has the U.S. received any update on the military or humanitarian plan for Rafah from the Israeli Government?

MR MILLER: We have not.

QUESTION: Okay. So -

MR MILLER: We have not. We've seen the comments from the prime minister that he only received them I think last night. We have not yet been briefed on them, unless there have been some preliminary conversations at the embassy level in Jerusalem I'm not aware of. But we have not received any kind of detailed briefing at this point.

QUESTION: The prime minister mentioned as part of that plan the potential of moving citizens from Rafah north, north of Rafah. Understanding you haven't seen the plan, even in the abstract, does that sound like a conceivable plan for 1.4 million people?

MR MILLER: I don't think I should comment on the abstract before we see a detailed plan.

QUESTION: And sorry, just to revisit something that Said raised, which is the prime minister publicly saying that Rafah - an operation in Rafah will continue whether or not a hostage deal is reached, doesn't that disincentivize Hamas from signing on to something that is predicated on a sustained ceasefire?

MR MILLER: I think Hamas should want to sign on to this deal because they want to see a humanitarian pause that allows more humanitarian assistance to move in to people in Gaza so --

QUESTION: Do they?

MR MILLER: They should. I said they should. I said they ought to want to see that. So when it comes to Hamas's incentives, I - far be it from me to offer assessments about what incentivize them and - incentivizes them and what doesn't, but I would think if they truly cared about the Palestinian people, they should agree to the deal that is on the table because it will greatly alleviate the suffering of those Palestinian people.

QUESTION: Last one.

MR MILLER: Yeah.

QUESTION: Just on the prime minister's comments, he said that after the Rafah operation, total victory would be weeks away, not months away. Based on the military updates that the U.S. has been receiving from the Israeli Government, does that seem conceivable?

MR MILLER: I just don't want to offer any assessments on the military campaign. I've always tried to keep from doing so here.

Humeyra, go ahead.

QUESTION: Just want to clarify one thing you said. You said we've had progress over the weekend. You mean like this very last couple of days, right?

MR MILLER: I mean we had progress with the conversations we've had between Egypt, Israel, the United States, and Qatar, yes.

QUESTION: Right. And based on the progress there, you're still - are you hopeful or like not hopeful that - do you see a deal more likely after this weekend before Ramadan?

MR MILLER: I can't make that assessment because it depends on Hamas. We believe a deal is possible and we hope Hamas will agree to one.

Go ahead.

QUESTION: Thank you, Matt. In light of - and I know that there's been denial that there's illegal settlements, but there's a Jerusalem Post article, February 24th, stating that the Biden administration has declared Jewish settlements in Judea and Samaria as illegal. What is your response to previous Secretary of State Mike Pompeo's comments February 23rd that he made on Twitter, and I quote, "Judea and Samaria are rightful parts of the Jewish homeland and Israelis have a right to live there. President Biden's decision to overturn our policy and call Israeli settlements illegal will not further the cause of peace. It rewards Hamas for its brutal attacks on October 7th and punishes Israel instead. These Israeli communities," he said, "are not standing in the way of peace, militant Palestinian terrorism is," and a follow-up.

MR MILLER: Well, I don't think you will be surprised to hear that I disagree with those comments. And I should reiterate again that it has been the long-standing U.S. position across both Democratic and Republican administrations - not just the Biden administration, not just the Obama administration, but Republican administrations as well - that settlements are a barrier to peace, they're an obstacle to peace. We believe they weaken, not strengthen, Israel's security.

QUESTION: Okay. If President Biden and Secretary Blinken think - if they don't - if you don't agree that it's illegal - if you believe that it's a barrier, as you said, to peace, so would your response for Israelis to live in their old land of Judea and Samaria - where is the justice, the question is, in allowing illegal immigrants coming across our southern border to settle wherever they want, causing havoc here in the United States, murdering our citizens, and robbing the American taxpayer?

MR MILLER: Well, I think I would say with respect to that you have seen this administration put forward a deal to further secure the southern border, and unfortunately Republicans in Congress have not taken it up.

Go ahead.

QUESTION: Thank you, sir. Sir, Pakistan is moving ahead to build a pipeline that will transport natural gas from Iran, a move it says is needed to meet the country's energy needs. U.S. expressed concerns on this project in the past. You still have those concerns?

MR MILLER: I'll have to take that one back and get you an answer.

QUESTION: Sir, two major political parties in Pakistan are forming a new government, and still there are massive reports of rigging. So do you welcome the formation of the new government or do you believe that investigation should be done first before the forming of a government?

MR MILLER: So with respect to the formation of a new government, that's a Pakistani process led by Pakistanis. We're not a party to it and it's not something that I would comment on. We want to see a government move forward in a way that reflects the will of the Pakistani people.

With respect to investigations into reported irregularities, we want to see those investigations proceed. We want to see them wrapped up as soon as possible.

QUESTION: Sir, Indian security forces have responded to the farmers' protest by firing iron pellets and using drones to drop tear gas shells on the civilian protesters. We have seen some horrible images. What are your concerns on the barbaric - on this barbaric treatment of the civilian farmers?

MR MILLER: I haven't seen those reports. I'll have to take it back.

Go ahead here and then we'll wrap up for today.

QUESTION: Thank you so much. The question is regarding a January 31st incident in which two Navy Seals lost their lives at coast of Somalia. So a U.S. district court in Richmond charged four individuals who were allegedly carrying Pakistani identification cards, and it is said that these individuals were transporting suspected Iranian-made weapons to Houthis in Yemen. So do United States raise this murder with the concerned authorities? And also I want to know, do you have any details from Department of Treasury or from Justice Department what will be the further procedure as United States has done the sanction on the individuals and entities who are linked with Iranian weapons transfer?

MR MILLER: So the Justice - with regard to this case, the - I don't have any updates with regard to the second question, but with regard to this case, the Justice Department released a very detailed statement about this, I believe in connection to an unsealed indictment on Friday. It's an ongoing legal matter, and because of that, I'm not going to comment further.

And with that, got to wrap for today. Thanks, everyone.

(The briefing was concluded at 2:04 p.m.)

Tags

China[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/china/] Hungary[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/hungary/] Iraq[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/iraq/] Israel[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/israel/] Mexico[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/mexico/] North Korea[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/north-korea/] Office of the Spokesperson[https://www.state.gov/bureaus-offices/under-secretary-for-public-diplomacy-and-public-affairs/bureau-of-global-public-affairs/office-of-the-spokesperson/] Pakistan[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/pakistan/] Palestinian Territories[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/palestinian-territories/] Qatar[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/qatar/] Russia[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/russia/] Sweden[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/sweden/] Syria[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/syria/] Ukraine[https://www.state.gov/countries-areas/ukraine/]

* This content was originally posted here[https://www.state.gov/briefings/department-press-briefing-february-26-2024/]

Disclaimer

U.S. Department of State published this content on 26 February 2024 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 26 February 2024 23:04:58 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 USGND00020240226ek2q003bp


搜索摘要
所有单字	sanction
至少其中一个单字	Russia
不包括这些单字	
这确切的词句	
日期	21/02/2022 至 29/02/2024
资讯来源	所有资讯来源
作者	所有作者
公司	所有公司
新闻主题	所有新闻主题
行业	所有行业
地区	匈牙利
语言	英文
搜索结果已找到	653
时间戳记	2024 年 3 月 10 日 13:12 GMT
© 2024 Factiva, Inc. 版权所有。	
 

Translate

