跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
The Duke of Sussex has acknowledged the ongoing crisis in Ukraine and called for...
5362 字
2022 年 2 月 27 日 23:30 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
The Duke of Sussex has acknowledged the ongoing crisis in Ukraine and called for global support for the country's people.

"Before I begin, we would like to acknowledge the people of Ukraine who urgently need our support as a global community," Harry said as he and Meghan appeared in person at the 53rd annual NAACP Image awards in Los Angeles.

The pair accepted the President's Award, which recognises special achievement and distinguished public service.

Australia may provide Ukraine with military support through Nato after previously only committing to non-lethal aid as well as sanctions against Russia.

"I've just spoken to the Defence Minister and we'll be seeking to provide whatever support we can for lethal aid through our Nato partners, particularly the US and the UK," Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Sunday.

"We'll be working through those channels because that's the most effective way to do it," he added to reporters, after attending a church service with Ukrainian Australians in Sydney.

First Minister of Wales Mark Drakeford has appeared to criticise the Home Office over its announcement that Ukrainians in the UK will be able to extend or switch their visas.

Mr Drakeford told BBC Breakfast: "There's a slightly grudging spirit in the Home Office's announcement, on simply talking about 'concessions' being made to people who are already here.

"As the position clarifies, we will need to go beyond that.

"It isn't just the actions themselves, it's the spirit in which they're made that will be important to establish our reputation as a country which - in the face of these enormously disturbing events - is prepared to play our part in responding to those people who are at the very sharpest end of it all."

Ireland will close off its airspace to all Russian aircraft, the Foreign Affairs minister has said.

On Sunday morning, Simon Coveney confirmed that Ireland will move to shut off Irish airspace to Russian planes.

He tweeted: "Shocking Russian attacks on Ukraine overnight. Ireland will move to shut off Irish airspace to all Russian aircraft.

"We encourage other EU partners to do the same. We also support new wide-ranging sanctions to be agreed today at EU FAC & new assistance package for Ukraine."

The Ministry of Defence tweeted an intelligence update on the situation in Ukraine, saying: "Ukrainian forces have engaged the remnants of Russian irregular forces within the city of Kyiv for the second night in a row, fighting has been at a lower intensity than the previous evening.

"After encountering strong resistance in Chernihiv, Russian forces are bypassing the area in order to prioritise the encirclement and isolation of Kyiv.

"Intensive exchanges of rocket artillery overnight have been followed by heavy fighting between Russian and Ukrainian forces in Kharkiv.

"Russian forces are continuing to advance into Ukraine from multiple axis but are continuing to be met with stiff resistance from the Ukrainian armed forces."

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy has said visa restrictions for those seeking sanctuary in the UK from Ukraine are "totally unacceptable".

Speaking to Sky on Trevor Phillips on Sunday, he said it is "bureaucratic" with a "lot of red tape".

Mr Lammy went on: "It's insisting that people demonstrate salaries, that they have family ties in this country.

"People are fleeing with their children in their arms. Why would you ask people how rich they are to enter our country? Of course, there are some people who may not have family ties, but want to come into this country.

"No, we should have a scheme and a process similar to the scheme that we had after the Balkans. That's as generous as the schemes that we've had in the past, when we allowed people to flee Idi Amin from Uganda, when we allowed people to flee Cyprus, when we allowed the Vietnamese boat people to enter our country.

"That's the sort of generosity that the British people expect. Frankly, suggesting that people should use this scheme that effectively fruit pickers come to this country on is totally, totally unacceptable."

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy has said Russia's ambassador to the UK should leave the country after telling "lie after lie".

It came after Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said the Government should order Andrei Kelin to leave the country immediately.

Speaking to Sky on Trevor Phillips on Sunday, Mr Lammy said: "He (Mr Kelin) came to Parliament a few weeks ago and we asked him what is Russia doing with troops on the border? He denied that Russia was building troops.

"Has Russia got plans to come into the country? He said 'no, they do not want to invade Ukraine'.

"We've had lie after lie."

He went on: "It's time for him to leave our country."

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees said more than 200,000 people have arrived in neighbouring countries from Ukraine.

It added: "Numbers are constantly being updated ... We aim to have another update later today."

Shadow foreign secretary David Lammy has said more major Russian banks should be included within the UK's sanctions on the country.

Speaking to Sky on Trevor Phillips on Sunday, he said: "There should be more banks listed. We can't understand why it's still the case that there are major Russian banks that are not subject to sanctions.

"We've raised issues about the sectors including insurance to be included. It should not be possible for Vladimir Putin to effectively de-risk his war escapade in Ukraine.

"We're concerned about family members of some of those oligarchs. There are names on the US list that are not on the UK list.

"Why aren't we banning the export of luxury goods? Those are the issues that were raising this morning and that we will scrutinise with the Government when they bring forward their further plans for sanctions in Parliament tomorrow."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has warned that President Vladimir Putin could use "the most unsavoury means" in order to secure victory in Ukraine.

With the Russian advance on Kyiv apparently slowed, Ms Truss said she feared Moscow could use "even worse weapons" to break the Ukrainian resistance.

"This could well be the beginning of the end for Putin. I fear that he is prepared to use the most unsavoury means in this war," she told Sky News.

"He should be aware the International Criminal Court is already looking at what is happening in Ukraine. There will be serious consequences for him and for the Russian government."

Asked about Russia's arsenal of chemical, nuclear and biological weapons, she said: "I fear this conflict could be very, very bloody.

"I urge the Russians not to escalate this conflict but we do need to be prepared for Russia to seek to use even worse weapons. I think it would be hugely devastating.

"We need to avoid this at all costs. This is why it is so important, the work we are doing to degrade the Russian military complex."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said the Government is drawing up a "hit list" of Russian oligarchs associated with Vladimir Putin to be targeted with sanctions.

Ms Truss told Sky News's Trevor Phillips on Sunday programme: "This week we will be introducing the Economic Crime Bill which will create a lot more transparency around the structure of these companies and make it much clearer what is going on.

"There are over 100 billionaires in Russian. We have compiled a hit list of oligarchs. We are working through and putting the cases together, and every few weeks we will sanction new oligarchs.

"We will go through the hit list. We will be targeting oligarchs' private jets, we will be targeting their properties, we will be targeting other possessions that they have and there will be nowhere to hide."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has warned there could be a conflict between Russia and Nato if Vladimir Putin is not stopped in Ukraine.

Ms Truss told Sky News's Trevor Phillips on Sunday programme that there will be an "economic cost" in Britain but that it was a price the country had to be prepared to pay.

"This long-running conflict is about freedom and democracy in Europe," she said.

"If we don't stop Putin in Ukraine we are going to see others under threat - the Baltics, Poland, Moldova, and it could end up in a conflict with Nato.

"We do not want to go there. That is why it is so important we make the sacrifices now.

"Yes, there will be an economic cost here in Britain, there will be a cost in terms of access to oil and gas markets. I firmly believe that the British public understand the price we will pay if we don't stand up to Putin now."

Ukraine's ambassador to the UK Vadym Prystaiko said he believes his country will hold out out for "as long as needed".

He told BBC's Sunday Morning programme with Sophie Raworth: "We're holding. It's been just four days. I believe that we'll hold as long as needed."

He said "we have friends, we have support", adding that he believes Russia has "miscalculated".

Mr Prystaiko said: "They came with 150,000 troops. It's totally not enough."

He said Russia believed Ukraine would be an "easy target", adding that that is not the case.

"The whole nation is against them," he said.

Ukraine's ambassador to the UK Vadym Prystaiko said many Ukrainians have military backgrounds and that people are "prepared".

He told BBC's Sunday Morning programme with Sophie Raworth: "People know how to create simple weapons.

"We're not talking about complicated machinery, but simple weapons."

He said 18,000 rifles that have been handed out have not yet been registered.

The ambassador said they have to fight "right now", adding they can be registered later "when we win".

Ukraine's ambassador to the UK Vadym Prystaiko has said neighbouring nations to Ukraine have "opened up their hearts and homes" to receive as many Ukrainians as possible.

"That's easier for immediate evacuation," he told BBC's Sunday Morning programme with Sophie Raworth.

He said nations further away will be asked to financially help smaller nations in their efforts.

President Vladimir Putin is "not achieving what he wanted", Ukraine's ambassador to the UK Vadym Prystaiko has said.

Asked if he is concerned that Mr Putin's tactics will become even more severe, Mr Prystaiko told BBC's Sunday Morning programme with Sophie Raworth: "Obviously we do, because he's not achieving what he wanted."

He said it took "too long" for many nations to respond with sanctions, adding that what Germany is now offering "might not be enough" or "too late".

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said the Government is "urgently" looking at what more it can do to enable refugees from the fighting in Ukraine to come to Britain.

The Government has faced intense criticism over its failure so far to relax the visa requirements for Ukrainian nationals.

Ms Truss told the BBC's Sunday Morning programme: "It is a desperate situation.

"Of course, Britain has always welcomed refugees fleeing from war and we are urgently looking at what more we can do to facilitate that."

Ms Truss said the UK and other Western allies would continue to impose fresh sanctions on Moscow.

"We need to stop Putin's ambitions in Ukraine. There are dire consequences if we don't for freedom and democracy across Europe," she said.

"We will continue to tighten the ratchet on Vladimir Putin, to tighten the ratchet on the economy."

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss has said she would support British nationals who chose to go fight alongside the Ukrainian forces against the Russian invasion.

President Volodymyr Zelensky has promised to arm foreign volunteers to travel to his country to join the battle against Vladimir Putin's forces.

Asked on the BBC's Sunday Morning programme if she would support UK citizens who chose to answer the call, Ms Truss said: "That is something people can make their own decisions about.

"The people of Ukraine are fighting for freedom and democracy, not just for Ukraine but for the whole of Europe.

"Absolutely, if people want to support that struggle I would support them in doing that."

The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has updated its estimate on the number of refugees that have left Ukraine, saying the total stands at 368,000.

It said in a tweet: "Ukraine refugee numbers have just been refreshed - these are based on data made available by national authorities. The current total is now 368,000 and continues to rise."

The Irish Foreign Affairs Minister has said he hopes the world is seeing the "first step" towards the ending of war, after the Ukraine president's office said Ukrainian envoys will meet with Russian diplomats as the country's troops draw closer to Kyiv.

Simon Coveney tweeted: "Let's hope this can be a first step to ending Russia's war against Ukraine.

"But be clear, EU foreign ministers meet tonight to increase targeted sanctions against Russia for unjustifiable aggression & to substantially increase our support for Ukraine."

A Ukrainian has said she was left "shaking" as she read Vladimir Putin's statement that he has placed Russia's nuclear deterrent on alert.

Anna Proskurnina is in the city of Kharkiv, 25 miles from the Russian border, where she said residents have been asked "not to go outside under any circumstances" amid heavy shelling over the weekend.

On Mr Putin's statement, the 24-year-old told the PA news agency: "(It) sounds like the beginning of World War Three... my hands are shaking."

The freelance artist said she and her family had wanted to flee Kharkiv on Thursday, but her father's car broke down so they are now waiting for an opportunity to escape.

"I eventually convinced (my parents) to move to Canada via Poland once it all ends, because when it does, I don't want to live next to Russia ever again," she added.

In a statement, BP said Russia's attack on Ukraine represented a "fundamental change" in how the company could operate there.

Rosneft is also part-owned by the Russian government, and BP has held a 19.75% stake in the firm since 2013.

BP said its chief executive Bernard Looney and its other Rosneft director Bob Dudley would both be resigning from Rosneft's board.

BP chairman Helge Lund said: "Russia's attack on Ukraine is an act of aggression which is having tragic consequences across the region. BP has operated in Russia for over 30 years, working with brilliant Russian colleagues. However, this military action represents a fundamental change.

"It has led the BP board to conclude, after a thorough process, that our involvement with Rosneft, a state-owned enterprise, simply cannot continue. We can no longer support BP representatives holding a role on the Rosneft board.

"The Rosneft holding is no longer aligned with BP's business and strategy and it is now the board's decision to exit BP's shareholding in Rosneft. The BP board believes these decisions are in the best long-term interests of all our shareholders."

BP chief executive Bernard Looney said he had been "deeply shocked and saddened by the situation in Ukraine".

He added: "It has caused us to fundamentally rethink BP's position with Rosneft. I am convinced that the decisions we have taken as a board are not only the right thing to do, but are also in the long-term interests of BP.

"Our immediate priority is caring for our great people in the region and we will do our utmost to support them. We are also looking at how BP can support the wider humanitarian effort."

The move comes after BP came under pressure from the UK Government to cut ties with Rosneft.

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng held a virtual call with Mr Looney for around 20 minutes on Friday to discuss the company's position.

Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng said: "I welcome BP's decision to exit its shareholding in Rosneft oil company.

"Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine must be a wake-up call for British businesses with commercial interests in Putin's Russia."

Ireland will not contribute financially to weapons for Ukraine, after the EU announced it would close its airspace to Russian airlines, fund weapons purchases to Ukraine and ban some pro-Kremlin media outlets.

The country has a longstanding policy of military neutrality.

A Department of Foreign Affairs spokesperson told PA news agency: "The EU Foreign Affairs Council will approve a package of assistance to the Ukrainian armed forces consisting of both lethal and non-lethal military equipment.

"The latter component will include supplies such as personal protective equipment, medical kits and fuel.

"In line with the commitment in the Programme for Government, Ireland will constructively abstain from the lethal equipment elements and will not contribute financially to this aspect.

"Instead, we will provide a corresponding contribution to the provision of non-lethal support. Our understanding is that a number of Member States, including Austria and Malta, are likely to take the same approach."

Boris Johnson made a speech at the Ukrainian Cathedral of the Holy Family in Mayfair, London on Sunday evening in which he told the congregation the UK "cannot shut our eyes" to the country's plight following the Russian invasion.

The Prime Minister said: "Thank you very much for welcoming me tonight in this place of faith and hope in what are, for the people of Ukraine, the darkest times in modern memory.

"And I'm glad to be in this beautiful church, this cathedral, because there is a story in the gospel, I'm not a great preacher but I know how to tell you, there's a story in the gospel that teaches us exactly what we must do when our neighbours come under attack.

"And I mean, of course, the story of the man who fell among thieves on the way to Jericho and was left for dead.

"And so the innocent people are subject to a barbaric and unprovoked attack, we in the UK cannot shut our eyes and pass by on the other side and that is why we in the UK are doing everything we can to help economically, politically, diplomatically, militarily."

In his address to the Ukrainian Cathedral of the Holy Family, in Mayfair, London on Sunday, Boris Johnson said the UK was Ukraine's "neighbour" and compared the current crisis to the story of the Good Samaritan in The Bible.

He said: "We are neighbours in the words of the gospel. We are neighbours to Ukraine because Ukrainians are literally our neighbours.

"Hundreds of thousands have come to live and work in this country over the decades, making an immeasurable contribution to British society and that is the reason why we are neighbours. That's one reason.

"And then we are neighbours because we share Ukrainian ideals of freedom and democracy and independence.

"We must not and cannot allow those ideals to be trampled on and crushed on our European continent and we will not - and that is the second reason why we are your neighbours.

"There is a more fundamental point and this is the point that Jesus was actually getting at in that parable of the Good Samaritan, which is that, even if we did not feel those emotional ties as we do, even if we did not have that political bond, the geo-strategic bond between us, it would still be right to help Ukraine in any way that we can."

Boris Johnson told the Ukrainian Cathedral of the Holy Family on Sunday evening that he holds "no hostility" to the Russian people but there is "no possible excuse" for its leadership to choose to invade Ukraine.

He said: "I'm going to stress that there is no hostility in my heart towards the Russian people, none whatever - quite the reverse. My heart aches for the Russian parents who are already losing their children in this vicious and appalling war - just as it aches for the civilians and the people of Ukraine.

"But when it comes to the Russian leadership who chose this path of violence, and I stress chose this path of violence and aggression, there can be no possible excuse.

"And never in all my study or memory of politics and international affairs have I seen so clear a distinction between right and wrong, between good and evil, between light and dark - And that is the real reason why is Ukraine is our neighbour today.

"And by the way, I say to all the countries around the world who have only just been waking up to the horror of what is going on, I say to everyone around the world, that is why Ukraine should be your neighbour, too.

"And though the candle of freedom may burn low in Ukraine in the days, and perhaps the months ahead, I want you to know that we in the UK will stand by Ukraine, stand by you, until that candle blazes bright in independence and in liberty and in sovereign democracy for the people in Ukraine."

Boris Johnson has said he "just couldn't believe" that President Putin would invade Ukraine in the way that he has and has been "amazed by the sheer wonton aggression".

Speaking to a group of Ukrainians at the Cathedral of the Holy Family in Mayfair, London on Sunday evening, the Prime Minister said he had followed the union of Ukraine during his early career as a journalist.

He said: "I had been following the difficulties of those who be campaigning for freedom and independence in Ukraine for a long long time but I never thought it would be a tragedy like this.

"I think many of us have been totally amazed by the sheer wonton aggression by the Putin government.

"We saw all the intelligence, we've seen the building up, we kept warning our allies, we kept warning our friends in Kyiv but I just couldn't believe that it was going to happen in the way that it did.

"I almost really couldn't believe it because I knew Ukraine and I knew that the Ukrainian people love their country and so I just couldn't understand why Putin would embark on that, why he would risk to lose the lives of so many Russians in a war against people whose national feeling was so strong and so passionate."

Britain is to provide a further £40 million in humanitarian aid to Ukraine, the Government has announced.

Downing Street said the funding will help aid agencies respond to the deteriorating humanitarian situation, creating access to basic necessities and medical supplies such as medicines, syringes, dressings and wound care packs.

Boris Johnson said: "In the last days the world has witnessed awe-inspiring displays of bravery and heroism from the Ukrainian people in response to those who seek to obliterate their freedom by force.

"The UK will not turn our backs in Ukraine's hour of need. We are providing all the economic and military support we can to help those Ukrainians risking everything to protect their country."

On peace talks between Russia and Ukraine, Mr Johnson said he has doubts President Putin was wanting to negotiate, adding: "There's nothing I've seen so far in his behaviour that leads me to think that he could possibly be sincere."

Boris Johnson criticised broadcaster RT for "peddling" material that is "doing a lot of damage to the truth", adding that Ofcom should look at it to assess whether it is "infringing the rules of this country".

Boris Johnson said "Putin will fail" as he spoke to Ukrainians after a service at the Cathedral of the Holy Family in Mayfair, London, on Sunday night.

The Prime Minister called the invasion a "continuing disaster" but added: "I've got absolutely no doubt in my mind that, in the end and who knows when that will but I hope that will be as soon as possible, I think Putin will fail.

"He will not succeed in crushing Ukraine and we in the UK will do everything in our power to ensure that outcome.

"That is not just because it is right geo-strategically but because we need to stick up for freedom that that is clearly important. Very, very important.

"It's also because what's happening is a totally moral abomination and I think more and more people around the world can see that, and I think the middle ground of the world is moving against Putin - the people who were kind of apathetic before about this, the countries in the UN who maybe thought they didn't need to take a view - I think they will start to move towards Ukraine."

Mr Johnson added that he thinks there is "only one way" Russia's invasion will end and that is with Ukraine's independence.

Asked for his reaction to the prospect of peace talks between Russia and Ukraine, Boris Johnson said: "What's happening on the on the European continent is an absolute catastrophe.

"And President Putin has decided to wage a war of choice against the people of Ukraine. He's inflicting untold misery, violence, suffering on a completely innocent population.

"If he wants to stop, if he wants to withdraw, if he wants to negotiate, that's very good news.

"I have my doubts, I've got to tell you. There's nothing I've seen so far in his behaviour that leads me to think that he could possibly be sincere.

"But if he is then we should pursue every avenue, but clearly what needs to happen is he needs to withdraw his war machine from from Ukraine."

Mr Johnson was asked what his message to President Putin is after he said he is putting his nuclear arsenal on alert.

Mr Johnson said: "I think that's a distraction from the reality of what's going on in Ukraine.

"This is an innocent people who are facing a totally unprovoked act of aggression against them, and what's actually happening is that they are fighting back perhaps with more effect, with more resistance, than the Kremlin had bargained for.

"And I think that is what is really going on and you can see some of the logistical difficulties that the Russian forces are experiencing.

"You can see and I think that the Russian Defence Ministry have themselves conceded that they're having casualties. This is a disastrous misbegotten venture by President Putin.

"It can lead to no good whatever for Russia as we in the West have said continuously from the beginning. It needs to end. If he has a proposal to negotiate and withdraw, then all the better."

In response to the Football Association's announcement that England will not play any international fixtures against Russia "for the foreseeable future", Culture Secretary Nadine Dorries said: "I welcome this move from @FA. The UK is spearheading a global response to isolate Russia from sporting and cultural events on the world stage.

"Putin must pay the price for his senseless and barbaric aggression against Ukraine."

Boris Johnson was asked if the UK is going to make it easier for Ukrainian refugees to move here and he said: "We want to be as generous as we possibly can, and certainly we want people who have relatives in Ukraine to be able to bring them over as fast as possible.

"We want to make sure that we have routes for people fleeing disaster, war, persecution in Ukraine to come here. And we're setting aside more to help with the humanitarian crisis in the countries bordering Ukraine, putting another £40 million for medical supplies and immediate help.

"We'll also be partnering up with some of the countries in the immediate vicinity of Ukraine to help bring people over.

"Don't forget, the UK, since 2015 has been one of the most generous, if not the most, welcoming country in Europe, and I'm very proud that since I've been Prime Minister actually we've had very large numbers of people from Hong Kong, and a huge welcome for the people from Afghanistan. We will be very generous to the Ukrainians."

Pressed on what he means by "very generous" and asked how many people would be accepted, Mr Johnson said: "Well, we will have a system that lets people come when they're in fear of persecution, when they need to... for family reunion or other purposes.

"Don't forget the UK, is a... I'm a former Mayor of London which is the most diverse city on earth and all the better for it. We thrive and prosper partly as a result of being open to hardworking people from around the world. Ukrainians already contributed a huge amount to our country and to our society."

The Prime Minister has confirmed any Ukrainian person settled in the UK will be able to bring immediate members of their family to join them in Britain.

Downing Street said this will "benefit many thousands of people who at this moment are making desperate choices about their future".

Boris Johnson was asked how soon can he impose sanctions on Russian oligarchs based in the UK and said if a link with the "Putin regime" can be proven, then the Government will be in a position to "distrain those assets, to seize them, to take them".

He added: "I think that when it comes to the rebuilding of Ukraine after this nightmare, this disaster caused entirely by President Putin and his cronies, I can't think of a better use for that cash."

Boris Johnson was asked if the Russian broadcaster RT should be allowed to broadcast in the UK.

He said: "We have a principle in this country that we don't allow politicians to ban this or that media organisation.

"And that's the way we do it. And I think we're better for that.

"But I've got to tell you that I think the stuff that RT is peddling at the moment is doing a lot of damage to the truth, and I think it's important that Ofcom should look at it and make up its mind about whether that organisation is infringing the rules of this country."

When it was put to him that it sounded like he would ban it if he had the power to do so, Mr Johnson said: "Yes but the difference between us and Russia is that the power is not with me, and that's the right thing.

"And that, you know, is partly what we're fighting for."

Boris Johnson has told President Volodymyr Zelensky he will do "all he could" to ensure further military aid reaches Ukrainian forces, Downing Street has said.

The Prime Minister spoke to the Ukrainian president again on Sunday, praising the "heroic" resistance of the Ukrainian people in the face of the Russian attack, accordin to the No 10 readout of the call.

Mr Zelensky said, in turn, that the next 24 hours will be "a crucial period" for his country.

"The Prime Minister lauded the bravery of the Ukrainian people following the Russian invasion and praised the leadership of President Zelensky in the face of such adversity," a No 10 spokesman said. "The resistance of the Ukrainian people was heroic, the Prime Minister added.

"President Zelensky said he believed the next 24 hours was a crucial period for Ukraine, and the Prime Minister said he would do all he could to help ensure defensive aid from the UK and allies reached Ukraine.

"The leaders agreed to continue to stay in close contact and the Prime Minister reiterated the UK's staunch support for Ukraine's sovereignty."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220227ei2r000jh


CE Noticias Financieras English
Russian oligarch's yacht arrives in Malta after suspension of "golden passports".
438 字
2022 年 3 月 4 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The yacht of a well-known Russian oligarch with the so-called "golden passport", which Malta granted him for investing in the country, docked this Friday in the port of Birgu, after the Government suspended the granting of this type of documents as a sanction measure in view of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, local media denounced.

The giant 70-meter yacht of Russian billionaire Maxim Shubarev, chairman of Setl Group, one of Russia's largest financial and industrial associations, docked in Birgu harbor Friday morning, reported the country's two leading newspapers, Malta Today and Times of Malta.

Neither Shubayev nor his company are currently on the list of Russian oligarchs who have been sanctioned, but the media denounce that the government could be protecting the Russian tycoon, since in 2018 he bought a Maltese passport thanks to investments in the country, one of the ways with which to obtain this documentation that is being highly questioned by the European Union (EU).

The yacht, named Polaris, flying the Maltese flag, was purchased last summer and is worth €80 million, but it is unclear whether Shubarev is on the vessel, which arrived in Malta from Viareggio in Italy.

Last week, Deputy Citizenship Minister Alex Muscat defended the project to obtain Maltese citizenship through the investments, insisting that they are not the controversial golden passports.

However, Robert Abela's government bowed to international pressure on Wednesday and backtracked, saying it would suspend the possibility of obtaining this type of document for both Russians and Belarusians, while it remains operational for applicants from other countries.

On Monday, during a debate on the EU's role in the Russian invasion of Ukraine, European Parliament President Roberta Metsola of Malta also stressed that stopping the sale of such passports should be part of an action plan to separate Europe from Russian influence.

Malta and the EU are currently locked in a legal battle over these so-called "golden passports", which the EU-27 want to ban.

The suspension of the passports will apply to both Malta's nationality-by-investment scheme and the residence-by-investment scheme, which must be renewed annually. And renewal applications will be considered on a case-by-case basis and will be subject to further checks.

Foreign Minister Evarist Bartolo also weighed in on Wednesday, saying that none of the Russian oligarchs sanctioned by the EU had a Maltese passport and argued that many Russian applicants seeking such a document are seeking to escape the regime of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220304ei34006wq


Election campaign week 2: The sale of citizenship, an FATF update and new party proposals
2117 字
2022 年 3 月 7 日
The Malta Independent
MLIND
英文
© 2022 Standard Publications Ltd. All rights reserved.
The second week of the electoral campaign in Malta has passed and was mostly overshadowed by international events.

As happened in the first week of the election campaign, Russia's invasion of Ukraine was the main concern for many.

As a result of the invasion, Malta's sale of citizenship to Russian nationals was also under fire, with pressure having mounted to suspend such sale. The government eventually took such action.

Aside from this, a major update on Malta's greylisting by the Financial Action Task Force was also made.

In terms of local politics, the beginning of the week kicked off with the news that Ghasri Mayor Daniel Attard resigned from the Nationalist Party. The move raised many questions as a day earlier he had posted a photo with Robert Abela. Fast forward to Saturday, and Attard addressed a Labour Party rally in Gozo. He did not say if he would join the Labour Party, but did say that the Labour movement "offers hope to all Maltese and Gozitans," and that he felt a pull towards the PL.

Meanwhile, some Labour Party officials disgruntled at their party's leadership of the country told the Malta Independent, under condition of anonymity, that they will almost certainly opt to tear up their vote in the coming general election. Among other things, one such official said: "The PL is showing arrogance because of the majority it has. Genuine supporters like me are fed up because they are ignoring us, simply because they know that whatever they do, they will be re-elected."

Last week also saw former Labour minister Konrad Mizzi, who was expelled from the PL parliamentary group two years ago, announce that he would not contest the election. He has served as an independent MP since 2020 and is also one of the most controversial politicians in Malta's recent history.

Both parties also continued to speak about their campaign pledges and highlighted a variety of party proposals. In addition, both Prime Minister Robert Abela and PN Leader Bernard Grech officially submitted their nominations to contest the election.

Sale of citizenship and Russia's invasion of Ukraine

The invasion of Ukraine is the main topic on everyone's lips, as people are worried about what Russia will do next and about the lives being lost in Ukraine.

While traditionally election campaigns in Malta see the news dominated by political statements and party proposals - which are of course featuring and being reported - and people talking non-stop politics, the situation is different this year.

The sale of Maltese citizenship to Russian nationals came under fire last week. Western powers had announced a commitment"to taking measures to limit the sale of citizenship - so-called golden passports - that let wealthy Russians connected to the Russian government become citizens of our countries and gain access to our financial systems."

At the beginning of the week, Parliamentary Secretary for citizenship Alex Muscat, refused to say whether Malta will stop selling passports to wealthy Russians, arguing that "not all Russians are bad."

There had already been several calls for Malta to stop selling passports to Russians, in view of the international sanctions imposed against Moscow. The PN had also been mounting such pressure.

European Parliament President Roberta Metsola delivered a rousing speech in the European Parliament about the Russian invasion of Ukraine, and even said "we can no longer sell passports to Putin's friends allowing them to circumvent our security."

On Wednesday, the government took the plunge and Malta suspended citizenship applications for Russian and Belarusian nationals until further notice. While the government said that this was done as it cannot currently effectively carry out due diligence on such applicants, realistically speaking it is likely that it had to cave to pressure.

In a statement, the Parliamentary Secretariat for Citizenship and Communities said that no beneficiaries of any status, related to the grant of citizenship or residence, are on the EU Sanctions List.

What did emerge, however, is that some Russian millionaires who are not on the sanction list do have Maltese citizenship. As an example, the London Stock Exchange has suspended trading in a number of companies which have strong links to Russia, including a company whose CEO is a Russian millionaire who acquired a Maltese passport through Individual Investor Programme (IIP) years ago.

The sale of citizenship is likely to be an issue, at least internationally, in the near future.

One of the PN's points in its electoral manifesto is to improve the citizenship scheme, rather than scrap it. Asked about this, Bernard Grech said: "First of all, we have to make a distinction between sale of citizenship purely as a commodity, and a scheme where individuals invest in the country and have a genuine link and become proud Maltese citizens." He said, however, that if there are more developments leading to increased pressure on Malta to scrap its scheme, "we will acknowledge that pressure and adapt." The PN had been against the scheme in the past, but now seems to be more lukewarm about it.

'Spin' and evading the press

Prime Minister Robert Abela continues to slam questions and reports about his involvement in a property deal back in 2018 with a man charged with serious crimes as 'spin'.

The issue has been ongoing for weeks and still haunts the Prime Minister.

Abela had a stake in a property deal back in 2018 which was eventually transferred to Christian Borg, a man recently charged with kidnapping. It has also been reported that Borg and his associates are being investigated by the police over suspected narcotics smuggling and money laundering. Abela was Borg's lawyer in the past.

Abela denied making a €45,000 profit from the deal as had been reported. He also denied using his prior links to the Planning Authority to influence permit decisions. "At the time of the deal, which hinged on a planning permit to turn a green field into a block of apartments, Abela was the planning authority's chief legal advisor," the Times of Malta had written. "I was not involved in that permit, or any other permit. I always carried out my duties as a planning authority lawyer in a proper manner," Abela told the newspaper.

Abela also evaded the press for a few days, not holding press conferences for a number of days. He also did not take questions from journalists following an event at an aircraft hangar, instead rushing off to a PL rally.

This changed on Saturday, when he held a press conference over the FATF's greylisting.

FATF update

An announcement by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) was made last week, indicating some good news for the country.

The FATF made the initial determination that Malta has substantially completed its action plan and warrants an on-site visit to verify that the implementation of Malta's AML/CFT reforms has begun and is being sustained, and that the necessary political commitment remains in place to sustain implementation and improvement in the future.

Prime Minister Abela said that the efforts on good governance and against money laundering made by Malta in the past months have been recognised by FATF. We are not at the end of the road yet, but we are on the way there, the PM said. He added however that "we must remain cautious and continue working" for Malta to achieve its goal.

Malta's greylisting has been a shadow on the government for a long time, so any good news in this regard would be welcome by the government.

Opposition Leader Bernard Grech also welcomed the update, but warned that much more work needs to be done for Malta to exit the grey list. He also said that the "damage has already been done and will remain for a while."

The PN had long used Malta's greylisting as ammunition to strike out at the PL's handling of the country, and while it could still argue that the PL dragged Malta down this hole in the first place, this latest announcement might dampen the impact of such criticism.

Billboards

As with every election, there is always some form of issue surrounding billboards.

The PL caused anger when it erected a billboard that included an image of Manuel Delia. The billboard, which read 'Bernard il-wiċċ tal-Passat' (Bernard the face of the past), showed Bernard Grech seemingly isolated in front of the PN's HQ, with the faces of PN figures such as Beppe Fenech Adami, Joseph Ellis, Karol Aquilina and Jason Azzopardi behind him. Manuel Delia, who had an internal role within Austin Gatt's ministry when the PN were last in government a decade ago and has since become a blogger and journalist, was one of the faces on the billboard.

The IGM was concerned "that, once again, a journalist is being singled out because of his work, as had happened with Daphne Caruana Galizia before she was assassinated." The PL replaced the billboard.

Proposals

A number of proposals were made by the PN and PL this past week on a vast number of topics.

The Labour Party began its week with a focus on families and children, proposing, among other things, the provision of free laptops to secondary school students and the extension of the government's free childcare service. There were also pledges relating to allowances and tax credits for families.

The PL also proposed an extension of the IVF service to include new services with modern technology. The aim, it said, is to help couples who suffered from miscarriages, couples who ended cycles of IVF which were unsuccessful, and couples who have history of medical complications.

The PL also made a major announcement for businesses. A new Labour government would offer every business in the digital sector a tax credit of €50,000 if they move to Gozo.

On education, Prime Minister Robert Abela said that a Labour government will not only be increasing educators' salaries, but will "heavily invest in strengthening the framework present for all educators." As part of the education reform, Abela also announced that all educators in training, LSEs, and kindergarten student teachers will be paid in full throughout the term of their teaching practice.

The Nationalist Party, meanwhile, pledged to cut down income tax to €15% on the first €500,000 profit made by businesses.

Among the other proposals highlighted by the party this past week, was that it would extend paid paternity leave to 15 days. 8-week parental leave will also be paid for by the government, the PN said. This will need to be taken before the child's 8thbirthday.

PN Leader Bernard Grech also elaborated on his party's proposal to add 50,000 square metres of public land to Outside the Development Zone, mentioning White Rocks as one such area.

The party also announced that it will incentivize renting of property to ensure tenants can benefit from subsidies as well as more affordable properties.

One of the more possibly controversial proposals made by the PN is that the party is willing to look into the possibility of going in the direction of land reclamation. He did say that this has to be studied properly in order to consider its feasibility and expense, however in the past such proposals were met with strong criticism.

Other parties, individual candidates and air time

ADPD presented its electoral manifesto, which includes a wide range of proposals that impact directly on citizens' rights such as constitutional changes and clean politics, economy, environment, waste and transport, education, health, sexual and reproductive rights, immigration and unique issues pertaining to Gozo.

"Our agenda is to be of service to the whole community. Clean politics in public life. We want to be a political tool for renewal. Green broom to sweep clean. Politics that serve today while keeping an eye on the impact on tomorrow, ensuring that actions taken today do not deny future generations their right to take their own decisions," the party's leader, Carmel Cacopardo said.

The party later in the week also argued that the political broadcast schedule by the Broadcasting Authority ignores that the PN and the PL have their own radio and TV stations. If this is not taken into consideration, then ADPD will continue to suffer from the imbalance in airtime, it said.

Independent candidate Arnold Cassola had also raised issues with the BA, arguing that neither he, nor some other candidates have received any invitation to appear in political debates or discussions with PN and PL representatives on ONE and NET television.

Standard Publication Ltd

文件 MLIND00020220307ei3700037


Election 2022: Campaigns heat up in final sprint to the finish line
2232 字
2022 年 3 月 21 日
The Malta Independent
MLIND
英文
© 2022 Standard Publications Ltd. All rights reserved.
We are now in the final week leading up to voting day, where politicians will be scrambling to convince as many voters as possible that they are the right person to represent them in Parliament for the next five years.

Last week saw Prime Minister Robert Abela and Opposition Leader Bernard Grech go head-to-head twice in front of the country’s business community, in a Q&A session with the Chamber of SMEs and a debate at the Malta Chamber of Commerce.

While the war in Ukraine still overshadowed the political campaigns here in Malta, the political race started to heat up, as certain decisions made by the parties caused controversy.

One such issue was the PL’s proposal regarding mandatory union membership discussions, another was the PN’s trackless tram.

Aside from this, the cheques issued by the government to the public also came under scrutiny, with allegations that the government was trying to influence voters by issuing them so close to an election.

The PN has also yet to publish the costings of its electoral manifesto, a point which the PL has used as ammunition against the party.

A number of other issues grabbed headlines, including a highly controversial statement by former Parliamentarian Joe Debono Grech, that was quickly condemned by the Prime Minister, as well as news of the termination benefits Rosianne Cutajar received for stepping down as Parliamentary Secretary.

With just days to go until the election, the parties don’t want to make any more missteps.

Cheques and support

The public received two cheques from the government last week. One was a tax rebate and the other was a stimulus cheque.

Finance Minister Clyde Caruana did not exclude that, if need be, it will give more financial hand-outs later in the year, given the effects of the developing situation in Ukraine.

But these cheques were criticised by the PL’s political rivals, not for the idea of the cheques themselves, but due to the timing of their release to the public. To issue these cheques so close to an election was being seen as a move to try and manipulate voters.

Opposition Leader Bernard Grech had said that he does not believe in the style of politics where cheques are sent on the eve of an election. “Help should be given whenever needed and cannot be used as a token for votes,” Grech said. The PN accused the PL of bad governance on this issue.

Meanwhile, Prime Minister Robert Abela said that the government cannot postpone decisions that are going to help people and stressed that this was not a gimmick. He argued that the people needed support.

The PL’s move saw independent candidate Arnold Cassola report the Prime Minister and Finance Minister to the Electoral Commission, saying they were breaching the electoral law. Cassola said that the distribution of cheques to compensate for the cost of living on the eve of an election amounts to “corrupt practices.”

The PL also highlighted a pledge last week to support communities. It promised to create a socio-economic plan, identifying localities that need assistance and providing them with the finances to improve their local economy, in order to aid their economic recovery from Covid.

The PN, meanwhile, continued to stress the importance of its ten new economic sectors to support Malta’s economy.

Costings?

One major issue the PN is facing is its lack of costings over its electoral manifesto.

Opposition Leader Bernard Grech has said time and again that they will ‘soon’ be issuing the documents. But, there is now under a week to go. Publishing at the last minute is a bit unfair on voters.

Prime Minister Robert Abela has pointed this out on more than one occasion, using it as political ammunition against his rival.

Debates

The first time the Prime Minister and Opposition Leader met last week was at a Q&A session organised by the Chamber of SMEs. Here, the two political leaders vied to get the support of people operating in the business sector.

One of the main issues brought up was the struggle businesses are facing with banks. Chamber of SMEs officials said that the bureaucracy businesses are facing with banks is causing issues. Reacting to this, Abela said that he sometimes feels like he is losing his patience with banks. “While I understand the importance of the regulatory aspect and understand that banks increased due diligence and their scrutiny processes, which is good and is needed, there is extra bureaucracy which I frankly struggle to understand.” One of the PL’s manifesto proposals he said, is to introduce the right to a bank account for businesses and the self-employed.

Finance Minister Clyde Caruana had said, separately, that banks are taking too long to open accounts for businesses.

Grech took aim at Abela during that session on the banking issues are caused by Malta’s greylisting. “It is a reality we face, and we were not placed on the list by coincidence, but due to the way the government operates.” He said that the increased bureaucracy was caused by the PL.

The country’s grey listing was also in the news again as the Prime Minister confirmed that the FATF’s on-site visit to Malta will take place in April.

The second time the two leaders met last week was at the Malta Chamber of Commerce debate.

Both leaders also sparred during this session. Abela had a message for all politicians contesting under the Labour Party banner, that the principles of righteousness and integrity must be what guides them in their work. Grech took aim at the Prime Minister over these statements, highlighting the cheques that the government handed out recently so close to the election. "Is this good governance?"

Both leaders also pledged to keep subsidising energy costs due to the rising international prices which are a result of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Mandatory union membership

One of the major points in the campaign over the last week was the PL’s flip-flopping over its mandatory union membership proposal.

One proposal in the Labour Party’s general election manifesto stipulates how the party is, in principle, in favour of making membership in a trade union mandatory and that the party would seek to start discussions to that end within the MCESD.

This caused The Malta Employers Association, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of SMEs to call for the immediate withdrawal of this PL’s proposal. Among other things, they argued that forcing workers to join a union goes against workers’ rights and is also unconstitutional.

The Labour Party immediately began backtracking on the proposal. Abela stressed that the proposal is just to hold a discussion. Meanwhile, Deputy Prime Minister Chris Fearne said that the mandatory union membership proposal on the PL’s electoral programme does not force workers to join a union, but rather it seeks to protect the rights of workers who “fear joining a union,” he said.

Abela later said that this proposal came to be as there are workers whose working conditions render them vulnerable, and that the government has a social duty to protect these workers. “We must do this in agreement with employers and this is why I am looking forward to this discussion.” Further asked about this issue, Abela said that “the rule is that workers will always be given the right that if they do not want to join a trade union, that right naturally will remain.” But then, pressed again and asked whether, if elected, the decision might be taken with the MCESD not to implement it, he said: “I am convinced that in the MCESD, as we reached agreement on crucial issues for the leadership of the country in the most difficult times, we will reach agreement on this proposal.” The PL’s position on this is still not entirely clear.

Grech has also taken some flak as the PN had proposed mandatory union membership for those workers earning less than the average wage (median wage) in its pre-budget document last year. During this election, however, Grech has said that it is not acceptable to force workers to join a union, thus also showing a u-turn on the issue.

Trackless tram

The PN’s trackless tram proposal was targeted this week, where the party contradicted itself.

News reports read that PN MP Ryan Callus said that the trackless tram would see arterial roads from where it will pass narrowed to a single lane.

Just a few days later, however, PN MP Toni Bezzina contradicted Callus, saying that no existing traffic lanes will be lost despite the trackless tram requiring a dedicated lane.

This has resulted in confusion about the issue and many questions have been raised as to how the trackless tram proposal would work.

PN Leader Bernard Grech said that the tram is the solution that makes sense. He did not exclude that, where needed, they will dig a tunnel or an underpass when faced with arterial roads which are narrow.

Joe Debono Grech

Former PL Minister Joe Debono Grech, when speaking during a political activity organised by Gozo Minister Clint Camilleri, admitted that the party is corrupt but that people had “gained something from it”. Debono Grech had said that the PL was with the “good thief”.

This caused a bit of a headache for the Labour Party last week.

Prime Minister Robert Abela quickly denounced Debono Grech, saying that the PL had renewed itself to eliminate “that kind of speech”. Prime Minister said he (Abela) was “no thief”.

Golden handshake

It emerged that PL MP Rosianne Cutajar was paid€28,000 in termination benefits from public funds for her resignation from the post of Parliamentary Secretary after she was involved in a scandal concerning a property transfer including Yorgen Fenech.

Abela was confronted about this, and made a somewhat strong statement about the issue. He indicated that he did not agree with the €28,000 termination package given to Rosianne Cutajar[https://www.independent.com.mt/articles/2022-03-15/local-news/Rosianne-Cutajar-was-paid-28-000-in-termination-benefits-after-resigning-from-Cabinet-report-6736241483], saying such practices are “not compatible” in the case of cabinet members who resign after being involved in a scandal. “We inherited a system where a cabinet member – Francis Zammit Dimech – got two termination packages. I will not refer to the past. We must see how we can do things better. We will be carrying out changes as I feel that, in circumstances like these, it is not compatible that one receives a termination package,” Abela said.

Property and developers

The PL and PN sparred over property last week.

Prime Minister Robert Abela “categorically and absolutely” denied that he received any donations during a dinner he had with Gozitan contractors. This, after news reports revealed that Abela was the “guest of honour” at a dinner organised by Gozitan construction mogul Joe Portelli. The event was held a week before his mega-development in Sannat was approved by the PA.

Abela confirmed that he had met with the contractors, “just like I meet with sections of the Gozitan business community every Saturday.” But he categorically denied that he or any of those accompanying him had taken any donations. He also denied that he had discussed planning permits during the dinner.

Abela also reacted to news reports that he purchased his 2,200sqm Zejtun ODZ villa in 2017 just three months after it was regularised by the PA. Abela denied that he had interfered in any way in the planning process and said, when he purchased the property, all the relevant permits had already been issued.

The PM took aim at Bernard Grech over the latter’s property. He said Grech had boasted of having had built his home with his own hands. “Now it has turned out that he had built the property illegally and when he contested for the PN leadership tried to sanction the illegalities and he was granted the permit.” Grech denied the claims, and a PN spokesperson argued that Grech’s case involved only minor internal alterations and slight additions. This was in reference to a sanctioning application that Grech had filed at the time.

The two also sparred over property development in general.

The Nationalist Party had pledged to tackle the issue of excessive development in Malta, saying the matter has significantly reduced the quality of people’s lives.

The Prime Minister, meanwhile, said that since it’s been in government, the Labour Party did not implement any planning policies which increased construction development around the country. He described the 2006 rationalisation exercise as the act which has caused the greatest environmental to Malta this century. He said, the government’s “new priority” is to protect the environment, while allowing the economic wheel to turn. He said that the planning authorities need to apply their policies in such a manner that it is within the context of the government’s new environmental priorities.

Meanwhile, ADPD - The Green Party spokespersons Carmel Cacopardo and Luke Caruana called for an immediate halt to the destruction of Gozo.

Electoral Favours

Abela was also asked last week about a story regarding a Labourite who boasted on the social media of assisting “Labourite brothers” to expedite their medical interventions.

“If a situation occurred in which someone was given a favour, I condemn such behaviour,” Abela said.

Standard Publication Ltd

文件 MLIND00020220321ei3l00033


Sanction Screening Obligations For Subject Persons
Simon Mangion
1140 字
2022 年 3 月 24 日
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
英文
(c) 2022 Mondaq Ltd
Sanctions

International sanctions, also known as restrictive measures, are primarily issued by the United Nations Security Council and by the European Union but there are a number of other bodies that also issue such sanctions. A sanction would generally be issued against an individual, an entity or even an entire country at times. Whereas some are designed to force a country, regime or organisation to comply with international law, the scope of others may be to contain a threat to regional or global peace. Sanctions may also condemn the actions or policy of a particular government and thus the reasons for which sanctions may be issued are numerous. Sanctions may, inter alia, include:

Restrictions on trade which may affect the purchase and supply of specified goods, products and materials;

Restrictions on travel;

Restrictions on the provision of financial services;

The requirement to freeze funds, assets and other economic resources; and

Embargoes

Sanction Screening

Sanction screening is, simply put, a control mechanism used by an organisation to detect, prevent and manage sanctions risk. Therefore, sanction screening procedures are at the heart of an anti-financial crime programme. Sanction screening forms part of the first line of defence and thus, as a result, is absolutely vital when it comes to protecting an organisation from engaging with sanctioned individuals or designated persons/territories.

Implementation of Sanctions in Malta

All sanctions issued by the European Union and the United Nations Security Council are directly applicable and enforceable under the National Interest (Enabling Powers) Act1 (hereinafter referred to as the 'NI Act'). Any legal or natural person conducting a relevant activity or relevant financial business as defined in the Prevention of Money Laundering and Funding of Terrorism Regulations2 is obliged to adhere to applicable sanctions and carry out the necessary checks to ensure that sanctions are always complied with. Should any situation be encountered which is in violation of such sanctions, whether directly or indirectly, there is an obligation to stop any transaction from going through, freeze any assets and inform the Sanctions Monitoring Board ('SMB''). The SMB is established by the NI Act and, amongst its numerous functions, has the overall obligation and function of monitoring and ensuring the implementation and operation of sanctions legislation in Malta.

Sanctions lists

A sanctions list is a database that records individuals, entities and countries who have some form of sanction imposed upon them. The NI Act obliges subject persons to undertake mandatory screening against the lists issued in terms of UNSC Resolutions, EU Council Regulations, and the NI Act. Subject persons may also consider it necessary to screen against other sanctions lists due to their jurisdictional exposure or due to the type of activities undertaken by the subject person. Such lists would include those issued by the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the US (OFAC) or the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation (OFSI) in the UK or any other lists issued by national authorities in different countries.

Duties and Obligations of the Subject Person

According to Maltese law, all subject persons are obliged to ensure strict observance to all applicable EU, UN and national sanctions at all times. One of the main duties of persons undertaking a relevant activity or a relevant financial business in terms of the PMLFTR is the establishing and implementation of a sanctions-screening procedure. Such a procedure aims to ensure that an organisation has adequate measures in place to allow for the identification of sanctioned individuals/entities, and ultimately to ensure that the subject person is not susceptible or exposed to any sort of illegal activity.

In practice, organisations generally implement 'transaction screening' and 'customer screening' so as to fulfil their AML/CFT obligations. As their names suggest, the former refers to the monitoring of customer transactions whilst the latter is there to identify targeted individuals or entities. Sanction screening ought to be conducted prior to on-boarding a client. In the case that a business relationship has already been formed, the organisation would have a duty to carry out periodic ongoing screening.

In the event that a client becomes subject to a sanction, the person responsible for the implementation of the sanctions framework within the sanctions-screening procedure must, without delay, act in accordance with the order issued, whether such order was issued by the national authorities, the EU or the UNSC . Generally, financial sanctions would impose the duty to issue a freezing order to prohibit funds, financial assets or economic resources being made available to sanctioned individuals/entities etc.

EU restrictive measures in response to the Ukraine crisis

In this last week, the EU is taking restrictive measures in response to the unprovoked and unjustified military aggression carried out by the Russian Federation against Ukraine.

A timeline of these measures is found below:

On the 23rd February 2022, the Council agreed on a first package of sanctions in response to the recognition by Russia of the non-government-controlled areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk in Ukraine as independent entities.

On the 25th February 2022, the EU proceeded to freeze the assets of Vladimir Putin , President of the Russian Federation, and Sergey Lavrov , Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation.

On the 28th February 2022, the European Council approved:

A ban on transactions with the Russian Central Bank ;

A five-hundred (€500) million support package to finance equipment and supplies to the Ukrainian armed forces;

A ban on the overflight of EU airspace and on access to EU airport by Russian carriers of all kinds; and

New sanctions on specific persons and entities;

On the 2nd March 2022 the EU suspended the broadcasting activities in the EU of the Russian state-owned outlets Sputnik and Russia Today until the aggression against Ukraine is brought to a halt and until the Russian Federation and its associated outlets cease conducting disinformation actions. The EU has also announced its decision to cut seven Russian banks from the SWIFT payment system. SWIFT, or the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication , is a secure system that helps enable cross-border payments, allowing international trade to flow more smoothly. The decision also banned EU operators to invest or cooperate with the Russian Direct Investment Fund , as well as to sell or transfer euro-denominated banknotes to Russia.

Footnotes

1. Chapter 365 of the Laws of Malta.

2. Subsidiary Legislation 373.01.

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Simon Mangion

CSB Group

The Penthouse,

Tower Business Centre, Tower Street,

Swatar

BKR 4013

MALTA

Tel: 25572557

Fax: 25572558

E-mail: sharon.grima@csbgroup.com

URL: www.csbgroup.com[http://www.csbgroup.com]

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2022 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com [http://www.mondaq.com]

Mondaq Limited

文件 BBPUB00020220324ei3o000gp


CE Noticias Financieras English
Pope Criticizes War and Demands Action Against Child Aggression
550 字
2022 年 4 月 2 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
VALETA, 2 APR (ANSA) - In his first appointment in Malta, Pope Francis charged a measure against the "childish and destructive aggression" promoted in the war in Ukraine and made harsh criticism of the Russian invasion.

During an address to authorities in Malta, where he arrived for a two-day visit, the Pontiff called for "a humane measure against the childish and destructive aggression that threatens us, faced with the risk of a prolonged cold war that could suffocate the lives of peoples and entire generations."

Francis evoked the "darkness of war" that threatens Europe, warned of a possible "extended Cold War," and quoted an intervention by Italian politician and activist Giorgio La Pira in speaking of the "infantilism of humanity."

"Unfortunately, this infantilism has not disappeared. It resurfaces overwhelmingly in the seductions of autocracy, of the new imperialisms, in widespread aggression, in the inability to build bridges and start from the poorest," he said.

The leader of the Catholic Church pointed out that "it was precisely from Eastern Europe, that the darkness of war arrived."

"Through the east of Europe, through the land where the sun rises, the dark shadows of war have now spread. We thought that invasions of other countries, savage battles in the streets, and atomic threats were dark memories of a distant past," he said.

"However, the icy winds of war, which bring only death, destruction and hatred in their wake, have powerfully swept through many people's lives and affected us all," he added.

Despite not naming Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, the Argentine made harsh criticism of the ruler who ordered the invasion of Ukraine last February 24.

"Once again, a potentate - a sovereign of a state, holder of power and wealth -, sadly locked into anachronistic claims of nationalistic interests, is provoking and fomenting conflicts, while ordinary people want to build a future," he emphasized.

In addition, the Pope warned of the worsening migration emergency, with refugees from "martyred Ukraine," calling for "broad and shared responses."

"Cannot just some countries bear the whole problem, in the indifference of others! Nor can civil countries sanction, for their own interest, shady deals with criminals who enslave people. Unfortunately, this happens," he warned.

"War has been brewing for ages, with huge investments and arms trade. And it is sad to see how the enthusiasm for peace, which arose after World War II, has weakened in recent decades, as well as the course of the international community, with some powerful people advancing on their own in search of spaces and zones of influence," the Pope denounced.

Finally, Jorge Bergoglio stressed that global problems require global solutions, in an "ever wider" dialogue.

"We need compassion and care, not ideological visions and populisms, which are fed with words of hatred and do not take to heart the concrete lives of the people, of the common people," he appealed.

The two-day trip to Malta was supposed to take place on May 31, 2020, but was postponed because of the Covid-19 pandemic - which had arrived on the European continent just three months earlier.

Malta is one of the European countries that receive the most migrants attempting the Mediterranean Sea crossing - alongside Italy, Cyprus, Greece and Spain. (ANSA)

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220402ei4200841


CE Noticias Financieras English
Pope Pope arrives by catamaran to Gozo island on first day of Malta trip
482 字
2022 年 4 月 2 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
ROME, 2 (EUROPA PRESS)

The Pope arrived at the shrine of Ta'Pinu, on the island of Gozo, on a catamaran from the Grand Harbour of Valletta (Malta), where he arrived on Saturday for a two-day trip.

On this island, just 5 kilometers from Malta, the Pope visited this pilgrimage center dedicated to the invocation of the Assumption, whose origins date back to before the 15th century.

Francis - who has mobility problems with an acute pain in his knee - was unable to descend the stairs of the plane. To facilitate his descent, a small elevator was installed so that he could go down to the airport in the Maltese capital, where he was received by the political and religious authorities of the country.

Francis met in the morning with the authorities of the country in the Grand Master's Palace, seat of the Maltese Presidency, and claimed the need for "European co-responsibility" in the management of migration after denouncing the "shady" agreements with the countries of North Africa for hot returns.

Marijuana plantation is found near FES IztacalaFire consumes paint and aerosol factory in Iztapalapa mayor's office Effects of pandemic and war: SHCP cuts economic growth 2022Francis has not expressly mentioned the agreements of the European Union with Libya to leave in the hands of this country the reduction of the migratory flow from Africa and to stop the boats that arrive in Europe through the central route of the Mediterranean, but he has criticized "that civilized countries cannot sanction for their own interest shady agreements with criminals who enslave people".

The trip to Malta was planned for 2020, but had to be postponed because of the pandemic. The war in Ukraine has marked from the beginning this trip, in which he has criticized "the childish and destructive aggressiveness that threatens" the world, in reference to the invasion of Ukraine by Russia. He also warned of the risk that the situation could turn into "an extended cold war that could suffocate the lives of entire peoples and generations".

The Pope has cried out against war and pointed out that from the East of Europe, "where the light arose before, the darkness of war has arrived." "We thought that the invasions of other countries, the brutal fighting in the streets and the atomic threats were dark memories of a distant past," he added.

While he made no specific mention of Russia or Ukraine, he referred to the fact that "once again some powerful person, sadly locked into the anachronistic pretensions of nationalistic interests, provokes and foments conflicts." According to experts, the Pope indirectly referred to Russian President Vladimir Putin.

During the plane trip that took him to Malta, he indicated to journalists that a possible trip to Kiev is on the table.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220402ei42008lf


CE Noticias Financieras English
Pope criticizes "shady deals" in Malta to return migrants
392 字
2022 年 4 月 2 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Pope Francis arrived in Malta this Saturday for a two-day visit, scheduled for 2020 but postponed due to the pandemic, and in his first address to the authorities he addressed the issue of migration flows in the Mediterranean in a country that has been criticized and condemned for failing to assist migrants crossing the sea to reach Europe.

At the Grand Master's Palace, seat of the Maltese presidency, he recalled that according to Phoenician etymology, Malta means "safe harbor," but that "in the face of the growing influx in recent years, fears and insecurities have caused discouragement and frustration" in the country.

At the moment, a ship belonging to the German non-governmental organization (NGO) Sea-Eye with 106 rescued migrants on board reported that there is still no response from the Maltese authorities to take them to a safe haven.

The head of the Catholic Church pointed out that "the phenomenon of migration is not a circumstance of the moment," so it requires "broad and shared responses" and that not only some countries bear the problem while others remain indifferent and gave the example of refugees arriving from Ukraine due to the war after Russia's invasion.

The Pope also said "that civilized countries cannot sanction out of self-interest scurrilous agreements with criminals who enslave people" in an allusion to the pacts with Libya by countries like Malta and Italy and that allow the return of migrants.

"The Mediterranean needs European co-responsibility, to become again a scenario of solidarity and not be the outpost of a tragic shipwreck of civilizations," said Francis, who will conclude this trip on Sunday with a visit to a migrant center.

He also mentioned the need to strengthen the foundations of social life such as "honesty, justice, sense of duty and transparency" in a country marked by corruption, such as that denounced by journalist Daphne Caruana, who was murdered in 2017.

Francis made a request to the Maltese authorities and the new labor government elected last week: "May the commitment to eradicate lawlessness and corruption therefore be as strong as the wind that, blowing from the north, sweeps the coasts of the country" and that "legality and transparency, which allow delinquency and criminality to be eradicated, always be cultivated."

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220402ei42009nm


CE Noticias Financieras English
Pope Francis assures that a visit to Ukraine is "on the table".
424 字
2022 年 4 月 2 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Pope Francis is visiting the island of Malta; it is a trip he had already spoken about on his last departure from Rome, when he went to Cyprus and Greece, and which he had had to postpone because of the pandemic.

When intercepted by journalists during his two-day visit to Malta, Pope Francis did not rule out a visit to the border where millions of Ukrainians fleeing the war provoked by the Russian invasion are arriving.

Both the President of Ukraine, Volodimir Zelenski, and the Mayor of Kiev, Vitali Klitschko, have asked Pope Francis to travel to the capital to give a message of hope, to which he has not closed the door to this visit: "Yes, it is on the table".

In his first speech to the authorities upon his arrival on the European island, Francis said:

Pope Francis, who so far has not cited Russia or its president, Vladimir Putin, today, although without mentioning him, spoke of "some powerful, sadly locked in the anachronistic pretensions of nationalist interests, who provoke and foment conflicts."

The pope also warned of the risk of the conflict in Ukraine becoming "an extended Cold War that can suffocate the lives of entire peoples and generations."

In addition, he criticized that this war "has been fed for a long time", "it has been prepared for a long time with large investments and arms trade", he considered.

At the same time, he advised to organize again "international conferences for peace, where the central theme is disarmament, with a view to the generations to come".

Migratory flows from AfricaPope Francis wanted to address one of the issues that prompted him to visit Malta: the migratory flows from Africa in a country with a hard hand against migration and that does not welcome migrants rescued by NGO boats.

He recalled that, according to Phoenician etymology, Malta means "safe port", but that "in the face of the growing influx in recent years, fears and insecurities have caused discouragement and frustration" in this country.

In this way, he stressed that "the migratory phenomenon is not a circumstance of the moment" and therefore requires "broad and shared responses" and cannot be burdened with the problem "only some countries, while others remain indifferent" and gave the example of the refugees who are arriving from Ukraine after the invasion of Russia.

He also criticized "that civilized countries can sanction for their own interests shady agreements with criminals who enslave people".

drg

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220402ei4200a23


An $85 million superyacht linked to a Russian oligarch was moored in Norway for more than 6 weeks while dockers refused to refuel it. Now it's sailing for Malta.
kduffy@insider.com (Kate Duffy)
462 字
2022 年 4 月 12 日 10:16 GMT
Business Insider
BIZINS
英文
Copyright 2022. Insider Inc
* A superyacht linked to a Russian oligarch left Norway after being docked there for more than six weeks.

* Ragnar, linked to former KGB agent Vladimir Strzhalkovsky, was headed for Malta, tracking data showed.

* The yacht faced problems in Norway because dockers refused to refuel the vessel.

An $85 million superyacht linked to a Russian oligarch is on the move again after mooring in Norway for more than six weeks while dockers refused to refuel it.

Tracking site Marine Traffic[https://www.marinetraffic.com/en/ais/details/ships/shipid:254151/mmsi:215598000/imo:9621522/vessel:RAGNAR] shows that the 224-foot Ragnar departed the Norwegian port of Narvik on March 30 and is sailing for Malta, an island in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea. At time of writing, the yacht was located off the west coast of Norway and was heading southwest, per Marine Traffic.

Vladimir Strzhalkovsky, a former KGB agent who is said to have ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin, is the owner of the Ragnar, according to SuperYacht Fan[https://www.superyachtfan.com/yacht/ragnar/]. Strzhalkovsky doesn't appear on Western sanctions lists that followed Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

The Ragnar docked[https://www.businessinsider.com/russian-oligarch-superyacht-stuck-norway-suppliers-wont-refuel-2022-3] at Narvik on February 15 but got stuck there when local suppliers refused to refuel the vessel[https://www.businessinsider.com/russia-oligarch-yacht-crew-stuck-norway-catch-barbecue-fish-report-2022-3] or otherwise do business with Strzhalkovsky, Norwegian public broadcaster NRK[https://www.nrk.no/nordland/kapteinen-pa-russisk-luksusyacht-_ragnar_-foler-seg-diskriminert-1.15893959] reported at the time.

Refueling wasn't the only problem the Ragnar faced in Norway. The yacht's captain told The Wall Street Journal[https://www.businessinsider.com/reviews/out?platform=browser&postSource=bi%7C6239aedd601ab14fe279116b&sc=false&type=LINK-WITH-REVIEW-SLASH-OUT&u=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.wsj.com%2Farticles%2Frussian-oligarchs-yachts-hit-the-high-seas-11647876326&sessionid=1649748114850w6f6cksw] that the crew had to catch and barbecue fish because local businesses wouldn't serve them.

The destination port for Ragnar, as stated by Marine Traffic, is Marsaxlokk, a small, picturesque fishing village in southeast Malta.

Norway isn't part of the European Union (EU), which has imposed sanctions on many wealthy Russians. However, the country has close relations with the EU and has incorporated some of the bloc's sanctions into its own laws, per the Norwegian government's website[https://www.regjeringen.no/en/aktuelt/russia_sanctions/id2904511/].

Malta, on the other hand, is a member country of the EU. If the EU decides to sanction Strzhalkovsky, it could put the Ragnar at risk of being seized by Maltese authorities.

Ragnar features a pool, spa, jacuzzi, and helicopter pad, whilst accommodating a total of 30 guests and crew, per SuperYacht Fan.

While Strzhalkovsky and his yacht are not subject to sanctions, Russian oligarchs who have been sanctioned have fled to places such as Dubai and the Maldives[https://www.businessinsider.com/russian-oligarchs-try-to-escape-sanctions-take-jets-yachts-dubai-2022-3], which don't have extradition treaties with the US and other Western nations.

The Guardian[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/mar/18/russian-oligarchs-yacht-stuck-in-norway-as-suppliers-refuse-to-refuel] reported that a Norwegian government official said Ragnar could only be detained if an EU directive supported the action.

Read the original article on Business Insider[https://www.businessinsider.com/russian-oligarch-yacht-sails-malta-norway-dockers-refused-refuel-sanctions-2022-4]

Insider Inc.

文件 BIZINS0020220412ei4c000rz


TMID Editorial: Is Malta doing enough to sanction Russia?
609 字
2022 年 4 月 18 日
The Malta Independent
MLIND
英文
© 2022 Standard Publications Ltd. All rights reserved.
The war in Ukraine, following Russia’s invasion of the country, has continued unabated, even as the invaders face international condemnation and sanctions.

In recent weeks, more and more evidence has emerged of how Russia has committed what can only be described as war crimes in Ukrainian towns and villages. Civilians have been found executed, others have been found buried in mass graves, and stories have emerged of Ukrainians being locked in basements and left to starve for weeks on end.

While the Ukrainians have defended their homeland admirably, the European response – largely made up of economic sanctions – has not had the desired effect, that being discouraging Russia from continuing its invasion.

That has prompted other nations to take certain matters into their own hands as of late, harshening their own response to the war.

In the past days and weeks, almost 400 Russian diplomats, for instance, have been expelled from Europe’s capital cities in an act which is part symbolic prompted by revulsion at Russia’s war crimes, and part a way to cut off Russian intelligence manoeuvres in Europe.

By Friday in fact, there were only three countries which had declined to send any Russian diplomats packing. These are Hungary – where Viktor Orban’s regime has exhibited closer ties with Putin than others in Europe – Cyprus, and Malta.

It’s certainly not a good look for Malta to not have taken any apparent further action against Russia, even as evidence of its war crimes – some of which was also published locally as this newsroom had a team reporting on the ground in towns such as Bucha – continue to emerge.

It’s an even worse look for the country when one recalls the apparent reluctance that the government had in suspending Malta’s golden passport schemes for Russians – something which did happen eventually, but only after significant pressure both locally and internationally.

Meanwhile, on Sunday Bulgaria banned Russian-flagged ships from entering its Black Sea ports.

“All vessels registered under Russian flag, as well as all vessels that have switched their Russian flag, or flag or maritime register registration to any other state whatsoever after Feb. 24, are forbidden access to Bulgarian maritime and river ports,” the Bulgaria’s maritime authority said.

Exceptions will be made only for ships in distress or seeking humanitarian assistance, or ships transporting energy products, food and pharmaceuticals to EU countries, the Eastern European country said.

Likewise here, Malta has not taken any such action. Instead, we have seen some Russian oligarchs use Malta has a haven for their super yachts: One Russian billionaire who happens to have a Maltese passport parked his yacht in Birgu for some days early in the conflict, while some days ago a superyacht associated with a Russian oligarch who has ties with Putin was making its way to Malta after being refused refuelling in Norway for a number of weeks.

The closing of Malta’s ports to Russian-flagged vessels is certainly another step which the Maltese government can take in order to harshen its response to the war and to the war crimes which Russia has committed.

It’s now quite clear that – contrary to what many thought and what the Russians would have no doubt liked – the war in Ukraine is set to drag on.

As an EU country, Malta’s response and its sanctions against the aggressor will be under the microscope.

Are we doing enough as things stand? Let’s just say that other European countries have elected for a more pro-active approach than Malta has thus far, and leave it there.

Standard Publication Ltd

文件 MLIND00020220418ei4i00030


Right of Reply to TMI Editorial
384 字
2022 年 4 月 18 日
The Malta Independent
MLIND
英文
© 2022 Standard Publications Ltd. All rights reserved.
The Department of Information has issued a right of reply on behalf of the government in response to the Malta Independent's editorial, which questioned whether Malta is doing enough to sanction Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.

The right of reply may be found in full below:

Reference is made to the Editorial of ‘The Malta Independent’ on page 7, ‘Is Malta doing enough to sanction Russia?’[https://www.independent.com.mt/articles/2022-04-18/newspaper-leader/TMID-Editorial-Is-Malta-doing-enough-to-sanction-Russia-6736242278], dated 18 April 2022.

The European Union responded with a comprehensive fifth package of restrictive measures in response to the atrocities committed in Bucha since the situation in Ukraine demands a coordinated and firm response. It is to be noted that EU legal acts are directly applicable in Malta through the National Interest (Enabling Powers) Act. Thus, any sanctions which have been adopted by the European Union enter into force in Malta upon publication by the European Union.

Malta is fully committed to implementing all EU restrictive measures, in tandem with the previously adopted packages and is ensuring that all economic operators are well aware and are fully adhering the restrictive measures in place, in order to achieve the desired effect.

Sanctions implementation falls within the competence of the Malta Sanctions Monitoring Board. In this regard, the Sanctions Monitoring Board has undertaken an extensive exercise to identify and freeze any assets of listed individuals and entities which are located within the Maltese territory. Companies having links to designated individuals or entities were identified and have been frozen accordingly. Furthermore, Malta has also been instrumental in the freezing of movable assets in other EU jurisdictions.

The Sanctions Monitoring Board continues to publish several guidance note of which some are sector specific to help Maltese economic operators since these are bound by the various restrictive measures which have been imposed. The Sanctions Monitoring Board has issued four guidance notes, one relating to the general restrictive measures imposed on Russia in view of the situation in Ukraine and three other sector specific guidance notes, relating to the ban on Russian-flagged vessels to enter into European Union ports, crypto-assets and cryptocurrencies as well as the restrictions relating to money deposits. Accordingly, these may be viewed on the website of the Board https://foreign.gov.mt/en/Government/SMB/Pages/Guidance-Notes.aspx.[https://foreign.gov.mt/en/Government/SMB/Pages/Guidance-Notes.aspx.%20]

Standard Publication Ltd

文件 MLIND00020220419ei4i00003


CE Noticias Financieras English
Zelenski compares war in Ukraine to the siege of Malta during World War II
679 字
2022 年 5 月 10 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
MADRID, 10 (EUROPA PRESS)

The President of Ukraine, Volodimir Zelenski, has spoken this Tuesday before the Parliament of Malta, where he compared the situation in his country with what happened in the framework of the Second World War and the siege of Malta in the early 1940s.

"Just as the fate of Europe between 1940 and 1942 depended on the resistance and courage of Malta, today it depends on the resistance and courage of Ukrainians whether freedom will win on our continent," said Zelenski.

At this point, the Ukrainian president stressed once again that the attack on Ukraine is the first step of Russia to "start its aggression against a united Europe", Ukrinform Ukrainian agency reported.

The island of Malta was the scene during the first part of the Second World War of intense clashes and air raids, so Zelenski has taken advantage of that historical fact to bring to light the more than 2,100 Russian air raids recorded against Ukrainian territory since the beginning of the war.

If not everyone is invited, I will not go to the Summit of the Americas: AMLOU.S. counter-narcotics chief to visit Mexico due to fentanyl crisisGlorieta de la Palma changes in Google to 'Glorieta De Las Personas Desaparecidas'.He also denounced more than 2,700 Russian incursions into Ukrainian airspace, and warned that "Russian shelling of Ukraine does not stop day or night". At this point, he has recalled that on Monday, with the president of the European Council, Charles Michel, in Odessa, Russian troops took the opportunity to shell the city.

"Just yesterday, when Charles Michel visited our warm city of Odessa and met with Prime Minister of Ukraine Denis Shmygal, he was forced to go down to the air-raid shelter because Russia launched another missile attack and hit, in particular, Odessa," Zelenski has pointed out.

To cope with the continuous shelling, the Ukrainian president has urged before the Maltese Parliament that the partner countries deliver military hardware to be able to cope with Russia, just as the United States and the United Kingdom coped with Nazi Germany and fascist Italy on the island of Malta during World War II.

"The UK and US accomplished this mission, with the Spitfires, which turned the tide of the battle for Malta and helped destroy the then aggressor's ambition to capture their island. Now we need a similar mission from our partners. To destroy the ambition of the current aggressor to capture Ukraine and other European countries," Zelenski said.

Already in the final stages of his speech, the Ukrainian president reported that since the beginning of the war, more than 220 children have died, thousands of adults have been killed and about twelve million Ukrainians have been forcibly displaced, five million of them outside the national borders.

Thus, in his strategy to stop the Russian aggression, the Ukrainian president has pointed to three fundamental pillars such as the reinforcement of the military capabilities of the Ukrainian Army, the imposition of sanctions against Moscow, including the oil embargo.

Thirdly, Zelenski pointed to "putting an end to the current privileges of Russian citizens", for which he advocated eliminating the so-called 'golden passports' that the Maltese Government issues to international citizens in exchange for investing in the island.

The Maltese Government already announced in early March the suspension of these passports to citizens of Russia and Belarus as a sanction in response to the invasion of Ukraine. However, Zelenski has gone a step further and asked the island's authorities to investigate Russians who have benefited from this program in recent times.

"After thousands of murders, thousands of tortures, rapes and robberies, it is now dangerous to accept people with Russian passports and even more, formally or informally connected to the Russian state. It is a danger for all Europeans and also for the Maltese. It is time to put an end to the current privileges of Russian citizens", the Ukrainian president concluded.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020220510ei5a00b3h


Ignorance Of The Law Is No Excuse – What You Need To Know Regarding Sanctions
Chris Grech
1036 字
2022 年 6 月 29 日
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
英文
(c) 2022 Mondaq Ltd
EntitiesThe recent conflict in Ukraine has brought about quite the disruption in several industries, including due to the introduction and adoption of several sanctions which were imposed within a relatively short time span. The insurance industry has not been spared from this and all insurance undertakings and intermediaries ('''') would be wise to be aware of the obligations and prohibitions that arise out of the introductions of these sanctions.

FIAU'Guidance Note''NIATo help Entities adjust to the freshly issued sanctions and ensure that they are complying with the new measures, the Financial Intelligence Analysis Unit (the ''') has published a Guidance Note on the Sanctions adopted in response to the current situation in Ukraine (the ''). At the onset, the Guidance Note refers to the obligations arising out of the National Interest (enabling powers) Act (Chapter 365 of the Laws of Malta) (the '''') which holds inter alia that persons or entities are obliged to ensure that they adhere to all the freezing measures issued by Regulations of the Council of the European Union.

SMBThe Guidance Note further holds that in instances where an Entity identifies targeted property, the Entity is under an obligation to immediately notify the Sanctions Monitoring Board ('''') of same, and this obligation extends to any attempts to carry out transactions involving the identified target property. On this front, Entities must be careful to only notify the activity to the SMB if they are classified as subject persons in terms of the Prevention of Money Laundering and Funding of Terrorism Regulations (SL. 373.1). An Entity which isn't classified as a subject person may find itself breaching its obligations under professional secrecy rules if it jumps the gun and notifies the SMB of an ongoing transaction, without having an obligation to do so, or unless it is permitted, authorised, compelled or justified to do so as further set-out in terms of the Professional Secrecy Act (Chapter 377 of the laws of Malta). If doubts arise, Entities should reach out and seek adequate advice.

SMB Guidance NoteThe SMB has also published a Guidance note on the imposition of EU sanctions concerning restrictive measures in respect of actions undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty, and independence of Ukraine (the ''''). The SMB Guidance Note provides a concise breakdown of the industries which have been caught by the wide net cast by the newly enacted EU sanctions considering the situation in Ukraine.

Amongst others, the SMB Guidance Note tackles the voluminous financial restrictions that the EU is constantly imposing in dealing with natural or legal persons, entities or bodies in Russia.

Where do insurance undertakings and intermediaries come in?

Entities should specifically be aware of the provision under Council Regulation (EU) 2022/328 that specifically targets the provision of insurance and reinsurance and of maintenance activities concerning aircraft or components in relation to such listed goods and technology to any natural or legal person, entity or body in Russia or for use in Russia which is now prohibited.

Entities should also keep in mind their ongoing obligations that arise out of Article 17(6) of the NIA which apply to Entities which are subject persons. Subject persons are reminded that they are obliged to keep abreast with the relevant sanctions lists and ensure that their clients are screened on a regular basis.

Given that the situation in Ukraine is an ever evolving one, the Guidance Note stresses the importance that Entities classified as subject persons to regularly screen their clients at times such as these, given that sanctions lists are being constantly updated.

MFSAEven the most rigorous of Entities may find themselves in default of their screening obligations, therefore they are well-advised to have in place robust internal controls and procedures which must be effectively implemented in their day-to-day activities. On this matter, the Malta Financial Services Authority (the '''') has also published a public notice reminding license-holders that they must have in place sanction screening systems which are operating correctly and are correctly calibrated where 'fuzzy' logic is utilised. Entities which opt to outsource their sanction screening function will remain fully responsible for the obligations that arise under the NIA and where the sanction screening function delivers a positive hit, the onus to inform the SMB remains on the Entity concerned and not on the third party carrying out the outsourced function.

Entities must furthermore head caution when being approached by persons which are caught by the sanctions imposed by the NIA. Where Entities find themselves in such a situation, they will be under a prohibition from making property, or financial services or other related services available, directly or indirectly available to sanctioned persons. In practice, this means that if an Entity is approached by a sanctioned individual for any assistance such as share transfers, issuance of shares or other similar transactions, then they are under a strict prohibition to refrain from assisting and must duly notify the SMB. Hefty penalties and even jail time will be imposed on any Entities which refuse to adhere to the sanctions imposed under the NIA. Entities may also risk having their licensed suspended or cancelled by the MFSA if they fail to observe their obligations that arise out of the NIA.

It is highly doubtful that the newly issued sanctions will be the EU's last word on this matter. Entities are advised to keep their ear to the ground and keep a lookout for what's to come to ensure that they do not fall foul of the law and sanctions and risk potential irreversible consequences.

This article was featured in the March 2022 issue of Ganado Advocates' Insurance newsletter.

Originally published March 25, 2022

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Mr Chris Grech

Ganado Advocates

171 Old Bakery Street,

Valletta

VLT1455

MALTA

Tel: 2123 5406

Fax: 2123 23 72

E-mail: Abuttigieg@ganado.com

URL: www.ganado.com/[http://www.ganado.com/]

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2022 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com[http://www.mondaq.com]

Mondaq Limited

文件 BBPUB00020220629ei6t0008n


The Changes To The Structure And Competencies Of The European Supervisory Authorities (ESAS)
Rachel Genovese
2883 字
2022 年 8 月 22 日
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
英文
(c) 2022 Mondaq Ltd
In its efforts to strengthen its supervisory capabilities in the sphere of the  financial services sector, the EU framework has seen the realisation of the European system of financial supervision (ESFS) consisting of three European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs):

The EU Financial Services Law European System of Financial Supervision (EIOPA) - with a supervisory role in the insurance and pensions sectors;

The European Banking Authority (EBA) - with a supervisory role in the banking sector; and

The European Security and Markets Authorities (ESMA) - with a supervisory role in the financial markets sector.

These three supervisory authorities work hand-in-hand with the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) which oversees the financial system; and together they seek to improve the operation of the internal market, and harmonising supervisory practices across EU Member States, thereby providing a level playfield for all key players. In attaining this goal, the ESAs have worked for a number of years towards creating a single rulebook governing financial services, covering the banking, insurance, and the capital markets industries.

The changes brought about in 2019 to the ESFS consisted of two regulations and a directive1. Of particular importance in this context is the Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), amending the regulation establishing the ESAs with the aim of reviewing the powers, governance, and funding thereof. With the 2019 amendments, ESMA became the legal successor of the Committee of European Securities Regulators (CESR); the EBA became the legal successor of the Committee of European Banking Supervisors (CEBS); and EIOPA became the legal successor of the Committee of European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisors (CEIOPS).2 Additionally, the ESAs' structure saw the introduction of a committee on consumer protection and financial innovation aimed at centralising all competent authorities responsible for consumer protection with the aim of enhancing the regulation thereof and ensuring a common approach in the regulation and supervision of innovative financial activities.3 The ESAs committees are also required to cooperate with the European Data Protection Board to ensure legal harmony in the context of data protection.4 The ESAs are accountable to the European Parliament and to the Council.5

The 2019 amendments required both ESMA and EIOPA to operate in such a manner that they use their full powers and ensure the safety and soundness of financial market participants; and additionally, the ESAs must take into account technological innovation, innovative and sustainable business models, and the integration of environmental, social, and governance-related factors.6

The EBA was given a special task to lead the coordination and monitoring of the financial system for the purposes of ensuring its integrity, transparency, and security and this through the adoption of measures aimed at preventing and counter-acting money laundering and terrorist financing.7 Such measures include the gathering of information on weaknesses identified in the processes and procedures, governance arrangements and fitness and propriety measures by competent authorities.8 Additionally, the EBA was entrusted with providing assistance to competent authorities and helping in the coordination and exchange of information with competent authorities including the ECB.9 An additional measure involved the development and consistent implementation of guidance notes and standards of practice, including technical standards, for the prevention and counter-action of money laundering and terrorist financing in the financial services sphere.10 Finally, the EBA was also tasked with monitoring market developments for the purposes of assessing any risks and vulnerabilities existing in the financial sector in particular when it comes to fighting money laundering and terrorist financing.11 In this respect, on the 20th of December 2021, the EBA published its final report on draft regulatory technical standards setting up an AML/CFT central database and specifying the materiality of weaknesses, the type of information collected, the practical implementation of the information collection and the analysis and dissemination of the information contained therein.

The 2019 amendments granted the EBA the power to request competent authorities to investigate any possible breaches of EU law or otherwise national law in relation to the prevention and countering of money laundering and of terrorist financing and to also impose sanctions on any operators found in breach.12

The 2019 amendments brought about additional changes to the competencies of the ESAs. In exceptional circumstances and where the ESAs consider that the application of certain legislative acts13 or of any delegated or implementing acts based on those legislative acts, is liable to raise significant issues, the ESAs were granted the power to send a written detailed account to the competent authorities and the Commission detailing the said issues and providing the Commission with an opinion on actions considered appropriate.14 Additionally, the ESAs were granted the power to receive any questions and provide answers to admissible questions in relation to the application and implementation of the said legislative acts and associated delegated and implementing acts, and guidelines and recommendations that may have been adopted in relation thereto, from any natural or legal person including competent authorities and Union institutions and bodies.15 The ESAs were granted the power to, either on request (which may include public consultation or technical analysis) or out of their own initiative, provide their opinion to the European Parliament, Council and to the Commission, on issues identified in relation to its area of competence.16

Moreover, in instances where a competent authority has failed to apply the said legislative acts or there appears to be a breach of Union law, the ESAs now have the power to address a recommendation to the competent authority setting out the action necessary to comply with Union law. 17 The ESAs are further authorised to attempt to reach an agreement on actions necessary by engaging with the competent authority.18 In instances where any such competent authority fails to comply with any ESAs formal opinion issued, the ESAs are further granted the power to adopt individual decisions requiring the necessary action to comply with its obligations under Union law including the cessation of any practice.19

The ESAs were granted the power to have in place reporting channels to receive and handle information reported by natural or legal persons on breaches, abuse of the law, or non-application of  EU law whether actual or potential.20 The ESAs are required to ensure that information may be submitted anonymously or confidentially and safely and any such persons reporting shall be protected against retaliation.21  The ESAs are required to provide feedback to any report when the information contains evidence or significant indications of a material breach.22 

Every three years the ESAs now have the obligation to identify up to two strategic supervisory priorities of EU-wide relevance which shall reflect future developments and trends and this taking into account discussions with the Board of Supervisions, contributions from competent authorities, existing EU institutions work and analysis, warnings and recommendations published by the ESRB.23 Additionally, the ESAs must also follow-up with competent authorities to discuss relevant activities and propose guidelines, recommendations, and peer reviews as necessary.24

The 2019 amendments also require the ESAs to conduct peer reviews of competent authorities,25 and to work together and exchange information relevant to the assessment of the fitness and propriety of holders of qualifying holdings, directors, and key function holders of financial institutions by competent authorities in accordance with the legislative acts referred to above.26 The amendments saw the Management Boards of the ESAs being given increased powers including the power to set up internal committees and coordination groups, and give opinions and proposals on matters to be decided by the Board of Supervisors.27

The 2019 amendments also obliged the ESAs to monitor and assess market developments in which financial institutions operate and the impact thereon, and exchange information between them as well as with the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission about the relevant micro-prudential trends, potential risks and vulnerabilities existing in their area of competence.28 The ESAs also have new tasks in the context of international relations including equivalence assessments.29 Further amendments were introduced in relation to the budget, revenues, and financial rules of the ESAs.30

Following the public consultation launched in 2021, on the 23rd of May 2022, the Commission published its report on the operation of the European Supervisory Authorities, assessing their tasks and activities. This review was conducted with two key elements in mind, the effects COVID-19 has had on the financial system as well as Russia's war against Ukraine and the relative sanction implementation by EU financial Market operators.31 The report focuses on whether the amendments to the ESA Regulations discussed above (hereinafter referred to as the '2019 ESA review') were indeed beneficial to the EU's financial supervision. The report's conclusion was that the 2019 ESA review was received positively however it was still too early to assess in great depth the effects it had. In the said report, the Commission stressed the importance of improving the governance arrangements of the ESAs in view of the fact that having twenty-seven national supervisors gives prominence to national interests thereby producing sub-optimal results.32 However, the Commission also deemed any amendments to the ESA Regulations at this stage to be premature, such that focus should be had on the implementation of non-legislative measures with the aim of promoting supervisory convergence and consistent supervision.33

Footnotes

1 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), the Regulation amending the ESRB Regulation ((EU) 2019/2176), and the Omnibus Directive ((EU) 2019/2177) - which regulations and directives entered into force on 30/12/2019.

2 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1, 2 and 3 introducing new Article 76 to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

3 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1, 2 and 3 amending Article 9 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

4 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1, 2 and 3 amending Article 9 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

5 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1, 2 and 3 introducing new Article 3 to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

6 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1, 2 and 3 amending Article 8 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

7 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Article 1 amending Article 9a of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

8 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Article 1 amending Article 9a of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

9 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Article 1 amending Article 9a of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

10 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Article 1 amending Article 9a of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

11 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Article 1 amending Article 9a of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

12 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Article 1 amending Article 9b of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

13 Specifically, the legislative acts referred to in Article 1(2) of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council which include:

▪ Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR)

▪ Capital Requirements Directive (CRD)

▪ Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD)

▪ Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive (DGSD)

▪ Payment Services Directive (PSD)

▪ E-Money Directive (EMD)

▪ Financial Conglomerates Directive (FICOD)

▪ Distance Marketing Directive (DMD)

▪ Regulation on information accompanying transfers of funds (WTR)

14 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 9c to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

15 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 16b to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

16 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 16a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

17 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 amending Articles 17 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

18 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 amending Articles 17 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

19 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 amending Articles 17 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

20 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 17a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

21 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 17a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

22 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 17a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

23 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 29a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

24 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 29a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

25 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 29a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

26 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing new Article 30 to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

27 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing new Article 41 and 45b to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

28 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 amending Articles 32 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

29 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing new Articles 33 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council

30 The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 amending Articles 62 of and introduction Article 63, 64, and 65 to; Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

The amendments as introduced were made without prejudice to the obligations of Member States in relation to the processing of personal data.

31 European Commission (2022), Report from the European Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on the operation of the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs), Brussels, COM(2022) 228 final, 1

32 European Commission (2022), Report from the European Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on the operation of the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs), Brussels, COM(2022) 228 final, 10

33 European Commission (2022), Report from the European Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on the operation of the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs), Brussels, COM(2022) 228 final, 18

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Ms Rachel Genovese

CSB Group

The Penthouse,

Tower Business Centre, Tower Street,

Swatar

BKR 4013

MALTA

Tel: 25572557

Fax: 25572558

E-mail: sharon.grima@csbgroup.com

URL: www.csbgroup.com[http://www.csbgroup.com]

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2022 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com[http://www.mondaq.com]

Mondaq Limited

文件 BBPUB00020220822ei8m000bp


The Changes To The Structure And Competencies Of The European Supervisory Authorities (ESAS)
Finance Malta
2899 字
2022 年 8 月 31 日
Mondaq Business Briefing
BBPUB
英文
(c) 2022 Mondaq Ltd
Authored by Dr Rachel Pecorella Genovese, Manager - Shipping, IP & Commercial

In its efforts to strengthen its supervisory capabilities in the sphere of the financial services sector, the EU framework has seen the realisation of the European system of financial supervision (ESFS) consisting of three European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs):

The EU Financial Services Law European System of Financial Supervision (EIOPA) - with a supervisory role in the insurance and pensions sectors;

The European Banking Authority (EBA) - with a supervisory role in the banking sector; and

The European Security and Markets Authorities (ESMA) - with a supervisory role in the financial markets sector.

These three supervisory authorities work hand-in-hand with the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) which oversees the financial system; and together they seek to improve the operation of the internal market, and harmonising supervisory practices across EU Member States, thereby providing a level playfield for all key players. In attaining this goal, the ESAs have worked for a number of years towards creating a single rulebook governing financial services, covering the banking, insurance, and the capital markets industries.

The changes brought about in 2019 to the ESFS consisted of two regulations and a directive1. Of particular importance in this context is the Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), amending the regulation establishing the ESAs with the aim of reviewing the powers, governance, and funding thereof. With the 2019 amendments, ESMA became the legal successor of the Committee of European Securities Regulators (CESR); the EBA became the legal successor of the Committee of European Banking Supervisors (CEBS); and EIOPA became the legal successor of the Committee of European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisors (CEIOPS).2 Additionally, the ESAs' structure saw the introduction of a committee on consumer protection and financial innovation aimed at centralising all competent authorities responsible for consumer protection with the aim of enhancing the regulation thereof and ensuring a common approach in the regulation and supervision of innovative financial activities.3 The ESAs committees are also required to cooperate with the European Data Protection Board to ensure legal harmony in the context of data protection.4 The ESAs are accountable to the European Parliament and to the Council.5

The 2019 amendments required both ESMA and EIOPA to operate in such a manner that they use their full powers and ensure the safety and soundness of financial market participants; and additionally, the ESAs must take into account technological innovation, innovative and sustainable business models, and the integration of environmental, social, and governance-related factors.6

The EBA was given a special task to lead the coordination and monitoring of the financial system for the purposes of ensuring its integrity, transparency, and security and this through the adoption of measures aimed at preventing and counter-acting money laundering and terrorist financing.7 Such measures include the gathering of information on weaknesses identified in the processes and procedures, governance arrangements and fitness and propriety measures by competent authorities.8 Additionally, the EBA was entrusted with providing assistance to competent authorities and helping in the coordination and exchange of information with competent authorities including the ECB.9 An additional measure involved the development and consistent implementation of guidance notes and standards of practice, including technical standards, for the prevention and counter-action of money laundering and terrorist financing in the financial services sphere.10 Finally, the EBA was also tasked with monitoring market developments for the purposes of assessing any risks and vulnerabilities existing in the financial sector in particular when it comes to fighting money laundering and terrorist financing.11 In this respect, on the 20th of December 2021, the EBA published its final report on draft regulatory technical standards setting up an AML/CFT central database and specifying the materiality of weaknesses, the type of information collected, the practical implementation of the information collection and the analysis and dissemination of the information contained therein.

The 2019 amendments granted the EBA the power to request competent authorities to investigate any possible breaches of EU law or otherwise national law in relation to the prevention and countering of money laundering and of terrorist financing and to also impose sanctions on any operators found in breach.12

The 2019 amendments brought about additional changes to the competencies of the ESAs. In exceptional circumstances and where the ESAs consider that the application of certain legislative acts13 or of any delegated or implementing acts based on those legislative acts, is liable to raise significant issues, the ESAs were granted the power to send a written detailed account to the competent authorities and the Commission detailing the said issues and providing the Commission with an opinion on actions considered appropriate.14 Additionally, the ESAs were granted the power to receive any questions and provide answers to admissible questions in relation to the application and implementation of the said legislative acts and associated delegated and implementing acts, and guidelines and recommendations that may have been adopted in relation thereto, from any natural or legal person including competent authorities and Union institutions and bodies.15 The ESAs were granted the power to, either on request (which may include public consultation or technical analysis) or out of their own initiative, provide their opinion to the European Parliament, Council and to the Commission, on issues identified in relation to its area of competence.16

Moreover, in instances where a competent authority has failed to apply the said legislative acts or there appears to be a breach of Union law, the ESAs now have the power to address a recommendation to the competent authority setting out the action necessary to comply with Union law. 17 The ESAs are further authorised to attempt to reach an agreement on actions necessary by engaging with the competent authority.18 In instances where any such competent authority fails to comply with any ESAs formal opinion issued, the ESAs are further granted the power to adopt individual decisions requiring the necessary action to comply with its obligations under Union law including the cessation of any practice.19

The ESAs were granted the power to have in place reporting channels to receive and handle information reported by natural or legal persons on breaches, abuse of the law, or non-application of EU law whether actual or potential.20 The ESAs are required to ensure that information may be submitted anonymously or confidentially and safely and any such persons reporting shall be protected against retaliation.21 The ESAs are required to provide feedback to any report when the information contains evidence or significant indications of a material breach.22

Every three years the ESAs now have the obligation to identify up to two strategic supervisory priorities of EU-wide relevance which shall reflect future developments and trends and this taking into account discussions with the Board of Supervisions, contributions from competent authorities, existing EU institutions work and analysis, warnings and recommendations published by the ESRB.23 Additionally, the ESAs must also follow-up with competent authorities to discuss relevant activities and propose guidelines, recommendations, and peer reviews as necessary.24

The 2019 amendments also require the ESAs to conduct peer reviews of competent authorities,25 and to work together and exchange information relevant to the assessment of the fitness and propriety of holders of qualifying holdings, directors, and key function holders of financial institutions by competent authorities in accordance with the legislative acts referred to above.26 The amendments saw the Management Boards of the ESAs being given increased powers including the power to set up internal committees and coordination groups, and give opinions and proposals on matters to be decided by the Board of Supervisors.27

The 2019 amendments also obliged the ESAs to monitor and assess market developments in which financial institutions operate and the impact thereon, and exchange information between them as well as with the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission about the relevant micro-prudential trends, potential risks and vulnerabilities existing in their area of competence.28 The ESAs also have new tasks in the context of international relations including equivalence assessments.29 Further amendments were introduced in relation to the budget, revenues, and financial rules of the ESAs.30

Following the public consultation launched in 2021, on the 23rd of May 2022, the Commission published its report on the operation of the European Supervisory Authorities, assessing their tasks and activities. This review was conducted with two key elements in mind, the effects COVID-19 has had on the financial system as well as Russia's war against Ukraine and the relative sanction implementation by EU financial Market operators.31 The report focuses on whether the amendments to the ESA Regulations discussed above (hereinafter referred to as the '2019 ESA review') were indeed beneficial to the EU's financial supervision. The report's conclusion was that the 2019 ESA review was received positively however it was still too early to assess in great depth the effects it had. In the said report, the Commission stressed the importance of improving the governance arrangements of the ESAs in view of the fact that having twenty-seven national supervisors gives prominence to national interests thereby producing sub-optimal results.32 However, the Commission also deemed any amendments to the ESA Regulations at this stage to be premature, such that focus should be had on the implementation of non-legislative measures with the aim of promoting supervisory convergence and consistent supervision.33

Footnotes

1. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), the Regulation amending the ESRB Regulation ((EU) 2019/2176), and the Omnibus Directive ((EU) 2019/2177) - which regulations and directives entered into force on 30/12/2019.

2. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1, 2 and 3 introducing new Article 76 to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

3. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1, 2 and 3 amending Article 9 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

4. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1, 2 and 3 amending Article 9 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

5. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1, 2 and 3 introducing new Article 3 to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

6. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1, 2 and 3 amending Article 8 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

7. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Article 1 amending Article 9a of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

8. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Article 1 amending Article 9a of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

9. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Article 1 amending Article 9a of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

10. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Article 1 amending Article 9a of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

11. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Article 1 amending Article 9a of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

12. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Article 1 amending Article 9b of Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

13. Specifically, the legislative acts referred to in Article 1(2) of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council which include:

 Capital Requirements Regulation (CRR)

 Capital Requirements Directive (CRD)

 Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (BRRD)

 Deposit Guarantee Schemes Directive (DGSD)

 Payment Services Directive (PSD)

 E-Money Directive (EMD)

 Financial Conglomerates Directive (FICOD)

 Distance Marketing Directive (DMD)

 Regulation on information accompanying transfers of funds (WTR)

14. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 9c to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

15. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 16b to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

16. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 16a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

17. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 amending Articles 17 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

18. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 amending Articles 17 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

19. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 amending Articles 17 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

20. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 17a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

21. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 17a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

22. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 17a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

23. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 29a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

24. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 29a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

25. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing Article 29a to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

26. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing new Article 30 to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

27. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing new Article 41 and 45b to Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

28. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 amending Articles 32 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

29. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 introducing new Articles 33 of Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council

30. The Omnibus Regulation ((EU) 2019/2175), Articles 1,2 and 3 amending Articles 62 of and introduction Article 63, 64, and 65 to; Regulations (EU) No 1093/2010, (EU) No 1094/2010 and (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council.

The amendments as introduced were made without prejudice to the obligations of Member States in relation to the processing of personal data.

31. European Commission (2022), Report from the European Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on the operation of the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs), Brussels, COM(2022) 228 final, 1

32. European Commission (2022), Report from the European Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on the operation of the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs), Brussels, COM(2022) 228 final, 10

33. European Commission (2022), Report from the European Commission to the European Parliament and the Council on the operation of the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs), Brussels, COM(2022) 228 final, 18

Originally published by CSB Group

The content of this article is intended to provide a general guide to the subject matter. Specialist advice should be sought about your specific circumstances.

Finance Malta

Finance Malta

AM Business Centre, Level 1,

Triq il-Labour

Zejtun

ZTN 2401

MALTA

Tel: 21224 525

Fax: 21449 212

E-mail: info@financemalta.org

URL: www.financemalta.org[http://www.financemalta.org]

Click Here for related articles

(c) Mondaq Ltd, 2022 - Tel. +44 (0)20 8544 8300 - http://www.mondaq.com[http://www.mondaq.com]

Mondaq Limited

文件 BBPUB00020220831ei8v000ex


*G-7, EU Aim to Set Russian Oil Price Cap Wednesday, Sources Say -- WSJ
668 字
2022 年 11 月 22 日 16:30 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
22 Nov 2022 11:30 ET *Officials Discussing Price Cap Around $60 a Barrel, Sources Say -- WSJ

22 Nov 2022 11:30 ET *Officials Said Price Could Be as High as $70 a Barrel, Sources Say -- WSJ

22 Nov 2022 11:30 ET *EU Disagreements Could Still Prevent Signoff, Sources Say -- WSJ

22 Nov 2022 11:30 ET Western Allies Aim to Agree on Russian Oil Price Cap Wednesday -- WSJ

By Laurence Norman and Andrew Duehren

The U.S. and its allies are seeking to agree on a level for a price cap on Russian oil as soon as Wednesday, with officials discussing setting it at around $60 a barrel as the group rushes to put the plan into place before Dec. 5, according to people familiar with the talks.

The price cap, which the people said could still be set as high as $70, is at the center of the West's efforts to sanction Russia for its invasion of Ukraine. The untested sanctions design is set to begin on Dec. 5 after facing delays this fall, as the Group of Seven advanced democracies has struggled to iron out the final details of the complicated plan.

Ambassadors from the 27 European Union member states are scheduled to meet Wednesday, when they will try to come to an agreement on a price. The bloc must agree on the price cap unanimously and diplomats warned that may prove difficult. The G-7 is aiming to approve the cap in sync with the EU.

The aim of the plan, which was pushed hard by Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, is to crimp Russian energy exports revenue while avoiding a surge in oil prices when a European embargo on Russian oil imports kicks in early next month. Despite European reluctance at the time, the G-7 first agreed on setting the oil price cap in June following Russia's Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine.

Under the sanctions, the G-7, EU and Australia will all ban the provision of maritime services for shipments of Russian oil unless the oil is sold below the set cap. The Western countries are hoping to take advantage of their control of much of the world's maritime insurance, financing and shipping services to dictate the terms of Russia's oil sales.

The EU has already given backing in principle to a mechanism for approving the price cap, but there were several pending issues that member states needed to agree upon. One was the price of the oil cap, which remains contentious. A number of countries, including Poland and Lithuania, have been urging for a far lower cap set around the price of production, which Polish officials have said is around $20 a barrel.

"If you are introducing the price cap at $60, $65 that sounds reasonable from the point of view of our allies. But from our point of view, as I said before, we would like to see the possible minimum, which is the marginal production cost," said Oleg Ustenko, an economic adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.

The EU also came under strong pressure from Washington and London to amend an element of its legislation that would have seen vessels that breach the price cap banned from receiving EU oil services like brokerage or insurance.

Under a compromise hammered out by U.S. and EU member state officials, the ban for vessels will now be time limited, according to people familiar with the plan. It will also rest on evidence that the vessel had deliberately breached the price cap.

Greece, Malta and Cyprus, each of which have large maritime industries, will need to sign off on the compromise for the EU to move forward with the price cap.

Write to Laurence Norman at laurence.norman@wsj.com and Andrew Duehren at andrew.duehren@wsj.com

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

November 22, 2022 11:30 ET (16:30 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020221122eibm002ki


World News
World
Western Allies Aim to Agree on Russian Oil Price Cap Wednesday; G-7, EU are discussing a limit of around $60 a barrel to sanction Moscow for its invasion of Ukraine
By Laurence Norman and Andrew Duehren
944 字
2022 年 11 月 22 日 22:01 GMT
The Wall Street Journal Online
WSJO
英文
Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
The U.S. and its allies are seeking to agree as soon as Wednesday on a level for a price cap on Russian oil[https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-allies-set-parameters-for-price-cap-on-russian-oil-11667554203], with officials discussing setting it at around $60 a barrel as the group rushes to complete the plan, according to people familiar with the talks.

The price cap, which the people said could still be set as high as $70, is at the center of the West's efforts to sanction Russia for its invasion of Ukraine[https://www.wsj.com/articles/ukraine-launches-assault-to-oust-russia-from-key-black-sea-peninsula-11669114391]. The Group of Seven advanced democracies and Australia plan to begin enforcing the price cap on Dec. 5 after struggling to craft its details this fall.

Ambassadors from the 27 European Union member states are scheduled to meet Wednesday, when they will try to agree on a price. The bloc needs a unanimous agreement on the price for it to take effect and diplomats warned that may prove difficult to achieve quickly. The G-7 is aiming to approve the cap soon after the EU.

The aim of the plan, which was pushed hard[https://www.wsj.com/articles/yellen-pitches-russian-oil-price-cap-to-chinese-counterpart-11657716052] by Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, is to crimp Russian energy exports revenue while avoiding a surge in oil prices[https://www.wsj.com/articles/looming-oil-supply-shock-launches-debate-in-opec-11669150705].

Under the program, the G-7, EU and Australia would ban the provision of maritime services for shipments of Russian oil unless the oil is sold below the price cap. The Western countries are hoping to take advantage of their control of much of the world's maritime insurance, financing and shipping services to dictate the terms of Russia's seaborne oil sales.

After hammering out the price cap program for months, selecting the actual price level[https://www.wsj.com/articles/eu-likely-to-approve-g-7-cap-on-russian-oil-price-in-two-steps-11664906852] is the last major decision the group of allies must make to complete the plan. Talks on the cap remain contentious, as a number of countries, including Poland and Lithuania, call for a far lower cap set around the price of production. Polish officials have said the price of production is around $20 a barrel.

"If you are introducing the price cap at $60, $65, that sounds reasonable from the point of view of our allies. But from our point of view, as I said before, we would like to see the possible minimum, which is the marginal production cost," said Oleg Ustenko, an economic adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.

U.S. officials want to set the price cap high enough to entice Russia to keep selling its oil to global markets, even at the capped price. Biden administration officials have looked at Russia's prewar oil prices, which averaged around $65 a barrel, as one gauge of where the cap should be set.

Brent crude traded at around $88 per barrel on Tuesday, though Refinitiv data shows Russian crude trading around $26 per barrel below Brent in recent days. Traders and analysts say the average discount on Russian crude may in fact be much narrower than that.

The U.S. has sought to make enforcement of the price cap relatively relaxed, pushing the EU to amend its plan to ban vessels that breach the price cap from receiving EU oil services like brokerage or insurance. U.S. officials worried the EU plan would scare shippers from wanting to carry Russian oil.

Under a compromise reached by U.S. and EU member state officials, the ban for vessels will now last 90 days, according to European officials. It will also rest on evidence that the vessel had deliberately breached the price cap.

Greece, Malta and Cyprus, each of which have large maritime industries, need to sign off on the compromise for the EU to move forward with the price cap.

The U.S. Treasury Department on Tuesday rolled out guidance for complying with the price cap, reiterating that firms will only be subject to penalties if they knowingly provide services to Russian oil shipments violating the price cap.

The guidance also states that the price of the cap could change over time. A senior Treasury official said Western countries will monitor market conditions as they consider changes to the cap, adding that possible adjustments would likely happen quarterly or semiannually.

The West is also planning to set two distinct price caps for Russian petroleum products on Feb. 5.

Russian officials have said repeatedly that they will refuse to sell oil under a price cap, though the Biden administration views those threats as a bluff. Ms. Yellen said in a recent interview that the U.S. could draw further from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve if Russia cuts off its supplies and raises global prices.

"We think the price cap is gonna work and we still have possibilities with the Strategic Petroleum Reserves that we could use," she said.

Keeping Russian oil available on global markets—in hopes of keeping prices from rising—has been a critical goal for the Biden administration in the price cap talks.

The price cap would replace Europe's plan to completely ban the financing and insurance of Russian oil shipments, which would take effect on Dec. 5 if the Western allies couldn't agree on the cap. U.S. officials worried the original EU sanctions would cut Russian oil off from global markets and send energy prices higher, so they want to put the price cap into place by that date.

Write to Laurence Norman at laurence.norman@wsj.com[mailto:laurence.norman@wsj.com] and Andrew Duehren at andrew.duehren@wsj.com[mailto:andrew.duehren@wsj.com]

Western Allies Aim to Agree on Russian Oil Price Cap Wednesday[https://www.wsj.com/articles/western-allies-aim-to-agree-on-russian-oil-price-cap-wednesday-11669134657]

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 WSJO000020221122eibm003h1


Screws to Tighten on Russian Oil -- WSJ
971 字
2022 年 11 月 23 日 07:32 GMT
Dow Jones Institutional News
DJDN
A7
英文
Copyright © 2022, Dow Jones & Company, Inc.
G-7, EU, U.S. discuss maritime-service ban to punish Moscow if price tops certain level

By Laurence Norman and Andrew Duehren 
The U.S. and its allies are seeking to agree as soon as Wednesday on a level for a price cap on Russian oil, with officials discussing setting it at around $60 a barrel as the group rushes to complete the plan, according to people familiar with the talks.

The price cap, which the people said could still be set as high as $70, is at the center of the West's efforts to sanction Russia for its invasion of Ukraine. The Group of Seven advanced democracies and Australia plan to begin enforcing the price cap on Dec. 5 after struggling to craft its details this fall.

Ambassadors from the 27 European Union member states are scheduled to meet Wednesday, when they will try to agree on a price. The bloc needs a unanimous agreement on the price for it to take effect and diplomats warned that may prove difficult to achieve quickly. The G-7 is aiming to approve the cap soon after the EU.

The aim of the plan, which was pushed hard by Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, is to crimp Russian energy exports revenue while avoiding a surge in oil prices.

Under the program, the G-7, EU and Australia would ban the provision of maritime services for shipments of Russian oil unless the oil is sold below the price cap. The Western countries are hoping to take advantage of their control of much of the world's maritime insurance, financing and shipping services to dictate the terms of Russia's seaborne oil sales.

After hammering out the price cap program for months, selecting the actual price level is the last major decision the group of allies must make to complete the plan. Talks on the cap remain contentious, as a number of countries, including Poland and Lithuania, call for a far lower cap set around the price of production. Polish officials have said the price of production is around $20 a barrel.

"If you are introducing the price cap at $60, $65, that sounds reasonable from the point of view of our allies. But from our point of view, as I said before, we would like to see the possible minimum, which is the marginal production cost," said Oleg Ustenko, an economic adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky.

U.S. officials want to set the price cap high enough to entice Russia to keep selling its oil to global markets, even at the capped price. Biden administration officials have looked at Russia's prewar oil prices, which averaged around $65 a barrel, as one gauge of where the cap should be set.

Brent crude traded at around $88 per barrel on Tuesday, though Refinitiv data shows Russian crude trading around $26 per barrel below Brent in recent days. Traders and analysts say the average discount on Russian crude may in fact be much narrower than that.

The U.S. has sought to make enforcement of the price cap relatively relaxed, pushing the EU to amend its plan to ban vessels that breach the price cap from receiving EU oil services like brokerage or insurance. U.S. officials worried the EU plan would scare shippers from wanting to carry Russian oil.

Under a compromise reached by U.S. and EU member state officials, the ban for vessels will now last 90 days, according to European officials. It will also rest on evidence that the vessel had deliberately breached the price cap.

Greece, Malta and Cyprus, each of which have large maritime industries, need to sign off on the compromise for the EU to move forward with the price cap.

The U.S. Treasury Department on Tuesday rolled out guidance for complying with the price cap, reiterating that firms will only be subject to penalties if they knowingly provide services to Russian oil shipments violating the price cap.

The guidance also states that the price of the cap could change over time. A senior Treasury official said Western countries will monitor market conditions as they consider changes to the cap, adding that possible adjustments would likely happen quarterly or semiannually.

The West is also planning to set two distinct price caps for Russian petroleum products on Feb. 5.

Russian officials have said repeatedly that they will refuse to sell oil under a price cap, though the Biden administration views those threats as a bluff. Ms. Yellen said in a recent interview that the U.S. could draw further from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve if Russia cuts off its supplies and raises global prices.

"We think the price cap is gonna work and we still have possibilities with the Strategic Petroleum Reserves that we could use," she said.

Keeping Russian oil available on global markets -- in hopes of keeping prices from rising -- has been a critical goal for the Biden administration in the price cap talks.

The price cap would replace Europe's plan to completely ban the financing and insurance of Russian oil shipments, which would take effect on Dec. 5 if the Western allies couldn't agree on the cap. U.S. officials worried the original EU sanctions would cut Russian oil off from global markets and send energy prices higher, so they want to put the price cap into place by that date.

Write to Laurence Norman at laurence.norman@wsj.com and Andrew Duehren at andrew.duehren@wsj.com

This article is being republished as part of our daily reproduction of WSJ.com articles that also appeared in the U.S. print edition of The Wall Street Journal (November 23, 2022).

(END) Dow Jones Newswires

November 23, 2022 02:32 ET (07:32 GMT)

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 DJDN000020221127eibn0005i


Gozo fast ferry operators have financial assistance doubled, but government wants to give them €12 million more in state aid
753 字
2022 年 12 月 24 日
Malta Today
MALTOD
英文
Copyright © MediaToday Co. Ltd.
Updated 23.12.2022 11.10pm with revised information from theEuropean Commission Representation in Malta

The government has been given the green light to offer the two Gozo fast ferry operators up to€2 million each, under the EU's Temporary Crisis Framework scheme.

But in the meantime - to the disbeliefof experts and other players in the transport industry - the government has again approached the Commission, seeking approval to offer the same two companies an additional€12 million two-year public service contract, which amounts to state aid.

The government had already secured approval for Virtu Ferries and Gozo Fast Ferry to each receive up to €500,000 in financial aid under the EU's Temporary Crisis Framework for state aid measures to support the economy following the aggression against Ukraine by Russia.

But in it had subsequently approached the Commission seeking to increase the aid offered and extend the scheme's mandate beyond 2022.

And in September, the Transport Ministry had confirmed the government had sought permission from the European Commission to be allowed to offer the companies the€12 million in direct aidand that the contract would be validated pending final authorisation from the Commission.

When contacted by sister newspaper BusinessToday[https://www.businesstoday.com.mt/] earlier this week, a spokesperson for the European Commission Representation in Malta initially confirmed that this state aidhad been given the green light by the Commission.

Following publication of the article on Thursday, the newspaper was subsequently informed that it was the government's request to expand and extend the framework of the originalfinancial aid under the EU's Temporary Crisis Framework, that had been approved.

That authorisation came on 2 December when the Commission ruled that the government's scheme "is compatible with the internal market pursuant to Article 107(3)(b) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union".

The Commission has yet to declare itself on the government's additional request to be allowed to offer the two fast ferry operators an additional €12 million in direct state aid.

Experts in the transport industry have expressed doubt that the Commission could sanction state aid to two competing companies within a market that clearly does not merit two operators, more so when these are competing against a regular ferry service, operated by Gozo Channel, a state-owned company.

They told BusinessToday that it was clear that the two fast ferry services were floundering because of low passenger take-up, and not as a result of the war in Ukraine.

"What has the war in Ukraine got to do with the fast ferries?" one operator in the sector said. "When the service was launched it immediately became clear that two companies operating the same route were unnecessary. Moreover, passenger take-up never ramped up, possible due to the pricing of the service and the companies' schedules."

When the service was launched in June 2021, the two operators offered alternate routes and different prices, but the two companies later reformed their ticketing system so that any tickets bought can be used interchangeably between services on a shared schedule.

If confirmed, the two-year service contract would bind operators to maintain a schedule in line with people's needs as well as fix prices, the government said.

The contract will also allow people receiving treatment at Mater Dei Hospital and the Gozo General Hospital to make use of the fast ferry service for free.

The objective of the existing aid scheme is to remedy the liquidity shortage faced by undertakings that are directly or indirectly affected by the serious disturbance of the economy caused by the Russian aggression against Ukraine, the sanctions imposed by the EU or by its international partners, as well as by the economic counter measures taken so far by Russia.

Malta approached the Commission to amend the existing aid scheme as follows:

* to prolong the existing aid scheme until 31 December 2023, both as regards the period for which aid can be granted and the final date by when the aid will be granted;

* to increase the maximum aid amount per beneficiary undertaking at any given point in time to €2 million; and

* to increase the overall budget of the existing aid scheme from €1 million to €4 million.

In its submissions, Malta confirmed that no further amendments were proposed to the existing aid scheme and that all other conditions of that scheme remain unaltered.

Media Today

文件 MALTOD0020221223eicn0002w


PRESS RELEASE - EUROPEAN COMMISSION
4443 字
2023 年 2 月 15 日
Cyprus News Agency
CYPRNA
英文
Copyright © 2023 NETinfo Services Limited
February infringements package: key decisions

Overview by policy area

In its regular package of infringement decisions, the European Commission pursues legal action against Member States for failing to comply with their obligations under EU law. These decisions, covering various sectors and EU policy areas, aim to ensure the proper application of EU law for the benefit of citizens and businesses.

The key decisions taken by the Commission are presented below and grouped by policy area. The Commission is also closing 93 cases in which the issues with the Member States concerned have been solved without the Commission needing to pursue the procedure further.

For more information on the EU infringement procedure, see the full Q and A. For more detail on all decisions taken, consult the infringement decisions' register.

Marine environment: Commission calls on BULGARIA, DENMARK, ESTONIA, GREECE, CROATIA, CYPRUS, LATVIA, LITHUANIA and MALTA to protect their marine waters

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Bulgaria (INFR(2022)2172), Croatia (INFR(2022)2177), Cyprus (INFR(2022)2173), Denmark (INFR(2022)2174), Estonia (INFR(2022)2175), Greece (INFR(2022)2176), Latvia (INFR(2022)2180), Lithuania (INFR(2022)2179), and Malta (INFR(2022)2181) for failing to comply with the Marine Strategy Framework Directive (Directive 2008/56/EC). The directive aims to protect the EU's seas and oceans and ensure that their resources are managed sustainably.

Under the directive, Member States were required to review and update their 'monitoring programmes' by 15 October 2020 and their 'programmes of measures' by 31 March 2022.

The Member States concerned failed to submit reports on the review of their programmes of measures to the Commission by the required deadlines. Bulgaria and Malta also failed to send reports on the review of their monitoring programmes.

As a result, the Commission decided today to send a letter of formal notice to Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania and Malta. They now have two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Water management: Commission calls on 16 Member States to finalise review of their water plans

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Belgium (INFR(2022)2188), Bulgaria (INFR(2022)2189), Croatia (INFR(2022)2193), Cyprus (INFR(2022)2190), Denmark (INFR(2022)2184), Greece (INFR(2022)2191), Ireland (INFR(2022)2185), Lithuania (INFR(2022)2194), Luxembourg (INFR(2022)2186), Malta (INFR(2022)2195), Poland (INFR(2022)2196), Portugal (INFR(2022)2197), Romania (INFR(2022)2198), Slovakia (INFR(2022)2187), Slovenia (INFR(2022)2199) and Spain (INFR(2022)2192) for failing to finalise the revision of the river basin management plans as required under the Water Framework Directive (Directive 2000/60/EC) and/or the flood risk management plans as required under the Floods Directive (Directive 2007/60/EC). Both directives require Member States to update and report every six years their management plans on river basins and flood risk, respectively. River Basin Management Plans include a programme of measures which are key to ensure good status of all water bodies, as required by the directive. Flood risk management plans are formed on the basis of maps showing the potential adverse consequences associated with flood scenarios.

Sustainable water management is a core element of the European Green Deal. The following Member States failed to comply with their obligations under either one or both of the Directives:

Belgium (INFR(2022)2188), Bulgaria (INFR(2022)2189), Croatia (INFR(2022)2193), Cyprus (INFR(2022)2190), Greece (INFR(2022)2191), Spain (INFR(2022)2192) Lithuania (INFR(2022)2194), Malta (INFR(2022)2195), Portugal (INFR(2022)2197), Romania (INFR(2022)2198) and Slovenia (INFR(2022)2199)have failed to review, adopt and report in time all their third river basin management plans and second flood risk management plans;

Denmark (INFR(2022)2184), Ireland (INFR(2022)2185) and Poland (INFR(2022)2196) are beyond legal time limits as regards the review, adoption and reporting of the third river basin management plans;

Luxembourg (INFR(2022)2186) and Slovakia (INFR(2022)2187) are beyond legal time limits as regards the review and adoption and reporting of second flood risk management plans.

The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to these 16 Member States, which now have two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Free movement of services: Commission takes action to ensure a well-functioning single market

Today, the European Commission decided to launch and to pursue 24 cases against several Member States for various breaches of services-related legislation. These decisions are taken to ensure the correct implementation of rules aiming at the good functioning of the single market for services.

The Commission has decided to open and pursue infringement procedures relating to the EU Proportionality Test Directive. In particular, the Commission has decided to send 11 additional letters of formal notice to Bulgaria (INFR(2021)2206), Czechia (INFR(2021)2201), Greece (INFR(2021)2200), France (INFR(2021)2202), Croatia (INFR(2021)2198), Cyprus (INFR(2022)2055), Latvia (INFR(2021)2257), Hungary (INFR(2021)2192), the Netherlands (INFR(2021)2197), Austria (INFR(2021)2205), and Slovakia (INFR(2021)2204) while Estonia (INFR(2022)2169) will be receiving a letter of formal notice to ensure that the introduction of professional regulations via parliamentary amendments is covered by a prior proportionality assessment.

In addition, the Commission decided to send 5 reasoned opinions to Germany (INFR(2021)2212), Spain (INFR(2021)2256), Lithuania (INFR(2021)2207), Poland (INFR(2021)2208), and Slovenia (INFR(2021)2195) for not having properly implemented the EU Proportionality Test Directive for regulation of professions.

Concerning the enforcement of the Services Directive, the Commission has decided to open an infringement against Malta (INFR(2022)2210), Poland (INFR(2022)2211) and Slovenia(INFR(2022)2209) for having in place a total prohibition on the advertising of lawyers' activities. The Commission has also decided to open an infringement against Cyprus (INFR(2022)2170) for having in place prohibitions to team up with other professions in real estate agency companies and Slovenia (INFR(2022)4119) for fixing minimum tariffs for certain real estate intermediation services.

Moreover, the European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Belgium (INFR(2022)4120) for having in place a disproportionate guarantee scheme for certain construction services, and to Spain (INFR(2022)4121) for having failed to ensure a transparent and impartial selection procedure for the granting of concessions relating to coastal areas. All Member States concerned have two months to respond to the arguments raised by the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to take the next step in the procedure. A press release is available here.

Offshore energy: Commission calls on CYPRUS to correctly transpose EU rules on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Cyprus (INFR(2022)2220) for failing to correctly transpose into national legislation certain provisions of the EU Offshore Safety Directive (Directive 2013/30/EU). This directive put in place rules to help prevent accidents at offshore energy installations and to respond promptly and efficiently should such accidents occur. Member States must ensure that companies to which they grant a licence for exploration or production have the necessary technical and financial means, and that they keep resources available to put them into operation when necessary. An independent authority needs to be in place in order to ensure that safety requirements are respected, as well as an adequate system to handle compensation claims in case of accident. Companies are fully liable for environmental damages caused to protected species and natural habitats. The deadline to transpose the directive into national law was 19 July 2015. The Commission has supported Cyprus in transposing and implementing the EU rules, but it found that a number of provisions were not correctly transposed. Cyprus now has two months to address the shortcomings identified by the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to send a reasoned opinion.

EU exclusive external competence: The European Commission decides to refer HUNGARY to the Court of Justice of the European Union for voting against the Union position

Today, the European Commission decided to refer Hungary (INFR(2020)2364) to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failure to follow the position of the EU on the World Health Organization (WHO) recommendations on scheduling cannabis and cannabis-related substances under two UN conventions, as outlined in Council Decision (EU) 2021/3. Those recommendations concern changes in the listing of substances under international control. In EU law the decisions on the international scheduling of substances under the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, as amended by the 1972 Protocol, and the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 fall under the exclusive competence of the EU. The Council Decision determining the Union position is binding on the EU Member States, in line with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (Article 218(9)). It provides that Member States have to vote accordingly in the Commission on Narcotic Drugs. Hungary voted contrary to the EU position twice during the vote on the WHO recommendations. The Commission therefore launched the infringement procedure against Hungary with a letter of formal notice sent on 18 February 2021, followed by a reasoned opinion on 12 November 2021. As the reply to the reasoned opinion was unsatisfactory, the Commission has decided to refer Hungary to the Court of Justice of the European Union. More information can be found in the press release.

Central America and Mexico: EU reaffirms support with pound 11 million in humanitarian aid

The Commission has announced today pound 11 million in humanitarian aid for Central America and Mexico on the occasion of the 'High-level Solidarity Roundtable in support of the 2023 Northern Central America Humanitarian Response Plans', which took place in Geneva.

The funding will focus on:

pound 3.5 million will support the addressing of the humanitarian consequences of violence, including displacement, and food insecurity issues.

pound 3 million will focus on Education in Emergencies.

pound 4.5 million will support the implementation of disaster preparedness activities.

Background

Central America and Mexico are exposed to natural hazards, epidemics, social unrest, pervasive violence, chronic poverty and inequality. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and inflation are worsening people's vulnerability and affecting their coping capacity. This situation results in more displacement, food insecurity and protection risks, notably in El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala.

The sub-region is also a transit hotspot and destination area for migrants and people on the move, both from Latin America and Caribbean as well as from other continents, on their way to the US border. What is more, rural communities and ethnic minorities in the Dry Corridor, bear the humanitarian consequences of frequent climate shocks.

Since 1994, the EU has allocated pound 322 million in humanitarian aid to Central America and Mexico.

Part of the funding for Central America and Mexico has helped respond to emergencies such as floods, droughts, hurricanes, epidemics, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, internal displacement, and violence. The remaining funding helped vulnerable communities build resilience to face future disasters.

In 2022 alone, on a regional level, the EU earmarked pound 160 million to tackle the most urgent humanitarian issues in Latin America and the Caribbean.

DiscoverEU: next application round for 35,000 young people to receive a travel pass opens in March

The Commission will launch the DiscoverEU spring call, which will run from Wednesday 15 March at 12:00 CET and close on Wednesday 29 March at 12:00 CET. Thanks to DisoverEU, 35,000 young people will receive a travel pass to explore Europe, its rich cultural heritage, widen their perspective and gain an enriching experience. The call is open to 18-year old applicants from all EU Member States and third countries associated with the programme. To win a travel pass, young people need to apply on the European Youth Portal, where they will have to answer five questions as well as a tiebreaker question.

Applicants, born between 1 July 2004 and 30 June 2005 and who have successfully filled in the selection quiz, will be able to travel in Europe for up to 30 days, between 15 June 2023 and 30 September 2024. Those turning 18 in the second half of next year will be able to apply in the October 2023 round.

Commissioner for Innovation, Research, Culture, Education and Youth Mariya Gabriel said: 'We are glad to make available, for 2023, a total of 70,000 travel passes to 18-year old people who will be able to experience our Union first-hand.'

Since DiscoverEU is part of the Erasmus+ programme, participants from Iceland, Liechtenstein, North Macedonia, Norway, Serbia, and Trkiye are also eligible to apply.

As in the last round, participants will continue benefitting from a discount card with more than 40,000 discount possibilities on public transport, culture, accommodation, food, sports, and other services available in all eligible countries. They will also be able to join DiscoverEU Meet-ups with exciting cultural programmes that last between 1 and 3 days across all Erasmus+ countries. More information about the past rounds of 2022 are available here.

(For more information: Sonya Gospodinova - Tel.: +32 2 296 69 53; Flore Boutier - Tel.: +32 2 296 60 43)

Statement by President von der Leyen on the 10th package of sanctions against Russia

For almost one year now, Russia's war of aggression has been sowing death and destruction. Putin is not only waging a brutal war on the battlefield but he is also viciously targeting civilians. The perpetrator has to pay for this. Today, we are turning up the pressure with a 10th package of sanctions.

First, we propose further export bans worth more than pound 11 billion, to deprive the Russian economy of critical technology and industrial goods. For maximum impact, we are targeting many industrial goods that Russia needs, and that it cannot get from other countries like China. Vital goods such as electronics, specialised vehicles, machine and engine parts, spare parts for trucks and jet engines. And we are targeting goods for the construction sector which can be directed to Russia's military, such as antennas or cranes.

Second, we will further restrict the export of dual use goods and advanced tech goods. We propose controls on 47 new electronic components that can be used in Russian weapons systems, including drones, missiles, helicopters. And on specific rare earth materials and thermal cameras. With this, we have banned all tech products found on the battlefield. And we will make sure they don't find other ways to get there. This is why, for the first time ever, we are adding third country entities to the Russia dual use sanctions. Iran's Revolutionary Guards have been providing Russia with Shahed drones to attack civilian infrastructure in Ukraine. Therefore, we are now adding seven Iranian entities to our dual use regime. They are now under a complete ban to sell sensitive items to Russia. And we stand ready to list further Iranian and other third country entities that are providing sensitive technology to Russia. This should act as a strong deterrent to other companies and international traders.

My third point is about Russia's propaganda machine. Putin is also waging war in the public space, with an army of propagandists and disinformation networks. They are spreading toxic lies to polarise our societies. So we are proposing to list Putin's propagandists as well as additional military and political commanders. High Representative Borrell will provide you more information on the listings we are proposing today.

We now have in place the toughest sanctions ever introduced by the European Union. And we have to ensure that they are rigorously applied. Therefore, our 10th package introduces new measures to prevent circumvention. This is my fourth point. We will track oligarchs trying to hide or to sell their assets to escape sanctions. And together with Member States we will set up an overview of all frozen assets of the Russian central bank held in the EU. We need to know where these are located and how much they are worth. This is crucial in view of the possible use of public Russian assets to fund reconstruction in Ukraine.

And finally, we are working closely with Member States, operators and partner countries to tackle circumvention. Our special envoy David O'Sullivan is reaching out to third countries, to ensure strict implementation of sanctions and prevent circumvention. And next week, we will organise a Sanctions Coordinators Forum, gathering our international partners and Member States, to strengthen enforcement efforts. Together, we are tightening the screws on Russia more and more. I call on the Member States to adopt this new package of sanctions swiftly. Our aim is to have, together with our G7 partners, further significant sanctions in place by 24 February - exactly one year after Putin launched his imperial war.

Print friendly pdf

Speech by President von der Leyen at the European Parliament Plenary on one year of Russia's invasion and war of aggression against Ukraine

"Check against delivery"

Thank you, Madam President, dear Roberta,

Honourable Members,

Almost a year ago, on the night of 24 February, Russia invaded Ukraine and war was back in Europe. That night our thoughts and prayers were with our Ukrainian friends. We followed the news from the Donbas and Kyiv with unbearable tension. Would they be able to withstand the onslaught of the Russian invaders? Today we know, yes, they would. One year on, Putin's perfidious plans continue to be foiled by the brave Ukrainian nation. One year on, Russia has completely alienated itself from Europe, its most important economic relationship, and is isolated on the world stage. One year on, this Parliament welcomed the Ukrainian President, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, as the true hero he is. And one year on, Putin's imperial fantasies have woken up to a bleak reality, while Ukraine's dreams are stronger than ever. And they will prevail.

Honourable Members,

What a difference one year of unity and resolve can make. In the early hours of 24 February, when Russian tanks rolled into Ukraine, a whole continent held its breath. Some predicted that Ukraine would fall in a matter of days. But instead, the legendary bravery of the Ukrainian people stunned the world. Their fierce resistance at the gates of Kyiv. The civilians who stopped Russian tanks in the south. The counter-offensive of Ukraine's armed forces in Kharkiv and Kherson. We can never match the sacrifice and the bravery of the Ukrainian people. But we can stand firmly by their side. And that is what we did. A whole continent has mobilised. From the volunteers of Warsaw station, who welcomed Ukrainians fleeing Putin's bombs, to all citizens and companies, which have cut their electricity consumption. Together with you, Honourable Members, we have focused on three main goals.

First, to support Ukraine's resistance against the invader unwaveringly. Second, to undermine Russia's war machine. Third, to build Ukraine´s European future together. These three strands of action have guided us over the last year and will continue to guide us in the months to come.

Let me begin with our continued support for Ukraine's resistance. Since the war began, the European Union has provided Ukraine with EUR 67 billion in economic, humanitarian and military support: from budget support to aid for a rapid recovery, from energy to military capabilities, from humanitarian aid to aid for refugees. All of it a material contribution to Ukraine's war effort. Putin wanted the collapse of the Ukrainian State. We have helped Ukraine to stay operational, even during its darkest hours. Europe has galvanised Ukraine's resistance, and we will continue to do so. We will ensure a steady flow of financial aid throughout 2023. The first instalment of this EUR 18 billion package has already arrived in Ukraine. Our support will continue to be stable and predictable, every month. This is what Europe promised. And we have kept our promise.

Europe is also supporting Ukrainian firms and workers, who are still operating despite the war. To do so, we have harnessed the power of our single market. We have integrated our economies, brought our people together, twinned our towns and cities and synchronised our electricity grids. Our solidarity lanes allow Ukraine to export its goods to the whole world. This has already brought in EUR 20 billion in revenue for Ukrainian firms during the war. And we can do more.

During our visit to Kyiv, we agreed on a roadmap to further improve Ukraine's access to our single market. Putin wanted to shatter Ukraine's European dream. Today Ukraine is moving towards the European Union more quickly and more decisively than ever.

At the same time, we are weakening Russia's ability to maintain its war machine. This is my second point. With nine packages of sanctions in place, the Russian economy is going backwards. And to keep up this strong pressure, we are proposing a tenth package of measures. With new trade bans and technology export controls to Russia. This package is worth a total of EUR 11 billion. We propose, among other things export restrictions on multiple electronic components used in Russian armed systems - such as drones, missiles, helicopters. But there are also hundreds of Iranian-made drones used by Russia on the battlefields in Ukraine. These Iranian made drones kill Ukrainian civilians - this is atrocious! So for the first time we are also proposing to sanction Iranian entities including those linked to Iran's Revolutionary Guard. It is our duty to sanction them, and confront Iran about the supply of drones and the transfer of know-how to build production sites in Russia.

Putin assumed that our support for Ukraine would not last. He thought it would be easy to hold Europe to ransom, because of our dependence on Russian oil and gas. But he was wrong there too. Today, one year after the war began, he has already lost the energy war he started. We have repositioned ourselves, thanks to reliable partners, and the results can be seen. Russia's income from sales of gas to Europe has shrunk by two thirds. The oil price cap means that Russia is losing EUR 160 million in revenue every day. Gas prices in Europe are lower today than before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and Europe is now investing in clean energies and energy independence as never before. In expanding renewable energies, we are breaking one record after another. Last year, for the first time, we generated more electricity from wind and solar than from gas. With European unity and a smart energy policy, we have withstood Russian pressure and freed ourselves from our energy dependency. Our economy today is performing significantly better than forecast and, at the beginning of the week, we were able to revise our growth predictions upwards. By contrast, the Kremlin is having to sell gold reserves in order to plug the gaps left by the lack of oil revenue. Putin's attempt to blackmail Europe using energy has been an abject failure.

Honourable Members,

President Zelenskyy has often spoken to me about what keeps the people of Ukraine going amid the horrors of war. Despite the massacres in Bucha und Irpin. What gives them hope, even after the bombing of Mariupol und Dnipro? It is the firm conviction that the future of their country and of their children lies in the European Union. And that is the third task facing us - to build a bridge of hope for the people of Ukraine, from the horrors of war, which they are experiencing today, to a better future in our midst.

Rebuilding Ukraine and its progress on the path towards our Union go hand in hand. You have heard it from President Zelenskyy in this hemicycle. I have seen it with my College in Kyiv. And colleagues at the Commission confirm it every day: Ukrainians are making tangible progress - while fighting a war. They know that accession to our Union is a merits-based process. They have passed legislative reforms that others thought would take years. They are making this progress because they are striving for Europe with all their heart and soul. Ukraine is a nation defined not only by its history and heritage. It is a nation defined by its dreams. And Europe is one of these dreams.

Distinguished Members,

Let us honour these dreams by standing up for Ukraine for as long as it takes. So that one day the representatives of the Ukrainian people will have their place in this very House.

Long live Europe.

Slava Ukraini.

Related media

Print friendly pdf

Speech by the President: One year of Russia's war in Ukraine

English (39.071 kB - PDF)

Download (39.071 kB - PDF)

Press contact

Eric MAMER

Phone

+32 2 299 40 73

Mail

eric.mamer@ec.europa.eu

Dana SPINANT

Phone

+32 2 299 01 50

Mail

dana.spinant@ec.europa.eu

Statement by Commissioner Várhelyi

I sincerely regret the misunderstanding around my remark at the plenary session of the European Parliament on 14 February 2023.

This was linked to a private and ongoing conversation in Hungarian between me and my Head of Cabinet on a completely different matter, which was taken out of context. I apologise for any possible misunderstanding around that.

I fully respect all the EU institutions, including the European Parliament and its Honourable Members.

I would like to thank to the Honourable Members of the European Parliament for the exchange of views from yesterday which was an excellent opportunity to discuss geopolitical issues of utmost importance in the Western Balkans.

I remain available also in the future to exchange with the European Parliament on the developments in my portfolio areas in full respect of my inter-institutional obligations and of the principle of sincere cooperation.

Print friendly pdf

Statement by Commissioner Várhelyi

English (26.006 kB - PDF)

Download (26.006 kB - PDF)

The European Commission is committed to personal data protection. Any personal data is processed in line with Regulation (EC) 2018/1725. All personal information processed by the Directorate-General for Communication / European Commission Representations is treated accordingly.

NETinfo Services Limited

文件 CYPRNA0020230216ej2f0000c


Malta joins EU countries opposing penalties on Russian sanctions reporting
276 字
2023 年 2 月 23 日
Malta Today
MALTOD
英文
Copyright © MediaToday Co. Ltd.
Malta has joined a group of 13 countries - including Austria, Germany, Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Latvia, and Portugal - who are objecting to a Commission proposal for fines for EU countries for failing to meet reporting obligations on Russian state assets.

The European Commission's plan for penalties was part of its 10th sanctions package against Russia, but failed to bet unanimous backing in the EU Council.

The Commission's goal is to map Russia's frozen assets, including what portion of the nearly $300 billion in Russian foreign reserves that are frozen in G7 and EU countries is held in the bloc, where, and by whom.

Malta joined a phalanx of countries that requested legal clarifications on the proposals, although the country is not against the proposal.

The Commission wanted sweeping obligations on “natural and legal persons, entities and bodies” to report on the whereabouts, market value and type of funds belonging to sanctioned entities, including the Central Bank of Russia, which have been frozen by national authorities.

The failure to report on these obligations would massive fines fines of up to 10% of global annual turnover for legal entities and €50,000 for individuals who willingly or negligently fail to report this information. A lower €5,000 fine would prevail for individuals who compel asset holders to cooperate.

Sanction implementation is a national competence, and such fines can be seen as overreach by the European Commission.

Brussels agreed to take out the fines from the sanctions package, even though they formed a key component for the war anniversary and in coordination with the G7.

Media Today

文件 MALTOD0020230223ej2n0008g


Maltese companies hit with €40 million claim from former subsidiary of sanctioned Russian bank
719 字
2023 年 10 月 25 日
Malta Today
MALTOD
英文
Copyright © MediaToday Co. Ltd.
Two Maltese companies have been served with a €40 million garnishee order, filed on behalf of a Russian company.

The issue concerns a complex international power struggle over the control of the Fortenova Group that has now spilled over into the Maltese jurisdiction.

Fortenova is one of Croatia's largest producers and retailers of food products.

The claim is connected with an ongoing conflict between a number of depository receipt (DR) holders in Fortenova and the group's current controlling shareholder, Malta-registered Open Pass Limited. A number of DR holders had vigorously objected to an announced restructuring of Fortenova, which they described as an illegal attempt by Open Pass to obtain Fortenova's assets.

On 29 December, 2022, a Dutch court had formally rejected an appeal filed by Russian bank, Sberbank, and Saif Alketbi, an investor from the UAE, against a decision to prevent them from participating in the Fortenova assembly, due to international sanctions imposed on Sberbank in April 2022. That decision effectively resulted in the expulsion of the largest single shareholder in Fortenova - Alketbi held a 43% stake in the group, but now does not have the right to vote, nor can he participate in the work of the assembly of holders of co-ownership rights in Fortenova.

Alketbi claims to have purchased SBK ART LLC from the sanctions-hit Sberbank for €400 million in October 2022. However, Fortenova is challenging the legitimacy of that transaction, as at the time SBK ART had already been placed on the European Union Council's list of sanctioned entities.

On 21 July 2022, the EU released its seventh package of sanctions in response to Russia's February 2022 invasion of Ukraine. SBK ART does not feature on this list, but Sberbank, of which it SBK Art used to be a subsidiary until it was sold in its entirety to Alketbi on 31 October 2022, after which date SBK Art ceased to be a subsidiary of Sberbank.

Fortenova says that when Sberbank's planned divestment of Russian ownership was not completed within the deadline set by the sanction measures, the bank had unilaterally divested itself of its ownership share, without the knowledge of the company and other co-owners. The purported acquisition of SBK ART, however, appears to be an attempt to breach the sanctions regime in force in the European Union and the UK.

According to an updated list issued by the Council of the European Union in December 2022, SBK ART LLC had been established as a subsidiary of Sberbank for the purpose of holding Sberbank's interests in the Fortenova group. “Sberbank retains effective control over SBK ART LLC notwithstanding the purported transfer of its shares to a businessman in the United Arab Emirates.” Around the same time, Croatia's Foreign and European Affairs Ministry State Secretary Frano Matusic had told journalists last December that “all our evidence indicates that it is a fictitious transaction, no money was paid from the United Arab Emirates to Moscow or to the accounts."

Later that month, a Dutch court had ruled that SBK could not exercise its voting rights while under sanctions.

Legal tussle comes to Malta

The dispute was extended to Malta in August this year, when a representative of SBK ART LLC filed a court case and a €40,000,000 garnishee order against companies and officers of the Fortenova group.

In the sworn application to the First Hall of the Civil Court, Russian citizen Mikhail Mokhovikov, in his capacity as special mandatary for Russian-registered SBK ART LLC, accused Malta-registered companies Open Pass Limited and Gain Alliance Limited, as well as Fortenova Group STAK Stichting - a foundation registered in the Netherlands - and its de facto Croatian director Fabris Perusko, together with Vladimir Tunjic - a Malta resident and the sole director of Open Pass, Croatian citizens Damir Spudic- the director and a shareholder of Gain Alliance Limited, Pavao Vujnovac- the majority shareholder of Gain Alliance Limited and shareholder Josip Jurcevic, of abusing their position, “in an effort to force such corporate changes and seize control over Fortenova STAK.”

The first sitting in the case is scheduled to take place next month.

Lawyers John Refalo and Gabrielle Scicluna are representing Mokhovikov and SBK ART.

Media Today

文件 MALTOD0020231025ejap00003


Ministerstwo Spraw Zagranicznych - Minister Radosław Sikorski’s further phone consultations
Ministerstwo Spraw Zagranicznych published this content on 21 Dec 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained herein. Distributed by PUBT, unedited and unaltered, on 24 Dec 2023 17:23:05 UTC.
539 字
2023 年 12 月 21 日
Global Government News and Documents via PUBT
GGND
英文
Copyright 2023. As included in the Information
Access the original document here[https://www.gov.pl/web/diplomacy/minister-radoslaw-sikorskis-further-phone-consultations]

Minister Radosław Sikorski's further phone consultations

Minister Radosław Sikorski's further phone consultations

21.12.2023

Minister Sikorski had an opportunity today to talk with his counterparts from Greece, Malta and Sweden.

Head of Greek diplomacy Giorgos Gerapetritis congratulated minister Sikorski on his reappointment to office. The diplomats were satisfied with the state of bilateral relations and expressed hope that we can foster even further the Polish-Greek relations and cooperation on multilateral fora, especially within the EU and NATO.

Ministers Sikorski and Gerapetritis particularly stressed the importance of close cooperation between Poland and Greece as allies in the face of war. They expressed support for Kyiv's aspirations to join the European Union. They also agreed that Warsaw and Athens have a shared concern for future international security.

While talking with Malta's Minister for Foreign and European Affairs and Trade Ian Borg, Poland's top diplomat Radosław Sikorski welcomed the good state of Polish-Maltese relations, which are best exemplified by the ceremonial opening of the Polish Embassy in Valetta in April 2023.

The ministers agreed that the recent opening of negotiations with Ukraine is a step in the right direction. Minister Sikorski appreciated the Republic of Malta's unwavering support for the EU's sanction policy against Russia. He praised the initiatives taken by Malta within the UN, as part of its non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council.

The ministers also congratulated each other: Minister Sikorski accepted congratulations on his reappointment as head of the Polish MFA and expressed them to his Maltese counterpart on Malta's OSCE chairmanship in 2024.

During today's discussion with Minister Billström, Minister Sikorski reaffirmed the willingness to further strengthen the strategic Polish-Swedish partnership, which historically has led to important initiatives, such as the Eastern Partnership. The conversation confirmed that the two countries have convergent opinions about the key areas for the Baltic region's future.

The officials agreed on the need for tightening the collaboration within the EU and in the security sector. They reaffirmed the willingness to continue the support for Ukraine and the firm policy towards Russia, as well as a shared assessment of the situation in the remaining Eastern policy's areas. They agreed that a visit of Sweden's top diplomat to Poland will be a good opportunity to talk about the future bilateral and regional cooperation in detail.

As for multilateral cooperation, Poland's and Sweden's foreign ministers guaranteed that the relations will develop within NATO once Sweden has joined the North Atlantic Alliance. They expressed the need for discussing some topics among foreign and defence ministers, both bilaterally and with the other Baltic countries.

* This content was originally posted here[https://www.gov.pl/web/diplomacy/minister-radoslaw-sikorskis-further-phone-consultations]

Disclaimer

Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland published this content on 21 December 2023 and is solely responsible for the information contained therein. Distributed by Public[http://www.publicnow.com], unedited and unaltered, on 16 January 2024 05:54:49 UTC.

PUBT Inc

文件 GGND000020231224ejcl000ea


News; International
Biden Sanctions Russia After Navalny's Death; Netanyahu Lays Out Post-War Gaza; Historic Odysseus Mission Reaches Lunar Surface; Navalny Team: Mother Given Ultimatum Over Burial; Police Investigate On-Campus Death Of Nursing Student; Apartment Building Fire Kills 10 In Valencia. Aired 3-4p ET
Eleni Giokos, Natasha Bertrand, Jeremy Diamond, Miles O'Brien, Anna Stewart, Harry Enten, Kara Scannell
8229 字
2024 年 2 月 23 日
CNN International: Quest Means Business
CNNQMB
英文
Content and programming copyright 2024 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2024 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[15:00:27]

ELENI GIOKOS, CNN INTERNATIONAL HOST: US stocks ending the week at record highs. The Dow sitting in positive territory ever closer to that 40,000 mark. We are up around one-tenth of a percent, 39,136. So close to that 40K mark.

Well, those are the markets and these are the main events.

The US targets Russia's financial and defense industries in a new round of sanctions following the death of Alexei Navalny.

Could Nikki Haley's home state be her last stand? Donald Trump heads to South Carolina with a massive lead in the polls.

Shares in Intuitive Machines are going to the moon after the company's historic lunar landing.

Live from Dubai, it is Friday, February 23rd. I'm Eleni Giokos. I'm in for Richard Quest and this is QUEST MEANS BUSINESS.

A very good evening and welcome to the show.

Tonight, the White House says its new sanctions are just the start of its response to the death of Alexei Navalny. The measures unveiled hours ago target Russia's financial sector and defense industry. They also sanction multiple prison officials connected to the Kremlin critic's term in a penal colony.

President Joe Biden spoke earlier, he said the new package will hold Russian President Vladimir Putin accountable.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

JOE BIDEN, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: That's why I'm announcing more than 500 new sanctions in response.

(Applause)

BIDEN: In response to Putin's brutal war of conquest, in response to Alexei Navalny's death, because make no mistake, Putin is responsible.

We, in the United States are going to continue to ensure that Putin pays a price for his aggression abroad and repression at home.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GIOKOS: Well, as you just heard, Mr. Biden saying there, there are more than 500 sanctions in the package and they target more than two dozen third country entities that facilitate sanction evasion. They also target the operator of Mir, the US labels, the payment system, a major cog in Russia's financial infrastructure, and this is all on top of sanctions on Russia's defense industry.

We've got Natasha Bertrand in Washington for us, 500 new sanctions, and really quite far reaching, but is it going to be enough to put pressure on Putin? Something that I guess, he is brushing off as just another day in the world of sanctions from the west.

NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN WHITE HOUSE REPORTER: Well, that's the big question, Eleni, is whether these sanctions are going to actually have an impact now.

Russia is already the most sanctioned country in the world. They have managed to weather, the many, many sanctions that the US and the international community have already put on their economy in the last two years since they launched their invasion of Ukraine, and many of the sanctioned entities and people that were targeted today by this new package, were already subject to extensive sanctions. And so the question now is what difference will this actually make?

Now, in one of the more notable aspects of these sanctions, as you mentioned, the US did target three Russian prison officials who officials say were connected to the death of Alexei Navalny.

He was, of course being held in that penal colony and these prison officials, according to the US, were involved in essentially torturing him until he died.

And so those were sanctions that were added over the last few days to this very large package that the administration had been planning to mark the second anniversary of the war.

Now, Russia has managed to weather these sanctions extremely well. They have managed to adapt. And if anything, their military spending, their budget has only increased over the last two years.

So now the administration is saying, look, we never expected the sanctions to start working right away. We anticipate that these are going to have more of a long-term impact. But of course, Ukraine does not have that kind of time. They need relief now. They need the US Congress to pass the supplemental funding for them right now so that they can get that $60 billion in aid that the US had promised them. They don't have time for these sanctions against Russia to start kicking in, in a year or two or even more.

And so now the question is how is the administration going to get that supplemental bill passed? That is something that President Biden emphasized today is still a very key priority -- Eleni.

GIOKOS: Yes, and of course highly delayed as you said there.

Natasha Bertrand, great to have you on. Thank you so much.

Well, the European Union has also announced a new round of sanctions against Russia.

[15:05:10]

Russia's economy has rebounded from a recession that started right after its full-scale invasion of Ukraine. The Kremlin says the GDP expanded at a five-and-a-half percent rate in the third quarter of 2023. That growth has raised the question as to whether the sanctions are indeed working.

In a recent op-ed for CNN, Ukraine's former top commander said they were too weak to stop Russia's aggression.

Daniel Tannebaum is a global anti-financial crime practice leader at Oliver Wyman.

Sir, great to have you on. Thank you so much for joining us. I mean, the question is, these new rounds of sanctions not only from the EU, but of course, what we've seen coming through from the US, is it symbolic? Is it going to be enough to actually have a significant impact on the Russian economy and put pressure on Putin?

DANIEL TANNEBAUM, GLOBAL ANTI-FINANCIAL CRIME PRACTICE LEADER, OLIVER WYMAN: No. And just to start off, to be very clear, Russia is not the most sanctioned country in the world, not remotely close.

The sanctions that have been put in place have been done so in a way to not disrupt the needs out of Russia. So the needs of oil, precious metals, rare earth minerals. The sanctions today, while significant are unfortunately quantity over quality.

I was in London this morning, and just two days ago, London, and the UK government sanctioned six prison officials who have no assets in the United Kingdom, nor will ever travel there. So unfortunately, while these sanctions are marking a very somber two-year anniversary and the death of Alexei Navalny, they really are just symbolic.

GIOKOS: Yes, I mean, that is a reality check, Daniel, I have to say. I mean, you mentioned oil, for example. And I think a lot of people were anticipating if you really want to put pressure on Putin, then you have to think about, you know, squeezing things in terms of that price cap, which is sitting at $60.00 a barrel, because that seems in some way to have worked even though oil revenues are still flowing into Russia, they find a way around that. Would that have been one of the most important sanctions in this round?

TANNEBAUM: I think the oil producers or oil brokers, those that are facilitating the transactions that may be out of compliance with the price cap, actually, the United Kingdom just yesterday sanctioned a significant Dutch oil broker who was facilitating transactions outside of the price cap. The US did not match neither did Canada, neither to the EU.

So if you really begin to focus the enforcement of these sanctions, that those that are violating them in a more meaningful manner, it does have the deterrent effect, and there are some lessons learned from sanctions against Iran historically, where more significant enforcement of existing sanctions made a real difference.

GIOKOS: I mean, in terms of targeting the industrial sector, because we keep hearing from the Ukrainians, you know, that Russia is able to do for very precision striking, using drones and other technology as well.

So it's also the importation of chips and, you know, things that they need to be able to keep the industrial sector going. Would that also be a way to really just tighten things up for Putin? I mean, there are 500 sanctions here, we're talking about the US that they target that sphere.

TANNEBAUM: Well, and to be clear, those aren't -- they are not 500 sanctions, they're 500 individuals or entities that were designated. So it's really one package that have a number of different people in to it and I hate to challenge the administration in how they've put the rhetoric out, but it is more discreet than people may realize.

I think the challenge with these sanctions has always been the needs of people continuing to trade with Russia, and even just to note, G7 countries are continuing to export roughly $3 billion a month of consumer goods of apparel, of medicine into Russia.

So the trade between Russia and the rest of the Western world still continues. But the challenge is the sanctions couldn't be so significant, that they really took away a need of the West from Russia without having an appropriate replacement, and that's been one of the real challenges.

GIOKOS: Yes, I mean, the spillover, right, and we've experienced the spillover. We know what it's done to food prices. We know what it's done to oil prices. I mean, there has -- the world has felt these sanctions.

So when we hear from EU leaders, and we hear from President Biden saying, you know, we're being tough on Putin, are you saying this is just not tough enough? This isn't good enough.

TANNEBAUM: Sanctions are only as good as enforcement. The US has had a long track record and has begun enforcing sanctions. The EU just enacted the 13th round of sanctions. They haven't enforced the first.

The UK government has begun to build out a more effective enforcement regime, but without enforcement, it doesn't scare people away from the market and you still see reports of very large Western businesses operating in Russia because in some instances, it's perfectly legal.

[15:10:12]

So I'm not saying that it's all bluff and bluster, but realistically, without the enforcement portion of sanctions, they really do lose a lot of the effectiveness.

GIOKOS: Well, the Russian evasion efforts have definitely stepped up. They have been able to find loopholes, as you say enforcement is part of this. Will the latest round of sanctions be easily sort of, you know, circumvented by finding very interesting ways of doing things? I mean, we saw what's happening with India and China, for example, I know the EU has focused on those two countries that are purchasing oil, for example, but the question of evasion is still one that hasn't really been tackled.

TANNEBAUM: It is very difficult and if not impossible, to totally purge out of the system. Now, one of the things that really tries to stem evasion, is putting some of those third country actors on notice that if you continue to do business with Russia, we're going to eliminate your ability to access pretty much of the global economy, that has happened.

In this package, there were a number of third country actors that were designated in Liechtenstein, in the UAE, and a number of other countries, but they are not names that people know, they're not names that people recognize and that deterrent effect, if you think about Iran-related sanctions where a lot of the large global banks were fined upwards of $9 billion, that got people's attention in terms of recognizing maybe they shouldn't do this stuff anymore.

GIOKOS: All right, Daniel Tannebaum, great conversation. Thank you so much for breaking that down for us.

Well, the US Secretary of State appears to be against some of the key measures from Benjamin Netanyahu 's post-war plan for Gaza. The Israeli prime minister unveiled the plan earlier, of course, for the complete demilitarization of Gaza, as well as the ability for Israeli forces to enter and exit at will.

The Palestinian Authority says the plan amounts to reoccupation demanding an independent Palestinian state instead. Antony Blinken appeared to reject parts of the Israeli proposal when laying out US priorities.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ANTONY BLINKEN, US SECRETARY OF STATE: There are certain basic principles that we set out many months ago, that we feel are very important when it comes to Gaza's future, including that it cannot be a platform for terrorism, there should be no Israeli reoccupation of Gaza, the size of Gaza's territory should not be reduced.

So we want to make sure that any plan that emerges is consistent with those principles.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GIOKOS: Jeremy Diamond is in Tel Aviv for us.

Jeremy, how workable is this plan? I mean, is the US fully on Benjamin Netanyahu's side in terms of this plan? And, you know, what are the Egyptians going to come back with in terms of Israel having full control of what happens between Russia and the Gaza border?

JEREMY DIAMOND, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, Eleni, the US is certainly not on board with this plan, and you got an inkling of that from Secretary Blinken, even though he wouldn't go all the way in terms of talking about the details of what the Israeli prime minister has laid out.

But when you look at the details of this proposal from the Israeli prime minister, first of all, keep in mind that he is largely repackaging ideas that he has put out before, in terms of what he would like to see the day after Gaza.

The difference here is that he is finally putting it on paper. He is formally submitted it to his Cabinet, and so that adds a new layer. But when you dig into the details here, one of the things that Secretary Blinken was talking about there was not reducing the size of Gaza's territory.

And in this plan, the Israeli prime minister talks about maintaining a security zone within the Gaza Strip for as long as necessary. That is a reference to that roughly one kilometer wide buffer zone within Gaza, along the border with Israel, which Israel has created by bulldozing homes and buildings belonging to Palestinians inside of Gaza. That goes very much against what the United States has talked about.

The rest of this plan, when you look at it, it maintains full Israeli security control over the Gaza Strip, both over the Israel-Gaza border, as well as the Egypt-Gaza border, you're talking about operational freedom of activity, the Israeli military going in and out, and so even as he is talking about, as the Israeli prime minister is talking about allowing Palestinian civilian officials to have control within the Gaza Strip, security control is very much maintained by Israeli forces and that suggests as the Palestinian Authority has already said, some kind of a reoccupation of Gaza, even if it does not involve settlements.

But at the end of the day, there are very few details in this plan, and it does give the Israeli Prime Minister some room to maneuver both within his political coalition in terms of some of the demands of the far right that they are making, in terms of settlements for example, but also as it relates to the demands of international partners.

[15:15:05]

One thing that's very interesting here is that the Israeli prime minister doesn't explicitly on paper rule out a role for the Palestinian Authority in the future. He has said that in the past, he did not put that on paper here. That's obviously interesting given the US is pushing for the Palestinian Authority, a revamped Palestinian Authority to play a key role here.

But ultimately, there is no doubt that this plan that the Israeli prime minister is talking about for the day after Gaza would make it nearly impossible, at least in the short term to see the establishment of a Palestinian state and that obviously runs counter to what the United States and other international partners are trying to accomplish.

GIOKOS: Jeremy Diamond thank you so much.

When we come back --

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Standing effort, I know this was a nail biter, but we are on the surface and we are transmitting and welcome to the moon.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GIOKOS: Scenes of elation there, the Odysseus has become the first US spacecraft to visit the moon in more than 50 years. We'll bring you the latest on the mission, which didn't going to go exactly as planned.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GIOKOS: Intuitive Machines says its lunar lander is alive and well after touching down near the moon's south pole. It's the first US spacecraft to visit the moon in more than 50 years. Odysseus had trouble with its navigation system before the final approach.

The engineers at Intuitive Machines had to come up with a last minute fix to save the mission.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

TIM CRAIN, ODYSSEUS MISSION DIRECTOR, TIM CRAIN: We can confirm without a doubt that our equipment is on the surface of the moon and we are transmitting. So congratulations IM team. We'll see how much more we can get from that.

(APPLAUSE)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: An excellent call from our Mission Director Tim Crain, and over to our CEO, Steve Altemus.

STEVE ALTEMUS, CEO, INTUITIVE MACHINES: If I could just pass on a few words to the entire team in Intuitive Machines. It's super fab and here in the Mission Control, more than a standing effort. I know this was a nail biter, but we are on the surface and we are transmitting and welcome to the moon.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GIOKOS: Investors also cheering on the successful landing.

Intuitive stock has soared 22.11 percent today, incredible rise there.

Miles O'Brien is in Miami and he joins us now.

Miles, incredible.

[15:20:07]

I don't know why I get so excited when I see any visuals from Mission Control and you hear that audio and you get information. Super exciting, right?

MILES O'BRIEN, CNN AVIATION ANALYST: Yes, Eleni. It's like a space nerd Super Bowl, and they just won, you know, and it's kind of fun to watch, and it kind of puts you in their shoes a little bit and I think we all go along for the ride a little bit. It's fun.

GIOKOS: It absolutely is.

Look, it had to do an extra orbit around the Moon, which of course, kind of made everyone a little nervous before it actually started approaching the moon, but it hit the south pole and this is quite significant, right? I mean, this is significant in terms of what it means for you know, figuring out whether we can tap into that ice water at some point.

O'BRIEN: Yes, it is significant where they are. The moon's south pole is the place that NASA and the Chinese and others have focused on as a place to set up an encampment because of the presence of ice water.

But as much as anything, this is an engineering triumph. You know, you couldn't come up with a screenplay better that their laser direction system fails. They use an experiment that is piggybacking for the ride, tap it into the system and land safely. I mean, you can't make that stuff up. I mean, you couldn't make it up, but they tell you, that's not plausible -- and they did it.

GIOKOS: Yes. Absolutely.

Look, this is, you know, various attempts that we've seen globally. In fact, Japan tried with the SLIM in January, that was partially successful, Paragon failed, that was the previous attempt by the United States, and this finally, showing success. And it is, of course, important, because you've got commercial entities, you've got the private sector coming in and working with NASA.

O'BRIEN: Yes, this is a mission, you know, relative to Apollo, which is pennies on the dollar, it's $118 million, all in. When you think about what it took to get to Apollo 11 to the Moon, that was inflation adjusted dollars, probably about a trillion.

So this is a different way of approaching space. It's very similar to what NASA has been doing in low Earth orbit over recent years. The emergence of SpaceX, Blue Origin, et cetera, and why not take that philosophy and take it to the moon? That's the idea and it requires, you know, it can create some nail biting moments, there's no question. But this kind of lean mean approach, apparently is on its way to success.

You know, we're going to find out a little bit more later today to see how functional the spacecraft is. But we know it's on the moon. It's upright, and it's transmitting that in and of itself, you can declare victory.

GIOKOS: Yes, you know, 50 years -- it's taken 50 years, basically. I guess the question is, we've got better technology now. We are far more advanced. Why was it so difficult to have a successful landing like this?

You know, I guess the argument is that investment into the space sort of petered out over the decades, but surely, it should have been easier than what we actually saw transpire over the past while.

O'BRIEN: Yes, everybody asks about this. Well, you know, first of all, let's go to the budget. It's a less expensive approach, there's no question. Going to a part of the moon, which is much more rugged than the equatorial regions where the Apollo missions landed, and landing on the moon is hard on a good day.

And let's not forget that Apollo 11, Neil Armstrong at the controls of the lunar module, if the guidance system had done its job without a human there, they would have crashed on a boulder. And so the human intervene in the final moments to save the day. So what we're trying to do is replicate the human brain here, 80 billion neurons, human vision in a machine that is, you know, built on a tight budget.

And so that's kind of the rub here, we're doing it in a different way now without a human being present in the loop and it is not an easy thing to replicate the human brain in silicon.

GIOKOS: Well, that's very good news, because it gives me hope, but as AI starts taking over everything, that the human brain is still an absolutely vital element in everything we do, Miles.

So great to see you. Thank you so much.

O'BRIEN: You're welcome, Eleni.

GIOKOS: All right, Miles O'Brien there for us.

Well, NVIDIA's market cap hit $2 trillion during today's trading. That puts it behind only Apple and Microsoft in market value. NVIDIA's advanced chips are used to power artificial intelligence models, it shares are up nearly 240 percent over the past year.

However, NVIDIA says it is facing competition from a number of rivals including the Chinese firm, Huawei.

Anna Stewart has more for us.

[15:25:06]

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ANNA STEWART, CNN REPORTER: Well, it's been quite the week for NVIDIA. a huge surge in profits, a massive gain in value, and a prediction of even more growth in its AI chips.

Now the company has made a surprising revelation. For the first time ever, NVIDIA now considers Huawei as one of its top competitors according to its annual report.

The controversial Chinese chip maker is now a major rival in four out of five of NVIDIA's main businesses, including the crucial production of AI processes.

Now it's significant because Huawei spent the last four years facing tough US restrictions, banning its access to technology. Despite that, last year, Huawei shocked the tech world by launching a new phone powered by advanced chips. It's all part of a wider battle between Washington and Beijing over semiconductor technology.

Several countries, including the US and Japan have imposed a series of measures to try and limit China's access to advanced computer chips, and Beijing has been investing heavily to try and develop its own domestic chip industry.

These rising tensions and restrictions have already hit NVIDIA sales in China, and the company warned that things are unlikely to change anytime soon.

Anna Stewart, CNN, London.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

GIOKOS: Coming up, the war in Ukraine has now been raging for two full years. We'll talk to the country's biggest energy group about how it is trying to keep the lights on. Stay with us.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[15:30:15]

GIOKOS: Hello. I'm Eleni Giokos and there's more QUEST MEANS BUSINESS in a moment when I'll be speaking to Ukrainian energy giant (INAUDIBLE) how two years of war has reshaped the economy and turned life upside down.

And McDonald's is taking on Starbucks with a new coffee-entered restaurant will visit suburban Illinois to try out Cosmax. Before that's the headlines this hour.

Alexei Navalny's team says Russian officials are offering just two options for his burial either a secret funeral or burial at the penal colony where he died. A spokesperson for Navalny says his mother has so far refused to agree to those terms.

Police in the U.S. state of Georgia are questioning a person of interest in connection with death of a nursing school student. The victim has been identified as a 22-year-old Laken Hope Riley. Her body was found Thursday on the University of Georgia campus. She was enrolled at nearby Augusta University and had reportedly gone for a jog.

At least 10 people have died after a fire tore through an apartment building in Valencia, Spain. Firefighters worked overnight to contain the blaze. Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez visited the scene earlier calling for empathy, affection and solidarity with the victims.

Germany's Bundestag has voted to legalize cannabis for adult recreational use. Germany is the third country in Europe to do so after Malta and Luxembourg. The German health minister says the aim is to crack down on black markets and drug-related crime.

The Ukrainian president says his country will prepare a new counter offensive. His comments come a day ahead of the two-year anniversary of Russia's full-scale invasion. Ukraine's last counteroffensive failed to achieve its main objectives. And just last week, Russian forces managed to take control of the strategic city of Avdiivka. Now U.S. aid to Ukraine remain stalled in Congress and some in Ukraine say the outlook is bleak. Clare Sebastian reports.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): This was once Avdiivka's main hospital filmed in the final days before Ukraine's withdrawals. People used to get medical treatment here, says this Ukrainian journalist, now a total ruin. Satellite imagery taken the day Ukraine pulled out revealing the extent of the damage to the hospital and surrounding area. Compare that to just a few months before Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

SEBASTIAN (on camera): Well, in the context of this 1,000 kilometer frontline Avdiivka doesn't actually change much. In fact, the whole second year of the war barely changed this picture. Russia, of course captured Bakhmut in May in Ukraine. You can see here in yellow, that string of villages that it managed to take in western Zaporizhzhia as part of this counter offensive, but this was ultimately a year when neither side was able to gain an advantage.

SEBASTIAN (voice-over): Russia now might be this video posted on February 12, which CNN has geo located to the area around that of Avdiivka hospital purportedly shows Russian strikes using massive half ton glide bombs. These are known to be increasingly in use on the battlefield and capable of evading Ukrainian air defenses.

The satellite image shows several very large craters near the hospital and likely to be the result of artillery strikes weapons experts say. F-16 fighter jets would help combat these bombs. But Ukraine's pilots are not yet ready to fly them.

OLEKSANDRA USTINOVA, UKRAINIAN LAWMAKER: There is no political will I would say it in the United States to train more pilots. It seems right now that we're going to have more jets than actually the train pilots.

SEBASTIAN (on camera): Russia is seizing the moment and is now on the offensive in multiple locations up here, around Bakhmut again up north in the Kharkiv region, near the town of Kupiansk and down in Kherson and Zaporizhzhia. And these are mostly it should be said not new battlefields but areas previously occupied and then lost as Ukraine counter attacked. Case in point, if we zoom in on the southern front is the town of Robotyne in the Zaporizhzhia region.

SEBASTIAN (voice-over): Ukraine raised the flag here last August. Now its forces on alert again, as Russia ramps up attacks.

USTINOVA: So unfortunately, we paid a lot of lives was the counteroffensive last year to get those territories. We basically have to pray for the United States Congress to understand how important it is to pass the bill no matter what happens, or not passing it in March, Ukraine is going to be screwed.

[15:35:01]

SEBASTIAN (voice-over): Ukraine's resistance is fierce. It's continuing to wreak havoc on Russia's Black Sea Fleet. And on the front lines, it's digging in the Ministry of Defense publishing new images this week of extensive construction of fortifications. The only hope now is to hold on. Clare Sebastian, CNN, London.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

GIOKOS: With most of the fighting taking place, the East Ukrainian businesses are doing their best to operate in the rest of the country. Ukraine's economy shrank by nearly 30 percent. During the first year of the war, Russian attacks on energy plants and other infrastructure have taken their toll. Ukrainian Energy Group DTEK said nine of its engineers were hurt during one such attack on Thursday.

Maxim Timchenko is the CEO of DTEK. And he joins us now live. Maxim, great to have you with us. Thank you so much. Very difficult news in terms of the strike yesterday and some of your employees are currently hospitalized. How does day to day operations get affected with your staff knowing that anything could happen at any moment because you have been struck incessantly since the start of the war?

MAXIM TIMCHENKO, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, DTEK: Thank you for inviting. Exactly two years ago, I was live with your program with Richard with the images of selling of one of our power station. And probably at that time, most of your audience they believe that Ukraine can survive. And after two years, what we can say we survive as a country, we survived two winters, after damage of 50 percent of our power stations and policies of Ukraine.

We manage to survive. Moreover, we managed to do export power outside of Ukraine, we managed to build more power stations, wind power stations, so - - and it's all because of our unity in determination. And because of leadership of the United States and European Union, all other countries helping us. So yes, just one day go, we have another (INAUDIBLE)

GIOKOS: Yes.

TIMCHENKO: I mean -- I'm sorry, you mentioned 50 percent of your power stations have been damaged. And you've been rebuilding, you've been maintaining. I just want our audience to understand the gravity of the situation and what you're dealing with. From what I understand, you've been struck 9700 times since the start of the war and just this year alone 150 strikes on your infrastructure.

TIMCHENKO: Yes. That's, you know, for professionals from industry, energy industry is unbelievable numbers. That's true, that we lost half of our capacity, but we managed to bring it back, you prepared for the last -- for the -- for this winter time. And I'm sure that we are much more experienced now we know how to do. But we all depend on one very significant popular air defense system.

And this is basically what we are saying over these years that only with effective air defense system, we can continue. We can keep lights on. You know, we have 55,000 people every day working to keep slides on in Ukraine. But we cannot do anything with the drones and missiles, Russian sends every day to our infrastructure. We urge our partners and we ask our partners to help us with their defenses.

GIOKOS: And you're less vulnerable. I mean, that is the reality. I mean, you've got the U.S. delaying an aid package to Ukraine right now. We've heard of new sanctions against Russia. But they're still able to build drones and very precision, you know, precision ammunition as well. What do you make of the West assistance of late for Ukraine? Are you concerned that it's just not enough?

TIMCHENKO: Of course, we will live with this every single day. So, we do all physical protection of power stations as much as we can. But it's not enough. As I said, one of our points of the power station close to Russian border they hit by missiles every week. And our people despite all these, they've come to the restorative then repair equipment. But, you know, at some point of time, because we don't have enough air defense system, this power station will start to disappear grating and it will help thousands of people live in this area. So this is reality on the ground now. We do not get our belief in victory, but we need more help.

GIOKOS: You know, electrification, access to electricity is synonymous with economic growth.

[15:40:00]

We've seen the economy shrink significantly and it is important to note that, you know, people's lives are upended. Jobs are lost because, businesses come under pressure. Do you have to make very tough decisions about which areas, which parts of Ukraine, you're able to electrify at any given point in time? And I guess, you know, the question becomes, are you ready for this winter?

TIMCHENKO: Yes. The point is that to choose what part of Ukraine should be electrified was last winter when you have blackouts for hours and days. This winter, we are much more prepared to go through these winter developed breakouts, we supply enough power to hope off of Ukraine. We do even export the (INAUDIBLE) outside of Ukraine to neighboring European Union.

And this is good for that what is happening now. But what we need is not only win this war frontline, we need to win economic war. We need to keep investing in the country. And that's basically what we demonstrated as a company, as a state. We build new wind from during the war. And because it's much more resistant than conventional power stations. So, we try to come to our foreign partners and demonstrate and make a showcase from what we are doing during these two years.

We shouldn't see Ukraine as a war zone, you should consider that this country with huge opportunities which will come. It's better to be prepared for these opportunities now. Looking at those Ukrainian companies which stays and try to keep economic life and continue investment.

GIOKOS: Maxim, thank you so much for your time. I know that it's difficult dealing with so many crises at any given point. We appreciate you speaking with us today. Thank you. Maxim Timchenko there for us.

Well, in Sub Saharan Africa, almost a billion people lack access to clean cooking options. Instead, they turn to kerosene, coal, charcoal, or even wood for cooking fuel, but in doing so they often expose themselves to household air pollution, which can be deadly. Some 700,000 premature deaths each year are linked to burning harmful fuels at home. And this week's Connecting Africa I spoke with a company in Uganda that's trying to address this.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

GIOKOS (voiceover): Lively illuminated streets, the hum of the convenience store, and the buzz of a late-night haircuts. This rural village in northern Uganda is shining bright with opportunities. Thanks to an alternative form of energy, biofuel.

PETER BENHUR NYEKO, FOUNDER AND CEO, MANDULIS ENERGY: Africa is a continent that at the moment has well over half a billion people without access to electricity and the majority of those are farmers. And for those farmers no extra electricity means they cannot process their crops.

GIOKOS (voiceover): In addition to using solar energy, the company breaks down agricultural waste into a synthetically produced gas called syngas. They then take the green hydrogen that is released during this process to create electricity.

NYEKO: We're working right now in Uganda. With over 10,000 farming families, farmers bring their crops to be processed to high value products. And once that is done, they're able to sell them and improve their income. The waste that's left behind is what we utilize to generate our electricity and generate our clean cooking fuel.

GIOKOS (voiceover): Mandulis Energy says their relationship with local farmers fosters a circular economy.

NYEKO: Needless farmers to be cooking with our briquettes and pellets, won't even be selling us agricultural waste. So that's how we work really closely with them.

GIOKOS (voiceover): While profits for these businesses are in the green. Manulis Energy says the economic potential of biofuel goes beyond local business owners.

NYEKO: Delivering renewable energy will make a massive difference positively on the balance of trade within Uganda, within East Africa and within the region and globally.

GIOKOS (voiceover): The company says it's already taking steps to further expand beyond Uganda's borders.

NYEKO: Mandulis Energy has already completed feasibility studies for projects in Botswana, South Africa and already completed development of projects in Zambia and Nigeria and Cambodia with additional sites coming up in Kenya, in Guinea, in the United Kingdom, and Spain.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

GIOKOS: When we return Nikki Haley is vowing to fight on two Super Tuesday but can the Republican presidential candidates survive a potential loss in her home state this weekend?

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[15:47:45]

GIOKOS: Donald Trump heads into tomorrow's South Carolina primary with a huge lead in the polls. His Republican rival Nikki Haley trails in by 35 percent. In one recent survey, the former South Carolina governor has been sharpening her attacks on Trump. She's vowing to stay in the race even if she suffers a lopsided loss in her home state.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

NIKKI HALEY (R) PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE: And I'm not doing this for me like they want -- first they want to say that I was -- I wanted to be vice president, I think I've pretty much proven that is not what I'm trying to do. Then now you're talking about my political future. I don't care about a political future. If I did, I would have been out by now.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

GIOKOS: I'm joined now by Harry Enten. Our senior data reporter. Very confident Nikki Haley there, I have to say. She's vowing to stay in the race. But I guess the margin of victory either way, is really going to determine what happens next.

HARRY ENTEN, CNN SENIOR DATA REPORTER: You know, I got to admire her confidence given where the polling data is. You know, you mentioned that one poll that had her down by 35 points. How about two polls that have her down by about 35 points? You see it here the CBS News YouGov poll had her down 35 points. The Winthrop University poll had her -- has her down 36 points.

My goodness gracious, you know, I've gone back through history. And I can tell you that I can't find a single polling miss that is wide enough and a Republican or Democratic presidential primary that would somehow allow Nikki Haley to come back against Donald Trump and South Carolina. As you were mentioning, it's really just a question of the margin. How off are the polls potentially going to be?

But at this particular point, Donald Trump looks like he's going to crush Nikki Haley in her home state.

GIOKOS: Well -- I mean, the question is, then does she stay on? And will she have the funding to stay on? Will, you know, she's still get the support. I guess the longer she stays on, the longer she's sowing seeds of discontent and doubts around Donald Trump.

ENTEN: I guess so because the fact of the matter is, I don't really see a pathway for her to win the nomination if she loses tomorrow in South Carolina which all the polling data suggests that she probably will because if you look through history, and you say OK, if a candidate has lost their home state, have they had gone on to be the nominee?

[15:50:01]

It's happened zero times since 1972. You have to win your home state if you're going to be your party's nominee. Now, of course, maybe she doesn't care about that. She really just wants to embarrass Donald Trump. Because that's honestly the only real thing I could see for her going forward. If in fact, she loses tomorrow in South Carolina, which again, all the polling data suggests that she probably will.

GIOKOS: Yes. That graphic of zero percent was definitely a reality check for all of us. Look, so many people have been asking, you know, what do we do with our votes if Nikki Haley doesn't win South Carolina aligner? In fact, many Republicans, voters have been asking that question, do they then vote for Trump or Biden? Because at the center of this, one of the biggest issues, of course, is reproductive rights.

And we've seen what's happening in Alabama with the IVF issue and embryos and how that's just creating a lot of concern about what that means, overall, for women in the United States.

ENTEN: Yes. You know, this particular point, if you look at the polling data, you would think that Donald Trump is in the best position that he's ever been at this point the general election cycle and either 2016 or 2020. And the question is, what might change that? Well, that ruling down in Alabama may very well change it. If I was a Republican candidate running for either the presidency or for federal office or for state office, I would be running so far away from that Alabama Supreme Court ruling.

I would literally be the fastest man alive. It is so unpopular. I honestly just can't even put my words around. And I'm usually a guy who's pretty good with my words. It's just so unpopular. This is the type of thing that could really throw a wrench into this election. I'm not sure what type of wrench it might throw. But the fact is, if I'm a Republican, this is a decision I want no part of and that is why the National Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee has actually said that Republicans should essentially say we are for IVF because it is something that is very popular in this country.

GIOKOS: All right. Harry Enten, always good to speak to you and thank you so much.

ENTEN: Thank you.

GIOKOS: We'll be speaking soon, I'm sure. So much happening in the U.S. of course around these elections. All right, so we're going to a very short break, we'll be right back.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GIOKOS: We'll just into CNN. Former President Donald Trump now officially ordered to pay a total $454 million. It's linked to his civil fraud case in New York.

[15:55:06]

That figure including the 355 million in penalties plus 99 million in interest payments. The sign judgment, which posted a short while ago, starts a 30-day window for Trump to appeal. Let's go straight to Kara Scannell Kanal who's going to break down these numbers for us. An increase in the penalties that Donald Trump needs to pay. This is interest payments as well. How are these calculated? How do we -- what more do we know about this new figure?

KARA SCANNELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. So you remember last Friday, the judge issued this ruling, the $355 million that Trump owed plus interest. And the way that this comes about, this is money that Trump is paying back that he received as part as what they call ill-gotten gains or money that ways that he benefited from the fraud. And in this case, the allegations and what the judge found to be true is that Trump received better interest rates when he took out certain loans and got some insurance policies.

So it was that benefit that the judge has calculated here. And that was, you know, he relied on expert testimony during the trial as well. That is the money, the $355 million. Now, he also said on Friday that it would include interest which we all back of the envelope calculated to about $99 million. Today that is now official, it is $99 million in interest. So that brings the total that Trump will have to come up with to $454 million.

But the judge is saying that this interest will continue to accrue at nine percent until this case is over. And this means that, you know, as Trump is looking to appeal this judgment, which he has said that he will, that money will continue to grow until that's over. And of course, if he is successful and the number now is knocked down, then he will pay less. But -- so now that this judgment is officially entered into the case, once Trump is served as well as his sons, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump are also found liable.

Once they are served in this case, then they will begin to start their process of appealing and that starts at 30-day clock. So Trump's team will have 30 days to come up with this big number, almost half a billion dollars that he will have to either put up in cash or post a bomb that is backed by some collateral cash, one of his properties. So this really is going to kick off this 30-day window for him to put up that money, to come up with this money while he's running for president, while he's facing for criminal cases.

A lot of strain on them and raises questions for the Trump organization and how it will be led going forward. Eleni?

GIOKOS: All right. Kara Scannell, thank you so much for that update. Only just moments left to trade on Wall Street. We will have the final numbers and the closing bell right after this. Stay with CNN.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

GIOKOS: Only just moments left to trade on Wall Street. The Dow continues to rise about 120 points and videos being the story of this week, blowing out earnings expectations. Its shares up less than one percent today. That makes it market cap just shy of $2 trillion.

[16:00:00]

Let's look at those Dow components. Amgen is on top, health stocks are strong with Johnson and Johnson and United Health, both in the green. Well, that is it for QUEST MEANS BUSINESS. I'm Eleni Giokos. The closing bell is ringing on Wall Street right now. And "THE LEAD" with Jake Tapper starts. Have a fantastic weekend.

END

Content and programming copyright 2024 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2024 VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 CNNQMB0020240224ek2n00001


搜索摘要
所有单字	sanction
至少其中一个单字	Russia
不包括这些单字	
这确切的词句	
日期	21/02/2022 至 29/02/2024
资讯来源	所有资讯来源
作者	所有作者
公司	所有公司
新闻主题	所有新闻主题
行业	所有行业
地区	马耳他
语言	英文
搜索结果已找到	26
时间戳记	2024 年 3 月 10 日 7:27 GMT
© 2024 Factiva, Inc. 版权所有。	
 

Translate
