跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
Bulgaria This Week - February 25, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 2 月 25 日, 6386 字, (英文)
Growth of Bulgaria’s M3 slows down in JanuaryThe annual rise of M3 money supply and loans to the non-government sector remained robust in January, although slowing down compared to December, central bank data showed on February 24. The ...

North Macedonia This Week - February 25, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 2 月 25 日, 5599 字, (英文)
North Macedonia’s parliament endorses changes to the law to allow increase of minimum wageNorth Macedonia’s assembly endorsed amendments to the law on February 23 that allow an increase of the minimum wage by 18% to MKD18,000 (€292).

Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - February 25, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 2 月 25 日, 6042 字, (英文)
Only Ukraine ‘is more exposed economically than Turkey to invasion and war fallout’The economic damage suffered by Turkey as a result of the Ukraine crisis may turn out to be second only to that inflicted on the Ukrainian economy, according...

Inquirer
Putin’s war on the West is a bid to redraw Europe
Cameron Stewart
2693 字
2022 年 2 月 25 日 13:00 GMT
The Australian - Online
AUSTOL
英文
© News Pty Limited. No redistribution is permitted.
Vladimir Putin has embarked on his biggest gamble, one that will ­redraw the map of Europe, trigger devastating war and partly restore his beloved Soviet empire.

The Russian President has ­orchestrated an unspeakable ­carnage as innocent Ukrainians cower under a brutal onslaught of bombs and tanks in scenes more reminiscent of Hitler’s invasion of Poland than modern Europe.

The rest of the world, including Australia, is watching in jaw-dropping horror at Russia’s invasion, hurling its collective disgust at Putin and threatening to impose evermore sweeping financial and economic sanctions on Moscow.

And yet the West is all but powerless to stop this war. It can only watch on helplessly as Putin drives a stake through the heart of those who naively believed the fall of the Berlin Wall three decades ago marked the end of Russian despots. An unprovoked attack on a major European power was confined to the history books, or so we thought.

What is remarkable about his attack on Ukraine is how Putin, a lifelong risk-taker, has managed to turn the odds in this crisis so heavily in his favour. At least for now.

The US and NATO will not bend in their refusal to intervene militarily to defend Ukraine, which is not a NATO member. Even if there were a will to try to defend Ukraine militarily, a war fought right on Russia’s border would come at a cost in lives that no Western nation would accept.

From his vantage point in the Kremlin, Putin sees nothing but opportunity. He sees a divided Europe which too often seemed more concerned about losing access to Russian gas supplies than it was about the invasion of a sovereign nation. He sees a polarised America, weary of foreign wars with an ageing President who is still damaged by the chaotic US withdrawal from Afghanistan.

Polls this week show just 26 per cent of Americans think the US should play a major role in the Russia-Ukraine conflict, giving Joe Biden little room to move.

With China, Putin has worked assiduously in recent months to forge closer links with Beijing and neutralise any opposition on Ukraine.

As Michele Flournoy, the top Pentagon policy official in the Obama administration, says; “We’re seeing that while Beijing doesn’t really like Putin’s tactics, they’re willing to band together as authoritarian states against the Western democracies.”

Satellite imagery released on February 24 shows the movement of Russian military vehicles in south western parts of Belarus, near the Polish and Ukrainian borders.

In the meantime, Putin has slowly and methodically ensured that his invasion, which began in earnest on Thursday, is likely to be a military rout given that he had surrounded Ukraine on three sides with more than 170,000 Russian troops backed by tanks, missiles and overwhelming firepower.

This week, Putin put the final touches on his invasion plans by giving a tortured re-imagining of Ukrainian history to try to argue that Kyiv had no rights as a sovereign nation. Putin’s message to Russians is that an invasion of Ukraine is really not an invasion of another country, but a reclaiming of a lost part of Russia, like a spiritual reunion of long lost friends. It is an argument that sinks under scrutiny but which exploits popular nostalgia for the Soviet empire, the loss of which Putin has called “the greatest geopolitical disaster of the 20th century”.

On every level, Putin has confected this Ukraine invasion like a Russian grand master in chess, carefully moving his pieces into place, politically, militarily and psychologically, over many months to prepare for this terrible moment.

As such he is on the cusp of something he has spent decades longing for.

“Putin’s overarching aim is reversing the consequences of the Soviet collapse, splitting the transatlantic alliance and renegotiating the geographic settlement that ended the Cold War,” says former US intelligence officer Angela Stent. “The current crisis between Russia and Ukraine is a reckoning that has been 30 years in the making. It is much more than Ukraine and its possible NATO membership. It is about the future of the European order crafted after the Soviet Union’s collapse.”

Biden was equally blunt about Putin’s ambitions. Putin “has much larger ambitions than Ukraine. He wants to, in fact, re-establish the former Soviet Union. That’s what this is about,” he says.

The question is why now? After all, Putin made similar claims about Ukraine being a natural part of greater Russia when he invaded Ukraine’s Crimea Peninsula in 2014, yet he stopped short of attacking the rest of the country.

At that time, citing Crimea’s long history as part of Russia, Putin said of Crimea: “This strategic territory should be under a strong, sovereign state and that in fact can only be Russia.”

Putin justifies this week’s invasion of Ukraine on the spurious grounds that the country could be a “springboard” for a NATO ­attack against Russia.

NATO has certainly provoked Russia by progressively expanding eastwards since the end of the Cold War. But Ukraine is no closer now to joining NATO than it was in 2014. Putin has made a series of impossible demands on NATO, one of which is to promise that there will be no further expansion of the pact, including Ukraine.

For reasons which only Putin can truly know, this was his ­moment to act.

“The President of the Russian Federation is operating at a higher risk-tolerance level,” says Lieutenant General Ben Hodges who commanded the US Army in ­Europe from 2014 to 2017. “He is confident because we, the West, have not stopped him before or forced him to back down.”

But Putin’s decision to invade still comes with significant risk, even if he knows that Russia cannot be defeated militarily by the far smaller Ukraine army.

The size and scale of the sanctions which the West are now set to impose on Russia will dwarf those previously imposed on ­Moscow for Putin’s annexation of Crimea in 2014 or his invasion of Georgia in 2008.

The US and Europe initially announced relatively modest sanctions this week, reserving the toughest measures for a full scale invasion. Biden claims his planned sanctions will effectively cut Russia off from Western financing and inflict grievous harm on Russia’s economy and its leadership. German chancellor Olaf Scholz, who had previously been noncommittal about tough sanctions, this week agreed to put the $11bn Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline on hold, a move that will deny Moscow increased energy sales to Europe. This is one measure that will directly hurt Russia, but it also hits the EU which receives one third of its energy from Russia.

Russian sanctions will also hurt Europe, the US and the global economy and it will be a test of Western resolve to maintain them and increase them. Putin knows that mega-sanctions will damage Russia’s already stagnant economy, but it is obvious that he has already factored this into his overall plan on Ukraine. Putin has planned for this day and for these sanctions. Ever since the West imposed sanctions on Russia after the 2014 annexation of Crimea, Putin has been working to make Russia’s economy “sanction proof” by boosting foreign reserves, buying gold, and exporting more from neutral countries like China. Russia’s central bank has $US630bn in reserves of foreign exchange and gold, having grown from $US368bn in 2015. It would take a complete collapse of Russia’s economy – an unlikely scenario – for Putin’s leadership to be jeopardised.

The greater risk for Putin in invading Ukraine is not the immediate military outcome, but rather the long-term plan if Russian troops were to become an ­occupying force.

It is expected that Putin’s overwhelmingly superior Russian forces will conquer Ukraine in a relatively short period of time. But then what?

Ukraine is a democratic country of 44 million people, the ­majority of whom like their democracy and their freedoms and who say, according to the polls, that they would like their country to one day become a member of NATO.

In announcing his invasion, Putin claimed that he does not intend to occupy Ukraine, but rather seeks to “demilitarise” the country. But it is unclear how he can exert real control over Ukraine without keeping Russian troops there.

By invading and continuing to occupy Ukraine, Putin risks a military quagmire where Russian troops are drawn into a guerrilla-style war against pro-Ukrainian militia. This is what doomed Russia in Afghanistan in the 1980s.

NED-5569-Key cities in Putin’s sights

And then there is the vast human cost, although Putin gives no sign of caring about this. US intelligence estimates project an all-out invasion of Ukraine would see between 25,000 and 50,000 civilians killed or wounded, and between 5000 and 25,000 Ukrainian troops and 3000 to 10,000 Russian troops killed or wounded. It would be easily the most devastating conflict in ­Europe since World War II.

Putin has been careful to keep his options open and watch how the world reacts. His decision early in the week to formally recognise the independence of the breakaway pro-Russian areas of Donetsk and Luhansk in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine and then start sending Russian forces only into that ­disputed region initially confounded the US and Europe. Was it a true “invasion” and what level of sanctions should be imposed on Moscow?

It was only on Thursday when Putin launched his bombing campaign in Kyiv and other cities that his true intentions became clear.

Putin’s journey to this point in history has been a deeply personal one. When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989 and the Soviet Union disintegrated, he was a KGB officer based in Dresden in Germany. His life’s work to that point became meaningless overnight. Suddenly millions of Russians found themselves living outside Russia, in newly independent countries like Ukraine. A smaller, weaker Russia saw 41 per cent of its GDP vanish overnight. It was no longer a superpower

Putin claimed in a recent speech that he, like millions of Russians, fell on hard times in the 1990s as he tried to remake his life. He even claimed to have been a taxi driver for a while, saying: “Honestly, it’s not very pleasant to speak about.”

After the fall of the Soviet Union, “people found themselves abroad overnight, taken away, this time indeed from their ­historical motherland”, Putin wrote last year in a 5000-word essay which was delivered to Russian troops.

Putin speaks bitterly about what he calls the broken promises from the West at the time that NATO would never extend eastwards beyond Germany.

Observers say a turning point for the Russian President was the decision by NATO to turn eastwards in 2004 and grant membership to Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia.

In 2007, Putin angrily accused the US of going too far and of having “overstepped its borders in every way”. NATO’s expansion, he said, was also “a serious provocation that reduces everybody’s trust”.

Then in 2008, NATO prematurely declared that Georgia and Ukraine “will become members of NATO”. It was one provocation too far for Putin who invaded Georgia later that year.

Putin has also detested what he sees as the belittling of Russia by the West in the post Cold War years. The late US senator John McCain famously disparaged Russia as a “gas station masquerading as a country”, while Barack Obama would refer to Moscow as merely a “regional power”.

Rodric Braithwaite, the British ambassador to Moscow when the Soviet Union collapsed, believes Putin’s wounded pride about the collapse of the Soviet Union is shared by many ordinary Russians.

“What Putin says about the humiliation of the Soviet collapse, the enlargement of NATO, and the intimate historical link between Russian and Ukrainian history is not his own idea,” Braithwaite says.

“Millions of Russians think and feel just like he does.”

But the scale of the attack on Ukraine has also shocked many Russians, with thousands taking to the streets to protest before being subdued by police.

Putin’s speech this week days before the invasion saw him reach new levels of sentimental extremes about Ukraine to publicly justify what was about to ­unfold.

“Ukraine is an inalienable part of our own history, culture and spiritual space,” Putin said.

“These are our comrades, those dearest to us – not only colleagues, friends and people who once served together, but also relatives, people bound by blood, by family ties.”

He portrayed Russia as the victim. “Ukraine will serve as the springboard for the strike (against Russia),” Putin claimed without evidence. “If our ancestors had heard about it, they probably would simply not have believed it. And today, they don’t want to believe it but it’s true.”

Putin continued on this theme when he announced the Russian offensive on Thursday, saying Russia couldn’t “tolerate the threat that emanates from modern” Ukraine. He asserted that the attack was needed to protect pro-Russian civilians in Donbas – even though his forces also ­attacked infrastructure in Kyiv and across the country.

“We were simply left with no chance to act otherwise,” Putin told a meeting of Russian business leaders this week.

Putin has ordered this military offensive knowing that it will come at great cost to US and ­European prestige. He knows that Biden is ultimately impotent to control what now happens in Ukraine.

The US President has sent more American troops to Europe and will reposition them around the Baltic States. Biden has said he will not send in troops to fight Russia in Ukraine but has vowed to defend any attack on a NATO member should Putin seek to ­expand his strikes beyond Ukraine’s borders. Sanctions and angry rhetoric are all that Washington, Europe and Australia can throw at Moscow for now.

America’s inability to persuade Putin to back down is a historic diplomatic failure and the gut-wrenching images this week bombs exploding across Ukraine will only heighten the sense of helplessness that many in the West feel. It has the potential to gravely hurt Biden’s presidency. A new Gallup poll shows just 36 per cent of Americans approve of how Biden has handled the situation with Russia, while 55 per cent disapprove. Worst of all, especially for Australia, is the fear that Western impotence over Ukraine could embolden China over Indo-Pacific flashpoints like Taiwan and the South China Sea.

But this is all a part of Putin’s plan. By invading Ukraine he has forced Washington to look to ­Europe at a time when it wants to concentrate on the challenge of a rising China in the Indo-Pacific.

As The Wall Street Journal puts it: “Russia’s audacious military assault on Ukraine is the first major clash marking a new order in international politics. This emerging order leaves the US contending with two adversaries at once in geographically disparate parts of the world.”

Ever since he came to power in 1999, Putin has been a risk-taker. He has subjugated democracy in Russia to effectively anoint himself as a dictator and has surprised the West with his boldness in sending Russian troops into Syria, annexing Crimea and invading Georgia.

But Putin’s invasion of Ukraine dwarfs his previous excesses. In the eyes of the West, he will now sit in the pantheon of Russian tyrants alongside Stalin and Lenin.

As Biden put it: “Who in the Lord’s name does Putin think gives him the right to declare new so-called countries on territory that belonged to his neighbours?”

Biden is right when he says Putin has created this “premeditated war” in Ukraine and that “Russia alone is responsible for the death and destruction this ­attack will bring”.

But in the same breath Biden also claims that “the world will hold Russia accountable”. The burning question is how?

Nationwide News Pty Ltd.

文件 AUSTOL0020220225ei2p0056c


Live updates: Zelenskyy declines US offer to evacuate Kyiv
By The Associated Press
9102 字
2022 年 2 月 26 日 04:04 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The latest on the Russia-Ukraine crisis[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-attack-a05e7c4563ac94b963134bba83187d46] :

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy was asked to evacuate Kyiv at the behest of the U.S. government but turned down the offer.

Zelenskyy said in response: “The fight is here; I need ammunition, not a ride,” according to a senior American intelligence official with direct knowledge of the conversation, who described Zelenskyy as upbeat.

Invading Russian forces closed in on Ukraine’s capital on Saturday, in an apparent encircling movement after a barrage of airstrikes on cities and military bases around the country.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — A second Russian Ilyushin Il-76 military transport plane was shot down near Bila Tserkva, 50 miles (85 kilometers) south of Kyiv, according to two American officials with direct knowledge of conditions on the ground in Ukraine.

On Friday, Ukraine’s military said it had shot down a Russian military transport plane with paratroopers on board.

According to a statement from the military’s General Staff, the first Il-76 heavy transport plane was shot down near Vasylkiv, a city 25 miles south of Kyiv. The Russian military has not commented on either incident so far, and the reports could not be immediately verified.

___

TOKYO — Japanese Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi says he spoke with his U.S. counterpart, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, on the phone Saturday and they agreed they must respond to Russia's invasion of Ukraine properly to prevent it from becoming “a wrong lesson” because of its potential influence in Asia and the Indo-Pacific region.

Hayashi declined to comment if Japan plans to join the United States, Britain and the European Union in imposing sanctions on Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Hayashi said Japan will stay in close touch with other Group of Seven members and other international leaders while watching the developments.

Hayashi told reporters that he and Blinken reaffirmed their commitment to work closely with the rest of international society and they agreed it is necessary to reject Russia's unilateral act to change the status quo.

___

UNITED NATIONS—Russia has vetoed a U.N. Security Council resolution demanding that Moscow stop its attack on Ukraine and withdraw all troops.

Friday’s vote was 11-1, with China, India and the United Arab Emirates abstaining. It showed significant but not total opposition to Russia’s invasion of its smaller, militarily weaker neighbor.

The United States and other supporters knew the resolution wouldn’t pass but argued it would highlight Russia’s international isolation. The resolution’s failure paves the way for backers to call for a swift vote on a similar measure in the U.N. General Assembly. There are no vetoes in the 193-member assembly. There’s no timetable as yet for a potential Assembly vote.

___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria on Friday introduced a ban on the entry of Russian aircraft into the country’s airspace.

All aircraft licensed by the Russian Federation may not enter the sovereign airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the airspace over its territorial waters, the government announced. The ban is effective starting Saturday.

The government said it took the action in connection with the escalation of the military conflict and in solidarity with Ukraine.

___

SYDNEY—Australia is imposing sanctions against all 339 members of the Russian parliament and is considering sanctions against Russian President Vladimir Putin as well as his Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne also announced on Saturday sanctions against eight Russian oligarchs close to Putin. Australia was also taking steps to imposed sanctions on key figures in the Belarusian government who had aided the Ukraine invasion.

Payne said she was seeking advice from her department on following western allies’ example in sanctioning Putin.

“It is an exceptional step to sanction leaders, but this is an exceptional situation,” Payne said.

___

WASHINGTON—Ukraine’s top diplomatic envoy in the U.S. is urging countries to sever diplomatic relations with Russia over its invasion of their country.

Ambassador Oksana Markarova’s request came in an emergency meeting Friday at the Washington-based Organization of American States, whose members were debating a resolution condemning the military attack ordered by President Vladimir Putin.

“It’s hard to imagine that something like this happens in the center of Europe in the 21st Century,” an emotional Markarova said during the meeting. She urged delegates to supply Ukraine with defensive weapons and follow the lead of the Federated States of Micronesia, a Pacific island nation that earlier Friday broke all ties with Russia.

Alexander Kim, a senior diplomat at Russia’s embassy in Washington, towed closely to the Kremlin’s unsubstantiated claim that the military incursion was an attempt to “de-Nazify” a government that had committed scores of atrocities against civilians.

“We are open to diplomacy,” Kim told representatives of more than 30 Latin American governments, many of whom have pursued closer relations with Moscow in recent years. “However, diplomacy presumes an ability to negotiate. It is not a tool for blackmailing and imposing the decision of Washington and its satellite states.”

___

LONDON—British Prime Minister Boris Johnson says he is in “close contact” with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, as he hailed “the fierce bravery and patriotism” of Ukraine’s government and people.

In a recorded message, Johnson said “the scenes unfolding in the streets and fields of Ukraine are nothing short of a tragedy,” calling it bloodshed Europe has not seen in a generation or more.

He said “the people of the United Kingdom stand with our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the face of this unjustifiable assault on your homeland.”

Johnson also urged Russians to oppose the invasion, which he called “a tragedy for Russia” as well as for Ukraine.

Speaking in Russian, he said: “I do not believe this war is in your name.”

Britain has imposed asset freezes and other sanctions on scores of Russian companies and several oligarchs, and has joined the U.S., Canada and the European Union in slapping sanctions on President Vladimir Putin and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary—Hungary’s foreign minister has offered Budapest as a possible location for negotiations between the leaders of Russia and Ukraine as Russia’s invasion intensifies.

“Budapest can serve as a safe venue for both the Russian and Ukrainian negotiation delegations,” Peter Szijjarto said in a video on Facebook late Friday, adding that he had made the proposal to both Russia’s and Ukraine’s governments, neither of which dismissed it.

“I sincerely hope that an agreement can be reached within a few hours or days to start discussions; the sooner the talks begin, the sooner there will be peace and the fewer people will have to die in the war,” Szijjarto said.

___

BRUSSELS—With a military intervention in Ukraine off the table, countries around the world are looking to heap more financial punishment on Moscow.

The United States, Britain and European Union said Friday they will move to sanction Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.

The EU’s unanimous decision, part of a broader sanctions package, indicated that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

White House press secretary Jen Psaki indicated the U.S. sanctions will include a travel ban.

___

TORONTO—Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is announcing sanctions on Russian Vladimir Putin, his chief of staff and foreign minister Sergey Lavrov.

Trudeau also says Canada supports the removal of Russia from the SWIFT banking system.

The prime minister is also announcing sanctions against Belarus.

Meanwhile, Canada’s largest province is pulling Russian products from shelves from government owned liquor stores.

Ontario Finance Minister Peter Bethlenfalvy says the province joins Canada’s allies in condemning the Russian government’s act of aggression against the Ukrainian people, and will direct the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to withdraw all products produced in Russia from store shelves.

The French-speaking province of Quebec is also considering banning Russian liquor.

___

UNITED NATIONS—The U.N. plans to seek over $1 billion in donations for humanitarian relief in Ukraine over the next three months, the world body’s humanitarian chief said Friday.

Martin Griffiths said at a news briefing that the exact amount of the appeal is still being decided but will be “well north of $1 billion.”

The U.N. announced Thursday that it was immediately allocating $20 million to expand its humanitarian operations in Ukraine. Even before Russia’s attack this week, the world body estimated about 3 million people were in need of aid after years of fighting between Russian-backed separatists and the Ukrainian government in the country’s east.

Now, “the scale of need in these very, very extraordinary circumstances is going to be of the highest,” Griffiths said.

The U.N. issues multiple appeals each year for international donors, mainly governments, to finance humanitarian efforts in trouble spots around the world. Last month, it requested more than $5 billion for Afghanistan, the largest-ever appeal tied to a single country.

___

RICHMOND, Va.—Criminal ransomware operators are posting messages on the dark web pledging to launch retaliatory cyberattacks if Russia is attacked.

The ransomware group Conti, which experts say has ties to Russia, said in a note on its dark web site Friday that it would “use all our possible resources to strike back at the critical infrastructures of an enemy.”

Ransomware gangs are mostly Russian-speaking and operate with near impunity out of Russia and allied countries.

In a follow up note, the Conti group stressed it was not an ally of any government and said: “we condemn the ongoing war.”

Major ransomware attacks in the last year, including against the biggest U.S. fuel pipeline, have underscored how gangs of extortionist hackers can disrupt the economy and put lives and livelihoods at risk. The U.S. government has been warning critical infrastructure entities to prepare for possible attacks and to make sure their defenses are up to date.

Non-state hackers have promised to be active in both sides of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The online collective Anonymous recently pledged to conduct cyberattacks to support Ukraine.

___

BERLIN—The German government says it plans to deploy troops and the Patriot anti-missile system to Slovakia as part of NATO plans to strengthen the alliance’s eastern flank.

The Defense Ministry said Friday that it plans to send an infantry company as part of a combat troop battalion. And it said that Germany also will contribute the Patriot system.

The ministry stressed that the so-called “enhanced vigilance activity battlegroup” has a purely defensive function.

Slovakia is a NATO and European Union member that borders Ukraine. Germany already is beefing up its troop contingent in Lithuania, another nation on NATO’s eastern flank.

___

KYIV, Ukraine--Russian troops are bearing down on Ukraine’s capital of Kyiv.

Mayor Vitaly Klitschko says five explosions hit an area near a major power plant on the city’s eastern outskirts. There was no information on the cause of the blasts, which Klitschko said occurred at intervals of several minutes. No electricity outages were immediately reported.

The invasion of a democratic country has fueled fears of wider war in Europe and triggered worldwide efforts to make Russia stop.

___

BELGRADE, Serbia—Serbia defied calls from the European Union and the U.S. to join sanctions against Russia, although its autocratic president said that Moscow’s assault against Ukraine is against the international law.

With the move, Serbia remains a rare European state together with Belarus not to join Western sanctions introduced against Moscow for its invasion of a sovereign European state.

“Serbia respects the norms of the international law,” President Aleksandar Vucic said. “But Serbia also understands its own interests.”

Vucic said that Serbia regards the violation of Ukraine’s territorial integrity as “very wrong,” but added it won’t join international sanctions against Russia.

Despite formally seeking EU membership, Serbia has been strengthening ties with its traditional Slavic ally Russia. Moscow has been supplying Serbia’s armed forces with weapons, leading to more tensions in the Balkans which went through a bloody civil war in the 1990s.

___

ROME—Thousands of Romans and Ukrainians who live in the Italian capital marched side-by-side to the Colosseum to denounce Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

They took up the call by Rome’s mayor to clutch lit candles on Friday evening and walk from the square atop the Capitoline Hill to the ancient arena, a few minutes’ stroll away.

Several of the Ukrainians among the marchers wept. They put a hand over their heart while singing the Ukrainian anthem. Others held Ukrainian flags or protest signs or shouted, “hands off our country” or voiced other denunciations of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Among the marchers was Ruslan Yakubovskyy, a Ukrainian.

“I live here, I bought a home here, my family is here, but I am thinking about going back to Ukraine to fight and lend a helping hand,″ he said. “The situation is so difficult that either it’s that the rest of the world is pretending not to see or it doesn’t want to see it at all."

City Hall and the Colosseum were illuminated in the colors of the Ukrainian flag, yellow and blue.

___

WARSAW, Poland - Presidents of NATO’s eastern flank member states gathered Friday in Warsaw voiced their support for tough sanctions on Russia and its leaders for the invasion of Ukraine.

Nine presidents of the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine held a security summit with the participation of European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. They also remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

“There cannot be any ‘business as usual’ in this situation in relations with Russia because that would have been a betrayal of the principles of the honest, open world,” Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, said after the talks that he had hosted.

___

LONDON — Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Britain would introduce sanctions against Russian leader Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to inflict maximum punishment for invading Ukraine, his Downing Street office said Friday.

Johnson’s pledge comes as the European Union approved an asset freeze on Putin and Lavrov. The comments from Johnson suggest that Western powers are acting in concert on unprecedented measures to try to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor.

In comments to NATO leaders, the UK leader pressed again for immediate action to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions. European nations have faced criticism for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network in offering sanctions on Thursday.

Johnson said “the world must make certain President Putin would fail in this act of aggression.”

___

TIRANA, Albania—Albania's prime minister on Friday said the tiny Western Balkan country would welcome Ukrainian refugees.

Speaking after a NATO summit Prime Minister Edi Rama said that like all the other NATO member countries, Albania would be ready to welcome a few thousand Ukrainians leaving their country due to the Russian invasion.

Rama did not give any concrete number.

Albania, a NATO member since 2009, has followed the United States and European Union on its stand denouncing Russian invasion.

Albania was the first to offer shelter and then house some 2,400 Afghan evacuees after the Taliban came to power in August last year. Some 300 have already left, mainly for the United States.

___

BRUSSELS — NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Friday that U.S. President Joe Biden and his counterparts have agreed to send parts of the organization’s response force to help protect allies in the east over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Speaking after chairing a NATO meeting, Stoltenberg said the leaders decided to send parts of the NATO Response Force and elements of a quickly deployed spearhead unit. He did not say how many troops would be deployed, but confirmed that the move would involve land, sea and air power.

The NRF can number up to 40,000 troops, but Stoltenberg said that NATO would not be deploying the entire force. Parts of a force known in NATO jargon as the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF), which is currently led by France, will also be sent.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has released a video of himself and his senior aides in Kyiv to reassure the nation as Russian troops were closing in on the capital.

In the video Zelenskyy recorded in the street outside the presidential office, he said he and his top officials are staying in the capital.

“Our troops are here, citizens are here,” Zelenskyy said, adding that “All of us are here protecting our independence of our country. And it will continue to be this way. Glory to our defenders, Glory to Ukraine, Glory to Heroes.”

Russian troops bore down on Ukraine’s capital Friday, with gunfire and explosions resonating ever closer to the government quarter.

In the fog of war, it was unclear how much of Ukraine remains under Ukrainian control and how much or little Russian forces have seized. The Kremlin accepted Kyiv’s offer to hold talks, but it appeared to be an effort to squeeze concessions out of Ukraine’s embattled president instead of a gesture toward a diplomatic solution.

___

ROME — Premier Mario Draghi’s Cabinet on Friday formally approved previously announced participation by 250 Italian military forces and 139 land vehicles in NATO’s enhanced Forward Presence in Latvia, as well as air policing by some 12 aircraft currently deployed in Romania and patrols by an intelligence-gathering aircraft and a refueling aircraft as part of NATO’s shoring up of its eastern flank allies in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The government also approved deployment of 235 military forces aboard two or three naval vessels, as well as an aircraft as part of surveillance and intelligence-gathering in the eastern Mediterranean and the Black Sea.

Also getting the government’s formal OK was the mobilization of 1,350 military personnel, involving 77 land vehicles and two naval vessels – with the second one to be deployed in the second half of the year -- as well as five aircraft as part of the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force.

Approval was granted for that force to be increased to as many as 1,970 military personnel. The same Cabinet session also granted authorization to provide at no cost non-lethal military equipment to Ukraine, including protective devices for soldiers and de-mining equipment

___

BRUSSELS — Latvia’s foreign minister says the European Union has agreed to freeze the assets of Russian President Vladimir Putin and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov along with other sanctions over the invasion of Ukraine.

The move indicates that Western powers are moving toward unprecedented measures to force Putin to stop the brutal invasion of Russia’s neighbor and from unleashing a major war in Europe.

Foreign Minister Edgard Rinkevics announced the EU decision Friday in a tweet.

He said another package of sanctions is to be prepared by the EU.

___

PARIS — The leader of the Belarus opposition in exile says the European Union should slap tougher sanctions on Belarus for its role in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Sviatlana Tiskhanouskaya says Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko, a close ally of Russia, has turned her country into “an aggressor” in Ukraine.

She told The Associated Press on Friday that Belarus has become “an aircraft carrier” for the Russian military, carrying troops to Ukraine, re-fueling its war machine and housing soldiers of the invading force.

The United States, the EU, Britain and Canada last year imposed sanctions on Belarusian officials, businesses and several sectors of the economy and the financial system following a brutal crackdown on Lukashenko’s opponents. They were protesting his fraudulent re-election for a sixth term.

French President Emmanuel Macron on Friday called the Belarus government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine and said it will also be targeted with sanctions.

___

WASHINGTON — Russian state broadcaster RT says it was subjected to “massive” denial-of-service attacks after the online collective Anonymous pledged to carry out cyberattacks in support of Ukraine, which is being invaded by Russian forces.

RT said in a statement that the attacks on its websites came from about 100 million devices, mostly based in the U.S. But the broadcaster said it was resolving the issues and its website appeared to be functioning normally Friday.

Anonymous announced a day earlier on Twitter that it is “officially in cyber war against the Russian government” and noted later that the Russian Ministry of Defense website was down.

But it is difficult to attribute a cyberattack to Anonymous or even confirm that someone is a member of a collective that is open to anyone who claims to use hacking for a particular cause.

___

GIBRALTAR — Punitive measures against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine have spread to a tiny speck of territory on Spain’s southern tip, with Gibraltar’s government taking steps against Russia Today television.

Gibraltar on Friday announced it was suspending the Russian state broadcaster for spreading “disinformation.” It also revoked a visa waiver program for Russian citizens.

The office for Chief Minister Fabian Picardo described Russia Today as a “mouthpiece for the Kremlin” that “will become a dangerous source of disinformation that Gibraltar cannot accept on its networks.”

___

LONDON — Britain’s Ministry of Defense says the bulk of Russian forces advancing on the Ukrainian capital Kyiv are more than 50 kilometers (30 miles) from the center of the city.

The ministry said it continues to monitor “sporadic clashes’’ between Russian and Ukrainian forces in the northern suburbs of the capital.

The intelligence update, delivered via Twitter, also said that armored units were forced to open a new route toward Kyiv after failing to capture Chernihiv, a city northeast of the capital near the Belarusian border.

___

BRUSSELS — Europe’s foremost human rights organization has suspended Russia because of its invasion of Ukraine, though it remains a member.

The 47-nation Council of Europe announced Friday that Russia was suspended with “immediate effect” from the Committee of Ministers and the parliamentary assembly “as a result of the Russian Federation’s armed attack on Ukraine.”

The Strasbourg-based organization said Russia remained a member and continued to be bound to the relevant human rights conventions.

“Suspension is not a final measure but a temporary one, leaving channels of communication open,” a statement said.

___

VIENNA — The International Atomic Energy Agency says the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant reported higher-than-usual radiation levels after being taken over by Russian forces invading Ukraine.

But it said Friday that current radiation levels do not pose a threat to the public.

Ukraine’s regulatory authority previously said that increased radiation levels may be due to military vehicles stirring up soil that remains contaminated from the accident in 1986, still known as the worst nuclear disaster in history.

But the measures are “within the operational range measured in the Exclusion Zone since it was established,” according to the IAEA.

The Chernobyl Exclusion Zone is a 2,600-square-kilometer (1,000-square-mile) area of forest lying between the Belarus-Ukraine border and the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv.

Russian forces took control over the site Thursday after a fierce battle with Ukrainian national guards protecting the plant.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says prospects for possible peace talks between Russia and Ukraine look uncertain due to apparent differences over a venue.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin has agreed to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials in Minsk, Belarus, where President Alexander Lukashenko runs a pro-Russian government.

That agreement came in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s offer earlier in the day to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Peskov told reporters that after the parties discussed Minsk as a possible venue, Ukrainian officials changed course and said they were unwilling to travel to Minsk and would prefer to meet in NATO member Poland. They then halted further communication, Peskov said.

Putin has claimed that the western refusal to heed Russia's demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order an invasion of the neighboring country.

___

PRAGUE -- The Czech Republic’s transport minister says his country has banned all Russian airlines from Czech airports, in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Martin Kupka said Friday the ban covers all regular flights between Prague and Moscow and Prague and St. Petersburg, as well as charter flights.

Russian planes will also be banned from landing at the western Czech spa town of Karlovy Vary, a popular destination for Russian tourists. The measure becomes affective at midnight.

Additionally, Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala said his country will stop issuing visas for Russian citizens and will urge other European Union countries to do the same.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania -- Major retail chains in Lithuania started to remove Russian and Belarusian products from shelves, a move joined by online shops and widely applauded by the public as a protest against Moscow’s decision to invade Ukraine.

Maxima LT, the largest chain in the Baltic nations, said Friday the Russian goods it sells are mainly alcohol, dried products and candy, amounting to millions of euros (dollars) in sales.

Other retailers like drug stores and home suppliers made similar announcements. The Lithuanian postal service said it will not be distributing any more Russian periodicals.

International companies such as IKEA are facing pressure to remove Russian-made goods from sale in the small Baltic country, which fears Russian aggression.

___

MOSCOW — Russian President Vladimir Putin has hailed his troops for their courage as they press their offensive across Ukraine and bear down on Kyiv.

Speaking during Friday’s meeting of his Security Council, Putin claimed that most Ukrainian military units are reluctant to engage Russian forces.

He said the units offering resistance are mostly volunteer battalions made up of right-wing Ukrainian nationalists.

He offered no evidence for his claims, which could not be independently verified.

Echoing an earlier Russian military statement, Putin accused Ukrainian forces of deploying heavy weapons in urban areas in several big cities, including Kyiv and Kharkiv, to use civilians as shields.

The Russian president urged the Ukrainian military to end their resistance and turn on their leaders.

___

WARSAW, Poland - European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen is in Warsaw for urgent talks with NATO’s nine eastern flank members on how to enhance the region’s security, following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The participants were also due to remotely join a NATO summit in Brussels.

Poland’s President Andrzej Duda, hosting the talks between the so-called NATO Bucharest Nine, in his opening speech said that “demons of a great war, unseen since 1945” have returned to Europe.

NATO’s eastern flank members fear Moscow could also target them.

___

FORT STEWART, Ga. — The U.S. Army says 3,800 soldiers from Fort Stewart, Georgia, are among additional forces deploying to Europe following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

Troops from the Army post southwest of Savannah, Georgia, “will deploy to reassure NATO allies, deter further aggression against NATO member states and train with host-nation forces,” Fort Stewart commanders said in a statement late Thursday.

Fort Stewart is home to the Army’s 3rd Infantry Division, which saw multiple combat deployments during the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Most of the 3rd Infantry soldiers heading to Europe are assigned to the division’s 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team.

“The Raider Brigade is trained and equipped to deter aggression and to reassure and defend our allies,” Col. Pete Moon, the 1st Brigade’s commander, said in prepared statement.

The Georgia-based soldiers appear to be among 7,000 additional U.S. forces deploying to Germany to bolster NATO following the invasion of Ukraine. President Joe Biden ordered the deployments Thursday.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told Chinese President Xi Jinping he’s ready to send a delegation for talks with Ukrainian officials.

The Kremlin said in its readout of Friday’s call that Xi underlined that he “views the Russian leadership’s action in the crisis situation with respect.”

In a reference to new Western sanctions against Russia over its invasion in Ukraine, the Kremlin noted that Putin and Xi agreed “it’s inadmissible to use illegitimate sanctions for achieving selfish goals of certain countries.”

Chinese state TV reported that Xi emphasized that China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations.”

___

NEW DELHI — Dozens of parents, relatives and friends of Indian students stranded in Ukraine held a demonstration near the Russian Embassy in New Delhi to demand the students' immediate evacuation.

Police barricaded the roads leading to the embassy on Friday and asked the protesters to meet Indian Foreign Ministry officials to discuss the repatriation of nearly 16,000 Indians, including students.

Some of the demonstrators held video conferencing calls with some of those stuck in metro trains and bomb shelters in Kyiv.

``We are running low on food and water in a crowded bunker,” one of the callers in Ukraine said.

Indian Embassy officials are now traveling to border areas of Ukraine touching Poland, Romania Slovakia and Hungary to facilitate the exit of Indian nationals so that they can be evacuated to India, said foreign ministy official Harsh Vardhan Shringla.

___

BRUSSELS — Germany’s foreign minister said Friday that the European Union will take in all people fleeing Ukraine due to the current conflict.

“We need to do everything to immediately take in the people who are now fleeing bombs, fleeing tanks, that’s also what we’ve been preparing for in recent weeks,” Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock told reporters in Brussels.

“We tried everything so this day wouldn’t come,” she said. “And it came because the Russian president chose it, opted for war and against human lives.”

“That’s why we will take in all of the people who are fleeing now,” Baerbock said. “We will bring the people from Ukraine to safety.”

___

BUCHAREST, Romania — Moldova’s national naval agency says a ship in “neutral waters” of the Black Sea has been hit by a missile, leaving two crew members seriously injured.

The Naval Agency said in a statement that the source of the missile that hit the Moldova-flagged Millennial Spirit on Friday is unknown.

“A fire broke out onboard the ship; the equipment and lifeboats were destroyed,” the agency said in a statement. “The ship’s crew left the ship equipped only with life jackets.”

The agency said that the company that operates the tanker is a Ukrainian legal entity and the crew members are Russian citizens.

Rescue operations were carried out by Ukrainian authorities, the Moldovan agency said.

___

LONDON — An expert in international trade says he thinks world leaders are reluctant to exclude Russia from the SWIFT system of financial transactions because it is the “nuclear option” of sanctions.

Disconnecting Russia from SWIFT to try to force President Vladimir Putin to end his invasion of Ukraine would have major economic costs for western countries, said Hosuk Lee-Makiyama, director of the European Centre for International Political Economy.

Lee-Makiyama told the BBC that if Russia were cut off for foreign payments for its gas and oi,l it would quickly start expropriating the 300 billion euros EU investors have plowed into the country.

“It’s a nuclear option that it’s going to basically exterminate yourself and your enemy,” he said.

World leaders, who have so far ruled out military intervention in Ukraine, have few good options for deterring Putin because he knows they fear a direct confrontation with Russia, Lee-Makiyama said.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says Russia is ready to send a delegation to Belarus for talks with Ukrainian officials.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin is ready to send the delegation in response to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's offer to discuss a non-aligned status for Ukraine.

That indicates Zelenskyy would be willing to negotiate dropping his country’s bid to join NATO, as Russia has demanded.

Before the invasion, the West had rejected the demand. Putin claimed the refusal to discuss keeping Ukraine out of NATO prompted him to order a military action in Ukraine to “demilitarize” it.

___

BANGKOK — Myanmar’s ruling military council offered its support Friday for Russia’s attack on Ukraine, while the shadow government leading opposition to army rule condemned Moscow’s action.

A statement by the spokesman for Myanmar’s military government said Russia acted correctly to perpetuate its “sovereignty.”

A text message to Myanmar journalists from Maj. Gen. Zaw Min Tun also said the invasion demonstrated Russia’s position as a “world power” helping to keep global relations in balance.

Myanmar’s military rulers face armed domestic opposition, and like Russia’s leaders now, are the target of strong sanctions from Western governments seeking a return to democratic rule.

Myanmar’s National Unity Government, established by lawmakers prevented from taking their seats when the army seized power in February last year, deplored Moscow’s action.

___

VILNIUS, Lithuania — Lithuania's Radio and Television Commission has temporarily suspended the operation of six Russian-language TV channels for their alleged incitement to war and propaganda.

The six TV channels were taken off the air Friday

Planeta RTR, Rossijya 24, Belarus 24, NTV Mir, RTR Planeta and Rossiya 24 were suspended for five years, and PBK and TVCI for three years, commission Vice Chairman Ricardas Slapsys told the Baltic News Service.

Lithuania, the most southern of the three Baltic nations, borders Russia’s Kaliningrad region to the southwest, Belarus to the east, Latvia to the north and Poland to the south.

Latvia banned several Russian television channels had their right to broadcast in Latvia suspended Thursday for several years.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has taken control of an airport just outside Kyiv, as Kremlin forces bear down on the Ukrainian capital.

The claim could not be independently verified.

Taking possession of the airport in Hostomel, which has a long runway allowing the landing of heavy-lift transport planes, would mean Russia can airlift troops directly to Kyiv’s outskirts.

Hostomel is just 7 kilometers (4 miles) northwest of the city.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that the Russian airborne forces used 200 helicopters to land in Hostomel and killed over 200 troops belonging to Ukraine's special forces.

Konashenkov claimed that Russian troops suffered no casualties. That contradicts Ukrainian claims that Russian troops sustained heavy casualties in the fighting there.

___

BERLIN — Germany’s Defense Ministry has confirmed media reports that it is deploying additional military assets to NATO’s eastern flank.

German weekly Der Spiegel reported that the deployments included 150 soldiers and about a dozen Boxer armored fighting vehicles, two ships and anti-missile systems.

Ministry spokesman Christian Thiels declined to say Friday exactly how many soldiers were being deployed. But he confirmed that a navy corvette would leave Saturday for patrols in the Baltic while a frigate will be deployed in the Mediterranean, both under NATO command.

Germany is also assessing whether to deploy Patriot anti-missile systems to an eastern European NATO country, Thiels said.

Decisions on deploying further troops could be expected soon, he added.

___

BEIJING — Chinese state TV says Russian President Vladimir Putin has told his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, that Moscow is willing to negotiate with Ukraine, even as Moscow's forces invade its neighbor.

The report Friday followed a Kremlin announcement that Putin’s government was considering an offer by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to negotiate non-aligned status for his country.

Putin said Moscow “is willing to conduct high-level negotiations with the Ukrainian side,” China Central Television reported on its website.

It gave no indication whether Putin said he was responding to Zelenskyy’s offer or gave any details of what the two sides might negotiate.

Russia complains that the United States and its allies ignored Moscow’s “legitimate security concerns” by expanding the NATO military alliance eastward, closer to Russia’s borders.

Xi said China “supports Russia and Ukraine resolving the problem through negotiations,” CCTV said.

___

ANKARA, Turkey — Turkey’s foreign minister says officials are still assessing a request by Ukraine for Turkey to close to Russian shipping the straits at the entrance of the Black Sea.

Mevlut Cavusoglu warned, however, that under a 1936 convention Ankara may not be able to deny total access to the Russian vessels.

Ukraine on Thursday formally asked Turkey to close the Turkish Straits to Russian warships in line with the Montreux Convention which allows Turkey to restrict the passage of belligerent countries’ warships during times of war. The convention stipulates however, that warships belonging to Black Sea coastal countries can return to their bases.

“If there is a demand for the ships of the warring countries to return to their bases, then (passage) must be allowed,” Cavusoglu was quoted as telling Hurriyet newspaper in an interview.

The minister said Turkish experts were assessing if the current situation amounted to "a state of war.”

___

BERLIN — Germany’s president is appealing to Russian President Vladimir Putin to “stop the madness of this war now.”

President Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in Berlin on Friday said that “we don’t want enmity with the Russian people, quite the contrary, but this wrongdoing cannot go without a clear answer.”

Steinmeier, whose post is largely ceremonial but holds moral authority, said that Germany will do its part in deterring Putin from using force against its NATO allies.

The president, who served twice as Germany’s foreign minister, said that Putin “should not underestimate the strength of democracies” and Germans shouldn’t either.

He said it’s good that people are going out to demonstrate, adding: “The Russian president should not believe for a second that people in Germany and Europe simply accept this brutal violence.”

___

VATICAN CITY — Pope Francis went to the Russian embassy in Rome on Friday to personally express his concern about the war in Ukraine, in an extraordinary papal gesture that has no recent precedent.

Popes usually receive ambassadors and heads of state in the Vatican. For Francis to travel a short distance to the Russian embassy outside the Vatican walls was a sign of his strength of feeling about Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine.

Vatican officials said they knew of no such previous papal initiative.

Vatican spokesman Matteo Bruni confirmed the pontiff wanted “clearly to express his concern about the war.” Pope Francis was there for just over a half-hour, Bruni said.

Francis has called for dialogue to end the conflict and has urged the faithful to set next Wednesday as a day of fasting and prayer for peace in Ukraine.

But he has refrained from publicly calling out Russia, presumably for fear of antagonizing the Russian Orthodox Church, with which he is trying to build stronger ties.

___

GENEVA — The U.N. human rights office says it is receiving increasing reports of civilian casualties in Ukraine in the wake of Russia’s military invasion.

Spokeswoman Ravina Shamdasani of the office of the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights says its staffers have so far verified at least 127 civilian casualties. They include 25 people killed and 102 injured, mostly from shelling and airstrikes.

She cautioned Friday that the numbers are “very likely to be an underestimate.”

Shamdasani also said the rights office was “disturbed by the multiple arbitrary arrests” of demonstrators in Russia who on Thursday protested against the conflict.

“We understand more than 1,800 protesters were arrested,” she said, before adding that it was unclear how many might have been released already.

Meanwhile, spokeswoman Shabia Mantoo of the U.N. refugee agency, UNHCR, said its latest update had that more than 100,000 people were believed to have left their homes in Ukraine. She said the agency’s planning figures anticipated that “up to 4 million people may flee to other countries if the situation escalates.”

___

LONDON — Latvia’s defense minister is criticizing European nations for failing to cut Russia off from the global bank payments network and refusing to provide weapons to help Ukraine defend itself.

Artis Pabriks’ comments came after the U.S. and European Union stopped short of blocking Russia’s access to the SWIFT payments system when they announced a new round of sanctions late Thursday.

Pabriks also chided fellow EU nations that have refused to provide “lethal aid” to Ukraine, saying only the U.K., Greece, Poland and the Baltic states had done so.

In an interview with the BBC on Friday, Pabriks suggested that many European leaders don’t want to take these steps because they would cause economic hardship for their own countries.

“If you are really not ready yourself to spill blood, at least spill money now,’’ he said. “Do it now, because if you lose Ukraine all European geopolitics will change. … There will be much more pressure on Poland, much more pressure on the Baltics.’’

The Baltic states of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia fear they could be the Kremlin’s next target.

___

DAMASCUS, Syria — Syrian President Bashar Assad is praising Russia’s military incursion into Ukraine and denouncing what he calls western “hysteria” surrounding it.

Assad spoke by phone Friday with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

“What is happening today is a correction of history and a restoration of balance which was lost in the world after the breakup of the Soviet Union,” Assad said, according to state-run news agency SANA.

He said confronting NATO expansionism is Russia’s right.

Russia is a main backer of Assad’s government and its military intervention in 2015 in the country’s civil war helped tip the balance of power in his favor.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin says it will analyze the Ukrainian president’s offer to discuss a non-aligned status for his country, as a Russian military invasion pushes closer to Kyiv.

Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he was ready to hold talks on the issue.

Asked about Zelenskyy’s offer, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Friday described it as “a move in a positive direction.”

He said in a conference call with reporters that “we paid attention to that, and now we need to analyze it.”

But Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said Zelenskyy “is simply lying” when he offers to discuss non-aligned status for Ukraine.

Lavrov said at a briefing that Zelenskyy “missed the opportunity” to discuss a neutral status for Ukraine when Russian President Vladimir Putin proposed it.

Putin says the West left him no option but to invade when it rejected Moscow’s demand to keep Ukraine out of NATO.

___

BRUSSELS — A senior European Union official says the 27-nation bloc intends to slap further sanctions on Russia in response to its invasion of Ukraine.

EU Council president Charles Michel tweeted Friday: “Second wave of sanctions with massive and severe consequences politically agreed last night. Further package under urgent preparation.”

Michel announced the move after a call with Ukraine president Volodymyr Zelenskyy.

Michel said Kyiv “is under continued attack by Russian forces” and called on Russia to immediately stop the violence.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary has extended temporary legal protection to Ukrainians fleeing the Russian invasion, as countries in eastern Europe prepare for the arrival of refugees at their borders.

Hungary, which borders Ukraine to the west, has in the past taken a firm stance against all forms of immigration. It has controversially refused to accept refugees and asylum seekers from the Middle East, Africa and Asia.

But in a decree published late Thursday, Hungary’s government announced that all Ukrainian citizens arriving from Ukraine, and all third-country nationals legally residing there, would be entitled to protection.

The section applying to third-country nationals makes it possible for non-Ukrainians — for example, Belarussian refugees living in Ukraine — to receive protection in the European Union.

Prime Minister Viktor Orban has said that Hungary will play no part in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, but that it would accept refugees arriving at its borders.

___

LONDON — British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has expressed his solidarity with Ukraine in telephone call with the country’s leader.

Johnson’s Downing Street office said Friday that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy offered an update on Russian military advances, including missile and artillery strikes.

“The prime minister assured President Zelenskyy that the world is united in its horror at what Putin his doing,’’ Johnson’s office said in a statement. “He paid tribute to the bravery and heroism of the Ukrainian people in standing up to Russia’s campaign of violence and expressed his deep condolences for those who have been killed.’’

___

BERLIN — The German government says it has suspended the granting of export credit and investment guarantees for business with Russia.

The Economy Ministry said Friday that the granting of new export credit guarantees and investment guarantees for Russia was suspended on Thursday.

The so-called Hermes credit export guarantees protect German companies from losses when exports aren’t paid for. Investment guarantees are granted by the German government to protect direct investments by German companies from political risk in the countries where they are made.

The Economy Ministry said that new export credit guarantees to the tune of 1.49 billion euros ($1.67 billion) were granted last year for business with Russia. New investment guarantees came in at a fraction of that amount, at 3.75 million euros ($4.2 million).

___

WARSAW, Poland — Poland’s Border Guard says that some 29,000 people were cleared to enter through the country’s land border with neighboring Ukraine on Thursday, the day Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began.

Before that, there were some 12,000 average daily entries from Ukraine into European Union and NATO member Poland, through land, sea and airport checkpoints, according to Border Guard statistics.

Poland has lifted the requirement of COVID-19 quarantine or vaccination certificates for refugees from Ukraine. A number of reception centers with camp beds, soup kitchens and medical care have been organized in locations close to the border with Ukraine.

___

BEIJING — China is holding back from labeling Russia’s attack on Ukraine an invasion.

At the same time, it is upholding the sanctity of territorial sovereignty, in a nod to its own insistence that Taiwan is part of China.

“The sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries should be respected and maintained,” China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Wang Wenbin said Friday.

“At the same time, we also see that the issue of Ukraine has its own complex and special historical merits, and we understand Russia’s legitimate concerns on security issues,” he added.

Wang did not answer questions about whether China would recognize the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk People’s Republics, in Ukrainian territory claimed by Russia, as independent states.

___

MOSCOW — Russia’s civil aviation authority has banned U.K. flights to and over Russia in retaliation against the British government’s ban on Aeroflot flights.

Rosaviatsiya said that all flights by the U.K. carriers to Russia as well as transit flights are banned starting Friday.

It said the measure was taken in response to the “unfriendly decisions” by the British authorities who banned flights to the U.K. by the Russian flag carrier Aeroflot as part of sanctions over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

___

MOSCOW — The Russian military claims it has destroyed 118 Ukrainian military assets since the beginning of its assault on its neighbor and as it pushes into the outskirts of Kyiv.

The claim could not be independently verified and was not confirmed by Ukraine amid a flurry of claims and counterclaims by each side.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Friday that among the targets were 11 Ukrainian air bases, 13 command facilities, 36 air defense radars, 14 air defense missile systems, 5 warplanes, 18 tanks and warships.

However, U.K. Defense Secretary Ben Wallace rejected Russian claims of success on the first day of its invasion of Ukraine, saying it had “failed to deliver” on its day one objectives.

Wallace told Sky News that the Western assessment is that Russia had failed to take its major objectives and is behind on its timetable for advance.

“They’ve lost over 450 personnel,’’ he said.

___

BERLIN — Former German Chancellor Angela Merkel has condemned Russia’s attack on Ukraine, calling it “a deep cut in European history after the end of the Cold War.”

Germany’s dpa news agency quoted Merkel saying Friday that there was “no justification for this blatant attack of international law. I condemn it in the sharpest possible manner.”

Merkel, who grew up in East Germany and speaks Russian, was heavily engaged in negotiations with Russian President Vladimir Putin throughout her 16 years in office, which ended in December.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s nuclear energy regulatory agency says that higher than usual gamma radiation levels have been detected in the area near the decommissioned Chernobyl nuclear plant, after it was seized by the Russian military.

The State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate said Friday that higher gamma radiation levels have been detected in the Chernobyl zone, but didn’t provide details of the increase.

It attributed the rise to a “disturbance of the topsoil due to the movement of a large amount of heavy military equipment through the exclusion zone and the release of contaminated radioactive dust into the air.”

Ukrainian authorities said that Russia took the plant and its surrounding exclusion zone after a fierce battle Thursday.

Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov said Russian airborne troops were protecting the plant to prevent any possible “provocations.” He insisted that radiation levels in the area have remained normal.

The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency said it was told by Ukraine of the takeover, adding that there had been “no casualties or destruction at the industrial site.”

The 1986 disaster occurred when a nuclear reactor at the plant 130 kilometers (80 miles) north of Kyiv exploded, sending a radioactive cloud across Europe. The damaged reactor was later covered by a protective shell to prevent leaks.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan warned “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards, Khan said in a statement Friday.

Khan adds that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Kyiv mayor Vitaly Klitschko said at least three people were injured when a rocket hit a multi-story apartment building in Ukraine's capital on Friday, starting a fire.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that the Russian military's claim it is not targeting civilian areas is “a lie.” He said that military and civilian areas in Ukraine are both being hit by Russian attacks.

Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began early Thursday with a series of missile strikes, many on key government and military installations, quickly followed by a three-pronged ground assault. Ukrainian and U.S. officials said Russian forces were attacking from the east toward Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city; from the southern region of Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014; and from Belarus to the north.

___

PARIS — French President Emmanuel Macron said Friday that France and its European allies have decided to “inflict very severe blows on Moscow,” further sanctioning individuals and targeting finance, energy and other sectors. The legal texts for the sanctions will be finalized and submitted for approval to EU foreign ministers later Friday.

Macron also said the EU has decided on economic aid for Ukraine in the amount of 1.5 billion euros ($1.68 billion).

The French president also called the Belorussian government “an accomplice” in Russia’s military invasion of Ukraine, and said it will also be targeted.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — As Russian troops continued pressing their offensive Friday, intense fighting also raged in the country’s east.

Russian troops entered the city of Sumy near the border with Russia that sits on a highway leading to Kyiv from the east. The regional governor, Dmytro Zhivitsky, said Ukrainian forces fought Russian troops in the city overnight, but other Russian convoys kept rolling west toward the Ukrainian capital.

“Military vehicles from Sumy are moving toward Kyiv,” Zhivitsky said. “Much equipment has passed through and is heading directly to the west.”

Zhivitsky added that another northeastern city, Konotop, was also sieged. He urged residents of the region to fight the Russian forces.

___

THE HAGUE, Netherlands — The prosecutor of the International Criminal Court says he is “closely following recent developments in and around Ukraine with increasing concern.”

Karim Khan issued a statement Friday on Twitter while on a visit to Bangladesh, where he is investigating crimes against Myanmar’s Rohingya minority.

Khan said he alerted “all sides conducting hostilities on the territory of Ukraine” that Ukraine has accepted the court’s jurisdiction.

That means “my office may exercise its jurisdiction over and investigate any act of genocide, crime against humanity or war crime committed within the territory of Ukraine since 20 February 2014 onwards," Khan added.

He said that “any person who commits such crimes, including by ordering, inciting or contributing in another manner to the commission of these crimes may be liable to prosecution before the Court.”

Khan added that because neither Russia nor Ukraine are member states of the court, his office does not have jurisdiction over the crime of aggression in the conflict.

The International Criminal Court is the world’s permanent war crimes court. It was set up in 2002 to prosecute atrocities in countries where local authorities are unable or unwilling to conduct trials.

___

Follow AP’s coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Eds: UPDATES: With Zelenskyy and a 2nd Russian plane reportedly shot down. With AP Photos.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220225ei2p00mau


Bulgaria is no longer soft on Russia, PM Petkov says
536 字
2022 年 3 月 7 日 06:47 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2022. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Bulgaria will no longer be soft on Russia, Prime Minister Kiril Petkov said as quoted by Politico.

The country’s previous governments, though claiming to be pro-Western, have been accused of protecting the interests of Moscow. Moreover, Bulgaria is still almost completely dependent on Russian gas for its energy.

Petkov told Politico that the government still has red lines when it comes to responding to Russian aggression, although his government is trying to set the country firmly on the pro-Western side. The prime minister even removed defence minister Stefan Yanev after he made several highly controversial statements claiming the Russian invasion of Ukraine is not a war but a 'special operation'.

“We supported all the sanctions [against Russia],” Petkov said.

He added that his country has become a predictable and strong supporter of Nato and the EU.

“Bulgaria is not anymore a soft country that has only balancing acts,” Petkov said.

He also noted that Russian attacks on Ukrainian nuclear power plants pose risks to everyone in Europe.

“I think nobody in Europe is protected at this point, both from what’s going to happen next — we don’t know what Putin is doing anymore — and also from even accidental nuclear threat,” Petkov said.

However, Sofia still does not want to send weapons to Ukraine and is only sending the country humanitarian aid.

“We’re too close to the conflict to be able to do that,” Petkov said.

“We’re not taking the direct risk,” he added.

The country is also refraining from setting a no-fly zone over Ukraine by sending Bulgarian jets to fly over the country and fight with Russian jets.

Moreover, Sofia does not intend to sanction Russian oil as it imports more than 70% of all its natural gas trom Russia.

Meanwhile, a scandal broke following a series of controversial statements by the Russian ambassador and the embassy in Bulgaria.

On March 3, Russia’s ambassador Eleonora Mitrofanova addressed Bulgarians on the occasion of Liberation Day, comparing the country with the Donetsk territory in Ukraine.

On March 3, 1878, Bulgaria gained independence from the Ottoman Empire partly thanks to the Russian war with the empire.

Mitrofanova also said that Bulgaria received its freedom, suggesting it had not fought for it at the time, which angered many people.

These statements came on top of a previous statement by the embassy, calling the Bulgarian government “European bedpans”, for which Bulgaria has demanded, but not yet received, an official apology.

On March 4, the We Are Coming party, the successor of the Poisonous Trio, urged Petkov and Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska to expel Mitrofanova. Democratic Bulgaria, which is part of the ruling coalition, also wants the government to expel her.

Two days earlier, Bulgaria declared two Russian diplomats personae non grata after the prosecution revealed they were involved in illegal espionage along with one Bulgarian reserve general.

Mitrofanova added further to the tension, refusing to go to the foreign ministry after being summoned due to the spy scandal.

The only reaction of the Russian embassy to this request so far was an announcement on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/rusembul/photos/a.1573799366238726/3171107779841202/?type=3] that its Bulgarian translation is being removed.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020220307ei37001gu


Bulgarian Business to Access Lv 7 Bln, Says Minister Lorer
289 字
2022 年 3 月 7 日
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2022 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
Varna, on the Black Sea, March 7 (BTA) - Financial instruments utilized by the Ministry of Innovation and Growth will grant Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises access to 7 billion leva over the next 7 to 10 years, said Minister Daniel Lorer here on Monday. The overall programme will include various loans, grants, government instruments, EU programmes.

The absorption rate of funds will depend entirely on the industry, Lorer said. He specified that one of the programmes is starting at the end of March. The first payments from the Recovery Plan are expected to take place in June. The operational programmes will most likely start this autumn.

The innovation and competitiveness programmes aimed at Bulgarian businesses work in parallel with the EU ones. For the time being, the war has had no effect on them, Lorer said. He pointed out the low level of cybersecurity as a threat to Bulgaria. The government, the municipal administrations, the private sector must all work to improve it, he added.

The sanctions on Russia will have an impact on the global economy, but what it will be is uncertain. The one certain thing is that they will accelerate the energy transition process across Europe, Lorer said. Stopping the purchase of natural gas from Russia would be "the last instrument to sanction RussiaÔ, according to him.

Minister Lorer is taking part in a forum dedicated to innovation and growth and hosted by the Nikola Vaptsarov Naval Academy in Varna. The event is attended by industry representatives, academics, the Bulgarian Development Bank, the Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Fund Manager of Financial Instruments in Bulgaria JSC.àRY/NZ/MY/ÍÇ/

NZ1424ES.113

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020220307ei37000m9


EU summit chaos: Five furious nations tear up VDL's Putin plan: 'We won't pay the price!'
Jacob Paul
744 字
2022 年 3 月 11 日 09:32 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
EU leaders are locked in a furious bust-up over energy as five members, including Germany, Austria and Hungary, tore up Ursula von der Leyen's plan to cut energy ties with Russia.

Finland and Bulgaria also opposed measures put forward by the European Commission. At a summit in Versailles, the bloc acknowledged the “tectonic shift in European history” caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine and vowed to “strengthen our bonds and deepen our partnership” with Kyiv. But they could not see eye-to-eye on a new energy strategy that was published on Tuesday.

Related articles

It detailed how the bloc can slash its dependence on gas by up to two-thirds in 2022, and completely rid itself of Russian supplies by the end of the decade.

But the bloc currently relies on Russia for 40 percent of its gas, some nations fear they will not be able to cope without Russian imports.

More than 25 percent of the EU's oil imports and 46 percent of its coal imports are also supplied by Russia.

German Chancellor Olaf Scholz appeared to hold one of the strongest stances against the plan, given that Germany received 55 percent of its gas from Russia, roughly 140 billion cubic meters in 2021.

Germany also imports 35 percent of its crude oil and 50 percent of its coal from Russia.

Even before the new energy strategy was published, Mr Scholz admitted that Germany would not be able to cope without Russian gas.

The country is still staunchly opposing any sanctions on Russian energy.

Vice-chancellor Robert Habeck warned this would pose a threat to “social peace” in the country and create a “real danger of energy undersupply in certain sectors”.

Instead, Mr Scholz made the case for more specifically targeted sanctions to pressure Russia and to avoid the impact it would have on EU citizens.

But Germany is not the only country that is unwilling to part ways with Russia.

READ MORE: Putin's nuclear threat to UK: Nine locations that could be obliterated

Hungary was unconvinced by the EU plot, with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán saying would oppose energy sanctions at the EU level.

Mr Orbán said on Tuesday after the strategy was published: "While we condemn Russia’s armed offensive and we also condemn the war, we will not allow Hungarian families to be made to pay the price.”

Austria was also staunchly opposed to the plan to sanction Russian energy, perhaps unsurprisingly as 80 percent of its gas is supplied by Russia.

Bulgaria, which gets 70 percent of its from Russia, is also worried about the impacts of energy sanctions on Russia, while Finland too appears unprepared to slash ties.

DON'T MISS

Xi Jinping on path to conflict with Putin as China could STARVE [REVEAL]

Chernobyl crisis: Lukashenko turns on Putin to secure nuclear plant [REPORT]

Brexit Britain goes ’full steam ahead’ with £6bn Five Eyes plan [INSIGHT]

Related articles

But internal division within the bloc was laid bare as other countries like Lativa, Poland and Lithuania urged that harsh sanctions on Russian energy should be slapped down immediately.

Latvian Prime Minister Krisjanis Karin said: "I am convinced that we should make a decision to stop energy imports from Russia to get Putin to the negotiating table and end this war."

Poland has also appeared to be one of the biggest advocates of the strategy, arguing that the urgent need to stop Putin is worth the potential economic damage it may cause to the bloc.

A Polish diplomat said: "Billions are flowing to Russia via Nord Stream 1.

“These are billions for which today Ukrainians are paying with their own blood.”

Nord Stream 1 is a major pipeline linking Russia to Germany.

France has also said it is ready to impose energy sanctions on Russia.

Trade minister Franck Riester said: “France is ready to take additional decisions to put pressure on Russia if necessary”.

“We are not closing any doors, we simply have to look at what is effective in putting pressure on Russia and also taking into account the consequences that this may have on the EU and its various members.”

Related articles Germany RULES OUT Gas sanctions and Russian energy deemed 'essential' How to live longer: Scientists REVERSE ageing in elderly mice EU masterplan to CUT Russia's gas tipped to 'backfire'

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220311ei3b0048v


Bulgaria This Week - March 11, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 3 月 11 日, 7450 字, (英文)
Bulgaria’s labour productivity up 4.3% y/y in 4Q21Bulgaria's labour productivity, measured by GDP per hour worked, increased by a real 4.3% year on year in the fourth quarter of 2021, after rising by 1.9% y/y in Q3, preliminary statistics ...

Bulgaria: Bulgaria to be able to receive less than 70% of EU funds under RRF in 2022
500 字
2022 年 3 月 11 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Government expects EC's technical approval of national recovery plan by Mar 15, finance minister says

Cabinet not to shut down coal energy plants, but TPPs not to work in summer

Project for BGN 1.5bn battery power plant remains in Bulgaria's national plan

The government will not be able to contract and receive 70% of the EU funds that Bulgaria will receive under the EU's Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) in 2022, so instead of BGN 9bn, Bulgaria will receive up to BGN 5-6bn this year, finance minister Asen Vasilev admitted in front of the parliament. The opposition MRF was very critical of the delay of the national plan submission, which the government had defended with the necessity to make a good plan, rather than just any plan. The largest opposition party GERB expressed concerns that the absorbed EU funds in 2022 will be even lower than BGN 6bn. We recall that Bulgaria expects to receive a total of BGN 12.6bn under the RRF plan.

The government is expecting the EC's technical approval of Bulgaria's national recovery by Mar 15, after which work on the projects included in the plan may start, Vasilev told the MPs. The latest version of Bulgaria's plan does not envisage the shutdown of the coal TPP plants, but they will not work during the summer when electricity consumption is lower, he said. Bulgaria does not want to give up its energy independence and the restructuring of the coal plants to gas plants would have put Bulgaria in a very unfavourable position, given that its main gas resource is Russia, Vasilev pointed out.

Vasilev confirmed that the BGN 1.5bn project for the construction of a battery power plant near Stara Zagora remains in the plan, though GERB and even BSP, party in the ruling coalition, expressed some doubts about the investment. Ruling WCC has been advertising the battery plant as a guarantee for the national security, as the batteries will be produced locally. However, Bulgaria risks to be sanctioned by the EU for discriminatory conditions if it stays by the decision that batteries should be produced by a Bulgarian company. Vasilev said that the government would pay the BGN 375mn sanction, because the price of the national security was higher, but later added that the tender conditions will be jointly drafted with the European Investment Bank and will not be discriminatory. The batteries' lifespan will be between 10 and 15 years, and they will enable the storage of surplus electricity quantities.

Other energy sector projects in the national plan include the installation of small solar power plants, the usage of geothermal energy, and a large-scale energy renovation programme for buildings, the minister said. Bulgaria has sufficient geothermal resources, and the hot waters could be used for housing heating, which should decrease the costs for gas and electricity, Vasilev argued.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220314ei3b0000a


Germany’s Nord Stream 2 region refuses to grant Ukraine aid]]
EURACTIV Network
1359 字
2022 年 3 月 14 日 06:30 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

Before you start reading today’s edition of the Capitals, feel free to have a look at the article Citizens ask adapting legislation to digitalisation, future pandemics, and wars[https://www.euractiv.com/section/future-eu/news/cofoe-citizens-ask-adapting-legislation-to-digitalisation-future-pandemics-and-wars/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

In today’s news from the Capitals:

BERLIN

A motion to raise €20 million in humanitarian aid for Ukraine has been dismissed by the state government of Mecklenburg-Western Pommerania, which is also home to Russia’s Nord Stream 2 pipeline. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/germanys-nord-stream-2-region-refuses-to-grant-ukraine-aid/]

///

VIENNA

Austrian Chancellor says EU army not going to happen. An EU army will not happen in the foreseeable future, said Austria’s Chancellor Karl Nehammer following Friday’s summit of EU leaders in Versailles. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/austrian-chancellor-says-eu-army-not-going-to-happen/]

///

PARIS

French faced with soaring fuel prices to soon receive rebate. All French citizens who use petrol will be reimbursed 15 cents per litre as of 1 April, Prime Minister Jean Castex announced on Saturday to the newspaper Le Parisien in response to the surge in fuel prices exacerbated by the current war in Ukraine. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/french-faced-with-soaring-fuel-prices-to-soon-receive-rebate/]

///

THE HAGUE

Dutch municipal elections to cater to English-speaking voters. Political parties are offering information and election debates in English for residents who do not speak Dutch but are eligible to vote in the municipal elections starting on Monday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/dutch-municipal-elections-to-cater-to-english-speaking-voters/]

 UK AND IRELAND

LONDON

Open up your home to Ukrainian refugees government urges. People in the UK will be offered £350 a month to open their homes to Ukrainian refugees as part of the government’s Homes for Ukraine scheme. The programme will allow Britons to sponsor a refugee or family to live in their home for six months. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/open-up-your-home-to-ukrainian-refugees-government-urges/]

///

DUBLIN 

Irish military neutrality to be redefined, says foreign minister. Ireland’s traditional military neutrality will need to be redefined, but a referendum on it is not currently on the government’s radar, Foreign Minister Simon Coveney has said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/irish-military-neutrality-to-be-redefined-says-foreign-minister/]

NORDICS AND BALTICS

HELSINKI

Finnish minister: EU consumers to pay ‘Putin’s prices’. The war in Ukraine may lead to increased food prices and possible supply shortages in Finland and across Europe, Economic Minister Mika Lintilä has said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/finnish-minister-eu-consumers-to-pay-putins-prices/]

///

STOCKHOLM | HELSINKI

Russia threatens Sweden and Finland over NATO membership, again. A spokesman for the Russian foreign ministry has issued another warning to both Sweden and Finland warning them not to join NATO. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/russia-threatens-sweden-and-finland-over-nato-membership-again/]

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ROME 

Bus carrying Ukrainian refugees overturned in Italy. A bus carrying 20 Ukrainians overturned in North-Eastern Italy on Sunday morning while making its way to Pescara in the Abruzzi Region, leaving one person dead and several injured, firefighters said. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/bus-carrying-ukrainian-refugees-overturned-in-italy/]

///

MADRID

Madrid demonstration calls for ‘no-fly zone’ over Ukraine. A total of 5,000 people demonstrated in Madrid asking the EU and the US to enforce a “no-fly zone” in Ukraine to help the Eastern country repel the Russian invasion on Sunday, EURACTIV’s partner EFE reported. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/madrid-demonstration-calls-for-no-fly-zone-over-ukraine/]

Spain’s PM announces tax relief measures to mitigate Ukraine war impact. Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez announced a package of tax relief measures focused on alleviating the impact of the war in Ukraine on the economy on Sunday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/spains-pm-announces-tax-relief-measures-to-mitigate-ukraine-war-impact/]

///

LISBON

Lisbon centre for Ukrainians has welcomed almost 400 refugees. The Temporary Reception Centre for Ukrainian refugees in Lisbon received 394 people in its first week of operation, including 116 children aged up to 16 years, Lisbon Mayor Carlos Moedas said on Sunday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/lisbon-centre-for-ukrainians-has-welcomed-almost-400-refugees/]

Portugal to open platform for temporary protection of Ukrainian refugees. The Portuguese immigration and borders service SEF is launching an online platform in three different languages on Monday for requests for temporary protection from Ukrainian residents, it announced on Sunday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/portugal-to-open-platform-for-temporary-protection-of-ukrainian-refugees/]

VISEGRAD 

BRATISLAVA |  PRAGUE |  SOFIA

Soviet war memorials take a hit across central and eastern Europe. Several cases of vandalism towards Soviet war memorials have been reported in central and eastern Europe as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. While Russian embassies were outraged, national authorities were more understanding of perpetrators. In some cases, municipalities are considering removing the monuments. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/soviet-war-memorials-take-a-hit-across-central-and-eastern-europe/]

///

WARSAW

Opposition MPs reject bill giving officials impunity when helping refugees. Opposition party MPs have spoken out against the new law regulating residency status for Ukrainian refugees that fled to Poland following the Russian invasion, particularly the provisions giving impunity to officials when people’s lives are at stake. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/opposition-mps-reject-bill-giving-officials-impunity-when-helping-refugees/]

///

PRAGUE

Czech capacities to host Ukrainian refugees have run out. The Czech Republic can no longer offer accommodation to Ukrainian refugees as the state’s capacities are now exhausted. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/czech-capacities-to-host-ukrainian-refugees-have-run-out/]

///

BUDAPEST

Hungarian constitutional judges side with government in email scandal case. Hungary’s constitutional court, often accused of a pro-government bias, dismissed charges against the executive on Sunday of using emails sent to citizens on the eve of the Ukrainian-Russian war for campaign purposes in the upcoming parliamentary elections. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/hungarian-constitutional-judges-side-with-government-in-email-scandal-case/]

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

SOFIA

Bulgaria to fastrack plans to build a new nuclear reactor. The Bulgarian government will try to build at least one nuclear reactor at the functioning Kozloduy nuclear power plant on the banks of the Danube. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/bulgaria-to-fastrack-plans-to-build-a-new-nuclear-reactor/]

///

BUCHAREST

Romanians go on edible oil buying spree. Consumers panic bought sunflower oil, a product they think will soon be in short supply, just a few days after they had queued up en masse at petrol stations. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/romanians-go-on-edible-oil-buying-spree/]

///

ZAGREB

Remnants of aerial bomb found in drone that crashed in Zagreb. Remnants of an aerial bomb have been found in the Soviet-era drone that crashed in Southwest Zagreb late on Thursday, as Defence Minister Mario Banožić said on Sunday. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/remnants-of-aerial-bomb-found-in-drone-that-crashed-in-zagreb/]

///

LJUBLJANA 

Slovenian parliament approves long-delayed tax cuts. The Slovenian parliament passed income tax changes that result in higher take-home pay across the board, lower tax on capital gains, and a lower top tax rate, changes welcomed by businesses but criticised by unions due to their impact on public finances. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/slovenian-parliament-approves-long-delayed-tax-cuts/]

///

BELGRADE 

Second pro-Russia rally held in Belgrade. Vehicles waving Serbian and Russian flags drove down central Belgrade streets on Sunday in the second pro-Russian demonstration since the war in Ukraine began. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/second-pro-russia-rally-held-in-belgrade/]

///

SARAJEVO 

EUFOR commander: Peace not under threat but caution necessary. The EUFOR commander in Bosnia and Herzegovina, General Anton Wessely, said there was no immediate threat to security in the country but that caution was necessary due to the crisis caused by the war in Ukraine. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/short_news/eufor-commander-peace-not-under-threat-but-caution-necessary/]

///

TIRANA

Albanian prime minister shames thousands protesting rising prices. Albanians should be ashamed as they are the only NATO member protesting the “consequences of war in Ukraine”, said Prime Minister Edi Rama as nationwide demonstrations continued for the fifth day. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/albanian-prime-minister-shames-thousands-protesting-rising-prices/]

AGENDA:

* EU: EU ambassadors set to green light fourth sanction package on Russia by midday /  EU finance and labour ministers meet in Brussels / Internal Market Commissioner Breton speak before European Parliament’s TRANS Committee / High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina Christian Schmidt speaks before AFET Committee.

* Germany: Chancellor Scholz holds talks with Turkish President Erdogan in Ankara / Government gives a press briefing on 2023 budget.

* France: Council of Europe’s Parliamentary Assembly holds  extraordinary session in Strasbourg to discuss Russia’s war against Ukraine, Ukraine’s President Zelenskyy set to tune in / Covid vaccination pass use halted, end of mask mandate except on public transport.

* Switzerland: Hearing for candidates for Director-General of the International Labour Organization.

* Sweden: SIPRI report on arms exports to be published.

* Norway: NATO’s Exercise Cold Response 2022, military exercise in the Arctic.

* Poland: Humanitarian Aid Commissioner Jutta Urpilainen visits Rzeszów, near Ukraine border.

* Romania: Italy’s foreign affairs minister Luigi di Maio visits Romania, where he will meet President Klaus Iohannis and Prime Minister Nicolae Ciuca.

* North Macedonia: EU’s chief diplomat Josep Borrell to visit Skopje.

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Alexandra Brzozowski, Daniel Eck, Benjamin Fox, Zoran Radosavljevic, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220314ei3e00001


GIF briefs
2492 字
2022 年 3 月 15 日
European Gas Markets
EURGAS
英文
© 2022 Reed Business Information Ltd.
Baltics

Transport - Progress on the Baltic Pipe project has been revived as the Danish environmental Protection Agency (DEPA) has freshly issued a new environmental permit allowing for construction to resume, Danish gas grid operator Energinet said on 1 March.

According to Energinet, partial capacity is expected to be commissioned from 1 October this year on the 100bcm/year natural gas pipeline connecting the North Sea to Poland via Denmark. While the pipeline is expected to operate at full capacity from 1 January 2023.

Construction on the Danish part of the transnational pipeline has been halted since May 2021 due to environmental concerns that were raised at the time.

Bulgaria

Supply - The Bulgarian government is ready to activate and implement adequate measures in case of disruption or interruption of Russian gas supplies to the country, the energy minister Aleksandar Nikolov said in a statement on 1 March.

Nikolov said Russian supplies to Bulgaria continue without interruptions so far under a 2.9 billion cubic metres (bcm)/year long-term contract with state supplier Gazprom, which will expire at the end of 2022.

“If Russia decides to cut off Bulgaria’s gas supply, the country will seek options to import more gas including LNG from Greece or increase of Azeri flows via 10 bcm/year Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP),” added Nikolov in a press briefing during the meeting with EU energy ministers.

The energy minister added Bulgaria will aim for close co-operation with Greece to speed up energy and gas connectivity in the region as part of the process of diversifying its gas sources, including a bi-directional gas link with Serbia.

The 3bcm/year Gas Interconnector Greece-Bulgaria (IGB) is set start operations on 1 July while the 1.8bcm Interconnector Serbia-Bulgaria is expected to come online in October 2023.

IGB is crucial for improving Bulgaria’s and southeast Europe’s gas supply diversity and security as it will allow access to Azeri gas from the TAP and potentially to LNG at the planned Greek terminal in Alexandropoulis, set to come online at the end of 2023.

Denmark

Supply - Danish energy company Orsted will not extend its 1.86 billion cubic metres (mcm)/year long-term take-or-pay gas supply contract with Russia’s Gazprom Export after expiry in 2030, the company said on 7 March. The contract cannot be terminated at this point in time, Orsted

Orsted will offtake the minimum yearly volume under the take-or-pay obligation. The gas is delivered to Germany and any gas volumes not transported to Denmark and Sweden are sold in Northwest Europe, the company said.

Europe

Supply - After the much touted two-days EU leaders’ summit in Versailles last week, the EU failed to sanction Russia’s most lucrative revenues – energy exports, confirming the bloc’s hands are tied to Russian energy.

The summit took place 10-11 March. Earlier in the week on 7 March Russia had reminded the EU that if the EU decided to rock the boat with energy sanctions, the EU and Russia would sink together. The reminder was televised on Russian TV. Russian deputy prime minister Alexander Novak said his country was in its full right to stop exports via Nord Stream, the most optimised gas pipeline between the two neighbours and which supplied 12% of the bloc’s gas since 2018.

Yet out of the promising summit came only vague energy goals in the Versailles Declaration:

-phase out the bloc’s dependency on Russian gas, oil and coal imports “as soon as possible”

-invite the commission to continue working on its REPowerEU plan, to cut the bloc’s dependence on Russian gas by two thirds by the end of the year, and submit it by the end of May

-invite the commission to present by 31 March a plan ensuring security of supply and “affordable energy prices” next winter.

Restricting or banning Russian energy exports to the EU is widely considered as the harshest and most effective sanction as Russia heavily relies on revenues from these exports.

As much as the EU wants to impose the strongest ever sanctions against Russia for its invasion of Ukraine, it cannot afford to so. Around a third of its gas came from Russia between 2016 and 2021.

At the moment, non-Russian supply sources are limited either by production, pipeline or regasification capacities. So restricting or banning Russian exports to the EU in the next couple of years would create critical issues with security of supply. It would also further increase energy prices, inflation and affect economic growth at a time when the EU tries to recover from the pandemic.

Supply - Potential profit margins for US producers shipping LNG to Europe remain strong as supply concerns persist amid the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict.

This trend is likely to continue into the next quarter and beyond with growing LNG demand to pressure the global market.

Potential revenues are likely to be elevated in 2022 as a whole with European LNG imports set to rise as the region pivots away from Russian energy supplies following the invasion of Ukraine.

The ICIS LNG Global Supply & Demand Forecast now expects global demand this year to reach 414.4m tonnes, up 11% year on year.

“This means the global LNG market is structurally 25.7m tonnes undersupplied and will need supply and demand responses to balance,” according to ICIS LNG Analytics.

In Northwest Europe, the subsequent uptick in demand translates to an additional 7.2m tonnes of LNG being imported this year to take the total to 44m tonnes.

Key changes to the previous model run in February include the removal of Nord Stream 2 flows, reduced Russian flows through existing pipelines, new natural gas storage targets and increased reliance on LNG.

Markets - Over-the-counter (OTC) liquidity fell across the majority of Europe’s regional gas hubs during February, as Germany’s THE hub regained second place, overtaking the NBP.

On an annual basis, only Spain’s PVB and Belgian hubs saw liquidity gains as overall liquidity at Europe’s hubs outside the TTF fell by a fifth year on year to 576TWh, ICIS collated data showed.

Spanish liquidity grew 48% from last year to 9.2TWh, while Belgian liquidity was up 26%, with curve liquidity gains the main driver.

Liquidity at Europe’s gas hubs continued falling as the high price environment that has priced out numerous counterparties from the market leaving those remaining increasingly risk averse continues, with the addition of significant price volatility since the Russian invasion of Ukraine began.

While THE liquidity in February totalled 199TWh in February, 10% lower than the year before, it was 29% higher on a monthly basis, overtaking the British NBP where liquidity totalled 196TWh.

This mirrored a trend seen on the TTF where liquidity fell 64% on an annualised basis but was 5% higher than the previous month.

Transport - It could take one to five years to implement the plan to fully expand capacity at the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) due to necessary upgrade work, traders polled by ICIS said.

Nevertheless, the market remains enthusiastic about the project and would more than welcome increased capacity on the Azeri route, traders added.

The traders’ comments come as TAP is about to finalise data from its public consultation, held to gauge market sentiment on capacity expansion.

The TAP plan ranges from a minimum expansion of 14.2bcm/year to a full increase of 21.1bcm/year. Maximum expansion would come through the upgrade of three compression stations. The plan could also include limited and partial expansions to 15bcm/year and 17.6bcm/year.

The 10 billion cubic metre (bcm)/year pipe, which crosses a gas corridor stretching from Azerbaijan to Italy and passing through Turkey and Greece, was brought online in 2020, boosting Italy’s gas supply. The consultation will end on March 18, 2022, and its results will be made public beyond that date.

Demand for increased capacity on the TAP route could be higher than expected following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. The war pushed imports from Azerbaijan higher, with gas flows averaging 27mcm/day between 24 February and 12 March, compared with 23mcm/day between the beginning of the year and 23 February.

France

Demand - Forecasts of below-average nuclear output in France for the remainder of 2022 and 2023 is likely to marginally support gas-fired generation, but the impact on overall gas demand should remain limited.

While gas-fired generation could in theory still double given the current spare capacity, its share in the power mix remains small. Therefore, even if it was to ramp up, it would not result in a major gas demand increase.

As a result, the recent EDF’s downward revisions in French nuclear output expected through 2022 and 2023 are unlikely to have a significant impact on PEG prices, even if combined cycle gas turbines (CCGTs) would be needed to balance the power system in case of lower generation from renewable sources.

At the moment it remains profitable to run a gas-fired plant in France for the reminder of the year, despite this week concerns around potential disruptions in Russian supply triggered major gains in French gas prices.

This is because gains on the PEG market have also filtered through to power prices, resulting only in a limited narrowing of clean spark spreads.

Germany

Supply - Germany’s RWE, KfW and the Netherlands’ Gasunie on the weekend signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on working together to build the 8 billion cubic meter per year (8bcm/year) LNG terminal at Brunsbuttel.

Gasunie hopes to begin construction of the terminal before the end of 2022.

The German bank KfW will acquire 50% of the shares in the new terminal on behalf of the German government, with Gasunie expected to operate the new terminal given its experience in jointly operating the Dutch Gate terminal with Vopak LNG.

Vopak LNG will leave the company as a shareholder, having stopped its participation in the project last November opting to instead back it in a more “passive” manner.

Supply - Work on plans for the construction of a 10bcm/year Floating Storage and Regasification Unit (FSRU) at Wilhelmhshaven were confirmed resumed, following renewed German government support in diversifying its gas supplies.

Uniper had previously shelved plans for the LNG terminal due to a lack of binding interest, opting instead to establish a national hub for hydrogen at the site with an import terminal for green ammonia.

The inclusion of the Wilhelmshaven terminal is likely to be down to it being an FSRU LNG terminal which is cheaper and allows for shorter-to-medium term purchases of gas from a growing LNG market without a large capital outlay.

This is a better option if natural gas is to be phased out by 2050.

Such terminals can be removed after 20 years and shipped to other ports where needed.

Supply - German utility Uniper announced on 8 March was writing off €987m in loans provided to Nord Stream 2 AG, in another blow to the beleaguered project.

The €987m is comprised of €695m in loans originally provided to the project, with an addition €292m resulting from accrued interest on the loans.

The project had its certification process halted on 22 February in response to Russia sending troops into eastern Ukraine. This forced the German Federal Network Agency (BNetzA) to withdraw its existing assessment of the pipeline’s impact on Germany and the EU’s security of supply. A previous assessment from October 2021 concluded the pipeline would not endanger security of supply.

In the statement, which condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine, Uniper also announced that while it would honour its 200TWh of long-term gas supply contracts with Russia, it would not enter into any new long-term supply contracts.

Current contracts with Gazprom amount to almost 55% of all of Uniper’s long-term supply contracts.

Uniper also added that it would resume the divestment process of Russia’s Unipro, of which it holds 83.73%, having started the process at the end of 2021.

Ireland

Supply - US developer New Fortress Energy said the proposed Shannon LNG terminal in Ireland and its 600MW power plant were in the final stages of planning approval and hoped to make a final investment decision by 2022.

“We’re in final stages of planning approval for both the terminal and the power plant, which today give us an opportunity for great long-term supply into Western Europe, as well as a highly liquid and kind of flexible market, and the ability to build, combined cycle power in a place that’s very short power today,” said managing director Andrew Dete on 2 March.

Shannon LNG was first granted the right to apply for planning in 2008. The project has been highly controversial within Ireland, with widespread disagreement over whether it should proceed at a political level and across Ireland as a whole.

North Macedonia

Supply - The North Macedonian government has started the process of reserving capacity in an upcoming floating storage and regasification unit (FSRU) in Alexandroupolis and plans to sign an official agreement this year, a government official told ICIS in an interview.

“The realisation of this investment will potentially mean the opening of a second supply route for Northern Macedonia with liquefied gas from other countries, in addition to the current supplier,” added the official.

The new Alexandroupolis terminal is expected to be operational by the end of 2023.

Russia

Markets - Gazprom Marketing & Trading and RAO Nordic OY will still be able to trade with European companies following their suspension from the European Federation of Energy Traders, EFET has confirmed.

EFET suspended the two companies on 8 March, saying it did not “consider it appropriate” for companies owned or controlled directly or indirectly by Russia to remain active members and noting the decision was taken following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The suspension of the membership does not affect the companies’ ability to trade with European companies, EFET told ICIS. Gazprom Marketing and Trading is a subsidiary of Russia’s mostly state-controlled gas producer Gazprom. RAO Nordic OY is a subsidiary and wholly owned by Russia’s electricity producer and export/import operator Inter RAO partially owned by the Russian state.

UK

Supply - Trading house Trafigura told ICIS they are actively looking into establishing an LNG terminal in Teesside, England, which would mark Britain’s fourth LNG terminal.

The Teesside project has already completed all substantive technical design and permitting work to allow the project to be constructed, a Trafigura spokesperson said on 8 March.

Amid the outbreak of conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the subsequent risk posed to Russian gas supply to Europe, European buyers and governments have been assessing alternative supply options.

Given current market conditions, Trafigura have received unprecedented interested in establishing Teeside as a major LNG import terminal for the UK, the company spokesperson added.

Reed Business Information

文件 EURGAS0020220315ei3f0002w


Bulgaria This Week - March 18, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 3 月 18 日, 9034 字, (英文)
Bulgaria’s inflation hits new peak of 10% y/y in FebruaryBulgaria’s consumer prices increased by 10% y/y in February, after rising by 9.1% y/y in January, statistics office reported on March 15.

News
NATO deploys more troops to eastern European allies and vows to protect Ukraine 'against chemical and nuclear threats' - and says China is providing political support to Russia with 'blatant lies'
Rachael Bunyan For Mailonline
1546 字
2022 年 3 月 23 日 15:52 GMT
Mail Online
DAMONL
英文
Copyright 2022
* NATO leaders will agree at Thursday's summit in Brussels on deploying troops to Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia

* NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg also vowed to provide extra support for Ukraine to deal with chemical and nuclear threats as it battles Russia's invading forces

* Vladimir Putin has been accused of using banned white phosphorus weapons in Ukraine amid fears he may be on the verge of resorting to chemical warfare

NATO leaders are set to agree on deploying four new battle groups to the alliance's eastern flank to bolster their defence in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Leaders will agree at Thursday's summit in Brussels on deploying troops to Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, NATO's secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said.

'I expect leaders will agree to strengthen NATO's posture in all domains, with major increases in the eastern part of the alliance on land, in the air and at sea,' Stoltenberg said ahead of the urgent NATO summit on the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

The NATO chief also vowed to provide extra support for Ukraine to deal with chemical and nuclear threats as it battles Russia's invading forces.

'Tomorrow, I expect allies will agree to provide additional support, including cybersecurity assistance as well as equipment to help Ukraine protect against chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats,' Stoltenberg said.

Vladimir Putin has been accused of using banned white phosphorus weapons in Ukraine amid fears he may be on the verge of resorting to chemical warfare.

Stoltenberg also accused China of giving political backing to Russia with 'blatant lies' as it attacks Ukraine, and warned Beijing against providing material support to Moscow's war effort.

'China has provided Russia with political support, including by spreading blatant lies and misinformation, and allies are concerned that China could provide material support for the Russian invasion,' the NATO chief said.

'I expect leaders will call on China to live up to its responsibilities as a member of the UN Security Council, refrain from supporting Russia's war effort, and join the rest of the world in calling for an immediate, peaceful end to this war.'

China, which has not condemned Russia's invasion and criticised Western sanctions, defended Moscow on Wednesday, calling Russia an 'important member' of the G20 after Washington raised the prospect of excluding Moscow from the group.

US President Joe Biden last week warned his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping there would be 'consequences' if Beijing provides support to Russia during its invasion of Ukraine.

Jinping and Putin earlier this year declared a relationship of 'no limits' following a visit by the Russian President to Beijing for the Winter Olympics.

Stoltenberg meanwhile said that the new NATO battle groups being deployed to Bulgaria, Slovakia, Romania and Hungary, as well as the existing forces in the Baltic countries and Poland, means NATO will have eight multinational groups along the alliance's eastern flank.

Stoltenberg said that the Ukraine crisis has shown that NATO must reset its deterrence and defence posture for the longer term.

Russia meanwhile refuses to rule out using nuclear weapons if it faces an 'existential threat', Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told CNN.

Pentagon spokesman John Kirby slammed Moscow's 'dangerous' rhetoric, and Biden warned en route to Europe that Russia may also use chemical weapons in Ukraine as its ground offensive stalls.

'Our armed forces and citizens are holding out with superhuman courage,' Andriy Yermak, a top advisor to Zelensky, said as Biden travelled to the summits of NATO, the G7 and European Union in Brussels.

'But we cannot win a war without offensive weapons, without medium-range missiles that can be a means of deterrence,' Yermak said.

NATO warned on Wednesday against Russia's war in Ukraine sliding into a nuclear confrontation between Moscow and the West.

'Russia should stop this dangerous irresponsible nuclear rhetoric,' Stoltenberg said. 'But let there be no doubt about our readiness to protect and defend allies against any threat anytime.'

'Russia must understand that it can never win a nuclear war,' he said on the eve of a summit of the Western military alliance's national leaders in Brussels. 'NATO is not part of the conflict... it provides support to Ukraine but isn't part of the conflict.'

'NATO will not send the troops into Ukraine... It is extremely important to provide support to Ukraine and we are stepping up. But at the same time it is also extremely important to prevent this conflict becoming a full-fledged war between NATO and Russia.

The Ukrainian authorities have accused Putin of using white phosphorus munitions on the city of Kramatorsk.

While strictly not considered a chemical weapon, the substance burns fiercely and can cause horrendous injuries, and its use on civilians constitutes a war crime.

Human Rights Watch says the incendiary weapons are 'among the cruellest' in modern warfare as they cause 'lifelong human suffering'.

The deputy head of Kyiv police, Oleksiy Biloshytskiy, said on Facebook: 'Another use of phosphorus ammunitions in Kramatorsk.'

He shared a video of a substance burning like the chemical which Russian troops have already been accused of using in the cities of Lutsk and Popasna.

'What we're seeing is a near desperate attempt by the Russians to gain some momentum and try to turn the course of this in their favour,' a defence official said.

Stoltenberg also today said Belarus has been 'complicit' in Russia's invasion of Ukraine even before it was launched, allowing its territory to be used for massing troops, and it continues to enable the invasion.

He told a news conference on the eve of a NATO summit in Brussels that Belarus has also allowed its military airfields to be used by Russian forces to launch attacks on Ukrainian cities and civilians.

Meanwhile, Ukraine appealed for more Western military help ahead of a NATO summit, as it warned that almost 100,000 people are trapped by Russian bombardment and facing starvation in the ruins of the besieged port of Mariupol.

Tens of thousands of residents have already fled the southern city, bringing harrowing testimony of a 'freezing hellscape riddled with dead bodies and destroyed buildings', according to Human Rights Watch.

As the UN demanded Russia end its 'unwinnable' war, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told the Japanese parliament that the UN Security Council was dysfunctional and in need of reform, after Russia wielded its veto to nix condemnation of its invasion.

Nearly a month on, peace talks have agreed on daily humanitarian corridors for refugees, and Ukraine says it is willing to countenance some Russian demands subject to a national referendum.

But it has refused to bow to Russian pressure to disarm and renounce all Western alliances, and Zelensky was also due Thursday to address a NATO meeting in Brussels joined by US President Joe Biden.

Ukraine's lead negotiator Mykhaylo Podolyak said the peace talks were encountering 'significant difficulties', after Moscow accused the United States of undermining the process.

Western leaders have grown increasingly concerned that Russian President Vladimir Putin will use chemical weapons or otherwise escalate tactics four weeks into an invasion where his troops have failed to capture a single major Ukrainian city.

Leaving the White House on Wednesday, Biden said Russia's use of chemical weapons in Ukraine is a risk.

'I think it's a real threat,' he said.

Biden and his team have been developing plans to impose sanctions on members of the Duma, Russia's parliament, in retaliation for Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to two sources familiar with the situation. The sanctions are expected to be announced on Thursday.

A White House spokesperson said 'no final decisions have been made about who we will sanction and how many we will sanction.'

'We will have additional sanctions measures to announce that will rolled out in conjunction with our allies on Thursday when the president has the opportunity to speak with them,' the official said.

On Thursday, Biden will attend an emergency NATO summit, meet with G7 leaders and address the 27 leaders of the European Union at a session of the European Council, White House national security adviser Jake Sullivan told reporters on Tuesday.

He said Biden will coordinate on the next phase of military assistance to Ukraine.

In addition to imposing fresh sanctions on Russia, Biden will work with U.S. allies to tighten existing sanctions to 'crack down on evasion and to ensure robust enforcement,' Sullivan said.

In recent days, Russia and Western governments have traded accusations over the possibility of a chemical weapons attack in Ukraine without producing evidence to back their concerns.

Biden has vowed not to engage in direct conflict with Russia but has pledged the United States will defend all NATO territory. He has ordered more U.S. troops to NATO's eastern flank to reassure edgy allies.

During his visit to Poland, a NATO member, Biden will visit U.S. troops and meet with experts involved in the humanitarian response to helping hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who have fled their country and those who remain

DMG Media Limited

文件 DAMONL0020220323ei3n006et


Boris Johnson said Russian president Vladimir Putin had already crossed a "red...
4940 字
2022 年 3 月 24 日 23:17 GMT
Press Association National Newswire
PRESSA
英文
(c)2022, The Press Association, All Rights Reserved
Boris Johnson said Russian president Vladimir Putin had already crossed a "red line" with his "barbarism" towards Ukraine.

Speaking to LBC radio ahead of a Nato summit in Brussels, he said: "We all want to see some solution in Ukraine. Everybody is hoping that Putin will pull back and stop this incredible barbaric slaughter that he's engaged on.

"But the only way to do that - we think there's a huge amount of unity - is to keep going with the pressure that we've applied, and to increase it.

"And the point I'm going to make today is look, you know, he's already crossed a threshold of barbarism in the way he's behaving. People talk about new red lines for chemical, biological, tactical nuclear weapons or whatever. For me, the red line already has been crossed.

"He's bombing indiscriminately civilian centres. He's causing huge numbers of casualties in wholly innocent populations."

Boris Johnson suggested the UK could target Russian president Vladimir Putin's gold reserves in response to the invasion of Ukraine.

He told LBC: "We need to do more, and so we need to do more economically. Can we do more to stop him using his gold reserves, for instance, in addition to his cash reserves?

"What can we do more to sanction Swift? And then we need to do more to give the Ukrainians military support.

"The big thing that has emerged in the last month - the huge fact that the world now knows - is that the Ukrainian people will fight for their country. They believe in their country, they love their country. They're going to defend it.

"That was something we didn't really know a month ago. It's now absolutely clear. That's changed geopolitics. It means that we have a duty to help them. We have a duty to help them protect themselves and their loved ones. And so the UK is stepping up again."

Boris Johnson compared Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky to former prime minister Winston Churchill, praising him for giving the Ukrainian people their "roar".

He told LBC: "I think that President Zelensky has proved to be a quite remarkable leader of his people - he's rallied them and he's been their voice.

"He knows, as Churchill said of himself, he may not have been the lion but he's been privileged to give the roar.

"It's the Ukrainian people who have been the lion, and he's expressed their will and their sense of defiance."

Boris Johnson defended the UK's record on sanctioning Russia over the invasion of Ukraine.

He told LBC: "I think the UK - if you talk to people around Europe and the world, they fully accept that the UK was the first mover when it came to sanctioning Swift, which stops Putin getting payments for his hydrocarbons; sanctioning the Russian Central Bank, that's been absolutely crucial in paralysing the Russian economy; sanctioning Aeroflot, we were the first to do it.

"Yes, we have tough property laws in the UK, which meant that it took us a while to sanction all the oligarchs, but we've now done I think 1,000 individuals and entities, we are distraining their yachts, we're taking control of their homes.

"There is a huge economic punishment now being visited on the associates of Vladimir Putin. But... we've got to go further.

"My message today in Nato will be that there are ways in which the world can continue to intensify the pressure on Putin. And the more we do that now, the more pressure we apply now - particularly on things like gold - I believe the more we can shorten the war, shorten the slaughter in Ukraine."

Boris Johnson condemned Russia's bid to host the Euro 2028 football tournament.

The Prime Minister told LBC: "I think it's beyond satire that any football organisation no matter how bonkers and you know, driven by lucre they may be, would want to give Russia in the present circumstances the right to host a tournament."

General Sir Richard Shirreff said there is a "new cold war" and leaders at the Nato meeting in Brussels must prevent it from escalating.

Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, the retired army officer said: "There has to be a recognition that there will be no peace in Europe while Putin is in the Kremlin.

"In Ukraine the war has gone hot.

"The task for the Nato summit today is to ensure that the necessary measures are put in place to prevent that war going hot in the rest of Europe, so we're now in a new cold war."

He called for a significant ramp-up of Nato forces on Europe's eastern flank, for more defence spending, and for western countries to continue to provide equipment to support Ukraine's fight against Russia.

Boris Johnson has said allies must "step up" support for Ukraine with sanctions and defensive military equipment as he warned Vladimir Putin is determined to "double down" on the invasion.

Speaking to broadcasters after landing in Brussels where he will attend a Nato summit, the Prime Minister said: "Vladimir Putin is plainly determined to double down on his path of violence and aggression, absolutely brutal the way he's treating the Ukrainian people.

"We've got to step up, we've got to increase our support, we've got to tighten the economic vice around Putin, sanctioning more people today as we are.

"Looking at what we can do to stop Putin using his gold reserves and also doing more to help the Ukrainians defend themselves."

Boris Johnson said the UK is sanctioning the Wagner Group, a paramilitary organisation seen as Vladimir Putin's private army.

In Brussels, the Prime Minister told broadcasters: "We've got to step up, we've got to increase our support, we've got to tighten the economic vice around Putin, sanctioning more people today as we are, sanctioning the Wagner Group."

The Government said it has sanctioned a further 59 individuals and entities in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss tweeted: "The UK has already sanctioned over 1,000 individuals and businesses since Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

"Today, I announce 65 more including the Wagner Group of mercenaries, Foreign Minister Lavrov's step-daughter and the CEO of Russia's largest bank."

The sanctions target key industries supporting Russia's illegal invasion, including Russian Railways and defence company Kronshtadt, the main producer of Russian drones, the Foreign Office said.

It also confirmed the paramilitary Wagner Group - seen as Vladimir Putin's private army - has been targeted.

The FCDO added that six more banks have been hit with sanctions, including Alfa Bank, along with the world's largest diamond producer, Alrosa.

Individuals sanctioned include the billionaire oil tycoon Eugene Shvidler, founder of Tinkoff bank Oleg Tinkov, Herman Gref, the CEO of Russia's largest bank Sberbank, and Polina Kovaleva, Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov's step-daughter.

Meanwhile, Galina Danilchenko, who was installed by Moscow as the mayor of occupied Melitopol in south-east Ukraine, has also been targeted, it said.

Some 18,600 visas have been issued under the Ukraine family scheme as of 5pm on Wednesday, the Home Office said.

So far a total of 34,500 applications have been submitted, according to provisional data published on the department's website.

All options are on the table when it comes to seeking to prosecute Russian President Vladimir Putin's regime for war crimes in Ukraine, according to the Government's top legal adviser.

But Attorney General Suella Braverman insisted the UK's preferred approach is to hold to account those responsible through the International Criminal Court (ICC).

SNP attorney general spokeswoman Angela Crawley asked in the Commons: "Given Russia is not a member of the ICC and will almost certainly refuse to recognise its jurisdiction, what discussions has she had with her international partners on alternate forms for prosecution, and does she agree with the view of former prime ministers John Major and Gordon Brown that a court could be set up specifically for the purpose, as was the case in Nuremberg?"

Ms Braverman replied: "All options are on the table and I will always defer and support my counterpart in Ukraine, the prosecutor general, in terms of my efforts to support her in terms of her choice of route for redress.

"But whilst we welcome the focus on accountability, we do believe that the International Criminal Court is the right place for those responsible for committing these atrocious crimes in Ukraine to be held accountable for their actions.

"That's why we're focusing all of our energy, led by the Deputy Prime Minister (Dominic Raab), all of our assistance and all of our resources on the ICC prosecutor's independent investigation."

Boris Johnson has met with European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen outside the Nato meeting in Brussels.

"There is one more thing I want to say to you but..." the Prime Minister said as he gestured towards the media who had been briefly let into the room.

Boris Johnson greeted Japan's prime minister, Fumio Kishida, at the Nato headquarters with a fist bump.

Mr Johnson asked himself "shirt tucked in?" as the pair entered their meeting room.

Downing Street rejected a Kremlin claim that Boris Johnson was "anti-Russian".

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said Mr Johnson was among the "most active" leaders in opposing Vladimir Putin but had no issue with the Russian people.

"The Prime Minister is among the most active anti-Putin leaders. We have no issue with the Russian people and in fact we have seen many bravely protest - not least Alexei Navalny - against Putin's regime and call on them to cease this war," the spokesman said.

"But we are among some of the world leaders that have been the most proactive when it comes to taking steps to both defend Ukraine's interests and up pressure on Putin to change course."

The spokesman said there were "very strong defences in this country" in case the UK was targeted by Russia with retaliatory measures.

Boris Johnson is understood to have asked allies at the Nato summit to question whether they have done enough to support Ukraine against the Russian invasion.

According to a UK official, the Prime Minister said: "We all want Putin to come to his senses, put his tanks into reverse.

"He's gonna grind on. Only has forward gears.

He's already crossed the red line into barbarism.

"The heroism of the Ukrainians has fundamentally changed the geopolitics of Europe...

"People will ask, did we do enough? I don't think we can deny them in their moment of agony

"We have the means and they have need."

Boris Johnson and fellow Nato leaders were addressed by Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelensky at their summit in Brussels.

Nato general secretary Jens Stoltenberg said: "President Zelensky addressed us with an impassioned message, thanking Nato allies for the significant support we are providing and stressing the vital importance of even more military assistance.

"Today Nato leaders agreed that we must and will provide further support to Ukraine.

"We will continue to impose unprecedented costs on Russia and will reinforce allied deterrence and defence."

The leaders formally approved the deployment of new Nato battle groups in Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania, and Slovakia.

Following the Nato summit, a joint statement from the heads of state and government said: "We call on all states, including the People's Republic of China (PRC), to uphold the international order including the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity, as enshrined in the UN Charter, to abstain from supporting Russia's war effort in any way, and to refrain from any action that helps Russia circumvent sanctions.

"We are concerned by recent public comments by PRC officials and call on China to cease amplifying the Kremlin's false narratives, in particular on the war and on Nato, and to promote a peaceful resolution to the conflict."

Nato is stepping up measures to protect Ukraine and members of the alliance from a Russian chemical or nuclear attack.

Secretary general Jens Stoltenberg told reporters in Brussels: "Today we agreed to do more including cyber-security assistance and equipment to help Ukraine protect against biological, chemical, radiological and nuclear threats."

This could include detection equipment, protection and medical supplies, as well as training for decontamination and "crisis management".

Mr Stoltenberg said Nato's chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear defence elements had been activated and "we are taking measures both to support Ukraine and to defend ourselves".

Asked whether the move was based on credible intelligence, Mr Stoltenberg said: "We are concerned, partly because we see the rhetoric and we see that Russia is trying to create some kind of pretext - accusing Ukraine, the United States, Nato allies - for preparing to use chemical and biological weapons."

Any use of chemical weapons "will totally change the nature of the conflict, it will be a blatant violation of international law and it will have widespread consequences".

He said Russia had used chemical weapons before - including in Salisbury - and had supported the Assad regime in Syria.

The Home Secretary Priti Patel has posted a photograph of herself on Twitter at a meeting with G7 interior ministers to discuss the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Alongside the photograph she tweeted: "Meeting of G7 Interior Ministers today to discuss our response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine - I set out the UK's humanitarian response and our schemes to welcome Ukrainians to the UK & the various forms of aid we are sending to Ukraine and the region.

"International allies must continue working together to denude (Vladimir) Putin of his ability to wage his barbaric war.

"There must be coordinated and robust enforcement of sanctions and firm action to protect the integrity of international law enforcement tools from Russian abuse."

Nato leaders were said to have agreed Russia using chemical weapons would mark a "fundamental change" in the Ukrainian conflict that would be met with a "very severe response".

A Western official said: "On the use of chemical weapons, we've all agreed (it) would be a fundamental change in the nature of the conflict that we would have to address."

But asked if that would include Nato troops on the ground in Ukraine, the official said: "I think it is highly unlikely that Nato would go directly into conflict with Russia because every leader agrees that we've got to stop the killing."

Most believe, the official said, that Nato entering the conflict directly would only escalate it and increase the killing and human suffering.

"I did hear leaders say that leaders say use of chemical weapons would fundamentally change the nature of the conflict and would have to have a very severe response," he said.

But he declined to outline what the response would be saying "we need to keep (Vladimir) Putin guessing".

Defence procurement minister Jeremy Quin said the UK "will always have a sufficiency of the weaponry we need to meet our needs" after a hoax video featuring Defence Secretary Ben Wallace emerged.

In one extract of a hoax call between Mr Wallace and an imposter posing as Ukrainian prime minister Denis Shmyhal, released on Tuesday, Mr Wallace seemingly suggested the UK is "running out of our own" NLAW anti-tank weapons.

Mr Quin told the PA news agency: "We will always have a sufficiency of the weaponry we need to meet our needs, whilst also supporting our friends in Ukraine, which we've done very effectively through the provision already of 4,000 anti-tank weapons."

He added: "We will do what's right. We speak regularly to the Ukrainian government and we are working very closely with them, not only in the provision of defensive equipment ourselves, but also in the convening of donor conferences for both defensive weapons and also for humanitarian support."

Boris Johnson said the UK and allies would "ramp up lethal aid to Ukraine" as its forces resist Vladimir Putin's invasion.

Speaking at a press conference in Brussels he said: "We will not stand by while Putin vents his fury on Ukraine."

The Prime Minister said kit would be provided "in the quantity and with the quality" needed by Ukraine to defend against "its bullying neighbour".

Mr Johnson has announced an extra 6,000 missiles and £25 million in unrestricted funding for Ukraine's armed forces.

He also promised a "new deployment of UK troops to Bulgaria, on top of doubling our troops both in Poland and in Estonia".

Boris Johnson said: "We must support a free and democratic Ukraine in the long term.

"This is a fellow European democracy, fighting a war of national defence.

"Nato and G7 leaders are also united today in our determination to continue turning the screws on the Kremlin's war machine, including by weaning ourselves off Russian oil and gas and reshaping global energy security."

Boris Johnson has said Western powers are looking to "steadily ratchet up" the volume of military material they are supplying to Ukraine.

Speaking following the Nato summit in Brussels the Prime Minister said no Western countries were currently looking to put "boots on the ground" or impose a no-fly zone.

"What we are doing is steadily ratcheting up the movement of lethal but defensive weaponry to Ukraine, that is growing in volume the whole time," he said.

Mr Johnson said it was proving difficult to meet a request by President Volodymyr Zelensky to supply tanks and warplanes.

"What President Zelensky want is to try to relieve Mariupol and to help the thousands of Ukrainian fighters in the city. To that end he does need armour as he sees it," he said.

"We are looking at what we can do to help. But logistically it looks very difficult both with armour and with jets."

Boris Johnson said there was not "a single person around the table" in Nato or the G7 who "is against Russia or the Russian people".

Speaking at a press conference in Brussels, the Prime Minister said: "Absolutely not, least of all me. I think I'm probably the only Prime Minister in UK history to be called Boris, I think I have that distinction, and I'm not remotely anti-Russian."

He said: "But I think what we all agree is that what Vladimir Putin is doing, the way he's leading Russia at the moment, is utterly catastrophic, that his invasion of Ukraine is inhuman and barbaric.

"And the conduct of that invasion is now moving into the type of behaviour that, as I said before, we haven't seen in the continent of Europe for 80 years, and it's horrific.

"So you can be sympathetic towards ordinary Russians, who are being so badly led, but you can be deeply hostile to the decisions of Vladimir Putin."

Any use of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons by Russia would be "viewed with utter horror" by world leaders, Boris Johnson said.

The Prime Minister said: "There is a visceral horror of the use of these weapons of mass destruction.

"I think that if (Vladimir) Putin were to engage in anything like that, the consequences would be very, very severe."

He added: "I think it would be catastrophic for him if he were to do that, and I think that he understands that."

The PM said US President Joe Biden was right to warn that Russia's claims about biological laboratories in Ukraine could be a "prelude to a false flag operation and they could well do something.

"But I think it would be a profound and a disastrous mistake for Putin were he to do that," he said.

Boris Johnson backed the idea of Ukraine automatically qualifying for the World Cup later this year.

The Prime Minister was asked if he would support the idea after he earlier said Ukraine should be handed the hosting of the next Euros competition.

Speaking in Brussels, he said: "Sounds like a good idea to me but I'm out of area here, I've got to admit that's not my strong subject.

"I don't see why not, is my view."

He added: "Let me put it this way, given what Ukraine has been going through, given the privations that Ukrainian footballers have had to endure, I'm sure that every possible sympathy and allowances should be made for them."

The Prime Minister said he thought the threats over nuclear weapons were a "distraction".

He said: "It's intended to be a distraction from what is really going on and that is a savage attack with conventional means on innocent people in urban centres in Ukraine, absolutely barbaric use of artillery and mortars and rockets as I've described, thermobaric bombs included it now seems, that is what is going on.

"And what we're talking about is the right of the Ukrainian people to be equipped with the weapons to defend themselves and all discussion of nuclear weapons is intended to frame this as a confrontation between Russia as a nuclear power and other nuclear powers. That's not what's going on.

"What's going on is a confrontation between Russia and entirely innocent people in Ukraine."

Boris Johnson also suggested the Kremlin was "trying to get around the sanctions on their gold".

He said: "We're taking steps to try to make sure that there's no leakage or no sale of bullion into markets around the world."

President Joe Biden has said Nato had never been more united than it is now in the face of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Following an emergency summit of alliance leaders in Brussels, Mr Biden said Vladimir Putin had miscalculated on its response.

"Putin was banking on Nato being split. It was clear to me that he didn't think we could sustain this cohesion," he said.

"Nato has never, never been more united. Putin is getting exactly the opposite of (what) he intended to have as a consequence of going into Ukraine."

Mr Biden, who has previously warned that Russia could use chemical weapons, said there would be a response if that happened.

"We would respond. We would respond if he uses it. The nature of the response would depend on the nature of the use," he said.

Boris Johnson has said he is "not optimistic that Vladimir Putin really wants" peace.

In a clip of an interview with the BBC's Newsnight programme, posted on social media, the Prime Minister was asked how seriously he was taking the peace talks between Russia and Ukraine.

He said while it was "entirely the sensible thing to do" he added: "If this thing could be solved, it would be fantastic. I've got to tell you I'm not optimistic Vladimir Putin really wants that.

"I think he's decided to double down and to try to Groznyfy the great cities of Ukraine in the way that he has always tried to do and I think that's a tragic mistake. But that's what he seems to be doing at the moment.

"Therefore, we need to do more as the West, intensifying the sanctions, sending more missiles as we announced today, 6,000 more missiles, toughening up our sanctions, doing more to stop leakage of Russian gold. All the ways in which we can tighten the screw on him."

The full interview is due to be aired later on Thursday.

Boris Johnson said Ukraine could win the war with Russia.

In an interview with BBC's Newsnight programme to be aired on Thursday night, he said: "I think Ukraine can certainly win. I don't think it's going to be easy, I think that the situation for the Ukrainians is grim, miserable.

"I don't think that we've seen anything like it for 80 years in Europe and what (Vladimir) Putin is doing is unconscionable.

"But there's a sense in which Putin has already failed or lost because I think that he had literally no idea that the Ukrainians were going to mount the resistance that they are and he totally misunderstood what Ukraine is.

"And far from extinguishing Ukraine as a nation he is solidifying it."

Boris Johnson has said that, even if Nato does not grant Ukraine full membership, allies would provide the country with so much support that Russia would not consider invading again.

In an interview with the BBC's Newsnight programme, to be aired on Thursday night, the Prime Minister said: "Over time, you can imagine that even if you can't have an Article 5 guarantee for Ukraine - I mean, full membership of Nato, inside the thermonuclear umbrella as it were - you can imagine that Western sympathisers of Ukraine will provide so much by way of equipment, training, intelligence as to create a kind of deterrence for Ukraine by denial - deterrence by denial of Russian possibility to invade again.

"What I'm talking about is so fortifying, so strengthening, the quills of the Ukrainian porcupine as to make it in future indigestible to the Russian invaders."

The UK and western allies have linked Russia's Federal Security Service (FSB) - the successor agency to the KGB - to "a historic global campaign targeting critical national infrastructure", the Foreign Office has said.

The department said the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) was "almost certain" that the FSB's Centre 16 - which it said was also known by its hacker group pseudonyms of Energetic Bear, Berserk Bear and Crouching Yeti - had targeted critical IT systems and national infrastructure in Europe, the Americas and Asia.

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said: "Russia's targeting of critical national infrastructure is calculated and dangerous. It shows Putin is prepared to risk lives to sow division and confusion among allies.

"We are sending a clear message to the Kremlin by sanctioning those who target people, businesses and infrastructure. We will not tolerate it.

"We will continue to work together with our allies to turn the ratchet and starve Putin's war machine of its funding and resources."

The Foreign Office added Liz Truss had sanctioned a Russian defence ministry subsidiary, the Central Scientific Research Institute of Chemistry and Mechanics, for an incident where malware was used to target safety override controls in a Saudi petro-chemicals plant in 2017.

The malware used against the petro-chemical plant caused two emergency shutdowns.

The Foreign Office said the FSB had also previously targeted UK energy companies and the American aviation sector, and it accused the FSB of trying to "spear-phish" the press secretary of Mikhail Khodorkovskiy, a UK-based critic of Russian president Vladimir Putin.

Spear-phishing involves sending targeted electronic communications to a specific individual, group or company for purposes of stealing data, espionage or fraud.

Boris Johnson has said he "totally agrees" that Brexit and the Ukrainian resistance to the Russian invasion are not the same.

The Prime Minister has come under criticism for comments where he appeared to compare the UK voting to leave the EU, and the Ukrainian fight against Russia.

Speaking at the Conservative Party spring forum at the weekend, he said it was the "instinct of the people of this country, like the people of Ukraine, to choose freedom", with the Brexit vote a "famous recent example".

But speaking to BBC's Newsnight programme on Thursday, he said: "That was not an analogy that I was making. I'm afraid that was wildly misconstrued.

"I said, I think in the same passage, that there's been nothing like what we're seeing in Ukraine since 1945 and it is a horror, and it can't be compared to anything since 1945."

The Prime Minister said he "of course" welcomes tough questions over his involvement in the partygate saga as he said such probing would not be allowed in Vladimir Putin's Russia.

In an interview on the BBC's Newsnight programme, Boris Johnson was asked what it meant that his position had been saved by the invasion.

He said: "I think what it says is that we're very lucky to live in a country where journalists can quite properly go hard on this sort of question, this sort of issue, because I can tell you, Nick, that is not what happens in Vladimir Putin's Russia, and it's certainly something that we want to make sure continues to happen in Ukraine."

Asked if he would therefore welcome tough questions about partygate, where numerous parties were allegedly held across Whitehall during Covid restrictions, the PM laughed and then said: "Yes, of course. That is what it's all about. And it's about...and I mean it quite seriously."

He added: "I think what people understand is that if Vladimir Putin lived in a democracy, and if Vladimir Putin had Newsnight on his case, and people asking him really penetrating questions about what he really thought he was doing in in Ukraine and whether he really understood what kind of people the Ukrainians were, and if he'd really thought it through, I don't think he would have made the catastrophic mistake that he's made.

"And in a way, what he has done - this appalling invasion - is paradoxically an advertisement for the importance of the very system that he's trying to destroy in Ukraine. That's what we're trying to protect."

PA Media

文件 PRESSA0020220324ei3o001p5


Energo Monitor This Week - April 15, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 4 月 15 日, 8241 字, (英文)
Azerbaijan in 1Q22 increased electricity exports, reduced importsElectricity production in Azerbaijan in the first quarter of 2022 increased by 3.9% compared to the same period last year to 7.1bn kWh, said Minister of Energy Parviz ...

Gazprom halts gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland as Russia demands rouble payments
Nicholas Earl
512 字
2022 年 4 月 27 日 07:08 GMT
City AM Online
CITONL
英文
Copyright 2022. CITY AM.
Kremlin-backed energy giant Gazprom has halted gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland for failing to pay for gas in roubles.The post Gazprom halts gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland as Russia demands rouble payments appeared first on CityAM.

Kremlin-backed energy giant Gazprom has halted gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland for failing to pay for gas in roubles, as Russia continues its retaliatory measures to Western sanctions.

“Gazprom has completely suspended gas supplies to Bulgargaz (Bulgaria) and PGNiG (Poland) due to absence of payments in roubles,” Gazprom said in a statemnt.

Gazprom also warned transit via both countries would be cut if gas was taken illegally.

Poland and Bulgaria are the first nations to have gas flows cut off by Europe’s chief supplier since Russia invaded Ukraine in February.

Gas prices have spiked following the news, with the Dutch TTF Futures benchmark up 11.3 per cent and UK Natural Gas prices up 4.9 per cent.

Russia has been hammered by crippling sanctions over the past two months, with the West targeting its central bank, financial institutions, oligarchs and most recently, coal exports.

The European Union (EU) has played its part with five packages of sanctions – but has also spent nearly €43bn on Russian coal, gas and oil following the instigation of conflict in Ukraine.

Russian President Vladimir Putin responded to the growing number of restrictions last month with demands for ‘unfriendly nations’ to pay for Russian gas in roubles.

He signed into law requirements for overseas buyers to open Gazprombank accounts, which will convert euros or dollars into roubles prior to the transaction.

The measure – which came into affect this month – would make Gazprombank more difficult to sanction, prop up the value of the rouble, and create difficulties for Western nations backing Ukraine.

It has also been described by The Kremlin as a prototype, with implications the requirements could be extended to oil and wheat.

The European Commission has suggested the requirements could technically be complied with, and some companies such as Uniper have been open to the adjustment alongside nations such as Hungary.

However, the West has largely refused to comply with the demands – with the demands condemned by EU leaders and the G7.

Poland has repeatedly said it will not pay for Russian gas in roubles and has planned not to extend its gas contract with Gazprom after it expires in the end of this year.

The EU is currently weighing up a sixth package of sanctions, including proposals to phase out Russian oil imports by the end of the year, in line with measures already announced by the UK, Germany and Netherlands.

However, it has stopped short of announcing any measures on Russian gas – with the bloc dependent on the country for around 40 per cent of its supplies.

Read more

Ukraine: US wants ‘Russia weakened’ to stop further expansion[https://www.cityam.com/ukraine-us-wants-russia-weakened-to-stop-further-expansion/]

The post Gazprom halts gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland as Russia demands rouble payments[https://www.cityam.com/gazprom-halts-gas-supplies-to-bulgaria-and-poland-as-russia-demands-rouble-payments/] appeared first on CityAM[https://www.cityam.com].

City AM Ltd

文件 CITONL0020220427ei4r000xd


News; International
Russia Expected To Cut Gas Supplies To Poland, Bulgaria; New Video Shows Russian Forces In Bucha On Street Strewn With Civilian Bodies; U.N. Chief Met With Putin & Lavrov In Moscow Tuesday; Moldova Calls Emergency Meeting After Blasts In Transnistria; Deutsche Bank Warns Major U.S. Recession Is Coming. Aired 1-2a ET
Anna Coren, Isa Soares, Jim Sciutto, Nick Paton Walsh, Kristie Lu Stout, Catherine Rampell, Nic Robertson
8418 字
2022 年 4 月 27 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[01:00:43]

ANNA COREN, CNN ANCHOR: We begin with a dramatic escalation in tensions between Russia and the West over the war in Ukraine now threatening to boil over and hammer European economies. According to Polish authorities, Russia plans to cut off natural gas supplies to the country within the next hour. Russia is also expected to suspend deliveries to Bulgaria on Wednesday. Well this after both countries refuse Russia's demands to pay in rubles.

Specifically, Poland says Russia is cutting supplies to the Yamal pipeline, the one in green on this map. But the move could signal trouble for European economies more broadly, which is still heavily reliant on Russian energy.

Well, those fears of pushing global markets into disarray following a major sell off on Wall Street Tuesday. Several of the markets in Asia are trading lower today. Well, meanwhile, the Euro hit a five-year low against the dollar. We'll have a closer look at the fallout and rising fears about the U.S. economy coming up a little later in the show.

But first, let's go live to my colleague Isa Soares in Lviv, Ukraine. Hello, Isa.

ISA SOARES, CNN ANCHOR AND CORRESPONDENT: Good morning, Anna. Well, a spate of attacks in and around Moldova is raising fears that Russia is planning a new front in its war on Ukraine. Now, Moldova's president has called an emergency meeting of the country's Security Council after explosions destroyed radio towers and reported rocket attack a deal earlier.

Now the blasts happened if you're looking your map there in Transnistria, that a Russian backed breakaway region of Moldova. Just south for there, Ukrainian officials say a Russian missile damaged a critical bridge in the Odesa region now happened on Tuesday. Ukraine's president says Russia is trying to destabilize the region meanwhile.

As you can see there, heavy fighting continued on Tuesday in the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk in Ukraine. An adviser to President Zelenskyy says Russia remains focused on encircling Ukrainian forces. And just this coming into CNN, a local Russian official says a fire is blazing through an ammo depot (ph) in the Belgorod region bordering U.K. -- Ukraine as you can see there. It is unclear at this stage how the fire has started. But several military facilities have caught fire or exploded since Russia invaded Ukraine.

We'll keep on top of that breaking news story. Russian authorities are extending what they call a terrorist threat level in response.

We are learning also this morning about more atrocities left in the wake of Russian forces in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha, where scores of civilians were killed. Ukraine's top prosecutor has exclusively shared photos with our Anderson Cooper, warning though, some of the images we're about to show you are graphic. They were taken in early March and show bodies strewn on the street and our evidence in Ukraine's investigations into war crimes.

Now CNN's Anderson Cooper will have a full report on this later today. So do stay tuned for that. CNN, meanwhile, has also exclusively obtained drone video, placing Russian forces near the scene of the killings. Highlighted there in your screen, in the middle of your screen, in fact, is a Russian military vehicle sitting at an intersection in Bucha.

Right up there, light up the streets you can see other bodies of several dead civilians. It was filmed on March 13. And this was geolocated by CNN. And then this video from March 12 shows Russian soldiers around a military vehicle parked outside a house down the street from those same civilians, killed civilians that we just showed you. CNN has been able to geolocate as well as confirm the authenticity of both of those videos.

Well, despite the evidence like this, Russia continues to deny any involvement. Now Russian President Vladimir Putin claims talk of Bucha derailed peace talks with Ukraine. Have a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VLADIMIR PUTIN, RUSSIAN PRESIDENT (through translation): Unfortunately, after reaching agreements and after our clearly demonstrated intentions to create conditions for favorable conditions for the continuation of negotiations, we encountered a provocation in the village of Bucha, to which the Russian army has nothing to do.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

[01:05:10]

SOARES: And he said this while meeting with the U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres. Mr. Putin said Russian and Ukrainian negotiators did achieve a serious breakthrough during their talks, but added that the situation changed following the allegations of Russian war crimes. Those comments of course coming as the Russian president met with the U.N. Secretary General Antonio Guterres, as I was saying to you met on Tuesday, pardon me. The U.N. says they met for about an hour, including several one-on-one discussions. Guterres also met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Tuesday. Lavrov told reporters Russia remains committed to finding a solution through negotiations. Meanwhile, Guterres who meet with Ukraine's President in Kyiv on Thursday said the goal should be to reach a solution, of course, as soon as possible. Have a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

ANTONIO GUTERRES, U.N. SECRETARY-GENERAL: It is my deep conviction that the sooner we end this war, the better for the people of Ukraine, for the people of the Russian Federation, and those far beyond.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOARES: Well, America's top general says Russia's invasion of Ukraine is threatening the international security order. General Mark Milley spoke exclusively to Jim Sciutto after he and the U.S. Defense Secretary met with allies in Germany to discuss the war. Jim Sciutto has a story.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

JIM SCIUTTO, CNN CHIEF NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voice-over): At a gathering in Germany of military leaders from America's closest allies, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin said they must move together, quote, at the speed of war to help defend Ukraine.

LLOYD AUSTIN, U.S. DEFENSE SECRETARY: We don't have any time to waste. The briefings today laid out clearly why the coming weeks will be so crucial for Ukraine.

SCIUTTO (voice-over): In an exclusive interview with CNN, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Mark Milley told me, the stakes of the war in Ukraine are global.

GEN. MARK MILLEY, CHAIRMAN, U.S. JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF: This was left to stand if there is no answer to this aggression. If Russia gets away with this cost free, then so goes the so-called international order. And if that happens, then we're heading into an era of seriously increased instability.

SCIUTTO (voice-over): I press General Milley on whether the U.S. and NATO intended to weaken Russia, in addition to defending Ukraine, as Defense Secretary Austin said Monday.

(on-camera): Has the U.S. aim in this conflict expanded beyond just helping Ukraine defend itself to an aim of degrading Russia's military so it cannot attack other countries?

MILLEY: At the end of the day, what we want to see, what I think the policy of all of our governments together is a free and independent Ukraine with the territory in tech and their government standing and the Russian aggression has been halted and stopped. And at the end of the day, I think that it's going to involve a weakened Russia, a strengthened NATO. SCIUTTO (voice-over): Austin made clear, the U.S. does not want war with Russia, but touted the Western lead resolve to rein in Russia's bloody onslaught.

AUSTIN: In less than a week's time, we were able to bring together 40 nations not just from Europe, but from, you know, nations from the Indo-Pacific and a number of places. And because they are interested in helping a country, protect a sovereign territory and also maintaining a rules-based international order.

SCIUTTO (voice-over): A coalition of defense leaders pouring weapons into Ukraine, including a new batch of tanks from Germany, as an increasingly isolated Russia resorts to deadlier tactics and more threatening rhetoric. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov drew the attention of U.S. officials Monday when he said the danger of nuclear war is real. General Milley called the comments irresponsible.

MILLEY: Well, anytime a senior leader of a nation state starts rattling a nucleus favor, then everyone takes it seriously. And it's completely irresponsible for any senior leader to be talking like that in today's world.

Jim Sciutto, CNN, Lviv, Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

SOARES: And joining me now is Peter Layton who is a visiting fellow at the Griffith Asia Institute and joins us now live from Brisbane, Australia. Peter, thank you very much for speaking to us. Let me start right there with your thoughts really on U.S. Joint Chiefs Chair Milley and Defense Secretary Austin both talking about cause weakening Russia. How do you do that, you know, beyond of course providing weapons to Ukraine?

PETER LAYTON, VISITING FELLOW, GRIFFITH ASIA INSTITUTE: I think that that's already happened and that we see now by comparison let's say Russia at the start of this year. Economically speaking, Russia is suffering badly from the sanctions. Milley technically speaking, Russia seems a much smaller power. So I think that we have a fairly shrunken Russia now which is best, if you like, a small appendage to China.

[01:10:06]

Before at the start of this year, the U.S. had envisaged that they were in competition against both China and Russia. Now it's clearly only China.

SOARES: When we look in the last few minutes, Peter, we've looked at the latest intelligence for the British military, they release it every single morning and this morning, something stood out for me, because it says that the majority of Russian airstrikes, I'm secreted out, in Mariupol are likely been conducted using unguided free falling bombs, of course, leading to more civilian casualties. This is just devastating. Why is Russia relying mostly on this type of weaponry here? LAYTON: They're using larger strategic bombers, the 2u22s (ph), and they drop large numbers of unguided as you say, dumb bombs. There's a lot more explosive in them. But they're also more area weapons. And they're unsure where the Ukrainian forces are, such as -- so they're just bombing the whole area.

Now this is clearly against or in conflict with certain laws of war. But the Russians are also reportedly running out of smart weapons. And they've used up about three quarters of their stockpile. So it's both a reflection of they wish to spread terror, but also the fact that their weapons stocks are running low.

SOARES: Right. And, I mean -- and that's why we have seen just so many atrocities out of Mariupol. One MP saying to me, one adviser to President Zelenskyy parliament saying to me that could be looking at about 20,000 people dead in Mariupol. Why we've seen a third mass grave in Mariupol. Incredibly concerning, of course.

I want to move on to the latest spate really of attacks that we have seen in Moldova. Do you fear that Russia could be planning a new front, let's say, in this war? How worried should Moldova be here?

LAYTON: That's the difficult side. So all of us are looking forward to the 9th of May, Victory Day. And we're expecting that President Putin will announce something. There's a possibility that he will try and mobilize the Russian people in at least a proxy war against NATO.

These false flags attacks in Moldova appear to be part of that propaganda effort about mobilizing the Russian people. It's difficult to see that the Russian forces in Moldova can cause the Ukrainians very much troubles.

SOARES: In order to go all the way to Moldova, Peter, very quickly, they will need Odesa. How realistic is it? Do you think they can take Odesa here, Peter?

LAYTON: At the present time, not. It would take them quite a lot further. They are advancing slightly in the northeast, but they are striking strong resistance. As you say, the sort of ideally the Russian forces would strike westwards from the Crimea into the -- into Odesa and join up with the forces in Moldova. But the Ukrainians are well aware of this and preparing to stop it happening.

SOARES: Yes, one source telling me that he fears that it will be Mariupol that Putin want as a victory win for that Victory Day on May the 9th parade. Incredibly worrying indeed.

Peter Layton, always great to have your insight. Thanks, Peter.

LAYTON: Thank you.

SOARES: Well as Russia continues its offensive in the east and south, there are fears that pro-Russian elements in the southern city of Kherson will stage a sham independence referendum creating Kherson People's Republic, similar to those found in separatist regions in the east. Well, as a result, some Kherson residents are fleeing to central Ukraine, including President Zelenskyy's hometown.

CNN's Nick Paton Walsh is there.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NICK PATON WALSH, CNN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY EDITOR (voice-over): The southern field conjure a piece long past a world away from Ukraine's hell. It's quickly ruptured by Russia's new offensive, sending waves of evacuees fleeing the growing unthinkable world of Russian occupation. Families for whom the shelling over the last two hours was finally too much.

(on-camera): They're just grads hit one of the villages further down here. I don't know the Russians are actually close to them yet, but it's impossible to stay. A woman was injured there.

WALSH (voice-over): Antonina (ph) was three when the last war ended, but doesn't know when this one will. Hour by hour, everything changes.

(on-camera): Things are moving fast enough here, that just 24 hours ago, a village about 4 kilometers in that direction was the meeting point from which people were getting evacuated. Now it seems to be on the fire and we just see panicked locals rushing in to collect their relatives.

[01:15:04]

(voice-over): Distant tree lines are packed with troops, the blue horizon sometimes pockmarked by smoke.

(on-camera): Here is a rumble of rockets still here and you can see the damage of what they've done before. But somewhere like this has felt to some degree that had survived the worst of the war. But now in this second phase of the Russian operation, the brutality of those forces is essentially coming straight their way.

(voice-over): The flag flies still in the spot here where Lenin used to stand and it needs an army to hold it in place.

People don't want and cannot live under occupation, he says. We've managed to get 7,000 out across our 100 miles of frontline, some by bicycle, some in wheelbarrows, or by foot.

Here's where they're welcomed in President Vladimir Zelenskyy's hometown, Kryvyi Rih. Talk of a sham referendum on Wednesday, trying to gentrify the Russian occupation. And many flee these past days with queues of cars backed up from miles.

This father and son lost a wife and mother respectively to a bomb and even here do not want their faces shown. If they see us, they'll shoot everyone left there, he says. We left on foot over the water and the river.

For this family, it was about saving the eldest, fearing their 18- year-old son would be conscripted after the sham vote. The first time we tried to leave, they shot at us. The second time, we got out, she says.

We are completely occupied, she says. There's no food, no money, we have nothing. They'll do a referendum and take our children. My son is 18 and they'll take him as cannon fodder. We ran as fast as we could.

It is jarring among the generosity of donations and offers of new homes to hear of the casual brutality of the occupiers. Mihail (ph) was tortured for days in a basement after Russian troops mistook his rough builder's hands as a sign he'd been a soldier.

One got out of gun, a real one, he says. I saw it was cocked. Two shots. They hit the concrete wall. I think it was a starting pistol. Two other men then came in and talk less. They were drunk. One must have been a boxer as he beat me in the same place on my ribs, breaking six of them rupturing a lung.

Broken in parts here. But even as Russia closes in, still breathing.

Nick Paton Walsh, CNN, Kryvyi Rih, Ukraine.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

SOARES: -- announced that we are hearing day in, day out. I wonder I'll have much more of course from Lviv in the next hour. But for now, I want to send it back to my colleague Anna Coren in Hong Kong. Anna?

COREN: So much appreciated. Thank you so much.

Well, Myanmar's deposed Aung San Suu Kyi has been found guilty of corruption and sentenced to five years in prison. The country's military rulers alleged Suu Kyi accepted gold and cash payments totaling $600,000 from another official. Well, this is just the first of 11 corruption charges against the Nobel Prize winner.

We're told Kyi was not able to meet with her lawyers before the verdict was announced. Suu Kyi denies all allegations.

Well, it was a down day on Wall Street as investors worry about the war in Ukraine, China's COVID lock downs and inflation around the world. We'll see how the futures markets are looking.

Plus, a major international bank is predicting a deep recession around the corner for the U.S. economy. You're watching CNN Newsroom live in Hong Kong.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[01:21:06]

COREN: It was a terrible Tuesday for U.S. financial markets, fears of an economic recession drove blue chip stocks down more than 800 points. The tech sector took a beating as well while the NASDAQ at a 52-week low.

Well, let's take a look at how U.S. futures are faring at the moment. As you can see, the Dow Jones is down just over 2 percent while the NASDAQ and the S&P 500 are both up slightly.

Well meanwhile, Deutsche Bank is predicting a major U.S. recession fueled by stubborn inflation. The bank says the Federal Reserve's interest rate hikes could slow consumer spending and the housing market making matters worse.

Let's bring in our Kristie Lu Stout following developments here in Hong Kong. And Kristie, it seems that April is shaping up to be Wall Street's worst month in two years after stocks slid yesterday. How Asian markets faring today?

KRISTIE LU STOUT, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes, well, Anna, it's been a bit of a mixed picture here in Asia. Look, Japan is certainly dragging Asian markets lower but Chinese markets are bucking the trend. This after Wall Street plummeted on Tuesday.

You had the tech heavy NASDAQ leading U.S. losses. It lost nearly 4 percent on Tuesday, its lowest levels since late 2020. All this over fears of a global economic slowdown, which is essentially being triggered by three things, aggressive tightening by the U.S. Federal Reserve, aggressive zero-COVID policy by China and also the ongoing brutal war in Ukraine.

On Tuesday, Chinese stocks fell. There's been a lot of concerns there as China battles COVID-19 infections, not just in Shanghai, but also in Beijing and elsewhere. And also a lot of concern about the economic fallout, the economic impact of its tough zero-COVID policy affecting everything from domestic consumption inside China wreaking havoc as well on the global supply chain.

Now, we are in the midst of the Asian trading day. We have the live data for you. Let's bring it up for you. And as you can see, right there, the Nikkei is losing about 1.3 percent. The Seoul KOSPI is down 1.4 percent. Australia S&P ASX to 100 down eight-tenths percent. Hong Kong Hang Seng relatively flat. The Shanghai Composite again bucking the trend, it's gaining 1 percent Chinese stocks apparently have bounced back after days of losses.

Now fears of a lockdown in Beijing have been dragging on investor sentiment. And for very good reason, I want to bring up this statement for you. It's from the Global Market Strategist of OANDA, and he tells CNN this. He says, quote, "Although some parts of China have been under restrictions longer than Shanghai, Omicron's arrival in Beijing would be an ominous development. China is the world's second largest economy, and has shown no signs that it intends to live with the virus."

"And with that in mind," he adds, "the likely pressure valve is going to be disruption to China's export machine and a cratering of consumer confidence," unquote. So Anna, there is great uncertainty out there about China, about the Fed, also about the fate and future of Ukraine.

Remember, just last week, when the IMF warned that the global economy will be severely setback. We have these three economic shocks out there and the global markets are filling it. Back to you.

COREN: Kristie Lu Stout, as always, good to see you. Many thanks.

STOUT: Thanks, Anna.

COREN: Well, joining us now from New York is Catherine Rampell. She is a CNN Economics and Political commentator, as well as a Washington Post Opinion Columnist. Catherine, great to have you with us.

Deutsche Bank, among other commentators a warning of a major recession stating a deep recession will be needed to bring inflation to Hill. Do you agree with this?

CATHERINE RAMPELL, CNN ECONOMICS AND POLITICAL COMMENTATOR: Deutsche Bank is somewhat of an outlier right now and that they seem to have the most pessimistic forecast on all of Wall Street. That doesn't mean it's a crazy forecast, but it is more pessimistic than what most are predicting.

A lot of other forecasters on Wall Street and elsewhere, various economists are, however, predicting that we have a rising risk of recession here in the United States and there are of course many concerns about recessions elsewhere in the world, particularly in the E.U.

[01:25:13]

COREN: We are, however, expecting the Fed to raise interest rates, Jerome Powell has indicated as much for the Federal Reserve meeting next week. But I guess the question is, is that going to bring down inflation if interest rates continue to rise?

RAMPELL: Well, that's the goal. I mean, that's the primary tool that is available to policymakers to deal with inflation, it's to raise interest rates. Now, there are a couple of risks here, one, of course, is that they don't raise interest rates quickly enough to deal with those inflationary pressures that we have throughout the economy right now, driven by a whole host of factors, including, you know, very expansionary monetary and fiscal policy for the past couple of years, as well as supply shocks, the war in Ukraine and Russia, these lock downs in China, et cetera.

So it's not a done deal that the interest rates alone, particularly if they're relatively slow, that they will bring down inflation. The other risk, however, is that they raise interest rates too quickly, precisely for all the reasons I just mentioned that, that maybe the Fed, it really is very concerned about these longer term inflationary pressures. And they said, we got to be really aggressive, we got to raise rates faster than everyone expects. The risk there is that they're so aggressive that they tip us into recession.

COREN: You mentioned demand, but as we know, inflation is actually being driven by supply constraints and not demand. And that isn't about to be fixed overnight. Do you anticipate that this could perhaps lead to stagflation?

RAMPELL: Well, I would say it's a mismatch between supply and demand. Demand is quite strong, particularly here in the United States. You know, consumers are buying more than they were before the pandemic, particularly, if we're talking about purchases of goods, furniture, cars, clothing, sporting equipment, that sort of thing.

So demand is quite strong. Supply remains quite constrained, primarily and well, initially, I should say, because of these pandemic related effects. And then layer on top of that, these other shocks to global supply chains, including the war, and including China's zero-COVID policy, which is obviously related to the pandemic, but is a more draconian approach this late in the game, to the risk of COVID, then other Western countries per se.

COREN: I was going to say, just finally, some say that the Fed has been asleep at the wheel. I mean, last year, they said that inflation was transitory. And then last month, the Consumer Price spiked to 8.5 percent, a 40-year high. Should the Fed have been more proactive?

RAMPELL: In retrospect, I think the answer is yes. And probably if you ask people who actually are on the Fed, they would agree with that, that their forecasts last year were much too optimistic. And there are a number of reasons why they made those mistakes. I mean, almost everybody did. To be fair, I did. Almost all economists did.

They thought that inflation, if not -- if they didn't use the particular word transitory, they thought that at the very least, the economy would normalize, supply chains would normalize. And therefore, all of those constraints that I was just talking about would kind of unwind themselves and those inflationary pressures would abate.

In retrospect, obviously, that didn't happen. That didn't happen for a number of reasons, including that the demand side pressures were much stronger, I think, then people realized or people accounted for. We had these additional variants, COVID variants that also royal supply chains, and then you have all of these, you know, separate shocks, like the war that have made things much worse.

So yes, in retrospect, in hindsight, it would have been great if the Fed decided to take action much sooner. But hindsight is 2020.

COREN: It'll be interesting to see how markets react after the Fed raises rates as we expect next week. Catherine Rampell, great to speak to you. Thanks so much.

RAMPELL: Thank you.

COREN: A slew of Russian oligarchs who have been hit with sanctions over the war in Ukraine, so why not Vladimir Putin's alleged girlfriend. We'll have some answers just ahead on CNN Newsroom.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[01:31:50]

COREN: Workers of Ukraine are uniting to dismantle the Soviet-era statue in Kyiv. It's part of the so-called "People's Friendship Arch", put up in 1982. It was meant to commemorate the reunification of Russia and Ukraine, but Kyiv's mayor says the bronze statue needed to come down. He cited Russia's quote, "barbaric desire to destroy our state and peaceful Ukrainians".

There are growing calls from Russian opposition leaders and some in the U.S. Congress for the Biden administration to impose sanctions on Vladimir Putin's alleged girlfriend.

CNN's Nic Robertson reports from Brussels.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

NIC ROBERTSON, CNN INTERNATIONAL DIPLOMATIC EDITOR: Alina Kabaeva back in the news again. First, romantically linked to President Putin more than a decade ago, a relationship he has denied ever since.

They met years earlier reportedly when she was a young medal winning gymnast. He looked smitten.

Last week, stepping out at a Moscow gymnastics event rallying the nation as it slips to international isolation.

ALINA KABAEVA, FORMER RUSSIAN GYMNAST (through translator): If competitions will be held only in Russia, then on the contrary gymnastics will be better, more spectacular. And Russian gymnastics is not losing anything in this situation.

ROSCHELLE: Her life transformed, much richer, U.S. officials say, according to the "Wall Street Journal" following her purported proximity to Putin. Questions now why hasn't she been sanctioned like him?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Why you would refrain from sanctioning someone so arguably close to Putin?

JEN PSAKI, WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY: I don't have an analysis at this point because we're still reviewing. There is more we will likely do.

ROSCHELLE: The two rarely if ever, seen together. They're precise relationship, if any, unclear. But more than a decade of rumors undimmed with time.

Now against the backdrop of wartime symbolism, calling on the country to support Putin's war.

KABAEVA: Every family has a history of war and we shouldn't forget about it. We should hand it over from generation to generation.

ROBERTSON: Her wealth and ties to Putin a hot political topics since the "Wall Street Journal" wrote "Treasury officials decided last- minute not to sanction her".

SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM (R-SC): There is article in the paper about family members that have been used by Putin to sort of launder money, and talk of a girlfriend in Sweden. Do you know anything about an effort to bring sanctions against her?

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: First answer is no. And the second answer, I guess is, if I did know, I wouldn't be able to -- it's the Treasury Department.

GRAHAM: Ok. Fair enough.

ROBERTSON: Whatever Kabaeva's proximity to Putin, her financial moves never more closely watched than now.

Nic Robertson, CNN -- Brussels.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

[01:34:50]

COREN: Still to come on CNN, mass COVID testing in Beijing has sparked fears the city may be placed under strict lockdown like Shanghai. A live report from China is next.

Plus, an aspirin a day may no longer keep the doctor away. The new recommendations for the pill millions use to prevent heart disease, after the break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

COREN: Authorities in Singapore executed a Malaysian man his lawyer says was intellectually disabled. The family has confirmed the execution. The 34-year-old was sentenced to death for smuggling heroin into Singapore in 2009.

Last month, the Singapore court rejected a final appeal to spare his life. The case (INAUDIBLE) international attention from activists who believed the Malaysian man's life should have been spared due to his disability.

U.S. President -- U.S. Vice President, I should say, Kamala Harris is in isolation and will be working from home after testing positive for COVID-19. In a tweet Harris said she does not have any symptoms and is grateful to be vaccinated and boosted. She tested positive after returning from California and is taking Pfizer's Paxlovid drug as part of her treatment.

Contact tracing is now underway to determine if others around her are infected. The White House says Harris has not been near President Joe Biden due to their recent travel schedules.

Well, in China, COVID testing for millions of people in Beijing is underway. Shanghai has been under strict lockdown for weeks. And residents in Beijing fear they could be next under China's zero COVID policy.

Well, taking a daily aspirin may be doing more harm than good, according to a group of medical experts. The U.S. Preventative Services Task Force no longer recommends taking that daily pill to prevent a heart disease in some cases, as it may put already healthy people at a higher risk for bleeding in the stomach or brain.

Specifically, the group recommends most adults 60 or over should not start taking aspirin as a preventative measure. And adults ages 40 to 59 should speak with their doctor about whether extended use of the drug would be effective for them.

If you are unsure of you are at risk for heart disease and whether aspirin may be useful, groups like the American College of Cardiology have web-based calculator you can use to determine your risk before consulting a doctor.

Well, coming up, the trail blazing work of five female photojournalists is the focus of a new documentary. We'll hear from two of them. That's next.

[01:39:44]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We need to get out of here.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

COREN: Well, that video from Ukraine showing the dangerous yet essential work undertaken by journalists and photojournalists on the front lines of war. Well now, the people behind the camera are the focus of a new documentary. "NO ORDINARY LIFE" profiles five CNN camerawomen who travel the world covering conflicts.

Here's a clip from the trailer.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: These camerawomen blazed a trail that they didn't even know they were blazing at the time. They were incredibly brave, incredibly resourceful.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: It is a sisterhood. When you go into these situations that are very difficult, very scary, it's nice to know that somebody understands what you've been through. There is not that many people that understand what we have been through.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

COREN: Earlier, CNN's Bianna Golodryga spoke with director, Heather O'Neill and two of the women featured in the film. She began by asking O'Neill why she decided to cover the women behind the camera.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

HEATHER O'NEILL, DIRECTOR, "NO ORDINARY LIFE": I wanted to show the world, you know, not only what they covered, but to share these important stories with the world, in front of the camera, and what was going on behind the camera.

You know, each of these women are incredibly brave and took enormous risks to inform the world. And I wanted to make a film that immersed people in their whole experience, in their point of view. You know, what it was really like to be behind the camera in some of these really searing moments.

BIANNA GOLODRYGA, CNN HOST: Maria, when you were approached about this documentary, was there any hesitation about being profiled? About now being in front of it and capturing so many years of your important work?

MARIA FLEET, FORMER CNN CAMERAWOMAN: Well, thank you for having us on. Yes, I guess I had a little hesitation just because I am a photojournalist and I'm used to being behind the camera. And I am not used to having people focus on me.

But I knew Heather, and I knew her work, and so, you know, -- it is an interesting story. We kind of don't think our own stories are that interesting until someone points out that, you know, that's a unique -- that was a unique experience for us and a unique time in journalism history.

GOLODRYGA: Your stories are fascinating. and just sitting there, Cynde, and watching you begin your career, sort of doing what you grew up wanting to do right, and that is learn Mandarin and go to China and ride your bicycle there.

You know, it's a job, it pays the bills, but it's clear that it takes a certain passion to enter this field. What was it about you that made you realize this was the field for you?

CYNDE STRAND, FORMER CNN CAMERAWOMAN: Well, there is two things. I always wanted to be a journalist. But unfortunately, I can't.

So, what did I gravitate to? I gravitated to camerawork. And I think, you know, more importantly though to be able to tell people stories, that's what really put the fire in my belly. And you know, I have to acknowledge the courage of all the journalists right now in Ukraine. CNN journalists -- you know, all the journalists there.

[01:44:57]

STRAND: And once again, it just shows you how important it is to be on the ground somewhere and tell people stories. To be able to introduce people around the world to the people that live in Ukraine, right now.

And in our case, maybe Bosnia or Somalia or other places, but to put names to the people that are, you know, going through this. And their lives are changing.

You know, so I just feel like that passion I had is what, you know, drove me -- drove me to become a journalist. And you know, fortunately, CNN gave us opportunities as women to pick up the cameras and travel around the world.

GOLODRYGA: You know, when you're on the ground there and especially Cynde, your time in China was so crucial and getting a pulse on what was happening in that country.

You talk about in the film, and I want to play a clip of it, of just knowing in your bones that something was about to happen in Tiananmen in 1989. And you decided to work in the evening because that's when the uprising, that's when something would happen, that's when the military would come out. You weren't given a heads up, it was just something you felt. Let's play the clip, and then you can talk about what led you to that he after.

STRAND: That particular night -- I knew that night I just felt it my bones that the government was going to shut this down.

You're it, you are the one that's going to see it. And you're the one that's going to record it. That is why you are a journalist.

So we stayed. We started to get reports that tanks were coming. There is flames in the distance. We are starting to hear bullets cracking down the street, and not just zing-zing but pretty heavy fire. And bodies coming into the square.

We snuck around the back and started talking to the kids that they left.

You think anybody got killed?

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: Of course, I'm sure, very sure. Many students were killed.

GOLODRYGA: You know, I was watching that and what stood out to me just with your camera work, I could see the wet beads of the soldiers, you were are that close, you were that focused.

In that moment, were you aware of the magnitude of what was transpiring in that country?

STRAND: Yes, because I was living in China at the time. I wasn't parachuted in. This is my home. And we have been in the square day after day and day. And in my case, night after night after night.

As I said in the film, we just knew it was going to happen. And you know, once again, this is the importance of being there and being a witness to what is happening, and being able to, you know, interpret that to the world and tell the world.

And you know, that evening, we knew there were reports of people being killed on the ring roads around Beijing. The soldiers moved into town, and people tried to stop the soldiers.

And so we knew that this was happening as we got closer and closer to the square. And you know, another example of why it was so important to be there, I saw a lot of people killed around the square. But in the actual square, people weren't -- you know, the students weren't killed. The soldiers came in and pretty much beat them off the square.

So it is just another example of how important it is to be there. And in my day, you know, how important you know, we had to hide on the back of a kind of a rickshaw to get our tape out with blankets over us.

So not just filming it but getting the tape out in those days was a challenge, and that day in particular.

GOLODRYGA: And it speaks to the danger that is involved in the job. And it is interesting to hear all of you say, you know, you are not necessarily adrenaline junkies. You are not out there seeking to, you know, be in the middle of a gun battle, but you are filming some of these important moments as countries, as these conflicts unfold.

And you know, Maria, you found yourself in a dangerous situation where you were hurt in Tikrit. We have a video of that. And I do not know how you managed to keep it altogether, but that is why you are able to do what you do. Let's play it for our viewers.

FLEET: We went through this armed checkpoint. Soon we attracted some attention and a couple of pickup trucks with guys and guns came. And we knew that we needed to get out of there. The guys with the Ak-47s pulled up right next to us.

And my driver was talking to them across me, then they slowed back up and just started firing into our car.

[01:49:48]

UNIDENTIFIED MALE: Ok. We just came under attack, under attack. That is gunfire.

GOLODRYGA: There you just see that bloody hand there. Maria, in the moment, did you realize what had happened? And you know, what's the first thing that goes through your mind as you've got your camera right with you and you realize that you've got, you know, a head injury?

FLEET: To be clear, we were -- I had transitioned into producing at that point. And I had a camera with me, but we also had a fellow -- there was a fellow cameraman, Christian Strive (ph) with me as well, who shot a little bit of that footage, too.

But we had gone into Tikrit to right after Baghdad fell, but Tikrit had not fallen.

And we are ventured in and then realized it is kind of a dicey situation, and we need to turn around and get out. And as we turned around, these cars followed us, two cars full of gunmen, pick up trucks.

And I just thought, you know, we made a mistake. I had a very -- it was a very sobering moment, where I just thought we made a mistake. And this is how it ends up. This is, you know, we're going to get killed.

GOLODRYGA: And you were fortunate enough to survive. I do want to ask you, Heather about another photojournalist who you feature in this film. And that's Margaret Mott. She had a devastating injury that she encountered while she was driving in Sniper Alley in Sarajevo. Christiane worked with her as well. And Christiane in the film talks about how she just felt that it was time for her to leave and she wanted to persuade Margaret too. And Margaret said, no, I am staying. And she was defiant.

Why was it important for you to tell Margaret's story. And we should tell our viewers that she sadly, many years later, then passed away after a long and courageous battle with cancer.

O'NEILL: Yes. Margaret was incredible. You know, Maria and Cynde knew her quite well. I never was actually able to meet Margaret. But a really dear friend of hers Joe Duran had an incredible, you know, interview with her.

And as a filmmaker, it was really important. I was having a hard time finding her voice, you know, to tell her own story.

And you know, we found this interview with her. It was really remarkable to be able to have her speak and talk about her life, and you know, everything that she had done and contributed to.

And I was just so struck by her spirit, I mean just her absolute fierceness. I mean she was an incredible journalist. And you know, just until the end, I think it was probably pretty hard for her to put her camera down, you know, once she was diagnosed.

So it was really important to have Margaret, you know, be present in this film. And we found some amazing footage of her returning to Sarajevo. I mean that is the best part of her story is the first place she wanted to go back after a year of really grueling surgeries was Sarajevo and she did.

GOLODRYGA: She should thank her doctors.

O'NEILL: Yes. Yes.

GOLODRYGA: You captured her so well. I mean fierce and courageous and bold. And I can see that with those piercing blues eyes, I just could not stop looking at her in this film.

Cynde, what is clear is there are not many women photojournalists out there. And I know one question that you all at this point, you know, we're so exhausted about hearing so many years into your jobs, can I help you carry that camera? Is it too heavy? Is it more dangerous to be a woman than a man in this job?

And you hear it not only from strangers but I know from family members who worry about going out there. Talk about, you know, being a woman in the middle of a war zone, filming it all.

STRAND: Well, I will say, you know, I had many role models, many of the still photographers were women, especially some trailblazers from Vietnam. You know, Katherine Roy and Dickie Chappell and just so many women I could name that were still photographers.

So when we showed up on the scene, you know, carrying heavy equipment and ladders and tripods, a lot of times, people were just shocked. And they were -- often I would say -- people would say -- where is the cameraman? Are you -- are they making you carry that stuff for the camera man? So, you know, I can't tell you how many times we are in security scrums, you know, filming a VIP, and you have these big, burly security guys and they're trying to push the camera people away. And they look at us in shock, like wait a minute, there's something wrong here.

[01:54:45]

STRAND: But you know, I have to say, so many of that -- you know, when we first got started, and also (INAUDIBLE) to may be see there was one of the leaders -- you know, lead camerawomen during our time but, you know, the camera guys, you know, they welcomed us. They moved their tripods over and made space for us, you know.

There's quite a few guys that looked at my tape and give me some feedback on my tape. You know, in the old days, we would feed from these TV stations. And no one would wait around to watch CNN's tape, certainly no one would wait around to see my tape feed.

And then, you know, people started waving around to see my tape feed, and I really felt like, oh, you know, I am there.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

COREN: And you can learn more about the documentary and the amazing women featured in it by going to NoOrdinaryLifeFilm.com.

Well, the U.N. warns that nearly 2 million children were starving to death across the horn of Africa, as the region faces one of its most severe droughts in recent history.

And as many as 20 million people could be pushed into hunger by the end of the year. U.N. Aid a chief Martin Griffiths (ph) calls it a once in generation tragedy.

In a plea to donors, he says more than a billion dollars is needed to respond to the crisis across Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia over the next six months. Only a small fraction of this money has been received so far.

The U.N. is also warning of a sand crisis, that's right, you heard it. The road is running out of sand. A new U.N. report calls for urgent action, including a ban on beach extraction.

The report blames the problem on population growth. Believe it or not, sand is the most exploited resource after water. And we are using it faster than nature can produce it.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

PASCAL PEDUCCI, DIRECTOR OF GRID GENEVA, U.N. ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME: Now, the problem is that sand cent is produced through very slow erosion, geological process. It takes hundreds of thousands of years to go from rocks to grain of sand. And we are using 50 billion tons of sand and gravel per year. You might think, what is 50 billion tons? Well, to give an idea, you could build a wall of 27 meters high, 27 meters wide all-round planet earth every single year. That is the amount of sand we're using.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

COREN: The U.N. report also calls for reducing demand by reusing sand from recycled materials like concrete and (INAUDIBLE).

Well thanks so much for your company. I am Anna Coren, live from Hong Kong.

You have been watching an hour CNN NEWSROOM. Our breaking news coverage of the war in Ukraine continues after this short break.

Stay with CNN.

[01:57:25]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220427ei4r000jh


News; International
New Evidence Of Bucha Atrocities In Ukraine; Major U.S. Recession Prediction; Putin: Bucha Provocation Derailed Talks With Ukraine; U.N.: Putin Agrees In Principle To U.N. And Red Cross Help With Mariupol Evacuations; Russia Expected To Cut Gas Supplies To Poland, Bulgaria; Attacks In And Near Moldova Raise Fears Russia Aims To Open New Front In Its War; Allied Nations Meet To Talk Military Support For Ukraine; Top U.S. General: International Security Order At Strike; Sheltering In Mariupol Steel Plant. Aired 2-3a ET
Isa Soares; Rosemary Church; Clare Sebastian; Clarissa Ward; Alex Marquardt; Selina Wang; Ryan Noble
7330 字
2022 年 4 月 27 日
CNN: CNN Newsroom
NWSRM
英文
Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Copyright 2022 ASC Services II Media, LLC. All materials herein are protected by United States copyright law and may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, displayed, published or broadcast without the prior written permission of ASC Services II Media, LLC. You may not alter or remove any trademark, copyright or other notice from copies of the content.
[02:00:30]

ANNOUNCER: This is CNN Breaking News.

ISA SOARES, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: Hello and a warm welcome to our viewers in the United States, and right around the world. I'm Isa Soares, live in Ukraine. Where we have new evidence of Russia's brutality. Photos of the dead in Bucha are now being used to build a war crimes case.

ROSEMARY CHURCH, CNN INTERNATIONAL ANCHOR: And I'm Rosemary Church at CNN World Headquarters in Atlanta. I'll have all our other top stories, including a dire warning from a Wall Street Bank, why it says a major U.S. recession is coming, and how that news is affecting the stock market.

SOARES: Atrocities committed against civilians in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha are at the heart of investigations into Russian war crimes. The Ukrainian prosecutor leading the country's probe has exclusively shared photos with CNN's Anderson Cooper. And a warning they are graphic indeed.

And they were taken in early March and show bodies strewn on the street. And there are evidence in Ukraine's investigation that being used as evidence in the investigation, of course, into war crimes. CNN's Anderson Cooper will have a full report on this later today. So do stay tuned for that.

CNN has also exclusively obtained drone video placing Russian forces near the scene of those killings in Bucha. Highlighted there in the middle of your screen is a Russian military vehicle sitting at really an intersection in Bucha. And right up the street are the bodies of several dead civilians. And it was filmed in-- on March 13th.

And this video from March 12th shows Russian soldiers around a military vehicle parked outside a house down the street from those same killed civilians. CNN has been able to geo-locate as well as authenticate both those videos. Well, despite evidence like this, Russia continues to insist videos are being faked and that the bodies were staged. Here's what an international criminal court prosecutor had to say about that to have a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KARIM KHAN, PROSECUTOR, INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT: In the U.S. House or Massachusetts, he said it was a much greater honor for him as being President as he was. I find that a little harder to believe, but, you know, politicians lies. But he was called the old man-- all the men, he rose every day to speak from the evils of slavery, they got some seconds actually changed the rules to keep him from doing that. But that rule was really important for him. He was number one, he was elected president. He didn't get a majority of the electoral (INAUDIBLE) so it was thrown to the U.S. House, which--

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOARES: Well, on top of denials, Russian President, Vladimir Putin now claims talk of Bucha derailed peace talks with Ukraine. Have a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VLADIMIR PUTIN, PRESIDENT OF RUSSIA (through translator): Unfortunately after reaching agreements and after our clearly demonstrated intentions to create conditions for favorable conditions for the continuation of negotiations, we encountered a provocation in the village of Bucha to which the Russian army has nothing to do.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOARES: What Mr. Putin's comments came during a meeting with U.N. Secretary General, Antonio Guterres on Tuesday at that very meeting. The U.N. says the Russian President agreed, in principle to involve the U.N. as well as the Red Cross in evacuations from besiege-- the besieged city of Mariupol. But he said Russia won't sign a peace deal with Ukraine until quote, "Territorial issues in Crimea and the Donbas region are settled."

While right now Moscow is aiming a different sort of weapons really at European economies. According to polish as well as Bulgarian authorities, Russia is cutting off natural gas supplies to their countries. This after they refused Russia's demands to pay in rubles specifically Poland.

Says Russia's cutting supplies to the Yamal pipeline, the one that we would be able to show you in green on this map. But the move could signal trouble of course, for European economies more broadly, which are still heavily reliant on Russian energy.

Let's more-- let's bring in Clare Sebastian in London for more on all this. And Clare, let me start this hour with those disturbing images, yet more disturbing images out of Bucha that are clearly being used by Ukraine's prosecutors evidence of war crime. What did President Putin have to say about this and other mass graves has been found in Mariupol here?

[02:05:02]

CLARE SEBASTIAN, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Yes. Isa, President Putin continues to deny that Russia was responsible for any of the killings in Bucha. The Kremlin has said that the images that we've seen, you know, emerging over the past few weeks since Ukraine retook that town are fake. This is the line they continue to take.

And meanwhile, the drone image-- images that are obtained exclusively by CNN really provide the first evidence that we've seen a Russian military vehicles operating on the same street where those bodies were found by Ukrainian forces. So this will bolster the case, not only for Ukrainian prosecutors, but for the International Criminal Court as well, which is reviewing this evidence.

But I think it's clear that Bucha was a turning point in this war. President Putin saying it himself in that comment that it essentially had derailed peace talks that up until what he called the provocation in Bucha, Ukraine, and Russia was sort of reaching some kind of breakthrough that they might have some kind of basis for continuing future talks.

He says after that Ukraine simply gave up that is, of course, not the side of the story that we're getting from Ukraine. But again, you know, this is-- this was really a critical point. This is what sparked the fifth round of sanctions from the EU, which included a coal embargo and more sanctions from the U.S.

So, I think as more evidence emerges of this, we can see more-- we are going to see more of these economic weapons in play.

SOARES: Let's talk about those economic weapons because of course, the EU did not sanction oil or gas, which has always been criticized somewhat. We're hearing now Russia putting pressure on Poland and Bulgaria with Gazprom warning, it will cut off supplies if they pay in rubles.

I remember when that warning came out, Clare, you and I. I was on set with you, we're talking about this decision. Will these countries pay in rubles?

SEBASTIAN: Very unlikely that they will, Isa, in terms of Europe as a whole, there's only really one outlier in this, and that's Hungary that says it will pay in rubles. The others are saying they won't that they can track-- their contracts essentially don't allow it that they are to pay for gas in euros.

And there's another part of this, the EU has warned that paying for Russian gas in rubles could be in violation of sanctions. They put out guidance on this Isa on Friday that says that, because the system that Russia has put in place where you essentially open two accounts with Gazprom bank, one in euros or dollars, one in rubles, and they take care of the conversion. They say that some of that could involve the Russian Central Bank, which could be in violation of sanctions. And they say that the lag time between the depositing of the euros and the conversion into rubles could essentially mean that, you know, Russia is-- the Europe's gas importers are loaning the money to Gazprom, which would also be in violation of sanctions.

But the other thing they say is that we don't really know enough about the system that Russia has put in place to really know what's going on here and know how to deal with it. So very unclear at the moment, but it doesn't seem like European countries are going to pay for gas, most of them in rubles. And that means that we could see more of these potential cut offs of gas, very damaging potentially to European economy economies.

SOARES: Yes, indeed. And keep an eye on that. Keep us posted Clare as soon as there any more developments. Do let us know.

Meanwhile, a spate of attacks in and around Moldova is raising fears Russia is planning a new front in its war in Ukraine. This video shows a plume of smoke just rising outside Odesa. Authorities say a Russian missile hit a critical bridge in the Odesa region. And we are hearing from Ukrainian rail officials.

Another missile has hit the same rail and road bridge just hours ago. The damage essentially cuts the far southwest corner of Ukraine which border is Moldova off from the rest of the country.

On the same day, radio towers were damaged by explosions in Transnistria, a Russian backed breakaway region in Moldova. And this incident as well as a report of rocket attack on Monday prompted Moldova's president to call an emergency meeting of the country's Security Council.

Ukraine's president says Russia is trying to sow tensions between his country and Moldova. Have a listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY, PRESIDENT OF UKRAINE (through translator): This is happening to destabilize the region and threaten Moldova. They are showing them that if Moldova supports Ukraine, this is what's going to happen.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOARES: Meanwhile, heavy fighting continued Tuesday in the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk. An adviser to President Zelenskyy says Russia remains focused on encircling Ukrainian forces. Ukraine's military says it repelled several attacks although shelling as well as airstrikes continues along the frontlines with fighting in the streets in some areas.

Kharkiv in the Northeast is among the hardest hit cities from Russian bombardments. Clarissa Ward gives us a close up look at the damage.

[02:10:00] CLARISSA WARD, CNN CHIEF INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: There's no rest at night for the people of Kharkiv. Flares light up the sky as artillery thunders through the air.

For nearly nine weeks, Ukraine's second largest city has been shelled relentlessly. Only by day, you see the full scale of the destruction. The neighborhood of Pavlovo Pole was hit repeatedly last month, as Russian forces tried to push into the city. No site was spared, not even the local nursery school.

So, it looks like this was some kind of dormitory, you can see children's beds here all around. And then in the next door room over there was their classroom. Their shoes still litter the locker room. Mercifully, the school had been evacuated, so no children were killed in the strikes.

The mayor of Kharkiv says that 67 schools and 54 kindergartens have been hid here since the war began. And what's so striking when you look around is that it's so clearly not a military target. This is a residential neighborhood.

Just a few blocks away the bare skeleton of an apartment building. Authorities say more than 2,000 houses have been hit here. Sounds of war are never far away.

So, you can see this is what's left of the bedroom here. It's just astonishing. Two doors down, we see a figure of peeking out. 73-year- old, Larissa Karmina (ph) is still living there alone.

So she's saying that she does have a sister, who she could stay with, but she also lives in an area that's been heavily hit, and she's living in a shelter at the moment.

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE (through translator): It's from all sides, she says. From there and there they can shell.

WARD: With her fresh lipstick, Larissa is a picture of pride and resilience. Much like this city, still standing tall in the face of a ruthless enemy. Clarissa Ward, CNN, Kharkiv.

SOARES: All military leaders for more than 40 nations met in Germany on Tuesday to find ways to get more weapons and other support to Ukraine really as quickly as possible.

At the conference, Germany announced it will deliver drop on (ph) anti-aircraft tanks. It's a policy shift for Germany which of course has previously rejected providing that type of heavy weaponry.

Meantime, America's top generals spoke exclusively with CNN, Jim Sciutto after the meeting Germany. General Mark Milley warned of what he says would be the consequences if Russia isn't held accountable for invading Ukraine. Have a listen to what he had to say.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

GEN. MARK MILLEY, CHAIRMAN, U.S. JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF: What's at stake is the global international security order that was put in place in 1945. That international orders lasted 78 years. It's prevented great power war. If there is no answer to this aggression, if Russia gets away with this cost free, then so goes the so called international order. And if that happens, then we're heading into an era of seriously increased instability.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

SOARES: Well, General Milley also criticized the Russian Foreign Minister over his recent comments about the danger of a nuclear war saying it was quote "Completely irresponsible and anytime a senior leader of a nation state starts rattling a nuclear saber than everyone takes it seriously." Those were his words.

I'd like to bring in Lesia Vasylenko, she's a Ukrainian Member of Parliament joins us now live from Strasbourg in France. Lesia, thank you very much for taking the time to speak to us.

Let me start off with really our top story. We're seeing yet again, more atrocities being committed in Mariupol with another mass grave being found. An adviser to President Zelenskyy told me just a couple of days ago, in fact Lesia that we could be looking at 20,000 people being killed in Mariupol. Your thoughts this morning?

LESIA VASYLENKO, PEOPLE'S DEPUTY OF UKRAINE: Absolutely, the numbers are devastating. It's not just Mariupol, it's many towns, cities, villages, all across Ukraine, in particular concentrated in the East down to Luhansk, Donetsk regions and then over to the South with Mykolaiv and Kherson which just got occupied yesterday.

And the blows that we're seeing on Odesa means that there are yet more civilian casualties to come. My heart goes out to all the people in the occupied territories as the crimes that we have seen committed on Bucha, Irpin, and all-- in Kharkiv would be occupied are reaching in the south and those areas.

[02:15:15]

VASYLENKO: And the people alaso suffering day in and day out, hour by hour on the hands of Russian soldiers.

SOARES: Yes, and we showed some of the images from Bucha as well exclusive images coming in to CNN from-- shared with Ukraine's prosecutor with our Anderson Cooper. Let me get your thoughts though, on what we heard from President Putin.

He met with the U.N. Secretary General, Antonio Guterres. And he promised in principle, Lesia to let the U.N. and Red Cross get them involved in evacuating civilians from Mariupol. Do you trust that this can be achieved given that been so many promises and they've been broken?

VASYLENKO: I understand that in principle clause, which was stated that either if you let them evacuate in corridors operate properly or you do not. And it's a simple as that. It's not about military objectives or military targets. It's about saving the lives of innocent civilians, women and children.

And when it comes to Putin, we can expect absolutely anything. He can say one thing one day, and go back and change his words as easy as that. He has zero values of human life. I don't think that anybody who's sitting down at the tables needs to use that as a baseline or conversation that all decision making in the future.

Now, I look forward to the U.N. and the Red Cross having a more robust presence on the ground despite their representatives returned to operating in Ukraine at full scale, and it's high time that the Red Cross or the U.N. actually started doing their job properly with helping Ukrainian civilians.

They should do that, they should be providing the assistance and they should be getting those people out of the combat zone as soon as possible. But at the same time, I have to warn that they need to be prepared to more Russian attacks crushing and to be prepared to protect the civilians from Russian soldiers shooting at in their backs with their guns and their missiles, and whatever.

SOARES: Lesia, thank you very much for taking the time to speak. I'm going to leave it there. Unfortunately, your audio is not very clear. So, apologies to our viewers there. Lesia Vasylenko, let's reconnect in the coming days and keep in touch. Appreciate, Lesia.

And still ahead right here, a stark warning from Deutsche Bank have major U.S. recession is coming. Why they say the Federal Reserve could be making things worse? That's next.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[02:21:40]

CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. Well, fears of a coming U.S. economic recession are taking a toll on Wall Street. The Dow fell more than 800 points on Tuesday, and the tech heavy NASDAQ sank to a 52-week low. Trading is winding down for the day in the Asia Pacific region. You could look at the numbers there.

Shanghai Composite is up there. But when you look at the Nikkei that's down more than one percent, Australia's s&P ASX 200 down nearly one percent, and Hang Seng is up, but only slightly.

So meanwhile, a new report from Deutsche Bank predicts a major U.S. recession is coming and inflation will likely stay high for longer than expected. The bank says aggressive rate hikes by the Federal Reserve meant to keep inflation in check could actually make things worse.

Ryan Patel is a Senior Fellow at the Drucker School of Management at Claremont Graduate University. And he joins me now from Denver, Colorado. Always good to have you with us.

RYAN PATEL, SENIOR FELLOW, DRUCKER SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT: Thanks, Rosemary. CHURCH: So Deutsche Bank has global markets on a knife edge with this prediction of a major U.S. recession on the way blaming the Federal Reserve's plan to control inflation with the aggressive rate hikes. But are there other factors at play here? And do you agree with this dire forecast?

PATEL: I feel like when you and I get together, we're breaking down this news is not always great.

CHURCH: Never.

PATEL: Deutsche Bank was really aggressive toward the Fed. I mean, they went further in the report stating how the Fed last 40 years has failed and hasn't really done its job in these types of sessions. And mind you, Deutsche Bank has also a couple of months ago saying that the recession was going to be minor.

So really, this report is really strictly focusing on the Fed's ability to not control inflation, they believe and they're putting in the report that that they won't be able to get in under control. I also think that there are other factors in play here not just the inflation, but obviously the global economy and the labor rate.

There's obviously more at play to this. But there this is really about the lack of trust that the bank has for the Federal Reserve.

CHURCH: So if Deutsche Bank is sending a direct warning to the Federal Reserve to change course immediately in the way it responds to high inflation with the-- these aggressive rate hikes, how likely is it that the Fed will listen and ease off to perhaps calm global market nerves?

PATEL: Well, I'm hoping the Fed will understand and I think they do, but I think it's-- they need a balance. Like I think it's gotten out of control on either side. And I think part of the recession, Rosemary, isn't so much about it's okay to-- I mean, I guess never okay to go into recession, but I'd rather have a minor recession than a major recession.

And there's a big difference between the two. I think we're seeing inflation rising, we've seen prices rising, we've seen supply sank constraints, obviously the pandemic. I think it's clear in all signs point that a recession can-- will possibly occurred, and we saw this in the last recession. But it could be minor, it could be a blip and we could be back road to recovery.

So I don't want to make it seem like that. There isn't a path that isn't all doom, but, you know, Deutsche Bank is stating that, you know, the recession or the recovery is not going to happen until 2024 which is obviously two years from now, versus we are thinking that hopefully by next year it will be back to somewhat normal.

[02:25:12]

CHURCH: Yes. I mean, you mentioned that Deutsche Bank is seeing the economy rebounding by mid-2024. But I mean, a lot of damage will have been done by then. So how do we avoid a recession, or at least avoid a major recession? Is that even possible at this juncture?

PATEL: Yes. I think-- I mean, everything's on the table. I think there's a lot possible when it comes to this economy and ensuring that, you know, there is maybe there's a-- the interest rate doesn't get as cut as much. But then there's the flip side of one, they didn't ensure that there's cash on hand, and being able to have goods.

I think, really the global recovery is the X factor in all of this, if we didn't have the pandemic looming still, and be able to meet the demand for consumers and goods, Rosemary, we should be able to recover to some of that. But because of the pressure that's being put on companies and others into the economy, it's all solely focused on the-- on what the worth is for the dollar, and then can the consumer pay for what's the prices that are increasing?

I think that's where-- if you can ensure the citizens and consumers can have not as bad as being able to be expensive in paying for things, it'll be great. But that takes a lot of different policy. And that takes coordination between the government, the banks, the consumers, and the company, everybody involved in this.

CHURCH: Yes. So Ryan, how does China play into all of this with its zero-COVID policy forcing the critical port city of Shanghai into a draconian lockdown along with other parts of the country as well? So what's its role here?

PATEL: I'm glad that you asked me that. I think it's been an underestimated conversation when we talk about just one aspect of the recovery of the economy. Shanghai is the busiest port in the world. When you talk about shutting it down with imports and exports, we did see it over the last two years because of COVID.

But when we started to see some kind of recovery, this definitely will stunt the growth. I mean, there's no doubt about that. And when we're already shortage, especially when you talk about telecom and auto, you know, in automobile side, you're going to see some demand even further drop because of the pricing going to increase and that does have an effect.

It always goes back to my question, how long can you stay close and being able to have that goods? But this will have an effect, Rosemary on the outlook in some of these industries, and they will be-- have a higher price point. And then you and I will be back talking maybe in a couple months, saying, can people afford these and can these companies stay in business based on the nimbleness they did already last few years? Can we continue to do that over the next six months?

CHURCH: Yes. No doubt. Ryan Patel, many thanks, sir, for joining us and sharing your analysis. Appreciate it.

PATEL: Thank you.

CHURCH: And our coverage of Russia's war on Ukraine continues in just a moment. Coming up. Hundreds of families are sheltering from Russia's onslaught underground, deep inside a steel plant in Mariupol.

Children haven't seen daylight in weeks, and now new reports of atrocities of raising concerns.

[02:30:00]

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ANNOUNCER: This is CNN. More people get their news from CNN than any other news source.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

ANNOUNCER: This is CNN Breaking News.

SOARES: Welcome back, everyone. We are following the worsening situation in Ukraine's Mariupol. British intelligence says the majority of Russian airstrikes and Mariupol are likely being conducted using unguided freefalling bombs. And those weapons greatly, of course, increase the risk of civilian casualties, as you see in there from the Ministry of Defense.

And this comes as Mariupol's mayor says a third mass grave site has been discovered. New satellite images purportedly show freshly dug sites which have grown in size over time. The mayor says Russian troops are forcing Ukrainians to bury bodies in exchange for food. All this amid reports of increasingly dire conditions inside the Azostal steel plant. CNN's Alex Marquardt has more.

(BEGIN VIDEOTAPE)

ALEX MARQUARDT, CNN SENIOR U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): It's all that stands in Vladimir Putin's way from fully conquering Mariupol, a key prize for the Russians. A sprawling Azovstal steel plant operating on this site for nearly a century covering four square miles, ten square kilometers, right on the Sea of Azov. It's a towering complex that normally employs 10,000 people, with a maze of tunnels, pipes, and shelters built to withstand a nuclear blast, all blow ground, and so vast that a pro-Russian commentator called it a city below a city. It is now a fortress for Ukrainian fighters and the civilians they're defending.

YURIV RYZHENKOV, CEO, METINVEST: As far as we know, about 1,000 civilians are still at the shelters at the plant.

MARQUARDT (voiceover): Since the Russians launched their assault on the city in early March, the news has tightened. This informational video from before the war shows how difficult a close-quarters fight would be in this huge plant full of manufacturing facilities, offices, and operations rooms.

[02:35:00]

Putin has ordered his military to abandon plants to take the facility. Instead, telling his defense minister to seal it off so tightly, he said, that a fly cannot pass through.

KURT VOLKER, FORMER U.S. SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE FOR UKRAINE NEGOTIATIONS: This is a statement of convenience by President Putin. His forces were unable to really go in and take the steel plant, to take all of Mariupol without suffering even worse casualties, and even more damage to the force.

MARQUARDT (voiceover): Ukrainian forces inside have said there are hundreds of wounded soldiers and civilians. They have pleaded with the international community to find them a way out. Sheltering below ground with no natural light and little news.

The children here are crying all the time. They want to play. They want to live, this woman said. They haven't even seen daylight for weeks.

She said supplies are running low. The CEO of the company that owns the plant said that the underground shelters, which can hold 4,000 people had been stocked with 2 to 3 weeks of food and water. The war started two months ago.

RYZHENKOV: To be honest, I'm surprised they still have food and water there in the shelter. We couldn't get any help into Mariupol because the Russians did not allow us to do these humanitarian convoys into the city.

MARQUARDT (voiceover): The prospects of holding the plant in Mariupol looked grim. Controlling it means Putin would control land stretching all the way from Crimea to Western Russia, a long-held goal.

VOLKER: Even if Mariupol falls and these poor people are killed and transported away, it doesn't mean that Russia will hold it. The Ukrainians are getting better and better organized, better and better equipped, and they are going to continue fighting.

(END VIDEOTAPE)

MARQUARDT (on camera): Today, the mayor of Mariupol called the situation at the plant a humanitarian catastrophe. He accused the Russian military of continuing to shell the factory, which he did praise as a fortress for the soldiers and the civilians inside.

Now, the United Nations Secretary General was also in Moscow today, meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. He said that Putin agreed in principle for the U.N. and the Red Cross to help coordinate an evacuation from the steel plant. Of course, we have seen countless past Russian agreements about evacuations fall apart. Alex Marquard, CNN, Washington.

SOARES: And we have some breaking news, just to bring you. In the last few minutes, we have been hearing from a spokesman for the Ukrainian military who has acknowledged that Ukraine has been losing towns in the East of the country, of course, as Russia's offensive there intensifies on day 63 or so of this war. And they're saying amid heavy fighting on those free front, we've been seeing Russian forces were being reinforced and re-supplied from bases inside Russia, that's coming from Ukrainian spokesperson.

The greatest activity, according to the Ukrainian official, the Ukrainian spokesperson, is in the South, in the Kharkiv region that we've been bringing to you, as well as the west from Donetsk. That's where Ukraine is seeing the biggest onslaught of Russian airstrikes and activity. Also, in the North and in the South, also expanding hostilities there. Russian forces, this spokesperson said, are trying to consolidate, as we know, a land bridge to Crimea and occupy Ukraine in coastal regions. So, they are regrouping and conducting air reconnaissance as they try -- as the Russians try to improve and optimize their tactical position.

So, we'll stay on top of this breaking news story. But this is really the first time we are hearing from Ukrainian officials acknowledging that Ukraine is losing towns in these, as of course, Russia pushes on with that offensive. As soon as we'll have more details, of course, we shall bring it to you.

Still to come, in the meantime, here on the show, U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris has tested positive for COVID-19. We'll have the latest on how she's doing. And the potential risk for President Joe Biden.

Plus, residents in Beijing fear a citywide lockdown is imminent now that COVID testing for millions of people is underway. Both those stories after a very short break. You are watching CNN.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

[02:40:00]

CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. Myanmar's deposed leader, Aung San Suu Kyi has been found guilty of corruption and sentenced to five years in prison. The country's military rulers alleged Suu Kyi accepted gold and cash payments totaling $600,000 from another official. It's the first of 11 corruption charges against the Nobel Prize winner. We are told she was not able to meet with her lawyers before this verdict was announced. Suu Kyi denies all of the allegations.

In Singapore, authorities executed a Malaysian man whose lawyer says was intellectually disabled. The family confirmed the execution. The 34-year-old was sentenced to death for smuggling heroin into Singapore in 2009. Last month, a Singapore court rejected a final appeal to spare his life. The case received international attention from activists, who believe the Malaysian man's life should have been spared due to his disability.

U.S. Vice President Kamala Harris is in isolation and will be working from home after testing positive for COVID-19. In a tweet, Harris said she does not have any symptoms and is grateful to be vaccinated and boosted. She tested positive after returning from California and is taking Pfizer's Paxlovid drug as part of her treatment. Contact tracing is now underway to determine if others around her are infected. The White House says Harris has not been near President Joe Biden due to their recent travel schedules.

[02:45:00]

In China, one million people are now under lockdown in a city East of Beijing after just one person tested positive for COVID-19. Residents can only leave their homes to get a COVID test. Meantime, panic is growing in Beijing as the city conducts massive COVID tests there. Residents fear a citywide lockdown may be imminent as cases rise. And CNN's Selina Wang joins me now from Kunming in China.

Good to see you, Selina. So, one million people under lockdown now in a city near Beijing after only one person tested positive for COVID. And this coming after we've already seen draconian COVID measures in Shanghai. What is the latest on this? And of course, the reaction in the country to these tough lockdowns?

SELINA WANG, CNN CORRESPONDENT: It's remarkable, Rosemary. But this is the reality in China under its zero-COVID policy where you have a million people under full lockdown after just one single positive COVID-19 case. But it's a special concern to officials because this is the City of Sanhe that we're talking about. It is only 50 kilometers from Beijing, the capital, and a lot of people commute between the two cities.

And in Beijing, meanwhile, officials there are trying to quash this outbreak as early as possible in order to avoid the failure and the chaos that we saw in Shanghai. Already Beijing is in a partial lockdown. And whether or not that becomes a citywide full lockdown, depends on how many cases are reported as a result of the mass testing.

Right now, 20 million residents are getting tested in several rounds over the coming days. And so far, 114 COVID-19 cases have been reported since Friday. And officials right now in Beijing, they're trying to reassure residents that they have enough food for everybody. That supplies are going to remain stocked. They're trying to make sure people understand they're not going to repeat what happened in Shanghai.

But still, Rosemary, people in Beijing are concerned. We've seen some panic buying at the supermarkets. People are trying to prepare for the worst because they have seen on Chinese social media the horrors that people went through in Shanghai, the lack of food, medical care, the extreme difficulty to get just the most basic necessity. And that type of anger is still continuing to boil over. We've seen protests and even clashes between residents and police.

And I want you to take a listen to this video on Chinese social media of people banging pots and pans in protest of these lockdowns, take a quick listen.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

(END VIDEO CLIP)

So, Rosemary, while a lot of attention has been paid to Shanghai, these lockdowns are happening all across China. Dozens of cities have gone into lockdown. And China have rolled out some sort of restrictions. And people in year three of the pandemic, Rosemary, are getting fatigued.

CHURCH: Yes, understandably. And of course, losing trust in their leadership, no doubt. Selina Wang, joining us from Kunmin in China, many thanks.

And still to come we are now learning about the concerns one top Republican had about his colleagues after the January 6th insurrection. The details just ahead.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

JACK MALLERS, CEO, STRIKE: With bitcoin, not only do we have the best monetary asset in human history, we have the best monetary network in human history. Bitcoin solved a lot of the monetary functions that we know as very expensive with cryptography and with math. And so, I can escrow a bare instrument in bitcoin. It's worth the same amount in Chicago as it is in London, as it is in Nigeria, as it is in Argentina. And I can zip it around the world instantly in for free.

What we can do is take your dollar and escrow them around the world over the bitcoin network. So, think about this, what if I want to send money from Chicago to London.

[02:50:00]

What we can do, is take dollars from your bank account, turn it to bitcoin, zip that value to London, instantly for free. You blink. You've missed it. It goes so fast and it cost nothing. And then we turn it back into British pounds. That's innovation and that's how we use bitcoin in a monetary network.

MICHAEL CLERIZO, AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTING EDITOR, WSJ. MAGAZINE: Cesar de Trey, a manufacturer of gold dentures in England traveled to India then part of the British Empire in 1930 to sell his wares to officers of the British army. Many of the officers he met complained about their wristwatches getting smashed during Polo Matches. Back in Europe, de TrEy hooked up with two watchmakers, LeCoultre (INAUDIBLE) Jaeger and an engineer named Alfred Chauvot. And the four of them devised the Reverso.

Now, the unique feature of the Reverso is that the case slides and flips over. So, the glass part of the watch, the crystal, is not exposed. What is exposed is a solid metal back, which can withstand any bumps and smashes during the polo matches or any other sport.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

CHURCH: Welcome back, everyone. New audio is revealing concerns shared by U.S. House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy following the January 6th Capitol insurrection. In the audio, obtained by "The New York Times", McCarthy worried the inflammatory rhetoric from Far-Right House Republicans could incite violence against other lawmakers. Here is part of what he had to say.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

KEVIN MCCARTHY, MINORITY LEADER OF THE UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES: Tension is too high. The country is too crazy. I do not want to look back and think we caused something or we missed something and someone got hurt. I don't want to play politics with any of that.

(END VIDEO CLIP)

CHURCH: And new revelations are emerging from text messages showing the role one Republican congressman played in efforts overturn the 2020 election. CNN's Ryan Nobles has the details.

(BEGIN VIDEO CLIP)

RYAN NOBLES, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT (voiceover): Congressman Scott Perry of Pennsylvania has been steadfast and pushing the big lie that the 2020 election was stolen.

REP. SCOTT PERRY (R-PA): -- get away in Georgia. The President got away in North Carolina. It is all going to come down to the Keystone State.

NOBLES (voiceover): But a new batch of text messages obtained by CNN which have not previously been reported, illuminate how active he was behind the scenes as well. New messages showing he had a role at almost every turn in scheming to reverse or delay the certification of the 2020 election. On November 12th, five days after the election was called for Joe Biden, Perry texted Chief of Staff Mark Meadows.

From an intel friend, DNI needs to task NSA to immediately seize and begin looking for international comms related to Dominion. Was China malware involved?

This text has never been revealed before. And it shows Perry encouraging Meadows to get John Ratcliffe, then the Director of National Intelligence, to look into false conspiracies about Dominion Voting Machines being hacked by the Chinese. Perry also claimed the "Brits" were behind the plot and that CIA Director Gina Haspel was, "Covering for them." He texted Meadows, DNI needs to be tasked to audit their overseas accounts at CIA and their national endowment for democracy.

[02:55:00]

Despite the push from Perry, a source tells CNN, Meadows did not approach Ratcliffe about those requests. Perry also was insistent that Meadows put DOJ Official Jeffrey Clark in a position to investigate voter fraud claims. Perry was the one who introduced Clark to Trump.

On December 26th, Perry texted, Mark you should call Jeff. I just got off the phone with him. And he explained to me why the principal deputy won't work especially with the FBI. They will view it as not having the authority to enforce what needs to be done.

Meadows responded I got it. I think I understand. Let me work on the deputy position.

And Perry replied, roger. Just sent you something on Signal.

(END VIDEO CLIP) NOBLES (on camera): And congressman Scott Perry's power here in Washington is on the rise. He was recently elected as the chair of the House Freedom Caucus, this is the most conservative sect of Republican members of the House. And should the Republicans take the majority in the fall, their power would only increase. Now, Perry did not respond to multiple requests from CNN to respond to our report. I did catch up with him outside the Capital on Tuesday to ask if he had any explanation for his communication with Mark Meadows. He only responded, heck no. Ryan Nobles, CNN on Capitol Hill.

CHURCH: And thanks for joining us. I'm Rosemary Church. More of our breaking news coverage live from Ukraine right after the break.

(COMMERCIAL BREAK)

UNIDENTIFIED FEMALE: As governments ramp up their health care spending, companies are investing in everything from robotics to artificial intelligence. And all this change is happening faster than many expected. In one survey, 35 percent of drug company professionals said the industry's digital transformation had accelerated by more than five years because of the pandemic. This with health care firm Roach (ph), he's betting that AI can help develop new medicines. Its chief executive told me, it's a turning point for the entire sector.

[03:00:00]

Content and programming copyright 2022 Cable News Network LP, LLLP. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Prepared by VIQ Media Transcription, Inc. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon Cable News Network LP, LLLP's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CNN so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CNN as the originator and copyright holder of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.

VIQ Media Transcription LLC

文件 NWSRM00020220427ei4r000m9


Politics
Ukraine-Russia: Boris Johnson urges MPs to wear Russian sanctions like 'badge of honour' as Putin cuts gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria
Alexander Brown (Alexander.Brown@jpress.co.uk)
980 字
2022 年 4 月 27 日
The Scotsman
SC
英文
© 2022 Johnston Publishing Limited
Boris Johnson has urged MPs to wear sanctions from Russia as a “badge of honour” after Moscow banned nearly 300 British politicians from entering Russia.

The Russian foreign ministry moved against 287 members of the House of Commons in response to a series of sanctions on Russian figures over its invasion of Ukraine.

It came on a day that saw further escalation in the conflict, with Vladimir Putin cutting off natural gas to Nato members Poland and Bulgaria in a move described by European leaders as "blackmail".

Taking action against MPs, the Kremlin accused the Conservative and Labour members of “whipping up of Russophobic hysteria”.

It argued these politicians involved “took the most active part” in the U.K.’s decision on March 11 to sanction 386 members of the Duma, the lower house of the Russian parliament.

A translation of the Russian foreign ministry statement said the sanctions are being applied “on the basis of reciprocity”.

It added: “These persons, who are no longer allowed to enter the Russian Federation, took the most active part in the establishment of anti-Russian sanctions instruments in London, and contribute to the groundless whipping up of Russophobic hysteria in the UK.

“The hostile rhetoric and far-fetched accusations coming from the mouths of British parliamentarians not only condone the hostile course of London, aimed at demonising our country and its international isolation, but are also used by opponents of mutually respectful dialogue with Russia to undermine the foundation of bilateral co-operation.”

Read more: Vladimir Putin's threat against UK 'unlawful' says Dominic Raab [https://www.scotsman.com/news/world/ukraine-russia-vladimir-putins-threat-against-uk-unlawful-says-dominic-raab-3670593]

The sanctions list also includes ministers Jacob Rees-Mogg , Amanda Milling and Penny Mordaunt .

Speaker of the House Sir Lindsay Hoyle tops the list of sanctioned Labour MPs, which also includes former frontbenchers Diane Abbott and Barry Gardiner .

The Prime Minister was one of many British politicians to take pride in being on the list.

He said: “It’s I think no disrespect to those who haven’t been sanctioned, when I say that all those 287 should regard it as a badge of honour.

“And what we will do is keep up our robust and principled support for the Ukrainian people and their right to protect their lives, their families, and to defend themselves.

“That’s what this country is doing, and that has the overwhelming support, I think, of the whole House.”

Tory former chief whip Mark Harper said he is “proud” to be included, ex-minister Andrew Murrison said he is “delighted”, while former Brexit secretary David Davis joked: “How will I ever cope?”.

However, the supposed list of “members of the Conservative Party faction in the House of Commons” appeared well out of date.

Charlie Elphicke , who was thrown out of the party and jailed after being found guilty of three counts of sexual assault, was also included, as were Sir Oliver Letwin , Dominic Grieve and Justine Greening despite no longer being MPs.

Speaking during Prime Minister’s Questions, Mr Johnson said: “It’s, I think, no disrespect to those who haven’t been sanctioned when I say that all those 287 should regard it as a badge of honour.

Sir Lindsay said he is “alarmed” at the sanctions, while Labour MP Chris Bryant said he is “absolutely distressed” and “slightly surprised” at not being included in the list.

Mr Bryant told the Commons: “I can only assume that the Russian Federation accepts that every single thing that I have said about President (Vladimir) Putin over the last few years is true.

"He is a barbarous villain and we must make sure that he fails.”

Foreign Secretary Liz Truss announced the sanctions against the Duma on March 11.

Read more: War 'compounding' problems in Scotland's food supply chain [https://www.scotsman.com/news/politics/ukraine-russia-war-compounding-problems-in-scotlands-food-supply-chain-3671223]

Wednesday also saw Gazprom announce it had cut supplies to Poland and Bulgaria for failing to pay for gas in roubles, representing Moscow's toughest response yet to sanctions imposed by the West.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen claimed the EU was prepared for this scenario, and working on alternatives.

In a statement, she said: "The announcement by Gazprom that it is unilaterally stopping delivery of gas to customers in Europe is yet another attempt by Russia to use gas as an instrument of blackmail.

"This is unjustified and unacceptable. And it shows once again the unreliability of Russia as a gas supplier.

“Today, the Kremlin failed once again in its attempt to sow division amongst member states. The era of Russian fossil fuel in Europe is coming to an end.”

Fatih Birol , executive director of the Paris-based International Energy Agency , said the cut-off was a “weaponisation of energy supplies”.

Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov called the suspension blackmail, adding: “We will not succumb to such a racket.”

A defiant Mr Putin vowed on Wednesday that Russia will achieve its military goals, telling parliament: “All the tasks of the special military operation we are conducting in the Donbas and Ukraine, launched on February 24, will be unconditionally fulfilled.”

The Russian president also issued yet another thinly veiled nuclear warning to the West.

He said: "If anyone decides to meddle in ongoing events and create unacceptable strategic threats for Russia, they must know our response will be lightning-quick.

"We have all the instruments for this, ones nobody else can boast of. And we will use them, if we have to.

"The countries that have historically tried to contain Russia don't need a self-sufficient, massive country such as ours.

"They think that it is dangerous to them just by means of its existence. But that's far from the truth. They are the ones threatening the whole world."

The Scotsman Publications Limited

文件 SC00000020220427ei4r000gv


News
Gazprom halts gas supplies to two EU nations
NICHOLAS EARL
348 字
2022 年 4 月 28 日
City AM
CITYMO
1; National
6
英文
Copyright 2022. CITY AM.
ENERGY giant Gazprom halted gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland yesterday after both countries failed to pay in roubles, as Russia continues to bring in retaliatory measures to punish Western sanctions.

In a statement, the Kremlin-backed company said: "Gazprom has completely suspended gas supplies to Bulgargaz (Bulgaria) and PGNiG (Poland) due to absence of payments in roubles."

Gazprom also warned transit via both countries would be cut if gas was taken illegally.

Poland and Bulgaria are the first nations to have gas flows cut off by Europe's chief supplier since Russia invaded Ukraine in February.

Both countries are heavily dependent on Russian gas to meet their energy needs, relying on the Kremlin for 50 per cent and 90 per cent of their supplies respectively. Russia has been hammered by crippling sanctions over the past two months, with the West targeting the country's central bank, financial institutions, oligarchs, and most recently, coal exports into global markets.

The European Union (EU) has played its part with five packages of sanctions - but has also spent nearly €43bn (£36bn) on Russian coal, gas and oil following the instigation of conflict in Ukraine.

The EU is currently weighing up a sixth package of sanctions, including proposals to phase out Russian oil imports by the end of the year.

This is in line with measures already announced by Germany and Netherlands, alongside the US and UK.

However, Russian President Vladimir Putin responded to the growing number of restrictions last month with demands for "unfriendly nations" to pay for Russian gas in roubles.

He signed into law requirements for overseas buyers to open Gazprombank accounts, which will convert euros or dollars into roubles prior to transactions for gas supplies.

The measure - which came into affect this month - would make Gazprombank more difficult to sanction, prop up the value of the rouble, and create difficulties for Western nations backing Ukraine.

It has also been described by the Kremlin as a prototype, with implications the requirements could be extended to oil, coal and wheat.

City AM Ltd

文件 CITYMO0020220428ei4s0000j


International
Russian roulette with gas supplies
Sampath G.
1242 字
2022 年 4 月 29 日
The Hindu Online
THINDO
英文
© 2022 THG Publishing Pvt. Ltd.
EXPLAINER

The story so far: Russian energy company Gazprom has stopped gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland citing their failure to pay in roubles. In a statement on April 27, it announced that it has “completely suspended gas supplies” to Poland’s PGNiG and Bulgaria’s Bulgargaz. Poland and Bulgaria have accused Russia of breach of contract, according to which payments were to be made in euros and dollars only. Towards the end of March, Russian President Vladimir Putin had signed a decree that from April 1, “unfriendly foreign buyers” would have to pay for gas supplies in roubles. He had also added that defaults would result in suspension of contracts.

How will the stoppage of gas supplies affect Poland and Bulgaria?

The gas cuts do not immediately put the two countries in any dire trouble. Russian gas deliveries to both Poland and Bulgaria were anyway expected to end later this year. Poland, which gets 40% of its natural gas from Russia, has been working on alternatives for many years. In the immediate scenario, however, it will lose out on the five billion cubic metres of gas it was set to get from Gazprom. It will likely make up for it with supplies from Germany. Bulgaria, which gets 77% of its natural gas from Russia, has a bigger problem. While its energy minister has said that the country has enough reserves for another month, it needs to urgently look for alternatives, with additional supplies via pipelines from Greece being a distinct possibility.

Why has Russia targeted Poland and Bulgaria with this move?

Poland has been a major gateway for supply of military hardware to Ukraine. It also confirmed earlier this week that it will be sending tanks to Ukraine. Just hours before Gazprom’s action, it had announced a fresh set of sanctions against the company and other Russian businesses and oligarchs. As for Bulgaria, after a new liberal government took office last fall, it has cut many of its old ties to Moscow. Not only has it supported the West’s sanctions against Russia, it has also hosted Western fighter jets at a new NATO outpost on its Black Sea coast. It is also a major producer of non-NATO weapons that it’s considering sending to Kyiv.

Will other countries be hit with similar stoppages?

Russia supplies gas via pipelines to 23 countries in Europe. Among EU members, so far, only Hungary has officially agreed to make rouble payments, with the rest rejecting the demand. However, even if no other country agrees to Russia’s rouble payment mechanism, there won’t be any further cuts in supplies at least until the second half of May, which is when the next tranche of payments are due. Meanwhile, according to reports, four European buyers have already started making gas payments in roubles, while 10 European companies have opened accounts with Gazprombank to make rouble payments.

How have the EU, Poland, and Bulgaria reacted to the gas supply suspension?

The 27-member European Union has described Russia’s decision as “blackmail” and accused Moscow of trying to divide the West over its support for Ukraine. “It comes as no surprise that the Kremlin uses fossil fuels to try to blackmail us,” said EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, adding, “Today, the Kremlin failed once again in his attempt to sow division amongst member states. The era of Russian fossil fuel in Europe is coming to an end.”

Describing Russia’s move as blackmail, Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov said, “We will not succumb to such a racket.” The Polish Prime Minister has informed his country's Parliament that he believes Poland’s support for Ukraine — and the new sanctions imposed by Warsaw on Tuesday — were the real reasons behind the gas cutoff.

What could happen if Russia shuts gas supplies to more countries?

Europe’s natural gas comes from only three sources: Russia, Norway and Algeria. Until the Ukraine invasion, Russia accounted for almost 40% of Europe’s gas imports.

While the dependence on Russian gas varies from country to country — ranging from 94% for Finland to 11% for the Netherlands — there is little doubt that disruption in supplies would fuel inflation and damage economic activity, with strong possibilities of energy rationing and even a major recession in the continent’s industrial powerhouse, Germany.

What has been the EU’s strategy to reduce dependence on Russian gas?

Europe’s energy mix comprises of oil (43%), natural gas (24%), nuclear energy (14%), and hydroelectric (4%), with renewables such as wind and solar making up the rest. With climate change a major political issue in Europe, coal — of which there are abundant reserves on the continent — is off the table, and given public hostility to nuclear energy, EU is left with natural gas as the cleanest source of energy. So, for the short-term, the EU is preparing for the heating requirements of the coming winter by tanking up on its gas storage facilities at 80-90% capacity and substituting Russian supplies, as much as possible, with piped gas from Norway and North Africa. But these won’t be adequate to reduce Russian dependence to zero. So, the longer-term strategy is centred on importing liquefied natural gas (LNG) from the U.S. and the Middle East.

Will it be feasible for Europe to transition from Russian natural gas to LNG?

It will be tough challenge, primarily because it is easier and cheaper to transport natural gas via pipeline. LNG requires massive facilities and container ships that require huge capital investments. And yet, over the past decade, the EU has beefed up its LNG infrastructure, building several large terminals. Nonetheless, LNG transported from the U.S. by container ships would be much more expensive than Russian gas received via pipeline. Achieving strategic autonomy, as it were, by replacing Russian gas with American LNG would mean higher prices for the average European consumer, who is currently the primary beneficiary of cheap Russian gas that he uses for household heating purposes.

How will the gas suspension impact Russia?

Western analysts believe that Russia has taken a gamble by cutting off supplies to Poland and Bulgaria. The Russian economy is heavily dependent on gas exports, deriving 40% of its revenue coming from it. If the move forces more EU countries to pay for gas in roubles, it will help shore up its currency and offer some relief for its sanction-hit economy. But at the same time, it could also backfire, if it ends up accelerating the decoupling of the energy ‘partnership’ between Europe and Russia. Since it is difficult to reroute piped natural gas to different markets, Russia, which doesn’t have elaborate storage infrastructure, may well find itself desperate for buyers as well as hard currency, let alone buyers ready to pay in roubles.

THE GIST

Russian energy company Gazprom has announced that it has “completely suspended gas supplies” to Poland’s PGNiG and Bulgaria’s Bulgargaz citing their failure to pay in roubles.

Poland, which gets 40% of its natural gas from Russia, has been working on alternatives for many years. However, Bulgaria which is heavily dependent on Russia for gas needs to urgently look for alternatives.

These disruption in supplies would fuel inflation and damage economic activity, with strong possibilities of energy rationing and even a major recession in the continent’s industrial powerhouse, Germany.

THG Publishing Pvt. Ltd.

文件 THINDO0020220429ei4t0008e


European Power
The Kremlin’s energy warfare
Filip Medunic, Jonathan Hackenbroich
1130 字
2022 年 4 月 29 日
European Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR) - Reports
ECFRR
英文
© Copy of this publication is held by the European Council on Foreign Relations
Putin is entertaining the idea of total economic war to force the EU weaken its sixth package of sanctions on Russia. Europeans should stay united and call what is likely to be a bluff.

Cover image: picture alliance/EPA/ANATOLY MALTSEV[https://ecfr.eu/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/284323981-Kopie-1024x594.jpg]

Russia’s decision to cut off gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria is a thinly veiled threat to Germany and all of Europe. Moscow claims that the move is a response to Warsaw’s and Sofia’s refusal to comply with President Vladimir Putin’s demand that they pay for Russian energy in roubles. But the demand is in breach of Gazprom’s contracts with Poland and Bulgaria. And, if the two countries had complied with it, they would have violated their own sanctions on Russia. Nonetheless, Poland and Bulgaria have prepared for this situation. They will be able to cope thanks to their full gas storage facilities and interconnectors to alternate supply routes, as well as the support they will receive from other EU member states.

Moscow’s rationale for the move may relate to the panic the cut-off has sparked in energy markets as traders speculate about who might be next. It is likely designed to alter Europeans’ calculations as they consider imposing more drastic sanctions on Russia (including on its energy exports), with the added benefit of punishing Poland and Bulgaria. Like Putin’s demand that Europeans pay for imports of Russian energy in roubles, the cut-off seems intended to divide them in their approach to Russia, particularly the speed with which they decouple from the country.

The halt in Russian gas deliveries to Poland and Bulgaria, then, is a particularly grave instance of economic coercion. As European capitals weigh how far they can go in sanctioning Russian energy exports, Moscow is trying to achieve its political goals by changing their threat perceptions. A halt to all Russian gas exports to Germany would probably have dire consequences for the German and European economies. Factories would have to curb production or even close. It is possible that some key industries could be lost forever. In fact, the move would be so consequential that it is hard to assess the full range of consequences.

While Moscow is openly escalating its economic warfare in Europe, it would be wrong to assume that it is doing so from a position of strength. Russia is going further than the Soviet Union ever felt it had to: the latter could have used energy exports as leverage over Europeans during the cold war, but refrained from this grave escalation. Putin now seems to feel he needs to use this last big lever of his. Nonetheless, the best outcome for the Kremlin is not total economic war but that its threats coerce the European Union to weaken its sixth package of sanctions on Russia (which will probably include new measures targeting its energy sector). Although Putin appears willing to tolerate a severe decline in the Russian economy to achieve his goals in Ukraine, revenue from energy exports is Russia’s last big economic lifeline.

Therefore, Russia’s new effort at economic coercion might be partly a bluff – meaning that the EU need not change its approach to the sixth sanctions package. An immediate halt to Russian energy exports to Europe would be unlikely to alter the Russian military’s behaviour in Ukraine, and would significantly weaken Germany and Europe. But the move against Poland and Bulgaria does not change this situation. Europeans should stay united and call Russia’s bluff. They need to plan for a situation in which Moscow cuts this last lifeline. Putin might do it but, if he does, it would be a sign of desperation – not of strength. The better Europeans are prepared to deal with this scenario, the less likely it is to come about.

Regardless of what Moscow decides to do, the EU should end its energy dependence on Russia as quickly as possible and start to sanction Russian oil exports now. This is because the sides are now in a race to become sufficiently independent to exert economic pressure on the opponent.

Putin announced[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/4/14/russia-will-pivot-energy-exports-towards-asia-putin] in April that Russia should diversify its energy exports away from Europe and towards Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The Russian government will reportedly present a plan for how to achieve this by 1 June. In 2021 Russia accounted[https://ec.europa.eu/info/news/focus-reducing-eus-dependence-imported-fossil-fuels-2022-apr-20_en#:~:text=In%202021%2C%20the%20EU%20imported,and%20cost%20%E2%82%AC99%20billion.] for around 27 per cent of the EU’s oil imports and more than 40 per cent of its total gas consumption. OECD Europe absorbs around 60 per cent of Russia’s oil exports[https://www.iea.org/reports/russian-supplies-to-global-energy-markets/oil-market-and-russian-supply-2], while China absorbs 20 per cent – far more than any other Asian country. China is looking to become less dependent on Western suppliers such as Australia and the United States for its gas imports – most of which take the form of liquified natural gas (LNG). And economic development and population growth mean that Asia accounts for an increasing share of global energy markets.

However, Russia has access to far better infrastructure for exporting energy to Europe than to Asia. And Western sanctions could hamper its efforts to expand its LNG projects. All this means that Russia’s declared pivot to Asian markets will likely be an unpredictable process that takes several years. African or Latin American markets are even further away and would need to be served by ship. Sanctions on Russian vessels and maritime insurance will also complicate this option.

Meanwhile, the EU’s attempts to end its energy dependence on Russia will be limited by global supply and the time it takes to build new infrastructure. Political pressure[https://www.politico.eu/article/eu-closes-in-on-russian-oil-ban-vladimir-putin-ukraine/] to stop buying oil and gas from Russia is mounting in the EU, but the bloc has not achieved a consensus[https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/borrell-says-no-eu-agreement-russian-energy-embargo-2022-04-25/] on how to achieve this yet.

If China and India were to substantially increase their imports of Russian oil and gas, Europe would have to react by pressuring them diplomatically and, further down the line, imposing secondary sanctions on them – but this would not be in the interests of the EU, China, or India. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen’s trip to Delhi on 24 March and the recent announcement of an EU-India Trade and Technology Council show that Europe is trying to engage in broad strategic cooperation with India. This includes cooperation on renewable energy[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_22_2648] – which can strengthen the EU’s energy security by reducing its dependence on fossil fuel imports.

The EU has started to build up its economic security architecture, not least with its proposal for an Anti-Coercion Instrument[https://ecfr.eu/wp-content/uploads/Measured-response-How-to-design-a-European-instrument-against-economic-coercion.pdf]. Russia is now waging an energy war against Europe. There could hardly be a stronger reminder of how important it is for Europe to quickly make progress on economic security.

ECFR (European Council on Foreign Relations)

文件 ECFRR00020220429ei4t0002t


EU energy ministers meet to discuss Russian gas, sanctions
Via AP news wire
200 字
2022 年 5 月 2 日 08:13 GMT
Independent Online
INDOP
英文
© 2022. Independent Digital News and Media Ltd. All Rights Reserved
European Union energy ministers will meet to discuss Russia’s decision to cut gas supplies to Bulgaria and Poland, and debate planned new sanctions over Moscow’s war on Ukraine

European Union energy ministers will meet Monday to discuss Russia’s decision to cut gas supplies to Bulgaria[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/bulgaria] and Poland[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/poland], and debate planned new sanctions over Moscow’s war on Ukraine[https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/ukraine].

The 27 nation-bloc has imposed five rounds of sanctions on Russian officials, oligarchs, banks, companies and other organizations since Russian troops invaded Ukraine in February.

The European Commission is working on a sixth round of measures which could include oil restrictions, but Russia-dependent countries like Hungary and Slovakia are wary of taking tough action.

The EU’s executive branch could announce it new sanction proposals later this week. The measures would have to be approved by the member countries; a process that can take several days.

The energy ministers will also look at what steps to take should Russia ramp up its pressure by cutting gas supplies to other countries.

___

Follow the AP’s coverage of the war at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

Independent Digital News and Media Ltd.

文件 INDOP00020220502ei52002bg


OPINION
Russia fires the first gas shot
Newsroom
632 字
2022 年 5 月 3 日 06:23 GMT
Kathimerini English Edition
KATMER
英文
Copyright © 2022, H KAΘHMEPINH
Russia’s decision to cut off natural gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria marked a turning point in this war. Until now, the gas relationship between Europe and Russia was relatively unaffected by the conflict. Europe actually imported more gas in March than in January or February. Even so, this trade has looked untenable for weeks. Something has finally broken. What comes next is unknown.

The pretext for the cutoff was the Russian demand that Europe pay for gas in rubles rather than dollars or euros. Europe’s response was that payments should be settled according to the contracts terms. Russia suggested that customers could open an account with Gazprombank, which would convert the money into rubles to pay the bills. The European Commission opined that this structure might violate sanctions against the Russian Central Bank. Some companies seem to have opened them. Others, like Poland and Bulgaria, did not. This appears to have triggered the cutoff.

Poland has long stated that it wants to stop importing Russian gas after its contract expires in 2022. Bulgaria also has a contract that expires in 2022 that it does not plan to renew. So both countries were going to stop gas imports from Russia after 2022. The cutoff only accelerates a shift that was bound to happen. Maybe this explains why these countries were cut off. We do not know. We are still learning how different companies have chosen to respond to Russia’s demand.

The interruption raises several issues. It is a reminder that each country is charting its own path on Russian energy. With pressure for additional sanctions, this discord will hamper a coordinated response. The guidance from the European Commission has also been unclear. Whether Europe should sanction Russian energy is a decision for Europe’s leaders. It seems to have devolved to a technical question about a complex financial scheme. Either Europe sanctions Russian energy or it doesn’t; settling this decision on a technicality seems like a mistake.

In a broader sense, this cutoff underscores the growing precariousness of the gas relationship between Russia and Europe. Russia is clearly ready to escalate – part of its effort to regain the advantage and push back against economic sanctions from the West. Europe, meanwhile, wants to cease oil and gas imports from Russia by 2027 – too quickly by energy standards but too late by political standards. Europe faces an impossible task.

The easiest way to resolve this tension would be to sanction Russian oil, which is easier to replace than gas. This would hurt Russia and channel the public pressure for action toward a more feasible target. But sooner or later, Europe will need a plan on gas. Right now, it is every country for itself, each trying to secure a small slice of whatever supply is available. For any one country, diversification is perhaps easy. But once everyone does it, the math gets harder. As one country improves its security, others confront fewer options. Energy security is rapidly becoming a zero-sum game.

Europe’s plan to eliminate Russian gas is more aspiration than reality right now. The biggest obstacle through 2030 is Europe’s hesitation to increase gas production for fear that such action would undermine Europe’s climate agenda. This is a mistake. Europe can find ways to ensure this increase is consistent with its climate goals. The reality is that without more gas supply through 2030, cutting off Russia will be nearly impossible and prohibitively expensive. This cutoff is just the beginning. The next phase is far more uncertain and far more dangerous.

Nikos Tsafos (@ntsafos) is the James R. Schlesinger Chair in Energy and Geopolitics at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS).

Click to view image.[https://www.ekathimerini.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/05/gazprom-reuters.jpg]

NEW YORK TIMES FRANCE – KATHIMERINI S.A.S

文件 KATMER0020220503ei530002v


Bulgaria: Bulgaria might seek opt-out from new EU sanctions on Russian oil - AFP
261 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
AFP anonymous sources believe that Bulgaria might join Slovakia and Hungary in demanding exemptions from new EU's ban on oil imports from Russia

Bulgarian government has not commented anything in regards to the issue so far

Bulgaria might seek an exemption from the upcoming new EU sanctions on Russian oil, according to information from anonymous EU officials quoted by AFP. The EC is about to propose a new package of sanctions against Russia phasing out Russian oil imports over six to eight months. EU countries have no unanimity in regards to the oil embargo on Russia, and Hungary and Slovakia have already requested exemptions. EU officials reportedly told AFP that Hungary and Slovakia will be allowed to take a few months longer to implement the ban on oil imports from Russia, but it remains unclear whether Bulgaria will also join such a demand. The EU diplomats were reportedly worried that granting exemptions to a few EU member states which are very dependent on Russian oil, could result in a domino effect of more countries wanting to opt out of the sanctions. Bulgaria's government has not commented the issue so far, but we note that it took a firm stance in regards to Russia's demand for payments for gas in rubles and eventually Russia cut off its gas deliveries to Bulgaria as of Apr 27. This is why we think Bulgaria most probably will not demand an exemption from the sanction package against Russian oil.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220504ei5400009


Foreign
E.U. accuses Russia of 'blackmail' after gas cut to Poland, Bulgaria
By Emily RauhalaLoveday MorrisBryan PietschReis Thebault
1067 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日
Washington Post.com
WPCOM
英文
Copyright 2022, The Washington Post Co. All Rights Reserved.
BRUSSELS — Russia's state-controlled gas company, Gazprom, shut off the supply of natural gas to Poland and Bulgaria on Wednesday, making good on a Kremlin target European countries who refuse to pay in rubles and signaling there could be more energy chaos to come.

Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the E.U. has worked with the United States and other allies to sanction Moscow, but several member countries remain heavily reliant on Russian oil and gas. The Kremlin insists that countries pay their bills in rubles

The move marks major escalation in the standoff between Russia and the E.U. over the war in Ukraine that could leave major European economies, including Germany, scrambling to find new suppliers and send energy prices soaring even higher.

Though both Poland and Bulgaria secured enough natural gas from other E.U. countries to keep the lights on for now, it is not clear whether the bloc could withstand additional cutoffs, especially if Russia stopped the flow of natural gas to countries like Germany and Austria, which remain dependent on imports of Russian gas.

E.U. officials said the cutoffs to Poland and Russia amounted to "blackmail" and highlighted the need for Europe to wean itself off Russian fossil fuels.

"The announcement by Gazprom that it is unilaterally stopping delivery of gas to customers in Europe is yet another attempt by Russia to use gas as an instrument of blackmail," European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said in a statement. "This is unjustified and unacceptable."

This is the first supply disruption since Russian President Vladimir Putin said that "unfriendly countries" would have to pay for natural gas in rubles — despite the fact that such payments would violate E.U. sanctions. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed charges of blackmail Wednesday while also warning of additional cutoffs if countries do not yield to Russia's currency demands.

E.U. officials moved quickly to reassure citizens. "There will be no shortage of gas in Polish homes," Poland's climate minister, Anna Moskwa, said on Twitter. Bulgaria's government also said it has secured alternate gas supplies and vowed that there would be no domestic restrictions on consumption.

At a news conference in Brussels, von der Leyen confirmed that both Poland and Bulgaria were getting gas from other countries. The E.U. has made "contingency plans" for cutoffs, she said, and officials will meet soon to discuss additional plans.

Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, the E.U. has worked with the United States and other allies to penalize Moscow, but member countries continue to buy Russian oil and gas. Baltic states and some other Eastern European countries have called for a total embargo. Others, notably Germany, have resisted, saying they need more time to line up alternative supplies.

The prospect of additional cutoffs could add momentum to E.U. plans.

Russia's latest moves will only speed up the E.U.'s goal to "phase out" Russian energy, Eduard Heger, prime minister of Slovakia, tweeted Wednesday.

Norbert Röttgen, a lawmaker from Germany's center-right Christian Democratic Union, said an oil and gas embargo is now a matter of "E.U. solidarity."

There were already signs of movement. During a visit to Warsaw on Tuesday, German Economy Minister Robert Habeck said Berlin was days away from striking a deal that could enable it to find an alternative for the 12 percent of the country's oil that still comes from Russia.

The potential deal between Germany and Poland would try to secure supplies to Germany's Schwedt refinery, which is operated by Russia's state-owned energy giant Rosneft, from Poland's Plock pipeline.

Jens Suedekum, a professor of international economics at the Düsseldorf Institute for Competition Economics and an adviser to the German government, said the timing of Moscow's move suggests it was in retaliation for the deal.

"Putin's decision to cut off Poland from gas was, basically, a revenge act against the Plock pipeline deal," Suedekum tweeted.

In a statement published Wednesday, Gazprom said it stopped supplying natural gas to Poland's PGNiG gas company and Bulgaria's Bulgargaz because they had not complied with an order to pay in Russian currency. The suspension starting Wednesday will last "until the payments are made" in rubles, Gazprom said.

PGNiG confirmed the cutoff, saying that its natural gas deliveries from Gazprom "have halted completely."

If and how the cutoff will affect gas moving through Poland and Bulgaria to other E.U. countries was not clear. Gazprom said that if PGNiG or Bulgargaz were to siphon gas intended for third countries, the supplies for those countries "will be reduced by the volume that was offtaken."

Ukrainian officials were quick to criticize Gazprom's decision, saying the move was retaliation against the E.U. for its staunch backing of Kyiv — especially Poland, which has been particularly vocal in its support and has been a hub for arms and supplies flowing into Ukraine.

Andriy Yermak, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's chief of staff, said Russia has begun "gas blackmailing Europe."

"We see the efforts to up the ante and disregard any rules and obligations, which is typical for Russians," Yermak said in a post on Telegram. "Russia is trying to break the unity of our allies. … That is why the E.U. needs to be united and impose an embargo on energy resources, depriving Russians of their energy weapons."

Officials and experts have long worried that the E.U. is too dependent on Moscow for energy. The two countries targeted Tuesday are especially vulnerable: Poland gets more than 45 percent of its natural gas from Russia and Bulgaria more than 70 percent, according to E.U. data.

The E.U. last month pledged to wean off Russian fossil fuels by 2030, starting by cutting gas imports by two-thirds by the end of this year.

On Tuesday, some analysts said Gazprom's move could expedite the severing of ties. Fatih Birol, executive director of the International Energy Agency, called it "yet another sign of Russia's politicization of existing agreements," and he predicted it would "only accelerate European efforts to move away from Russian energy supplies."

Morris reported from Berlin and Pietsch from Seoul. Irynka Hromotska and Annabelle Chapman contributed to this report.

Washington Post

文件 WPCOM00020220427ei4r001jm


Live updates | UN: More than 300 evacuated from Mariupol
By The Associated Press
3029 字
2022 年 5 月 4 日 23:21 GMT
Associated Press Newswires
APRS
英文
(c) 2022. The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved.
The United Nations says more than 300 civilians from the besieged southeastern city of Mariupol and four other towns have been evacuated to Ukrainian-held Zaporizhzhia in a second successful operation to get civilians out of areas subject to Russian shelling and attacks.

Osnat Lubrani, the U.N. humanitarian chief in Ukraine, said in a statement that many of the civilians from Mariupol, Manhush, Berdiansk, Tokmak and Vasylivka came Wednesday with nothing but the clothes they were wearing and are now getting humanitarian assistance. She said they'll also receive “much- needed psychological support.”

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the 344 evacuated Wednesday are in addition to the more than 150 people who were evacuated earlier this week from the bunkers under the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol, which is surrounded by Russian troops and reportedly came under renewed fire on Wednesday.

No civilians were reported evacuated from the plant on Wednesday. Zelenskyy said they are trying to reach an agreement to save those remaining at Azovstal, including women and children.

___

KEY DEVELOPMENTS IN THE RUSSIA-UKRAINE WAR: — AP evidence points to 600 dead in Mariupol theater[https://apnews.com/article/Russia-ukraine-war-mariupol-theater-c321a196fbd568899841b506afcac7a1] airstrike

— EU takes major step toward Russian oil ban[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-global-trade-moscow-europe-c6c7a1960b88c363ce5f3eaf0ea07dcd], new sanctions

— Why Russia is attacking Ukraine's railways[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-europe-migration-4129b6c37dfff07ec63ebdbb05ef37a2]

— Russia storms Mariupol steel plant[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-business-europe-donetsk-organization-for-security-and-cooperation-in-5de7bbc536a8da94c0d9586b95817612] as some evacuees reach safety

— Pope Francis struggles to make progress in Ukraine peace effort[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-putin-pope-francis-diplomacy-europe-83a98bf40d2c51ba8a1de88e847c6e70]

— EU eyes sanctions for head of the Russian Orthodox Church[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-pope-francis-europe-religion-european-union-99cf29b70263256d8a1520af87675a3f]

Follow all AP stories on Russia’s war on Ukraine at https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine[https://apnews.com/hub/russia-ukraine]

___

OTHER DEVELOPMENTS:

The commander of the main defending force at the Azovstal steel mill in the strategic Ukrainian port city of Mariupol says Russian troops have broken into the territory of the mill, where limited evacuations of besieged civilians occurred last week.

The Russian government, meanwhile, pledged to facilitate humanitarian corridors from Thursday through Saturday to enable more evacuations.

In a video posted Wednesday, Denys Prokopenko, commander of the Ukrainian Azov regiment, said the incursions had continued a second day “and there are heavy, bloody battles.”

Azovstal remains one of the biggest hubs of Ukrainian military resistance and has been subjected to massive Russian aerial bombardments and shelling. Russian State TV showed smoke rising over Azovstal.

Hundreds of Ukrainian forces from different parts of the army, as well as civilians, remain in the plant’s underground shelters.

___

Sweden’s foreign minister says the United States is willing to provide “security assurances” during the application period if Sweden and neighboring Finland seek membership in NATO.

Ann Linde spoke to Swedish public broadcaster SVT on Wednesday from Washington after meetings with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and members of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.

Linde said there is great interest from the U.S. in Sweden and Finland joining NATO.

Jolted by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Sweden and Finland appear ready to revoke their long-standing policy of military non-alignment and apply for NATO membership.

Russia has warned of unspecified consequences if that happens and both countries have been looking for some form of NATO protection from the moment they apply to when they become members, a process that can take months.

___

A Russian government statement said its armed forces and their allies would open a humanitarian corridor on specified hours from Thursday through Saturday from the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol, Ukraine, so civilians can be evacuated.

The statement appeared on the Telegram messaging app Wednesday and pledged the forces would refrain from military actions, withdraw to a safe distance and facilitate the withdrawal of the civilians to any destination they choose.

But there was no immediate confirmation of those arrangements from other sources and similar promises to set up evacuation corridors have collapsed, because of what the Ukrainians blamed on continued fighting by Russians. A United Nations spokesman said discussions about future evacuations were ongoing.

___

Air raid sirens sounded in cities across Ukraine on Wednesday night and missile fire followed shortly after in the cities of Cherkasy, Dnipro and Zaporizhzhia.

In Dnipro, Mayor Borys Filatov said one strike hit the center of the city. The strikes in Dnipro also hit a railroad facility, authorities initially said, without elaborating. Ukrainian Railways said none of its staff were injured in the Dnipro attack.

Complaining that the West is “stuffing Ukraine with weapons,” Russia bombarded railroad stations and other supply-line points across the country. Meanwhile, the European Union moved to further punish Moscow for the war by proposing a ban on oil imports, a crucial source of revenue for Russia.

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says the sanctions imposed by his country and others against Moscow over its war in Ukraine will set back Russia’s economic development by decades if they remain in place.

Scholz told reporters in Berlin on Wednesday that Russia cannot hope to win a peace with Ukraine unless Kyiv supports it.

“A peace by diktat will not work,” he said.

___

In a video message posted on Twitter, Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba welcomed the European Union’s decision to propose an embargo on Russian oil. He said Ukraine isn’t happy it will be delayed for several months, but “it’s better than nothing.”

Kuleba said it should be clear now “that times for half-sanctions or half-measures when it comes to sanctions is gone.” He says the EU can no longer support Ukraine on one hand by imposing sanctions, while continuing to pay Russia for oil and gas and support their “war machine.”

He also said if any country continues to oppose the embargo on Russian oil, it will be a reason to say the country is complicit in the crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine.

The proposals need unanimous approval from EU countries and are likely to be the subject of fierce debate. Hungary and Slovakia have already said they won’t take part in any oil sanctions. They could be granted an exemption.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary’s foreign minister says the country won’t support a European Union proposal for banning oil imports from Russia in a move that could derail the bloc’s efforts to apply united pressure against Moscow over its war in Ukraine.

In a video on social media, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said Wednesday that Hungary’s energy supply “would be completely destroyed” by an EU embargo of Russian oil, which he said would make it “impossible for Hungary to obtain the oil necessary for the functioning of the Hungarian economy.”

Szijjarto’s statement came as European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen proposed that EU member nations phase out imports of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year as part of a sixth package of sanctions against Russia.

The proposals must be unanimously approved to take effect, and reluctance by governments in Hungary and Slovakia to support sanctions against Russian fossil fuels has placed roadblocks before a united EU response.

Szijjarto said Hungary would only support the sixth round of sanctions if oil imports were exempted.

___

LONDON — Britain announced a further raft of sanctions against Russia, banning the country from doing business with management consultants, accounting and PR firms in the U.K.

The British government also imposed asset freezes and travel bans on journalists working for state-owned media and other broadcast organizations the U.K. accuses of spreading propaganda.

The sanctioned individuals include three journalists embedded with Russian forces in Ukraine: Evgeny Poddubny, Alexander Kots and Dmitry Steshin.

The British government said the new sanctions would mean social media, internet services and app stores must take action to block content from two of Russia’s major sources of alleged disinformation, RT and Sputnik. Both have been pulled from British airwaves.

Tech and Digital Economy Minister Chris Philp said RT and Sputnik “have churned out dangerous nonsense dressed up as serious news to justify Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.”

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says Russian President Vladimir Putin has “completely miscalculated with his brutal war of aggression against Ukraine” because it has led NATO to strengthen its eastern flank, resulted in comprehensive sanctions against Russia, and prompted large-scale military support for the Ukrainian side.

Scholz said Wednesday that Germany is currently considering supplying Ukraine with howitzers, in addition to Gepard anti-aircraft guns and other equipment the government has already agreed to send.

He spoke to reporters in Meseberg, near Berlin, alongside German Finance Minister Christian Lindner, who announced plans to require that Russians who are subject to sanctions have to disclose their assets in Germany or risk fines.

Economy Minister Robert Habeck said the government is also planning to make it easier for Russians fleeing their home country to find work in Germany.

“We can really use them,” he said, but added that there would be security checks to ensure that “we don’t bring a lot of spies over here.” ___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria’s parliament has approved providing additional aid to war-torn Ukraine following a debate that had rattled the governing coalition.

The proposal, introduced by the centrist party of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, was supported by 200 legislators. Sixteen were against, one abstained, while 23 lawmakers were not present.

The vote took place after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sent a letter to the parliament in Sofia. Instead of weapons deliveries, he reportedly asked for damaged Ukrainian military equipment to be repaired at Bulgarian plants and then sent back.

While three of the parties in the four-party ruling coalition had been in favor of sending weapons and ammunition to Ukraine, the fourth party, the pro-Russian Socialists, threatened to quit the coalition if such aid were approved.

The decision also includes Bulgarian assistance for the export of Ukrainian grain via Bulgaria’s Black Sea ports, and Bulgaria importing electricity from Ukraine.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — British Defense Secretary Ben Wallace reaffirmed his country’s strong support for Finland and Sweden potentially joining NATO.

Finland and Sweden are expected to announce next week whether to seek membership of the 30-nation alliance.

“I cannot conceive that we would not come to support,” Wallace told reporters. “We will do whatever we need to do.”

Wallace said Finland was “in a pole position” to join NATO and the British Parliament would be able to ratify a Finnish membership “quickly.”

Wallace on Wednesday observed a military exercise in western Finland involving troops from the United Kingdom, Latvia, the United States and Estonia.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says his country could not accept a deal with Moscow that would allow Russian troops to remain in occupied territory.

Speaking to participants in the Wall Street Journal CEO Council Summit, Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces had halted the Russian offensive in what he described as the first stage of the conflict.

In the second stage, he said, Ukraine would expel Russian troops from its territory and in the third, would move to fully restore its territorial integrity.

Zelenskyy said he would not accept a cease-fire deal that would allow Russian forces to remain in their current positions. “We will not accept a frozen conflict,” the president said without giving further details.

Zelensky emphasized that Russian President Vladimir Putin must agree to meet him to negotiate any deal to end the fighting.

He said it was important to continue peace talks but noted that “until the Russian president signs it or makes an official statement, I don’t see the point in such agreements.”

___

LVIV, Ukraine — New satellite images analyzed by The Associated Press suggest fighting may be ongoing at a besieged steel plant in Mariupol.

The Kremlin is denying that Russian forces are trying to storm the Azovstal plant, the last remaining holdout of Ukrainian fighters in the port city.

An image shot by Planet Labs PBC at dawn Wednesday showed black smoke rising at one side of the plant near a canal. Buildings at the plant, including one under which hundreds of fighters and civilians are likely hiding, showed large, gaping holes in the roof. Debris littered the grounds.

Meanwhile, another satellite photo showed that a recent Russian missile attack tore a hole in a key bridge near Odesa.

Russia has attacked the bridge on three occasions. Though it is still standing, a chunk of the bridge is missing toward its south end, the image shows.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s Interior Ministry says a road crash in the western Rivne region has killed 26 people and injured 12 more. The collision involved a bus, a van and a fuel truck, the ministry said. The bus had been headed to Poland, which has been a key destination for Ukrainian refugees.

According to a ministry statement, the accident occurred because the van “performed a maneuver to overtake another vehicle, and drove into the oncoming lane, where it collided with a fuel truck.”

It wasn’t immediately clear how a Poland-bound bus with 34 passengers on board became part of the accident.

___ MOSCOW — The Kremlin has rejected media reports that President Vladimir Putin might formally declare war on Ukraine on May 9, when Russia celebrates the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II, and announce a broad mobilization.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed the reports as “untrue” and “nonsense” at a daily conference call with reporters.

Western media reported earlier this month, citing U.K. and U.S. officials, that Putin might pivot from a “special military operation” to an all-out war with Ukraine, which would allow him to introduce martial law and mobilize reservists.

The reports said Putin could announce the changes during Victory Day celebrations on May 9, Russia’s most important holiday. ___

MOSCOW — The Russian defense minister has warned that Moscow will see any Western transports carrying weapons into Ukraine as legitimate targets.

Sergei Shoigu’s statement Wednesday comes as the U.S. and other Western allies have increased shipments of weapons to Ukraine. Speaking at a meeting with top military officials, Shoigu denounced the West for “stuffing Ukraine with weapons.”

“Any NATO transports carrying weapons or resources for the Ukrainian military that arrives in the country’s territory will be seen by us as a legitimate target to be destroyed,” he said.

The Russian military has repeatedly reported strikes on Ukrainian depots containing Western weapons. Striking Western transports delivering them would mark a significant escalation in the conflict.

___

MOSCOW — Belarus has announced snap military exercises amid the Russian war in Ukraine, while insisting it would not threaten any neighbors.

The Belarusian Defense Ministry said the exercises that began Wednesday would be used to assess the readiness and capability of the country’s armed forces, and the military’s ability to operate on “unknown terrain in a rapidly changing situation.”

The ministry did not say how many troops are involved in the exercises but noted that their number would be gradually increased.

It said the maneuvers “do not threaten the European community in general and any neighboring countries in particular.”

Belarus allowed its ally Russia to use its territory as a staging ground before Moscow launched its military action in Ukraine on Feb. 24.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian officials say evacuations from the besieged port of Mariupol will continue on Wednesday.

Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said evacuations from Mariupol and three other locations to Zaporizhzhia, a city in southeast Ukraine, would take place “if the security situation permits.”

The governor of the Donetsk region, Pavlo Kyrylenko, confirmed that evacuation buses had already left Mariupol and would stop at three other locations to pick up more passengers.

Kyrylenko said the effort is supported by the United Nations and the International Red Cross.

___

BRUSSELS — The European Union plans to sanction the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill of Moscow, in its next round of measures against Russia, according to several EU diplomats.

The three people with direct knowledge of the discussions were not authorized to speak publicly as negotiations on the sixth EU package of sanctions between the 27-nation bloc’s ambassadors were ongoing Wednesday.

Kirill is a longtime ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin and has justified his country’s invasion of Ukraine.

Kirill has also echoed Putin’s unfounded claims that Ukraine was engaged in the “extermination” of Russian loyalists in Donbas, the breakaway eastern region of Ukraine held since 2014 by Russian-backed separatist groups.

If the sanctions proposed by the EU’s executive arm are approved by EU member countries, Kirill would be added to the EU’s updated list of individuals facing travel bans and a freeze of assets.

A total of 1,093 individuals, including Putin and oligarchs, as well as 80 entities, are already subject to the punishing measures.

— Reported by Samuel Petrequin

___

BRUSSELS — The European Union’s chief executive is proposing that the bloc ban oil imports from Russia over its war on Ukraine, and target the country’s biggest bank and major broadcasters in a new round of sanctions.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told EU lawmakers Wednesday that the sanctions should involve “a complete import ban on all Russian oil, seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined.”

She says the aim is to “make sure that we phase out Russian oil in an orderly fashion, in a way that allows us and our partners to secure alternative supply routes and minimizes the impact on global markets.”

The sanctions proposals are to be debated by the 27 EU member countries. Hungary and Slovakia have already said they would not take part. The two are landlocked and heavily dependent on Russia for their energy supplies.

Banks are also in the EU executive arm’s sights, notably the giant Sberbank. Von der Leyen says the aim is to “de-SWIFT Sberbank,” as well as two other banks. SWIFT is the major global system for financial transfers.

Von der Leyen says those alleged to be spreading disinformation about the war in Ukraine should be targeted, notably three big Russian state-owned broadcasters. She did not identify any of the outlets.

Eds: UPDATES: Updates with no civilians reported evacuated from Azovstal on Wednesday. With AP Photos. AP Video.

The Associated Press

文件 APRS000020220504ei540099d


Live updates: Spain arrests Ukrainian politician-blogger
4400 字
2022 年 5 月 5 日
The Malta Independent
MLIND
英文
© 2022 Standard Publications Ltd. All rights reserved.
MADRID — Spanish authorities have arrested a Ukrainian politician-blogger accused of treason in his home country.

An official with the Spanish national police confirmed that Anatoly Shariy had been detained Wednesday in Tarragona under an international arrest warrant. Shariy is being transported to Madrid to appear before a judge, who will decide upon his extradition, the official said.

Ukraine’s security services announced the arrest on Thursday and said there was reason to believe Shariy “was acting on behalf of foreign entities.”

Shariy has been a vocal and active critic of Ukraine’s government. As recently as Tuesday he tweeted that he had been warned that Ukrainian intelligence was trying to track him down. He is the founder of a political party that many Ukrainians consider pro-Russian.

Ukrainian media reported that one of the members of the party said in February, just before the start of the war, that Shariy had asylum in the European Union.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — Danish Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod said Thursday that Russia has decided to expel four diplomats with Denmark’s Embassy in Moscow.

“They have wrongfully become pieces in Putin’s cynical power play,” Kofod said. “It is a completely unjustified and deeply problematic decision, which underscores that Russia no longer wants real dialogue and diplomacy.”

Moscow said seven Danish diplomats were expelled. Danish media said that those expelled include four diplomats and three others without diplomatic status. They must leave within two weeks.

Moscow’s tit-for-tat decision came after Denmark last month expelled 15 Russian intelligence officers who worked at Russia’s Embassy in Copenhagen. Several other European countries also expelled Russian intelligence officers.

___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — In anticipation of a European Union embargo on Russian crude oil Bulgaria says it's looking for an exemption due to its dependence on supplies from Russia.

Bulgaria's only oil refinery near the Black Sea port of Burgas is owned by Russia’s oil giant LUKOIL and is the main fuel supplier in the country.

Still, Deputy Prime Minister Assen Vassilev told reporters that the refinery is already processing up to 50% non-Russian crude and theoretically should be able to fully eliminate Russian crude.

“Bulgaria, technologically, can do without Russian crude oil, but this would significantly increase fuel prices,” Vassilev said. “In case the European Commission weighs some exemptions, we would like to take advantage of it, because it will be in the best interest of Bulgarian consumers.”

Slovakia and Hungary have already asked for such exemptions.

Russia stopped gas deliveries to Bulgaria last week in response to Sofia’s refusal to pay for it in rubles saying it violates existing contracts.

___

NICOSIA, Cyprus - The prime minister of Luxembourg says the European Union should carefully weigh a total embargo on all Russian oil gas imports given that some member nations “have no alternative” supply for energy generation.

Prime Minister Xavier Bettel said after talks Thursday with the President of Cyprus Nicos Anastasiades that “just to say no to the gas today when we know that some countries then will have no alternative tomorrow is something we should put on the balance.”

What’s paramount at this time is to maintain EU solidarity and for all 27 members to find ways of becoming energy self-sufficient and less dependent on energy from third countries, Bettel said.

He said one option is solar energy, referring to the east Mediterranean island nation’s potential to generate much more than Luxembourg.

Anastasiades said the war in Ukraine has refocused attention on discovered and potential natural gas reserves found in east Mediterranean waters off Cyprus and elsewhere as an alternative source of energy for Europe.

On Wednesday, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen called on the EU member states to ban oil imports from Russia and target the country’s biggest bank and major broadcasters in a sixth package of sanctions over the war in Ukraine.

___

WARSAW, Poland — Poland and Sweden are co-hosting an international donors’ conference on Thursday in Warsaw to raise funds for humanitarian efforts to help war-torn Ukraine, where thousands have been killed, cities devastated and millions of people displaced by Russia’s attack.

Poland’s government says that Ukraine’s needs are huge despite funds already donated due to the large scale of damage from the war, and that millions of Ukrainians require urgent help.

The High-Level International Donors’ Conference for Ukraine is jointly organized by the Polish and Swedish prime ministers in collaboration with the European Commission and European Council presidents.

The aims are to allow the international community to announce new pledges to meet the immediate humanitarian needs of Ukrainian society and to create a forum to discuss how to support Ukrainian society over the longer term.

The co-hosts are prime ministers Mateusz Morawiecki of Poland and Magdalena Andersson of Sweden.

Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is expected to address the participants by video, who are gathering in Warsaw’s National Stadium.

___

PARIS — France’s ecology minister says she is confident that the European Union’s 27 nations will quickly agree to a proposed ban on oil imports from Russia.

Speaking to FranceInfo radio Thursday, the minister, Barbara Pompili, said the embargo could be agreed upon within days.

“I am confident,” she said. “It is normal that there are discussions because some countries are more dependent than others on Russian oil, so we have to try to find solutions so they can get on board with these sanctions.”

She added: “I think we’ll get there perhaps by the end of the week or at least as soon as possible.”

The European Union’s top official, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, proposed Wednesday that EU member nations phase out imports of Russian crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year.

The proposals must be unanimously approved to take effect. Von der Leyen said that getting all 27 member countries — some of them landlocked and highly dependent on Russia for energy supplies — to agree on oil sanctions “will not be easy.”

Pompili said the embargo would be “for everyone” in the bloc and that “is to show Russia that Europe, from the end of this year, will completely do without its oil.”

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Five people were killed and at least 25 more wounded in eastern Ukraine over the past 24 hours because of the Russian shelling, Ukrainian officials said Thursday.

Luhansk regional governor Serhiy Haidai said the Russian troops shelled the region 24 times on Wednesday, hitting the cities of Severodonetsk, Lysychansk, Girske and Popasna, damaging at least 23 houses and killing five people.

An overnight shelling of Kramatorsk in the Donetsk region wounded at least 25 people, Donetsk governor Pavlo Kyrylenko said Thursday. He added that nine houses, a school and other civilian infrastructure were damaged as the result.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s General Staff says the country’s forces made some gains on the border of the southern regions of Kherson and Mykolaiv and repelled multiple Russian attacks in the east.

In its daily morning update, the General Staff said that the Russians “lost control over several settlements on the border of Mykolayiv and Kherson regions.” Ukrainian forces also repelled 11 attacks in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, the update said.

At the same time, fighting over the Azovstal plant in Mariupol continued, the General Staff said.

“With the support of aircraft, the enemy resumed the offensive in order to take control of the plant,” the update said, adding that the Russian troops were “trying to destroy Ukrainians units” at this last remaining pocket of Ukrainian resistance in the ravaged port city.

The General Staff also noted Russian efforts to stir tensions in the Moscow-backed breakaway region of Transnistria in Moldova, which borders with Ukraine and has a Russian peacekeeping contingent. The Russian military “carries out regrouping of troops in certain areas, takes measures to replenish reserves” and is “trying to improve the tactical position of its units.”

The General Staff’s statements could not be independently verified.

___

LVIV, Ukraine — The British military is saying an ongoing military drill in Belarus “is not currently anticipated” to threaten Ukraine.

The British Defense Ministry made the statement Thursday in a daily intelligence briefing posted to Twitter.

It comes after Belarus announced snap military drills. That sparked suspicion in Ukraine as Russia used Belarus to funnel troops through at the start of the war in February before Ukrainian forces repelled an advance targeting the capital, Kyiv.

“Russia will likely seek to inflate the threat posed to Ukraine by these exercises in order to fix Ukrainian forces in the north, preventing them from being committed to the battle for the Donbas,” the British military said.

It added: “Deviation from normal exercise activity that could pose a threat to allies and partners is not currently anticipated.”

The United Nations says more than 300 civilians from the besieged southeastern city of Mariupol and four other towns have been evacuated to Ukrainian-held Zaporizhzhia in a second successful operation to get civilians out of areas subject to Russian shelling and attacks.

Osnat Lubrani, the U.N. humanitarian chief in Ukraine, said in a statement that many of the civilians from Mariupol, Manhush, Berdiansk, Tokmak and Vasylivka came Wednesday with nothing but the clothes they were wearing and are now getting humanitarian assistance. She said they'll also receive “much- needed psychological support.”

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the 344 evacuated Wednesday are in addition to the more than 150 people who were evacuated earlier this week from the bunkers under the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol, which is surrounded by Russian troops and reportedly came under renewed fire on Wednesday.

No civilians were reported evacuated from the plant on Wednesday. Zelenskyy said they are trying to reach an agreement to save those remaining at Azovstal, including women and children.

___

The commander of the main defending force at the Azovstal steel mill in the strategic Ukrainian port city of Mariupol says Russian troops have broken into the territory of the mill, where limited evacuations of besieged civilians occurred last week.

The Russian government, meanwhile, pledged to facilitate humanitarian corridors from Thursday through Saturday to enable more evacuations.

In a video posted Wednesday, Denys Prokopenko, commander of the Ukrainian Azov regiment, said the incursions had continued a second day “and there are heavy, bloody battles.”

Azovstal remains one of the biggest hubs of Ukrainian military resistance and has been subjected to massive Russian aerial bombardments and shelling. Russian State TV showed smoke rising over Azovstal.

Hundreds of Ukrainian forces from different parts of the army, as well as civilians, remain in the plant’s underground shelters.

___

Sweden’s foreign minister says the United States is willing to provide “security assurances” during the application period if Sweden and neighboring Finland seek membership in NATO.

Ann Linde spoke to Swedish public broadcaster SVT on Wednesday from Washington after meetings with U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and members of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.

Linde said there is great interest from the U.S. in Sweden and Finland joining NATO.

Jolted by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Sweden and Finland appear ready to revoke their long-standing policy of military non-alignment and apply for NATO membership.

Russia has warned of unspecified consequences if that happens and both countries have been looking for some form of NATO protection from the moment they apply to when they become members, a process that can take months.

___

A Russian government statement said its armed forces and their allies would open a humanitarian corridor on specified hours from Thursday through Saturday from the Azovstal steel mill in Mariupol, Ukraine, so civilians can be evacuated.

The statement appeared on the Telegram messaging app Wednesday and pledged the forces would refrain from military actions, withdraw to a safe distance and facilitate the withdrawal of the civilians to any destination they choose.

But there was no immediate confirmation of those arrangements from other sources and similar promises to set up evacuation corridors have collapsed, because of what the Ukrainians blamed on continued fighting by Russians. A United Nations spokesman said discussions about future evacuations were ongoing.

___

Air raid sirens sounded in cities across Ukraine on Wednesday night and missile fire followed shortly after in the cities of Cherkasy, Dnipro and Zaporizhzhia.

In Dnipro, Mayor Borys Filatov said one strike hit the center of the city. The strikes in Dnipro also hit a railroad facility, authorities initially said, without elaborating. Ukrainian Railways said none of its staff were injured in the Dnipro attack.

Complaining that the West is “stuffing Ukraine with weapons,” Russia bombarded railroad stations and other supply-line points across the country. Meanwhile, the European Union moved to further punish Moscow for the war by proposing a ban on oil imports, a crucial source of revenue for Russia.

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says the sanctions imposed by his country and others against Moscow over its war in Ukraine will set back Russia’s economic development by decades if they remain in place.

Scholz told reporters in Berlin on Wednesday that Russia cannot hope to win a peace with Ukraine unless Kyiv supports it.

“A peace by diktat will not work,” he said.

___

In a video message posted on Twitter, Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba welcomed the European Union’s decision to propose an embargo on Russian oil. He said Ukraine isn’t happy it will be delayed for several months, but “it’s better than nothing.”

Kuleba said it should be clear now “that times for half-sanctions or half-measures when it comes to sanctions is gone.” He says the EU can no longer support Ukraine on one hand by imposing sanctions, while continuing to pay Russia for oil and gas and support their “war machine.”

He also said if any country continues to oppose the embargo on Russian oil, it will be a reason to say the country is complicit in the crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine.

The proposals need unanimous approval from EU countries and are likely to be the subject of fierce debate. Hungary and Slovakia have already said they won’t take part in any oil sanctions. They could be granted an exemption.

___

BUDAPEST, Hungary — Hungary’s foreign minister says the country won’t support a European Union proposal for banning oil imports from Russia in a move that could derail the bloc’s efforts to apply united pressure against Moscow over its war in Ukraine.

In a video on social media, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said Wednesday that Hungary’s energy supply “would be completely destroyed” by an EU embargo of Russian oil, which he said would make it “impossible for Hungary to obtain the oil necessary for the functioning of the Hungarian economy.”

Szijjarto’s statement came as European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen proposed that EU member nations phase out imports of crude oil within six months and refined products by the end of the year as part of a sixth package of sanctions against Russia.

The proposals must be unanimously approved to take effect, and reluctance by governments in Hungary and Slovakia to support sanctions against Russian fossil fuels has placed roadblocks before a united EU response.

Szijjarto said Hungary would only support the sixth round of sanctions if oil imports were exempted.

___

LONDON — Britain announced a further raft of sanctions against Russia, banning the country from doing business with management consultants, accounting and PR firms in the U.K.

The British government also imposed asset freezes and travel bans on journalists working for state-owned media and other broadcast organizations the U.K. accuses of spreading propaganda.

The sanctioned individuals include three journalists embedded with Russian forces in Ukraine: Evgeny Poddubny, Alexander Kots and Dmitry Steshin.

The British government said the new sanctions would mean social media, internet services and app stores must take action to block content from two of Russia’s major sources of alleged disinformation, RT and Sputnik. Both have been pulled from British airwaves.

Tech and Digital Economy Minister Chris Philp said RT and Sputnik “have churned out dangerous nonsense dressed up as serious news to justify Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.”

___

BERLIN — German Chancellor Olaf Scholz says Russian President Vladimir Putin has “completely miscalculated with his brutal war of aggression against Ukraine” because it has led NATO to strengthen its eastern flank, resulted in comprehensive sanctions against Russia, and prompted large-scale military support for the Ukrainian side.

Scholz said Wednesday that Germany is currently considering supplying Ukraine with howitzers, in addition to Gepard anti-aircraft guns and other equipment the government has already agreed to send.

He spoke to reporters in Meseberg, near Berlin, alongside German Finance Minister Christian Lindner, who announced plans to require that Russians who are subject to sanctions have to disclose their assets in Germany or risk fines.

Economy Minister Robert Habeck said the government is also planning to make it easier for Russians fleeing their home country to find work in Germany.

“We can really use them,” he said, but added that there would be security checks to ensure that “we don’t bring a lot of spies over here.” ___

SOFIA, Bulgaria — Bulgaria’s parliament has approved providing additional aid to war-torn Ukraine following a debate that had rattled the governing coalition.

The proposal, introduced by the centrist party of Prime Minister Kiril Petkov, was supported by 200 legislators. Sixteen were against, one abstained, while 23 lawmakers were not present.

The vote took place after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sent a letter to the parliament in Sofia. Instead of weapons deliveries, he reportedly asked for damaged Ukrainian military equipment to be repaired at Bulgarian plants and then sent back.

While three of the parties in the four-party ruling coalition had been in favor of sending weapons and ammunition to Ukraine, the fourth party, the pro-Russian Socialists, threatened to quit the coalition if such aid were approved.

The decision also includes Bulgarian assistance for the export of Ukrainian grain via Bulgaria’s Black Sea ports, and Bulgaria importing electricity from Ukraine.

___

COPENHAGEN, Denmark — British Defense Secretary Ben Wallace reaffirmed his country’s strong support for Finland and Sweden potentially joining NATO.

Finland and Sweden are expected to announce next week whether to seek membership of the 30-nation alliance.

“I cannot conceive that we would not come to support,” Wallace told reporters. “We will do whatever we need to do.”

Wallace said Finland was “in a pole position” to join NATO and the British Parliament would be able to ratify a Finnish membership “quickly.”

Wallace on Wednesday observed a military exercise in western Finland involving troops from the United Kingdom, Latvia, the United States and Estonia.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy says his country could not accept a deal with Moscow that would allow Russian troops to remain in occupied territory.

Speaking to participants in the Wall Street Journal CEO Council Summit, Zelenskyy said Ukrainian forces had halted the Russian offensive in what he described as the first stage of the conflict.

In the second stage, he said, Ukraine would expel Russian troops from its territory and in the third, would move to fully restore its territorial integrity.

Zelenskyy said he would not accept a cease-fire deal that would allow Russian forces to remain in their current positions. “We will not accept a frozen conflict,” the president said without giving further details.

Zelensky emphasized that Russian President Vladimir Putin must agree to meet him to negotiate any deal to end the fighting.

He said it was important to continue peace talks but noted that “until the Russian president signs it or makes an official statement, I don’t see the point in such agreements.”

___

LVIV, Ukraine — New satellite images analyzed by The Associated Press suggest fighting may be ongoing at a besieged steel plant in Mariupol.

The Kremlin is denying that Russian forces are trying to storm the Azovstal plant, the last remaining holdout of Ukrainian fighters in the port city.

An image shot by Planet Labs PBC at dawn Wednesday showed black smoke rising at one side of the plant near a canal. Buildings at the plant, including one under which hundreds of fighters and civilians are likely hiding, showed large, gaping holes in the roof. Debris littered the grounds.

Meanwhile, another satellite photo showed that a recent Russian missile attack tore a hole in a key bridge near Odesa.

Russia has attacked the bridge on three occasions. Though it is still standing, a chunk of the bridge is missing toward its south end, the image shows.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukraine’s Interior Ministry says a road crash in the western Rivne region has killed 26 people and injured 12 more. The collision involved a bus, a van and a fuel truck, the ministry said. The bus had been headed to Poland, which has been a key destination for Ukrainian refugees.

According to a ministry statement, the accident occurred because the van “performed a maneuver to overtake another vehicle, and drove into the oncoming lane, where it collided with a fuel truck.”

It wasn’t immediately clear how a Poland-bound bus with 34 passengers on board became part of the accident.

___

MOSCOW — The Kremlin has rejected media reports that President Vladimir Putin might formally declare war on Ukraine on May 9, when Russia celebrates the defeat of Nazi Germany in World War II, and announce a broad mobilization.

Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov dismissed the reports as “untrue” and “nonsense” at a daily conference call with reporters.

Western media reported earlier this month, citing U.K. and U.S. officials, that Putin might pivot from a “special military operation” to an all-out war with Ukraine, which would allow him to introduce martial law and mobilize reservists.

The reports said Putin could announce the changes during Victory Day celebrations on May 9, Russia’s most important holiday. ___

MOSCOW — The Russian defense minister has warned that Moscow will see any Western transports carrying weapons into Ukraine as legitimate targets.

Sergei Shoigu’s statement Wednesday comes as the U.S. and other Western allies have increased shipments of weapons to Ukraine. Speaking at a meeting with top military officials, Shoigu denounced the West for “stuffing Ukraine with weapons.”

“Any NATO transports carrying weapons or resources for the Ukrainian military that arrives in the country’s territory will be seen by us as a legitimate target to be destroyed,” he said.

The Russian military has repeatedly reported strikes on Ukrainian depots containing Western weapons. Striking Western transports delivering them would mark a significant escalation in the conflict.

___

MOSCOW — Belarus has announced snap military exercises amid the Russian war in Ukraine, while insisting it would not threaten any neighbors.

The Belarusian Defense Ministry said the exercises that began Wednesday would be used to assess the readiness and capability of the country’s armed forces, and the military’s ability to operate on “unknown terrain in a rapidly changing situation.”

The ministry did not say how many troops are involved in the exercises but noted that their number would be gradually increased.

It said the maneuvers “do not threaten the European community in general and any neighboring countries in particular.”

Belarus allowed its ally Russia to use its territory as a staging ground before Moscow launched its military action in Ukraine on Feb. 24.

___

KYIV, Ukraine — Ukrainian officials say evacuations from the besieged port of Mariupol will continue on Wednesday.

Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said evacuations from Mariupol and three other locations to Zaporizhzhia, a city in southeast Ukraine, would take place “if the security situation permits.”

The governor of the Donetsk region, Pavlo Kyrylenko, confirmed that evacuation buses had already left Mariupol and would stop at three other locations to pick up more passengers.

Kyrylenko said the effort is supported by the United Nations and the International Red Cross.

___

BRUSSELS — The European Union plans to sanction the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill of Moscow, in its next round of measures against Russia, according to several EU diplomats.

The three people with direct knowledge of the discussions were not authorized to speak publicly as negotiations on the sixth EU package of sanctions between the 27-nation bloc’s ambassadors were ongoing Wednesday.

Kirill is a longtime ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin and has justified his country’s invasion of Ukraine.

Kirill has also echoed Putin’s unfounded claims that Ukraine was engaged in the “extermination” of Russian loyalists in Donbas, the breakaway eastern region of Ukraine held since 2014 by Russian-backed separatist groups.

If the sanctions proposed by the EU’s executive arm are approved by EU member countries, Kirill would be added to the EU’s updated list of individuals facing travel bans and a freeze of assets.

A total of 1,093 individuals, including Putin and oligarchs, as well as 80 entities, are already subject to the punishing measures.

— Reported by Samuel Petrequin

___

BRUSSELS — The European Union’s chief executive is proposing that the bloc ban oil imports from Russia over its war on Ukraine, and target the country’s biggest bank and major broadcasters in a new round of sanctions.

European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen told EU lawmakers Wednesday that the sanctions should involve “a complete import ban on all Russian oil, seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined.”

She says the aim is to “make sure that we phase out Russian oil in an orderly fashion, in a way that allows us and our partners to secure alternative supply routes and minimizes the impact on global markets.”

The sanctions proposals are to be debated by the 27 EU member countries. Hungary and Slovakia have already said they would not take part. The two are landlocked and heavily dependent on Russia for their energy supplies.

Banks are also in the EU executive arm’s sights, notably the giant Sberbank. Von der Leyen says the aim is to “de-SWIFT Sberbank,” as well as two other banks. SWIFT is the major global system for financial transfers.

Von der Leyen says those alleged to be spreading disinformation about the war in Ukraine should be targeted, notably three big Russian state-owned broadcasters. She did not identify any of the outlets.

Standard Publication Ltd

文件 MLIND00020220505ei550002z


Bulgaria This Week - May 6, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 6 日, 7382 字, (英文)
Bulgaria’s PPI up 45.2% y/y in MarchBulgaria’s domestic industrial producer prices moved up 45.2% y/y in March, after rising by 40.5% year on year in February, statistics office data showed. On a monthly basis, the producer price index ...

Serbia This Week - May 6, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 6 日, 5529 字, (英文)
Western Balkan countries face new economic challenges with growth set to slow to 3.1% this yearAfter a strong recovery from the coronacrisis in 2021, when regional growth hit 7.4%, GDP growth across the six Western Balkan countries is set ...

Vice President Iliana Iotova, Italian Chamber of Deputies President Fico Discuss Consequences of Ukraine War, EU Enlargement
392 字
2022 年 5 月 16 日 13:34 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2022 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
The consequences of the military conflict in Ukraine and the enlargement of the European Union were the main topics of discussion on Monday between Vice President Iliana Iotova and Italian Chamber of Deputies President Roberto Fico, who is on an official visit to Bulgaria.

Iotova noted that Bulgaria is one of the countries most interested for North Macedonia to become part of the European family. "The EU is not just free movement of people, goods and services, the EU is, above all, respect for human rights. There is a solid national consensus in Bulgaria that the negotiation process for the Republic of North Macedonia will be open only when there is progress on all outstanding issues," said Vice President Iotova, presenting Bulgaria's position on the EU's political enlargement. Iotova pointed out that Bulgarians in North Macedonia are subject to systemic discrimination. North Macedonia must provide sufficient guarantees that it complies with the Copenhagen criteria and the bilateral Treaty on Friendship, Good-Neighbourliness and Cooperation [signed in 2017]. So far no such desire has been stated. The biggest guarantee for the observance of the rights of Bulgarians is their inclusion in the Constitution of North Macedonia as a state-building people, said Vice President Iotova and insisted on a roadmap with these conditions, which will be an integral part of the negotiating framework.

Roberto Fico presented the Italian position, according to which the negotiation process should start first and the open issues should be resolved in its course. "We cannot compromise with the Bulgarian position, because otherwise we will bring additional conflicts to the EU," said Vice President Iotova.

Iotova and Fico strongly condemned Russia's military invasion of Ukraine.

The late drafting of pan-European legislation in the field of migration and asylum was also a focus at the meeting, the statement said. Concerns about the food crisis as a result of the war were discussed, especially in the countries of the African continent.

The consequences of the European sanction policy in the energy sector were also discussed. Roberto Fico proposed the creation of an energy recovery plan, following the example of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is intended to address the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/288741/IMG_4092.jpg]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020220526ei5g000j1


Putin to spark ‘full disruption of gas supplies' – EU readies for 'unbearably high prices'
Jacob Paul
754 字
2022 年 5 月 17 日 07:40 GMT
express.co.uk
EXCO
英文
Copyright 2022
EU countries have been urged to prepare for a "full disruption of Russian gas supplies" that could trigger "unbearably high prices" after the Kremlin cut Poland and Bulgaria's supplies last month.

The European Commission is set to signal the warning in an adopted policy document today. Proposed measures will likely include a temporary cap on prices in the event of a full-scale "supply shock” from Russia. It comes after Moscow had previously slashed supplies and sent prices soaring to record highs, forcing EU states to adopt measures to cope with the skyrocketing costs.

Related articles

But the Commission has raised the alarm over an even worse situation with a more significant cut to supplies.

An EU executive says in the draft policy document that the situation may require “a different set of measures€¦in the event of a sudden large scale or even full disruption of the supplies of Russian gas leading to unbearably high gas prices and inadequate supply of gas”.

This also comes after Russian President Vladimir Putin, in response to Western sanctions, told “unfriendly countries” that they needed to pay for Russian gas in rubles by March 31 or else face a supply cut.

He made clear that European nations should open up ruble accounts in Russian banks or Moscow would terminate its gas contracts.

But the EU largely refused the demand initially as this would undermine sanctions.

Now, it appears as though the bloc is preparing for the worst, with most payment deadlines due by the end of the month.

And Putin showed he was willing to stick to his word last month when he temporarily cut Poland and Lithuania’s pipeline gas.

And as the bloc relies on Russia for around 40 percent of its total supplies, it could be hit hard.

To prepare for the full-scale “supply shock” Brussels is mulling over “a maximum regulated price for natural gas delivered to European consumers and companies ” according to the draft seen by EURACTIV.

READ MORE: How the UK, US and their allies could respond to a nuclear attack

But this has sparked fury from within the EU, and even the Commission recognises this may not be popular.

An EU official noted in the proposal’s text: “One major negative effect is that we lose the price as important information for gas demand in times of crisis.

“Another very important negative effect is that the announcement of a gas price cap in times of emergency leads to lower storage injection today, which must be avoided by any means.”

German Green MEP Michael Bloss said: “Capping the price of gas is not a solution.”

Mr Bloss stressed that the EU needs to wean itself off Russian gas altogether which it hands Putin billions for, and instead “use this money for the energy and heat transition”.

DON'T MISS

Japan steps in to ease energy crisis – gas prices PLUMMET [INSIGHT]

Archaeologists stunned on finding 'totally new species' of human [REVEAL]

Switzerland ready to strike deal with 'key partner' UK after EU snub [REPORT]

Related articles

But the EU does have a plan to scupper its energy ties with Putin, as indicated in its REPowerEU.

The energy strategy details how the bloc will slash imports of gas and oil by up to two thirds by the end of the year.

But while a coal sanction package has been introduced, and an oil embargo has been put on the table, gas appears to be far lower down on the agenda.

There could also be another backup plan, as EU countries have also reportedly figured out how to pay for Russian gas without undermining sanctions slapped down on Russia’s central bank.

In its ruble demand, Russia insisted that companies accept a new transaction scheme that would involve opening two accounts at Gazprombank, one in euros or dollars and another in rubles.

Under the bloc’s new plans on gas payments, companies have to make a clear statement that they consider their obligations fulfilled once they pay in euros or dollars, in line with existing contracts, according to Bloomberg.

The Commission has also reassured governments that the sanctions will not prevent European companies from opening an account at Gazprombank and purchase Russian gas.

Related articles Octopus invests in huge Moroccan solar farm to power UK homes UK defence expert reveals weapon for Ukraine to 'end stalemate' Energy crisis lifeline: US strikes ‘critical’ nuclear deal with UK

Express Newspapers

文件 EXCO000020220517ei5h001xq


Sofia’s veto on Skopje is ‘a present for Russia’, Borrell says]]
Georgi Gotev
736 字
2022 年 5 月 17 日 10:15 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
EU foreign affairs chief Josep Borrell put pressure on Sofia on Monday (16 May) to lift its veto on North Macedonia, starting EU accession negotiations, stating that the lack of solution plays into the hands of Russia.

Sofia is currently blocking Skopje’s progression towards EU membership over cultural, heritage, and language issues. With North Macedonia’s progression tied to Albania’s, this has resulted in the two remaining in the EU waiting room with no end in sight.

“This situation is not only harming them, it is harming us. It is costing us and the region too much in terms of credibility and political perspective. It is a present to Russia. It is a present to Russia and an occasion to further drag this on,” he said following a lunch with Western Balkan ministers on the fringes of a meeting of EU foreign ministers, mostly focussing on the sixth sanctions package against Russia.

Borrell said the EU Council had ambitions to find a solution and “avoid a crisis” before the end of the French Presidency on 30 June.

EU reputation at stake as Hungary continues to block Russia sanctions[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/eu-reputation-at-stake-as-hungary-blocks-russia-sanctions/]

The EU has not found consensus on the new sanction package against Russia and an agreement could be still ‘a week or two’ away, EU’s chief diplomat Josep Borrell said on 17 May, as Hungary said it would not lift its veto.

The EU foreign affairs chief said that there would be a “serious crisis” with the Western Balkans countries in the absence of a solution by this date.

In his words, further delays were not in the interest of Skopje and Tirana, and neither of the EU countries.

“I want to stress that -and I want to make clear my personal commitment as High Representative for Foreign policy – that we need to start the negotiations with North Macedonia and Albania. And I hope, more than hope, more than wish, that this will happen during the French Presidency,”  he said, adding that “We all see that this delay is unsustainable.”

Borrell praised the countries of the Western Balkans, which are fully implementing European sanctions, and called on others, namely Serbia, to do the same.

Serbia, which has cultivated a special relationship with Russia, especially after the Kosovo war of 1999, has not aligned with EU sanctions against Russia.

The EU foreign affairs chief also said that there was no link between the expected talks with Skopje and Tirana and the issue of Ukraine’s EU bid.

Historical issues

Issues between Bulgaria and North Macedonia go back many years, namely to when Serbia and Bulgaria fought to dominate the territory of North Macedonia. Also, due to the legacy of Yugoslavia’s communist leader Josip Broz Tito, during which time anti-Bulgarian sentiments were state policy.

Macedonians meanwhile maintain a distinct Macedonian identity, language, and history that they claim Bulgaria does not respect or recognise. In fact, Sofia insists there was no separate Macedonian language or identity before World War II.

Many ethnic Bulgarians in North Macedonia have complained of discrimination by the country’s authorities. Reportedly 120,000 North Macedonians hold Bulgarian passports, many of which were acquired after Bulgaria joined the EU in 2007.

North Macedonia also claims the existence of a Macedonian minority in Bulgaria which is not officially recognised by the authorities in Sofia, despite the European Court of Human Rights ruling on the issue no less than 14 times.

Bulgaria is concerned that these issues will not be resolved once North Macedonia becomes an EU member. North Macedonia is concerned that if it makes concessions to Bulgaria now, it will continue to have to do so during negotiations, and its own concerns will not be addressed. Stakeholders in Skopje have asked that the accession process start and other issues be hammered out during the opening of chapters.

Bulgaria would like North Macedonia to change its constitution and include the Bulgarian minority. Constitutional changes, however, are a difficult process that may take time; meanwhile, Skopje wants recognition of the Macedonian identity.

The Brief – The cost of not solving the Bulgarian veto[https://www.euractiv.com/section/enlargement/opinion/the-brief-the-cost-of-not-solving-the-bulgarian-veto/]

Vladimir Putin’s war in Ukraine is reshaping how the EU conducts its enlargement policy. That will put additional pressure on Bulgaria to lift its veto on neighbouring North Macedonia’s EU accession negotiations.

[Edited by Alice Taylor]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220517ei5h0002y


Albania This Week - May 20, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 20 日, 4420 字, (英文)
Albania’s annual HCP inflation at 6.1% in AprilAlbania’s Harmonised Index of Consumer Price (HICP) inflation reached 6.1% in April, accelerating from 5.7% the previous month, according to statistics office Instat.

North Macedonia This Week - May 20, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 20 日, 4601 字, (英文)
EC downgrades 2022 GDP growth projection for North Macedonia to 3%The European Commission has downgraded its projection for North Macedonia's GDP growth in 2022 by 0.9 pp to 3%, after the country’s economy expanded by 4% in 2021, it said on...

Bulgaria
Weekly Roundup of Political Events: May 14 - May 20
Matey Todorov
2400 字
2022 年 5 月 21 日 05:00 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2022 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
Sofia, May 14

The share of children under 18 at risk of poverty or social exclusion in Bulgaria in 2020 was 36.2%. Although it dropped from 47.9% in 2015, it is still one of the highest in the EU and significantly higher than the EU average, which is 24.2%, according to a report titled “Un/Equal Childhood: Deep Dive in Child Poverty and Social Exclusion in Bulgaria”

Sofia, May 14

Bulgaria must work to complete as soon as possible ongoing infrastructure projects to avert the risk of losing EU funding for them, MEP Younous Omarjee, who chairs the Committee on Regional Development in the European Parliament (EP), tells a news conference in Sofia.

Sofia, May 14

President Rumen Radev tells reporters that the government's policy alone can stop the grave economic and social crisis from escalating into a political one. No government can lead the country through serious crises if it lacks trust, Radev says, adding: "It is crucial to avoid running a trust deficit."

Sofia, May 15

Prime Minister Kiril Petkov says that two US gas tankers are headed to Bulgaria and are expected to arrive on June 8 and 23. The two shiploads of liquefied natural gas from the US were contracted directly with a US company during Petkov's working visit to Washington on May 9 and 10.

Sofia, May 15

Bulgarian Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska participates in an Informal Meeting of NATO Ministers of Foreign Affairs. The highlights include the ongoing Russian invasion of Ukraine, NATO's response and the Allies' support for Kyiv; the June 29-30 NATO Madrid Summit, which is expected to adopt the Alliance's new Strategic Concept; and the future relations with partners Finland and Sweden in the current security context.

Sofia, May 15

President Rumen Radev starts a three-day working visit to Germany at the invitation of his German counterpart Frank-Walter Steinmeier. The visit starts in Berlin where Radev holds a meeting with representatives of the Bulgarian community in the building of the Bulgarian Embassy. The head of State’s agenda also includes meetings with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, Berlin Mayor Franziska Giffey, and Hamburg Mayor Peter Tschentscher. The topics of discussion include the state of the bilateral relations, expanding the business and investment cooperation, topics on the EU agenda, diversification of energy supplies and strengthening the security in Europe in the context of the war in Ukraine.

Sofia, May 16

Bulgarian Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and his visiting Dutch counterpart Mark Rutte have a one-on-one meeting to discuss current matters on the European agenda, including in the context of the war in Ukraine, followed by a plenary sitting of the two delegations. At a joint briefing afterwards, Petkov says that just like the Netherlands is Europe's western gateway, Bulgaria could become Europe's eastern gateway. Other topics discussed include common projects in the sectors of agriculture and IT, the EU's common position on Europe's energy security, North Macedonia's EU integration, and Bulgaria's entry in the Schengen area. In a separate meeting, Innovation and Growth Minister Daniel Lorer and Rutte talk about possibilities for advancing bilateral relations in the field of innovation, digitalization and investments in high-tech productions. The two also discuss interaction in supercomputers, hydrogen, batteries, green economy and smart agriculture.

Brussels, May 16

Foreign Minister Teodora Genchovska confirms that Bulgaria is still being pressured to start EU accession talks with Skopje soon, reiterating that this country expects North Macedonia to start implementing the treaty [of friendship and goodneighbourliness] and ensure the inclusion of Bulgarians in the preamble of their country's constitution, she tells Bulgarian journalists in Brussels, where she participates in an EU Council meeting.

Berlin, May 16

President Rumen Radev comments on his visit to Germany and his meetings with German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier and Federal Chancellor Olaf Scholz. Radev also expresses satisfaction with the German’s side understanding on all the important positions for Bulgaria, related to energy supplies and North Macedonia’s EU accession. Radev reiterates that there is no imperative for Bulgaria to provide weapons to Ukraine.

Sofia, May 16

Italy's Chamber of Deputies President Roberto Fico pays an official visit to Bulgaria. Meeting with National Assembly Chair Nikola Minchev, Fico stresses the importance of EU enlargement to the Western Balkans, especially in a situation like the present one and considering the need for a stronger Union. The meeting also focuses on strengthening Bulgarian-Italian economic, trade and cultural cooperation, and the war in Ukraine. The consequences of the military conflict in Ukraine and the enlargement of the European Union are the main topics of discussion between Vice President Iliana Iotova and Italian Chamber of Deputies President Roberto Fico, who is on an official visit to Bulgaria. Iotova reiterates Bulgaria’s conditions on North Macedonia’s EU accession. Fico presents the Italian position, according to which the negotiation process should start first and the open issues should be resolved in its course. Other topics discussed include concerns about the food crisis as a result of the war, and the consequences of the European sanction policy in the energy sector.

Berlin, May 16

German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier meets with his Bulgarian counterpart Rumen Radev on the second day of Radev's visit. The two heads of State discuss relations between the two countries, further developing the economic and investment cooperation, topics from the European Union's agenda, diversifying energy suppliers, strengthening the European security in the context of the war in Ukraine, and the European perspective of the western Balkan countries.

Varna, May 16

During a national roundtable on innovation and digitalization, organized by the Varna Technical University, e-Government Minister Bozhidar Bozhanov says that by the year’s end some administrative services will be accessible through Electronic Identification (eID), which every Bulgarian will have. According to him, an application is being developed which at first will integrate five institutions including the Interior Ministry, the National Revenue Agency and the National Social Security Institute. In addition Bulgarians will no longer be couriers for the administration and carry certificates between institutions. The administration will collect the necessary information electronically.

Sofia, May 17

Leaders of the four parties in the ruling coalition meet at the Council of Ministers to discuss packages of measures that each one of them suggests for getting rampant inflation under control. Continue the Change list 14 measures worth BGN 2 billion, to be spent on adjustments to pensions and VAT, tax relief for working parents, and fuel discounts. Among their 11 measures, There Is Such a People propose VAT reductions, introduction of a BGN 500 tax threshold, a review of all concession contracts in energy, ore mining, water supply and other areas of strategic importance for national security, among others. Democratic Bulgaria oppose differentiated VAT rates for goods with non-regulated prices and insist on a VAT cut to 9% for heat, natural gas and electricity. They agree to the need of a tax threshold, but argue that its amount should be subjected to a thorough debate. The Bulgarian Socialist Party propose a 21% rise of pensions, and a tax threshold equivalent to the minimum wage. They will also press for an increase of the monthly minimum wage to BGN 760, and 0% VAT for bread.

Hamburg, May 17

Emerging from a meeting with the First Mayor of Hamburg Peter Tschentscher, Bulgarian President Rumen Radev says Bulgaria and Hamburg will expand their traditionally successful economic cooperation in new fields like alternative energy sources and high technologies. Radev’s agenda also includes meetings with members of the German Chamber of Commerce, German business leaders, representatives of leading copper processor Aurubis AG and of the local Bulgarian community.

Brussels, May 17

Attending an EU Foreign Affairs Council (Defence) meeting, Bulgarian Defence Minister Dragomir Zakov says that in respect of the decision whereby Bulgaria perform repair works on Ukrainian military equipment, the Ukrainian expectations are realistic, and Bulgaria has sufficient capability to help.

Sofia, May 17

A new poll by Market Links/bTV shows that Continue the Change keeps on losing support on the back of multiple crises, that the formerly ruling GERB fail to capitalize on that and increase their popularity and that President Rumen Radev continues to top the personal ratings.

Sofia, May 18

Prime Minister Kiril Petkov and President Rumen Radev confer with US Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs Karen Donfried, who is visiting Sofia on May 18 and 19. Petkov and Donfried discussed bilateral security cooperation, NATO's unified response to Russia's war in Ukraine, the common energy projects, and measures to cope with corruption. The meeting between President Radev and Donfried focuses on topics from the strategic bilateral partnership, matters of stability and security in the context of the war in Ukraine, as well as the EU enlargement policy.

Sofia, May 18

President Rumen Radev talks on the telephone with his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron about the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries, the impact of the military action in Ukraine and the changed security environment. Radev reiterates that Bulgaria expects specific results in that respect on the part of the Republic of North Macedonia before Sofia can agree to that country’s start of EU accession negotiations. President Macron expresses France’s readiness to support Bulgaria so that the Bulgarian Air Force does not lose defence capabilities until the arrival of the F-16 fighter jets that Bulgaria purchased from the US.

Sofia, May 18

Sofia public transport company employees, taxi drivers and heavy-duty truckers organized by transport workers unions block key thoroughfares in Sofia, followed by similar action across the country. They demand government funding to address the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and rising energy prices. The protest is mottoed "Say NO to Humiliating Pay!" The industrial action is organized by the transport workers' union affiliated to the Podkrepa Confederation of Labour and the Association of Transport Unions.

Sofia, May 18

Bulgaria is fulfilling its commitment under the EU regulation on the European Public Prosecutor’s Office (EPPO) and will provide funding, equipment, office and everything necessary for the work and duties of the European delegated prosecutors, Justice Minister Nadezhda Yordanova tells a briefing after the regular weekly meeting of the government. Yordanova says that the government has approved draft amendments to the Judicial Power Act intended to support the work of the European delegated prosecutors in Bulgaria.

Sofia, May 18

Speaking on behalf of the ruling coalition at a briefing about the measures the government suggests by way of compensation for the high inflation, Prime Minister Kiril Petkov says that the measures are an opportunity to support the most vulnerable who are at the greatest risk from the impact of inflation, and young families with kids. Specific focus has been placed on fuels and electricity, according to Petkov. The majority of the measures, which are worth a total of 2 billion leva, will be enacted in the budget update planned to be passed in June.

Kyustendil, Southwestern Bulgaria, May 19

Labour and Social Policy Minister Georgi Gyokov says that the anti-crisis measures proposed by the ruling coalition in support of citizens and businesses are not anti-inflationary, but social and are supposed to support people at a time of crisis. He agrees with a criticism of the opposition that the measures promote inflation, but he adds that people cannot be left to cope on their own.

Sofia, May 19

The office of Bulgarian President Rumen Radev issues a statement arguing that a German-language article by Christopher Nehring in Deutsche Welle, entitled "Bulgaria: The Two Faces of President Rumen Radev", is based on false rumours and misinterpretations and does not comply with professional ethics and journalistic standards.

Sofia, May 19

Justice Minister Nadezhda Yordanova holds a working meeting with the Managing Director of the Basel Institute on Governance Gretta Fenner and her team. The talks focus on a wide range of topics among which the fight and elimination of corruption and recovery of public funds diverted through corruption and related financial crimes. The Bulgarian government and the Institute sign a Memorandum of Cooperation, which will help draw up and apply an effective legislative and institutional framework related to efforts against corruption and financial crimes

Sofia, May 19

Speaking at a business breakfast, organized by the American Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria (AmCham), Prime Minister Kiril Petkov says that continuing the fight against corruption is the incumbents' main task. The topic of the event is sustainability in the trans-Atlantic relations between Bulgaria and the US and their common future through diversification, decarbonization of the economy and healthcare.

Brussels, May 19

Presenting the national position at the NATO Military Committee meeting, Bulgaria's Chief of Defence, Admiral Emil Eftimov, states that this country will keep up the accelerated building of military capabilities to reinforce its position as a reliable and predictable NATO and EU Member.

Kecskemet/Sofia, May 19

The first Bulgarian honorary consulate in Hungary is unveiled in Kecskemet. Speaking at the event, Yordan Bochkov, the first Honorary Consul, says the consulate will open further opportunities to strengthen bilateral relations by promoting cultural, educational and economic contacts between the southern regions of Hungary and Bulgaria.

Sofia, May 20

North Macedonia's Defence Minister Slavjanka Petrovska starts an official two-day visit in Sofia. Bulgarian Defence Minister Dragomir Zakov and Petrovska declare a readiness to strengthen defence cooperation. Zakov views the visit as a sign that the two countries, as NATO members, have an important role to play in the region's security and stability. The two defence ministers discuss the situation in Ukraine, cyber attacks and hybrid attacks, and cooperation in military education. For her part, Petrovska says the new geopolitical architecture of Europe calls for unity and cooperation. Petrovska and her delegation confer with ranking members of the National Assembly Defence Committee.

Sofia, May 20

Prime Minister Kiril Petkov urges President Rumen Radev to call a meeting of the Consultative Council on National Security on the state of play of the Bulgaria-North Macedonia talks. Petkov says in a video address that the Bulgarian government will act only on the basis of a broad national consensus and in line with the coalition agreement.

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/48348/%D0%91%D0%9D%D0%91+-+%D0%9C%D0%A1+-+%D0%9D%D0%A1+-+%D0%9F%D1%80%D0%B5%D0%B7%D0%B8%D0%B4%D0%B5%D0%BD%D1%82%D1%81%D1%82%D0%B2%D0%BE+-+%D1%81%D0%B3%D1%80%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%B8.jpg]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020220527ei5l000bh


Bulgaria: New tension in ruling coalition, DB and TISP reportedly consider leaving it
729 字
2022 年 5 月 23 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Bulgaria's veto on North Macedonia is hot topic this week, TISP to leave government if PM Petkov gives green light to start of North Macedonia's EU accession talks

DB demands prioritisation of de-putinisation process and justice system reforms or it also threatens to leave government

We still consider risks for de-stabilisation of ruling coalition relatively low as at present

Tension in the four-party ruling coalition has increased again and one of the parties TISP reportedly considered leaving the government, according to the Capital Daily. The media quoted MPs from the party who said that TISP leader Slavi Trifonov expected PM Kiril Petkov to lift Bulgaria's veto on North Macedonia's EU accession talks, which is a red line for TISP and will announce TISP's withdrawal from the coalition this week. Trifonov's concerns with Petkov's potential decision are related to Petkov's visit to Rome on May 24 when the day of the Bulgarian alphabet and Slavic culture is celebrated. Petkov will meet the delegation of North Macedonia in Rome and the Bulgarian veto is going to be a main topic for discussion.

We recall that the EU and the U.S. have increased the pressure on Bulgaria to change its position in regards to North Macedonia and its veto by June. We note that Bulgaria believes that North Macedonia should guarantee the rights of the people with Bulgarian origin and consciousness living in the country and include them in the Constitution before the veto is lifted. We also note that the two countries have not been able to successfully smooth their historical controversial issues, and Bulgaria has been dissatisfied with what it calls a language of hatred towards Bulgarians promoted in North Macedonia's historical narratives. Both TISP and socialist BSP have been warning the other two parties in the ruling coalition - WCC and DB, that they will leave the government if it decides to remove the veto without North Macedonia agreeing with Bulgaria's requirements first.

PM Petkov has repeatedly rejected accusations that he was going to lift the veto on North Macedonia without the agreement of all the ruling parties and the parliament's sanction but he has demonstrated willingness to move away from the historical issues and promote business and economic collaboration between the two countries. It is still unclear whether TISP indeed plans to leave the government this week, especially if Petkov does not announce hasty decisions in regards to the veto, but the problems within the coalition seem to have escalated again, in our view. The leader of the four parties will meet in the evening of May 24 and the topic of North Macedonia will be the main priority to discuss, according to PM Petkov.

The other point of tension among the ruling parties stemmed from the small liberal Democratic Bulgaria (DB), which also discussed its departure from the coalition last week. DB demands the government to adopt a ruling programme for the next twelve months, in which measures for what it called de-putinisation of the country and acceleration of the judiciary system reforms and anti-corruption legislation should be prioritised. DB has demanded a meeting with PM Petkov this week to discuss these proposals. All in all, we think that at present all the four parties in the government are still interested in keeping the government coalition going on, taking into account the falling rating of each of the parties in the past few months, as illustrated by numerous polls.

Meanwhile, PM Petkov said in an interview for German's publication Welt am Sonntag that the fight against corruption and against dependency from Russia are related, because corrupt people in Bulgaria are the same doing business with the regime in Russia. He expressed concern that the Bulgarian justice system does not work independently and the fight to change chief prosecutor Ivan Geshev is difficult. Petkov said that cyber attacks from Russia against the Bulgarian mail service and the electricity distribution took place before Easter and complained of pro-Russian opposition in Bulgaria against the government. He expressed amazement at the fact that 20% of Bulgarians supported Russia, but noted that most of the people are worried that he endangers Bulgaria's security by being so firmly supportive of Ukraine.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220523ei5n0000e


North Macedonia This Week - May 27, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 5 月 27 日, 5303 字, (英文)
North Macedonia should focus on deficit, debt reduction to back economic growth, EU saysNorth Macedonia should focus on reducing its budget deficit and debt, as well as on re-building fiscal buffers to sustain its economic growth amid the ...

The Ukraine Crisis: War Intensifies Global-Arms Competition
By Brett Forrest
1141 字
2022 年 6 月 17 日
The Wall Street Journal
J
A8
英文
Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Ukraine's hunt for weapons in the global-defense market to help it fight Moscow's forces is facing increasing competition from Russia, which often is looking to buy those same items or attempting to cut off Kyiv's supply, according to government officials and arms brokers.

As a grinding artillery war in Ukraine's east shifts in Russia's favor, Kyiv is attempting to lay its hands on air-defense systems, armored vehicles, artillery shells and ammunition from third-party countries. This race for weapons comes as Ukraine warns that it faces defeat in the Donbas region, a pivotal battle in the war, unless the West supplies more weapons at a faster pace.

While the U.S. and its allies have been supplying Western systems, many of the arms deliveries to Ukraine involve Soviet-legacy and or Russian-manufactured equipment that is most commonly used by the Ukrainian military. But Western arms brokers and Ukrainian officials said Russia often is outbidding Ukraine for these supplies and hastening to fortify its own dwindling weapons stores.

"If they get it off the market, Ukraine can't buy it," said a former U.S. military official, now in private industry, who has dealt in Russian arms for decades.

In a briefing in Washington last month, the U.K.'s defense secretary, Ben Wallace, said the U.K. and U.S. were scouring the 23 countries that hold stocks of Russian-made arms and equipment for purchase and transfer to the Ukrainian military.

"Half of our assistance has been, 'Where can we find this stuff?' " Mr. Wallace said. "Sometimes we've bumped into the Russians looking . . . also for some of the resupplies because they're running out fast."

A spokesman from the U.K.'s Defense Ministry declined to expand on Mr. Wallace's comments. Officials with the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense have acknowledged the difficulty, but declined to comment publicly.

A spokesman for the Russian Embassy in Washington didn't respond to a request to comment.

Last month, Czech and Polish brokers working on behalf of Ukraine completed a deal with a Bulgarian supplier for Russian-made armored vehicles and artillery shells when a group of Armenian buyers offering to pay a 50% premium succeeded in winning the contract, said a Ukrainian parliamentarian familiar with the negotiation.

"We are absolutely clear that it's not going to Armenia, but probably it will go to Russia," the parliamentarian said. "They understand what we're looking for. And they understand where it is."

Brokers have said that Moscow has threatened countries with the withdrawal of future parts and services for Russian-made systems that many nations rely on for national defense.

"Sometimes you're not really sure what is going on," said another Ukrainian parliamentarian who has been involved in weapons deals. "What you see is hard to define other than as sabotage."

Ukraine -- and the U.S. and U.K. governments working to help Kyiv -- have sometimes been late to deals, or watched them evaporate.

"It's an efficiency of Russian and an inefficiency of Ukrainian and our allies' intelligence services," the second parliamentarian said.

In April, Russia objected to the Pentagon's proposal to give Ukraine 11 Russian-made Mi-17 military-transport helicopters, which the U.S. bought from Russia in 2011 for Afghanistan's military.

Russia's Ministry of Defense has circulated a statement calling the potential transfer to Ukraine an illegal violation of the end-user agreement, saying that the transfer "constitutes a blatant violation of the fundamentals of international law and the provisions of the Russia-U.S. contracts."

In June, a Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman said Moscow formally protested to the U.S. for violating its contractual obligations with respect to the helicopters.

"Our embassy in the United States made an official presentation to the United States Department of State, demanding detailed explanations as to why Mi-17s are being transferred to Ukraine without the knowledge and consent of the exporter, i.e., Russia, and contrary to established diplomatic practice," she said.

The State Department referred questions on the matter to the Pentagon, which didn't address Moscow's protest.

Russia is, after the U.S., the largest exporter of weapons in the world. In addition to direct sales, Russian equipment, as well as older Soviet weapons, often are bought and sold by middleman companies that are registered in the U.S. and elsewhere in the West.

Russia now appears to be trying to stop those brokers from supplying arms for Kyiv's war effort. "We've run into, 'If you don't quit buying this crap [for Ukraine], we're not going to do business with you ever again,' " said the former military official now in private industry. "We will sanction you."

In past years, Western arms brokers say, Moscow didn't typically protest when they sold Russian-made arms.

For more than a decade after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, arms brokers servicing Pentagon and Central Intelligence Agency contracts bought Soviet- and Russian-designed military equipment to support Iraq and Afghanistan. Russian law often prohibited direct participation in these sales, but Moscow routinely encouraged the transactions as a way to disseminate its products. Ukraine itself sold Russian and Soviet gear to arms brokers and other countries for years.

In 2014, Russia seized the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea, putting the two countries suddenly at military odds, and Moscow's attitude toward sales of Russian-made arms, at least to Ukraine, changed abruptly.

"They never objected before on any grounds whatsoever," said Reuben Johnson, a U.S. defense consultant who has worked for years in Russia and Ukraine. "The Russians are now stepping in and saying, 'oh, wait a minute, we don't like this anymore.' "

---

Kremlin Has History

Of Alleged Revenge

Allegations of Russian interference in supplying weapons to Kyiv predate the full invasion of neighboring Ukraine in late February.

Last year, authorities in the Czech Republic blamed Russian military intelligence for a deadly 2014 explosion at an arms depot that had been supplying Ukraine's military.

In 2016, a group of men in Kyiv kidnapped a Ukrainian arms official who had negotiated a lucrative aviation-parts deal with India, a major customer for Russia arms, according to a former Ukrainian defense-industry official. Ukrainian officials alleged that a Russian intelligence officer was behind the scheme.

In 2020, Bulgarian prosecutors charged three Russians with allegedly poisoning Bulgarian arms merchant Emilian Gebrev in 2015 with Novichok, a powerful nerve agent. Mr. Gebrev was involved in brokering arms sales to Ukraine.

Russia has denied involvement in these various attacks.

Mr. Gebrev survived the poisoning, but many in the international-arms industry have since interpreted the event as a signal to others who might contemplate doing business with Kyiv.

Dow Jones & Company, Inc.

文件 J000000020220617ei6h0000p


Bulgaria: WCC urges BSP to reconsider its decision to stop talks for new cabinet
441 字
2022 年 6 月 29 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
BSP accuses PM in resignation Kiril Petkov of making important security decisions for Bulgaria alone

WCC and DB still believe there is time to resume negotiations for new government

We do not expect BSP to return to talks, we think BSP wants to keep its pro-Russian electorate

The largest ruling party WCC hopes that socialist BSP will reconsider its new decision to stop the negotiations with WCC and DB for a new government, WCC's parliamentary group leader Andrey Gyurov said. We note that BSP leader Kornelia Ninova officially declared the withdrawal of the party from the talks due to disagreement with PM in resignation Kiril Petkov's actions to expel 70 Russian diplomats from Bulgaria. Ninova said that Petkov made the decision for the expulsion on his own without the sanction of the council of ministers and this is one of the many important geopolitical and state security decisions that Petkov has made alone, which should be no longer tolerated. BSP would return to the table of negotiations for a new government if WCC proposes a new candidate for PM and if Petkov assumes the responsibility for his actions, Ninova pointed out.

Gyurov commented that Petkov's decision for the expulsion of the Russian officials was normal and in line with the rule for proportionality, obviously referring to the argument that Bulgaria's diplomatic representation in Russia is smaller in size compared to the Russian one in Bulgaria. Gyurov believed that there is still time for the talks to be renewed.

Hristo Ivanov, leader of the third party participating in the negotiations for new government - DB, also appealed for reasonable actions, warning that the next parliament after new elections is also unlikely to be able to form a new government.

Overall, we think that BSP's official decision to quit the talks paves the way for the scheduling of snap general elections since it reduces significantly the chances that the three legislative opportunities for government formation under the current parliament will be successful. We do not think that any of the parties in their current configuration and size in the parliament would be able to get a new cabinet voted in the parliament. We do not expect BSP to change its stance as a large part of its electorate is pro-Russian and BSP risks to lose it if it agrees with PM Petkov's anti-Russian actions. We note that there is another pro-Russian party, Vuzrazhdane, which is expected to steal votes from BSP on the grounds of its firm anti-Western stance.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220630ei6t0000b


REPORT OF THE FINANCE, TRANSACTIONS AND INVESTMENTS COMMITTEE
Anonymous
6863 字
2022 年 7 月 1 日
Energy Law Journal
NRGLAW
1-15
Volume 43; Issue 2; ISSN:02709163
英文
Copyright © 2022 Energy Law Journal. Provided by ProQuest Information and Learning. All rights Reserved.
This report summarizes developments in international energy law between January 1, 2021, and June 30, 2022.·

I. U.S. and North America Energy Supply & Trade Developments

A. Executive Order 14008: Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad

In January 2021, President Biden issued an executive order intended to address climate change.1 Executive Order 14008 sets out several initiatives including making "climate change considerations" an integral part of "United States foreign policy and national security."2 The Executive Order also addresses steps to take domestically to deliver a "clean energy future" and endeavor "to achieve netzero emissions by 2050."3 Those steps include creating more clean energy infrastructure projects built by union members and accelerating the deployment of renewable energy on public lands and waters, including actions to advance offshore wind.4 The approaches outlined in the Executive Order seek to "combat the climate crisis" both at home and across the world, including proposals to rebuild infrastructure for a sustainable economy, advancement of reforestation and agriculture, and "revitalizing energy communities."5

B. The Department of Commerce

1. Inquiry into Imports of Solar Panels

On March 28, 2022, the U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) announced it is investigating whether imports of solar panels assembled in "Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam" are circumventing duties intended to limit imports of solar cells and panels from China, in violation of anti-dumping rules, which could ultimately result in retroactively applied tariffs on up to 80% of solar imports.6 "The Department of Commerce's investigation is being launched in response to a complaint filed by Auxin Solar, a photovoltaic solar manufacturer based in California's Silicon Valley."7 "Auxin Solar claims that the solar cells imported from Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam are identical to those from China that are subject to tariffs."8 The uncertainty caused by the inquiry is impacting the U.S. solar industry.9

Proponents of the DOC investigation argue that the alleged circumvention makes it impossible for U.S. based manufacturers to compete against solar panels in Asia and that increased tariffs would support domestic solar panel production. However, opponents of the DOC inquiry fear that the investigation will cause significant harm to U.S. crystalline silicone module producers, as these companies depend on imports of solar cells due to the lack of production capacity within the United States.10

2. Biden Administration's Proclamation on Tariffs

On June 6, 2022, President Biden issued a Proclamation ensuring that no new tariffs can be enforced on solar imports for 24 months to temporarily allow the importation of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells and modules from Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam free from collection of antidumping and countervailing (AD/CVD) duties or estimated duties.11 The Proclamation refers specifically to the circumvention provision,12 new investigations13 and administrative reviews,14 and paves the way for imports of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells and modules free of AD/CVD duties for 24 months, or until June 6, 2024.15

The President issued the Proclamation as the U.S. Department of Commerce (Commerce) investigated whether to impose AD/CVD duties on imports of solar cells and modules from Southeast Asia.16 The duties - that could be over 238.95% - originally targeted imports from China, but one module assembler in the United States (Auxin Solar) petitioned for expansion of the China duties, alleging that Chinese companies set up production in Southeast Asia to circumvent the AD/CVD duties by producing cells and modules with Chinese inputs.17

The China duties were imposed in 2012, but since then, supply chains have shifted, resulting in approximately 80% of imports originating from Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam, totaling over $5 billion in trade annually.18 At the same time, U.S. cell production has shut down and only solar modules are assembled domestically.19 "As the U.S. module industry has grown, they remain reliant on imported cells, leading domestic producers to openly oppose the circumvention inquiries that threaten their supply of a key component."20

II. War in Ukraine and the Aftershocks to the Oil and Natural Gas Markets

On February 24, 2022, after months of troop build-up, Russia "launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine."21 In response to Russia's attack, the United States, the European Union ("EU"), and other allied countries have imposed wide-ranging sanctions on Russia.22 As revenue from fossil fuel exports is a huge component of Russia's federal budget, many of the imposed sanctions target Russia's oil and natural gas sectors.23 But, as certain countries, especially those in central and eastern Europe, rely heavily on Russian oil and natural gas, the sanctions aim to punish Russia and deter Russian aggression in Ukraine while also trying to limit the impact of those sanctions on domestic energy security, reliability, and affordability.24 A summary of the main European Union and American oil and natural gas sanctions against Russia, and responses to those sanctions, is below.25

A. Import Bans on Russian Oil

1. United States

On March 8, 2022, amid increasing energy prices, the Biden Administration issued Executive Order 14066, which imposed an immediate ban on imports into the United States of Russian oil, liquefied natural gas, and coal.26 The executive order also prohibited any "new investments in the energy sector in the Russian Federation by a United States person."27 Although "Russia is one of the three largest crude oil producers in the world," the United States has less dependence on Russian oil than many other countries.28 In fact, "only 8% of all U.S. petroleum imports" in 2021 were from Russia ("include[ing] a 3% share of crude oil imports and [a] 20% share of petroleum product imports").29

On April 8, 2022, following up on Executive Order 14066, President Biden signed into law H.R. 6968 (Ending Importation of Russian Oil Act), which statutorily "prohibits] the importation of energy products from Russia."30 President Biden also signed into law the companion bill H.R. 7108 (Suspending Normal Trade Relations with Russia and Belarus).31

2. European Union

As compared to the United States, European countries are much more dependent on Russian oil.32 For example, in 2021, numerous European Union countries such as Slovakia, Lithuania, and Poland received over 50% of their oil imports from Russia.33

On June 3, 2022, after months of negotiations, the EU agreed to a sixth major package of sanctions, which included an embargo on Russian crude oil and petroleum products but made an exception for crude oil delivered by pipeline.34 The oil embargo did not take effect immediately, and instead will be introduced in phases.35 "Seaborne imports of Russian crude oil [are banned] as of December 5,

2022," and Russia "petroleum product imports [are banned] as of February 5,

2023."36 But, "in a compromise with [countries such as] Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic" that are dependent on Russian crude oil imports from the Druzhba pipeline, the embargo does not cover pipeline imports of Russian crude oil and petroleum products although such oil is prohibited from being resold to other EU member states.37 In addition, Bulgaria was allowed to continue importing Russian "seaborne crude oil" through the end of 2024 and Croatia was permitted to continue "import[ing] Russian vacuum gas oil (a refinery feedstock) [through] the end of 2023."38

In addition to the EU measures in the sixth sanctions package, Germany and Poland have also voluntarily agreed to halt pipeline imports of Russian crude oil by the end of 2022.39 The combined Polish and German stoppage and the European Union embargo are anticipated to cut 90% of Russian oil imports to the EU.40

3.Russian Markets

As the EU, the U.S. and certain other allied countries have shunned Russian oil; countries such as China and India have been stepping in, as global oil prices soar, to purchase additional Russian oil, often at steep discounts.41 For example, India has become a significant importer of Russian crude oil and now accounts for 18% of Russia's crude oil exports.42 While India imported "12 million barrels" of Russian oil "in all of 2021," India has already imported almost "60 million barrels of Russian oil" through mid-2022.43 China is now the single largest importer of oil from Russia, overtaking Germany.44 In addition, as compared to the first couple of months of 2022, "Russian crude [oil] export to Turkey have also doubled to 260,000 barrels per day and Bulgaria imports have also more than trebled to over 200,000 barrels per day."45

Russia's oil exports have shown to be resilient in the face of sanctions, with Russia maintaining its position as third largest oil producer in the world after Saudi Arabia and the United States.46 In fact, in the first 100 days since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Russia is estimated to have earned approximately "93 billion [euros] in revenue from fossil fuel exports," although the EU member states remain responsible for 61% of this total, "worth approximately 57 billion euros."47 In the first half of June 2022, Russia's seaborne oil exports averaged approximately 3.88 million barrels per day, which represents the highest level for such imports since May 2019.48 Crude oil prices are now approximately double the level from 2021, and with the high commodity prices, Russian state revenues from fossil fuels are actually forecasted to be higher in 2022 than last year.49

B. Export Controls

1. United States

Building upon export controls previously announced in other sectors after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, on March 3, 2022, the U.S. Department of Commerce announced stringent new export controls "targeting] Russia's oil refining sector."50 This action is intended to impede "Russia's oil refining sector," thereby limiting the revenue Russia would be able to generate through the sale of refined petroleum products, such as gasoline.51 These export controls build on existing restrictions the Department of Commerce enacted in 2014 after the Russian invasion of Crimea on "Russian deepwater oil and gas exploration and extraction industries"52

2. European Union

On March 15, 2022, as part of its fourth package of sanctions against Russia, the EU announced that it would "prohibit new investments in the Russian energy sector" and enact "comprehensive export restrictions on equipment, technology, and services for the [Russian] energy industry."53 In addition, as part of the sixth package of sanctions agreed to on June 3, 2022, the EU mandated that, after a six month phase in period, companies in the EU will be prohibited from providing shipping insurance for the transport of Russian oil.54 Considering the EU oil embargo, this action aims to hinder Russia's ability to redirect oil sales away from Europe to other markets.55

C. Russian Natural Gas

While not an issue for the United States, the EU is faced with its dependence on Russian natural gas and has taken a different approach to sanctions on Russian natural gas and has not yet placed any embargoes on the importation of natural gas from Russia.56 "Russia supplied Europe with [approximately] 40% of its natural gas [in 2021], with Germany as the continent's largest importer in 2020."57 Compared to oil, substitutes for Russian natural gas are much harder to come by.58 Europe has looked to liquid natural gas (LNG) imports from the United States to replace Russian natural gas.59 However, the shift to sourcing natural gas outside of Russia has been difficult, especially in light of the June 2022 explosion at the Freeport LNG plant in Texas, which harmed the U.S.' LNG export capacity.60

Russia has sought to leverage its natural gas position, including threats to withhold natural gas supplies, to pressure the EU on its sanctions against Russia.61 In a move to avoid EU banking sanctions, on March 31, 2022, Russian President Putin announced a decree forcing foreign buyers to "pay for Russian natural gas in roubles . . . or else have their [natural gas] supplies cut."62 European natural gas contracts primarily use euros for payment.63 Pursuant to President Putin's decree, foreign buyers would open special accounts in the Russian bank Gazprombank, and then "Gazprombank would buy rubles on behalf of the gas buyer."64 Since then, Russia has cut off natural gas supplies to certain European countries that refused to pay for gas in rubles, including EU member states "Poland, Bulgaria, the Netherlands, Denmark, and Finland."65 In addition, Russia has also been cut ting natural gas supplies flowing to Germany through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline.66 While Russia has cited maintenance and technical repairs for the Nord Stream 1 shut offs, German leaders have dismissed such assertions and argue instead that Russia is using economic pressure to try to weaken European support for Ukraine.67

With all of the natural gas shut offs, the International Monetary Fund estimates that the most-affected countries in Central and Eastern Europe, such as Hungary, the Slovak Republic, and the Czech Republic, could face "shortages of as much as 40% of gas consumption," and a "gross domestic product shrinking by up to 6%."68 The European Commission has also warned that a natural gas cut off during "winter could have a major impact on EU [member state] economies."69 Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, natural gas prices in Europe have already been soaring - with natural gas prices approximately six times higher than in 2021.70 While Russian gas exports fell about in quarter in June 2022 as compared to a year ago, earnings rose from $3.6 billion to $11.1 billion.71

In preparation for further cuts to the natural gas supply, the EU energy ministers, except for Hungary, have agreed to cuts in natural gas consumption.72 While the energy plan starts as "a voluntary 15% reduction in gas consumption across the bloc" from August 2022 through March 2023, those reductions could become mandatory if faced with extreme gas storages and after the activation of Union Alert system by a "qualified majority vote."73 However, the mandatory cuts are subject to multiple exceptions, including for countries that are not interconnected with neighboring countries, and for countries that "can demonstrate they use their [LNG] infrastructure to import from non-Russian suppliers" and will export natural gas to other EU member states as possible.74 In addition, countries can also request exemptions from the mandatory cuts based on certain enumerated reasons, including for surpassing gas storage targets.75

D.Nord Stream 2 Pipeline

The Nord Stream 2 Gas Pipeline ("Nord Stream 2") is an approximately $11 billion, 1,200-kilometer offshore natural gas pipeline connecting Greifswald in northeastern Germany to Ust-Luga in northwestern Russia.76 The pipeline crosses the Baltic Sea (bypassing Ukraine) and was intended to double the flow of natural gas between Russia and Germany.77 Nord Stream 2 lies next to the already operational Nord Stream 1 pipeline.78 Gazprom, the Russian state-owned energy company, is the upstream owner of Nord Stream 2.79

Nord Stream 2 has been controversial since its inception, with the United States and numerous Eastern European countries opposing the pipeline over concerns that Nord Stream 2 would further deepen European dependence on Russian energy.80

Although construction on Nord Stream 2 finished in September 2021 and operations were expected to start in 2022, the German energy regulator temporarily halted the certification process needed to start operating the pipeline in November 2021, and then, in response to Russia's actions towards Ukraine, suspended the process on February 22, 2022, after German Chancellor Olaf Scholz withdrew an official opinion that the pipeline did not pose a threat to supply security.81

The following day, the Biden Administration announced increased economic sanctions on Nord Stream 2, including sanctions on its parent company Nord Stream 2 AG and its chief executive officer.82 Nord Stream 2 has since filed for bankruptcy in Switzerland.83

III. Climate Change: Impacts and Adaptation

The international agenda has recognized climate change as an urgent matter since the signing of the United Nations Framework on Climate Change (UNFCC) in 1992.84 The UNFCC established an international environmental treaty where 154 state members agreed to adapt their national policies and regulations to reduce greenhouse gases and develop measures to minimize the effects of climate change.85 Since the UNFCC, the international climate change agenda has relied on the conclusions of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC).86 The IPCC is the United Nations body for assessing the science related to climate change and provides scientific information that governments across the world can use to develop climate policies.87 The IPCC has issued a series of working group reports that discuss the science behind climate change and methodology reports that address greenhouse gas emissions.88

A. Paris Agreement Greenhouse Gas Emissions Goals

The First IPCC Report, published in 1990, stated that human activities may be changing the climate of the globe through a greenhouse effect, by past and "continuing emissions of carbon dioxide" causing the "temperature of the Earth's surface to increase."89 This information formed the basis for the UNFCC.90 Likewise, the information released by the Fifth IPCC Report (2014) stating that "the temperature change . . . can be kept to less than 2°C relative to pre-industrial levels,"91 led state members, in the 2015 Paris Agreement92, to compromise to "hold[] the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and [to] pursue[] efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C above pre-industrial levels."93 This goal remains in effect.94

The Sixth IPCC Report (2021) stated that significant changes to reduce greenhouse emissions need to be made.95 This information provided support for the Twenty-Sixth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.96 This conference is commonly referred to as COP26.97

B. COP26

COP26 took place in Glasgow, United Kingdom, from October 31-November 13, 2021.98 At COP26, state members agreed to the (non-legally binding) Glasgow Climate Pact (COP26).99 The most significant outcomes of CoP26 are detailed below.

1. Emissions Reduction

State members reaffirmed the Paris Agreement temperature goal.100 They "recognize[d] that [the] impacts of climate change will be much lower at the temperature increase of 1.5 °C compared with 2 °C, and resolve[d] to pursue efforts to limit the increase of temperature" to such level.101 This results in a rapid reduction of global greenhouse gas emissions to achieve "net zero [by] mid-century."102

To make the transition towards a low-emissions state, members agreed to scale up the deployment of clean power generation and energy efficiency measures, making efforts to "phase-down" coal power and "phase-out" inefficient fossil fuel subsidies.103 Thus far, the U.S., Japan and Canada have submitted climate targets before COP26, and India is preparing to submit new climate goals in September 2022.104

2. China and the United States Substantive Cooperation

The U.S. and China engaged in "The U.S.-China Joint Glasgow Declaration on Enhancing Climate Action in the 2020s" to avoid catastrophic impacts of climate change and strengthen implementation of the Paris Agreement goals.105 The two countries agreed to cooperate on regulatory frameworks that reduce emissions and develop decarbonization and electrification policies.106 The declaration also addresses key areas for circular economies, green designs, direct air capture and Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage technologies.107 More broadly, the U.S. and China agreed to reduce methane emissions as well as carbon dioxide.108 For such purposes, the United States announced the "U.S. Methane Emissions Reduction Action Plan" as well as its goal to reach 100% carbon pollution-free electricity by 2035, and China stated its intention to develop a "National Action Plan on methane"109 and a "phase down coal consumption during the 15th Five Year Plan."110

3. Developing Country Assistance

In continuation of existing compromises under the Paris Agreement, state members pledged to significantly support developing countries, among others, through financial resources to implement mitigation and adaptation measures.111 Moreover, they recognized that the previous goal to mobilize $100 billion per year by 2020 has not been met and agreed upon to increase economic support beyond $100 billion per year through 2025.112

4. Countries Pledge to Stop Deforestation by 2030

Previous efforts to end deforestation have resulted in the "Glasgow Leaders' Declaration on Forests and Land Use," where 141 countries agreed on the "sustainable management of forests."113 These countries committed to work to reverse forest loss and land degradation by 2030, while making efforts to conserve and restore forest; facilitate policies that promote sustainable development, reduce vulnerability in rural livelihoods, "redesign agricultural policies," and "reaffirm international financial commitments."114

Twelve governments committed $12 billion to fight deforestation and private companies pledged $7.2 billion which included $1.7 billion for Indigenous peoples.115 Likewise, more than "30 financial institutions . . . vowed to stop investing in companies responsible for deforestation."116

5. Financial Organizations Backing Clean Technology

The Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero (The Alliance) was launched in April 2021 to provide a forum for leading financial institutions to accelerate the transition to a net-zero global economy in the Paris Agreement context.117 Accordingly, 450 financial organizations agreed to support clean technology development and "finance away from fossil fuel-burning."118 It is estimated that the Alliance could "deliver as much as $100 trillion of financing to help" a cleaner transition by 2050.119

Finally, the COP26 stated as urgent that "operating entities of the Financial Mechanism, multilateral development banks and other financial institutions . . . scale up investments in climate action"120 and "accelerate the alignment of their financing activities with the goals of the Paris Agreement."121

C. Further Meetings on Climate Change

The Egyptian government will host the next Conference of the Parties (COP27) in November 2022 and "has promised to make climate finance a central theme of the gathering."122 State members met in Bonn, Germany on December 6, 2021, and June 6, 2022 to address "technical issues and to prepare decisions for adoption" at COP27.123

On June 2, 2022, the United Nations "Stockholm+50" Conference took place.124 The four plenary sessions featured calls for bold actions to accelerate the implementation of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.125

D. Renewable Energy Developments in Africa and Latin America.

1. Africa

In 2022, several solar developments had been proposed in South Africa.126 Among them: (a) a request of the Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Program to develop 1,000 MW on solar capacity; (b) an approved proposal by the National Energy Regulator to develop 200 MW of solar energy by Cape Town-based energy firm, SOLA Group; (c) a three-project plan to deploy up to 175 MW of solar capacity across the Mining firm, Sibanye-Stillwater sites; and, (d) a commitment of R2.3 billion by African Development Bank to help fund towards Redstone concentrated solar power project in the Northern Cape province.127

2. Latin America

A quarter of Latin America's primary energy comes from renewable energy, mostly hydropower.128 In 2021, Latin America installed more than "16.5 GW of . . . renewable capacity" and it is estimated that 13 GW of solar will be produced in 2022.129

Among some of the solar projects to be implemented are (a) "the supply and installation of photovoltaic equipment and internal installations in public buildings of 19 provinces of Argentina;" (b) A-4 2022 new energy auction [in Brazil], with 1894 registered projects approved to participate . . . (around 75,250 MW) including wind, photovoltaic, hydroelectric and biomass thermoelectric plants;" (c) 24 MW through "Solar Project Helios" and Grenergy Renovables in Colombia.130

* The Finance, Transactions and Investments Steering Committee thanks Jennifer Mersing, Bertha Silva, and Annette Moreno for their contributions to this report.

1. Exec. Order No. 14,008, 86 Fed. Reg. 7,619 (Feb. 1, 2021).

2. Id.

3. Id.

4. FACT SHEET: President Biden Takes Executive Actions to Tackle the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad, Create Jobs, and Restore Scientific Integrity Across Federal Government, White House (Jan. 27, 2021), https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/27/fact-sheet-president-biden-takesexecutive-actions-to-tackle-the-climate-crisis-at-home-and-abroad-create-jobs-and-restore-scientific-integrityacross-federal-government/[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/27/fact-sheet-president-biden-takesexecutive-actions-to-tackle-the-climate-crisis-at-home-and-abroad-create-jobs-and-restore-scientific-integrityacross-federal-government/].

5. Id.

6. George Strobel, Department of Commerce Decision Puts Fate of U.S. Solar Industry in Jeopardy, Forbes (May 27, 2022), https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesfinancecouncil/2022/05/27/department-of-commerce-decision-puts-fate-of-us-solar-industry-in-jeopardy/?sh=776548b4a67b[https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesfinancecouncil/2022/05/27/department-of-commerce-decision-puts-fate-of-us-solar-industry-in-jeopardy/?sh=776548b4a67b].

7. Peter Maloney, Commerce Department to Investigate Solar Imports, Am. PUB. POWER Ass'N (Mar. 29, 2022), https://www.publicpower.org/periodical/article/commerce-department-investigate-solar-imports[https://www.publicpower.org/periodical/article/commerce-department-investigate-solar-imports].

8. Id.

9. Strobel, supra note 6.

10. IdU.S. Department of Commerce Investigation of Solar Panel Imports Puts Solar Projects at Risk, McGuire Woods (Apr. 15, 2022), https://www.mcguirewoods.com/client-resources/Alerts/2022/4/us-department-commerce-investigation-solar-panel-imports-puts-solar-projects-risk[https://www.mcguirewoods.com/client-resources/Alerts/2022/4/us-department-commerce-investigation-solar-panel-imports-puts-solar-projects-risk].

11. See Proclamation No. 10414, 87 FR 35,067 (June 6, 2022) (citing Tariff Act of 1930 § 318(a), 19 U.S.C. § 1318(a) (1930) to grant the Secretary of Commerce additional authority to respond to the issues raised in the Proclamation).

12. 19 U.S.C. § 1677j (1930).

13. 19 U.S.C. § 1671 (2012). See 19 U.S.C. § 1673 (1994).

14. 19 U.S.C. § 1675 (2016).

15. See Proclamation No. 10414, supra note 11.

16. Norton Rose Fulbright, Tariffs, Inflation and Other Challenges (2022), https://www.projectfinance.law/media/5762/pfn_0622a.pdf[https://www.projectfinance.law/media/5762/pfn_0622a.pdf].

17. Id. at 9.

18. Id. at 5, 9.

19 . Id.

20.President Biden Allows Duty-Free Importation of Solar Panels from Southeast Asia and Funding for Domestic Manufacturing, Akin GUMP (June 10, 2022), https://www.akingump.com/en/news-insights/president[https://www.akingump.com/en/news-insights/president]- biden-allows-duty-free-importation-of-solar-panels-from-southeast-asia-and-funding-for-domestic-manufacturing.html.

21. Russia has launched full-scale invasion of Ukraine, Kyiv says, REUTERS (Feb. 23, 2022, 10:35 PM), https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-has-launched-full-scale-invasion-ukraine-kyiv-says-2022-02-24/[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/russia-has-launched-full-scale-invasion-ukraine-kyiv-says-2022-02-24/].

22. FACT SHEET: Joined by Allies and Partners, the United States Imposes Devastating Costs on Russia, WHITE House (Feb. 24, 2022), https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/24/factsheet-joined-by-allies-and-partners-the-united-states-imposes-devastating-costs-on-russia/[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/24/factsheet-joined-by-allies-and-partners-the-united-states-imposes-devastating-costs-on-russia/].

23. FACT SHEET: United States Bans Imports of Russian Oil, Liquefied Natural Gas, and Coal, WHITE House (Mar. 8, 2022), https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/08/fact-sheetunited-states-bans-imports-of-russian-oil-liquefied-natural-gas-and-coal/[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/08/fact-sheetunited-states-bans-imports-of-russian-oil-liquefied-natural-gas-and-coal/].

24. Mike Fulwood, Russian gas to the EU: to sanction or not to sanction, Oxford INST. FOR ENERGY STUD. (Apr. 2022), https://www.oxfordenergy.org/publications/russian-gas-to-the-eu-to-sanction-or-not-tosanction/[https://www.oxfordenergy.org/publications/russian-gas-to-the-eu-to-sanction-or-not-tosanction/].

25. See Russia's War on Ukraine: A Sanctions Timeline, PETERSON INST. FOR INT'L Econ., https://www.piie.com/blogs/realtime-economic-issues-watch/russias-war-ukraine-sanctions-timeline[https://www.piie.com/blogs/realtime-economic-issues-watch/russias-war-ukraine-sanctions-timeline] (last updated Oct. 7, 2022).

26. Exec. Order No. 14,066, 87 Fed. Reg. 13,625 (Mar. 8, 2022).

27. Id.

28. The United States Imports More Petroleum Products Than Crude Oil From Russia, U.S. ENERGY INFO. Admin. (Mar. 22, 2022), https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=51738[https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=51738].

29. Id.

30. Ending Importation of Russian Oil Act, H.R. 6968, 117th Cong. (2022).

31. Suspending Normal Trade Relations with Russia and Belarus Act, H.R. Res. 7108, 117th Cong. (2022).

32. Charlotte Edmond, How much energy does the EU import from Russia?, WORLD Econ. F. (Mar. 17, 2022), https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/03/eu-energy-russia-oil-gas-import/[https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2022/03/eu-energy-russia-oil-gas-import/].

33. Infographic: How much of your country's oil comes from Russia?, AL Jazeera, (Mar. 10, 2022), https://www.aļjazeera.com/news/2022/3/10/infographic-how-much-of-your-countrys-oil-comes-from-russia-interactive[https://www.aļjazeera.com/news/2022/3/10/infographic-how-much-of-your-countrys-oil-comes-from-russia-interactive].

34. Russia's aggression against Ukraine: EU adopts sixth package of sanctions, COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN Union (June 3, 2022), https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/06/03/russias-aggression-against-ukraine-eu-adopts-sixth-package-of-sanctions/[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/press-releases/2022/06/03/russias-aggression-against-ukraine-eu-adopts-sixth-package-of-sanctions/].

35. Id.

36. Ben Cahill, European Union Imposes Partial Ban on Russian Oil, CTR. FOR STRATEGIC & INT'L STUD. (June 8, 2022), https://www.csis.org/analysis/european-union-imposes-partial-ban-russian-oil[https://www.csis.org/analysis/european-union-imposes-partial-ban-russian-oil].

37. Id.

38. Council Regulation 2022/879 of June 3, 2022, Amending Regulation (EU) No 833/2014 Concerning Restrictive Measures in View of Russia's Actions Destabilizing the Situation in Ukraine, 2022 O.J. (L 153) 57; see Cahill, supra note 36.

39. Cahill, supra note 36.

40. Id. See Russian oil deliveries via the southern Druzhba pipeline halted, ENERDATA (Aug. 10, 2022), https://www.enerdata.net/publications/daily-energy-news/russian-oil-deliveries-southern-druzhba-pipelinehalted.html#:~:text=When[https://www.enerdata.net/publications/daily-energy-news/russian-oil-deliveries-southern-druzhba-pipelinehalted.html#:~:text=When].

41. Ben Cahill, Big Challenges for Russian Oil Price Cap, Ctr. FOR STRATEGIC & INT'L STUD. (Sept. 9, 2022), https://www.csis.org/analysis/big-challenges-russian-oil-price-cap[https://www.csis.org/analysis/big-challenges-russian-oil-price-cap].

42. Manoj Sharma, Russia now accounts for 18% of India's crude imports; up from 1%, FORTUNE INDIA (June 13, 2022), https://www.fortuneindia.com/macro/indias-crude-oil-imports-from-russia-rise-to-18-from-1before-ukraine-war/108574[https://www.fortuneindia.com/macro/indias-crude-oil-imports-from-russia-rise-to-18-from-1before-ukraine-war/108574].

43. India's imports of Russian Oil Grow, ASSOCIATED PRESS (June 14, 2022), https://www.nwaonline.com/news/2022/jun/14/indias-imports-of-russian-oil-grow/[https://www.nwaonline.com/news/2022/jun/14/indias-imports-of-russian-oil-grow/].

44. India and China increasingly welcome shunned Russian oil, PBS (June 13, 2022, 8:33 AM), https://www.pbs.org/newshour/world/india-and-china-increasingly-welcome-shunned-russian-oil[https://www.pbs.org/newshour/world/india-and-china-increasingly-welcome-shunned-russian-oil]; see Lauri Myllyvirta et al., Financing Putin's War: Fossil Fuel Imports from Russia in the First 100 Days of the Invasion, CTR. FOR Rsch. ON Energy and Clean air (June 12, 2022), https://energyandcleanair.org/publication/russianfossil-exports-first100-days[https://energyandcleanair.org/publication/russianfossil-exports-first100-days]

45. Robert Perkins, Russian seaborne oil exports at 3-year highs despite sanctions shake-up, S&P GLOBAL (June 16, 2022), https://www.spglobal.com/commodityinsights/en/market-insights/latest-news/oil/061522-russia-seaborne-oil-exports-at-3-year-highs-despite-sanctions-shakeup#:~:text=In%20the%20first%20two%20weeks,million%20b%2Fd%20in%20February[https://www.spglobal.com/commodityinsights/en/market-insights/latest-news/oil/061522-russia-seaborne-oil-exports-at-3-year-highs-despite-sanctions-shakeup#:~:text=In%20the%20first%20two%20weeks,million%20b%2Fd%20in%20February].

46. Id.

47. Myllyvirta et al., supra note 44, at 2.

48. Perkins, supra note 45.

49. Victor Jack & Sarah Anne Aarup, Western sanctions sting but don't devastate Russia's economy, POLITICO (July 26, 2022, 4:44 PM), https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/07/western-sanctions-stingbut-dont-devastate-russias-economy-00048034?source=email[https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/07/western-sanctions-stingbut-dont-devastate-russias-economy-00048034?source=email].

50. Commerce Takes Further Actions to Target Russian Strategic Industries and Punish Enablers of Aggression, U.S. DEP'T OF Com. (Mar. 4, 2022), https://www.commerce.gov/news/press-releases/2022/03/commerce-takes-further-actions-target-russian-strategic-industries-and[https://www.commerce.gov/news/press-releases/2022/03/commerce-takes-further-actions-target-russian-strategic-industries-and].

51. Id.

52. Id.

53. See Russia's military aggression against Ukraine: fourth EU package of sectoral and individual measures, COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (Mar. 15, 2022), https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/pressreleases/2022/03/15/russia-s-military-aggression-against-ukraine-fourth-eu-package-of-sectoral-and-individualmeasures/[https://www.consilium.europa.eu/en/press/pressreleases/2022/03/15/russia-s-military-aggression-against-ukraine-fourth-eu-package-of-sectoral-and-individualmeasures/].

54. COUNCIL OF the European Union, supra note 34; Jackie Northam, The EU moves to bar insurance on ships carrying Russian oil. It'd be a big blow, NPR (June 3, 2022, 5:11 PM), https://www.npr.org/2022/06/03/1102990015/the-eu-will-likely-bar-insurance-on-ships-carrying-russian-oilitd-be-a-big-blow[https://www.npr.org/2022/06/03/1102990015/the-eu-will-likely-bar-insurance-on-ships-carrying-russian-oilitd-be-a-big-blow].

55. Cahill, supra note 36. See Northam, supra note 54.

56.Ciara Nugent, Why Sanctions on Russia Aren't Targeting Oil and Gas, TIME (Feb. 25, 2022, 2:55 PM), https://time.com/6151493/russia-oil-gas-embargo-sanctions-ukraine/[https://time.com/6151493/russia-oil-gas-embargo-sanctions-ukraine/].

57. Tom Espiner, EU told to prepare for Russian gas shut-off, BBC NEWS (July 20, 2022), https://www.bbc.com/news/business-62230201[https://www.bbc.com/news/business-62230201].

58. Clifford Krauss, Europe's Quest to Replace Russian Gas Faces Plenty of Hurdles, N.Y. TIMES (May 5, 2022), https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/05/business/energy-environment/natural-gas-europe-russiaukraine.html#:~:text=Climate%20concerns%2C%20investor%20reticence%20and,North%20Africa%20and%20the%20Mediterranean[https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/05/business/energy-environment/natural-gas-europe-russiaukraine.html#:~:text=Climate%20concerns%2C%20investor%20reticence%20and,North%20Africa%20and%20the%20Mediterranean].

59. Liz Hampton et al., Freeport LNG plant blast adds to strain on global supplies, REUTERS (June 9, 2022, 4:56 AM), https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/explosion-hits-freeport-lng-plant-us-natgas-pricesplunge-2022-06-08/[https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/explosion-hits-freeport-lng-plant-us-natgas-pricesplunge-2022-06-08/]; U.S. liquefied natural gas exports to Europe increased during the first 4 months of 2022, U.S. ENERGY Info. Admin (June 7, 2022), https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=52659#:~:text=During%20the%20first%20four%20months,EIA%20estimates%20for%20April%202022[https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=52659#:~:text=During%20the%20first%20four%20months,EIA%20estimates%20for%20April%202022].

60. Liz Hampton et al., supra note 59; U.S. liquefied natural gas exports to Europe increased during the first 4 months of 2022, supra note 59.

61. Sam Meredith, Russian has cut offgas supplies to Europe indefinitely. Here's what you need to know, CNBC, https://www.cnbc.com/2022/09/06/energy-crisis-why-has-russia-cut-off-gas-supplies-to-europe.html[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/09/06/energy-crisis-why-has-russia-cut-off-gas-supplies-to-europe.html] (last updated Sept. 6, 2022, 8:30 PM).

62. Joseph Nasr & Mark Trevelyan, Putin tells Europe: Pay in roubles or we'll cut off your gas, REUTERS (Mar. 31, 2022, 3:03 PM), https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/russia-sets-deadline-rouble-gas-paymentseurope-calls-it-blackmail-2022-03-31/[https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/russia-sets-deadline-rouble-gas-paymentseurope-calls-it-blackmail-2022-03-31/].

63. Id.

64. Id.

65. Espiner, supra note 57; Jorge Liboreiro, Which EU countries have been totally or partially cut off from Russian gas?, EURONEWS (July 7, 2022), https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/07/07/which-eu-countries-have-been-totally-or-partially-cut-off-from-russian-gas#:~:text=In%20late%20April%2C%20Poland%20and,pay%20their%20bills%20in%20roubles[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/07/07/which-eu-countries-have-been-totally-or-partially-cut-off-from-russian-gas#:~:text=In%20late%20April%2C%20Poland%20and,pay%20their%20bills%20in%20roubles].

66. See Russia to cut gas through Nord Stream 1 to 20% of capacity, ASSOCIATED PRESS (July 25, 2022) https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-germany-government-and-politics1acacc374cd6d9bc860de00a73b8abee[https://apnews.com/article/russia-ukraine-germany-government-and-politics1acacc374cd6d9bc860de00a73b8abee].

67. Id.

68. Mark Flanagan et al., How a Russian Natural Gas Cutoff Could Weigh on Europe's Economies, IMF (July 19, 2022) https://blogs.imf.org/2022/07/19/how-a-russian-natural-gas-cutoff-could-weigh-on-europeseconomies[https://blogs.imf.org/2022/07/19/how-a-russian-natural-gas-cutoff-could-weigh-on-europeseconomies].

69. Espiner, supra note 57.

70. Jack & Aarup, supra note 49.

71. Id.

72. Jorge Liboreiro & Alice Tidey, Energy ministers reach deal on EU-wide 15% gas reduction plan, EURONEWS (July 26, 2022) https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/07/26/energy-ministers-reach-deal-oneu-wide-gas-reduction-plan[https://www.euronews.com/my-europe/2022/07/26/energy-ministers-reach-deal-oneu-wide-gas-reduction-plan].

73. Id.

74. Id.

75. America Hernandez, Countries agree on mandatory gas cut regulation, POLITICO (July 26, 2022, 2:17 PM), https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/07/countries-agree-on-mandatory-gas-cut-regulation-document-00047964?source=email[https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/07/countries-agree-on-mandatory-gas-cut-regulation-document-00047964?source=email]; Liboreiro & Tidey, supra note 72.

76. Holly Ellyatt, Nord Stream 2 cost $11 billion to build. Now, the Russia-Europe gas pipeline is unused and abandoned, CNBC, https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/31/the-nord-stream-2-pipeline-lies-abandoned-afterrussia-invaded-ukraine.html[https://www.cnbc.com/2022/03/31/the-nord-stream-2-pipeline-lies-abandoned-afterrussia-invaded-ukraine.html] (last updated Mar. 31, 2022, 2:28 AM). See Russia's Nord Stream 2 Natural Gas Pipeline to Germany Halted, CONG. RSCH. SERV., https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF11138[https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/IF/IF11138] (last updated Mar. 10, 2022) (providing more details on Nord Stream 2).

77. Cong. Rsch. Serv., supra note 76.

78. Id.

79. Id.

80. Id.

81. Cong. Rsch. Serv., supra note 76.

82. Id.

83. Id.

84. U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change, Mar. 21, 1994, 1771 U.N.T.S. 165, S. Treaty Doc. 102-38.

85. Id.

86. History of the IPCC, INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE, https://www.ipcc.ch/about/history/[https://www.ipcc.ch/about/history/].

87. Id.

88. See Working Groups, INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE, https://www.ipcc.ch/working-groups/[https://www.ipcc.ch/working-groups/].

89. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Climate Change: The IPCC Scientific ASSESSMENT XII (2018), https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/03/ipcc_far_wg_I_full_report.pdf[https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/03/ipcc_far_wg_I_full_report.pdf].

90. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Summary for Policymakers 4 (2018), https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/02/ipcc_wg3_ar5_summary-for-policymakers.pdf[https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2018/02/ipcc_wg3_ar5_summary-for-policymakers.pdf]. See Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, IPCC Factsheet: Timeline - highlights of IPCC HISTORY (July 2021), https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2021/07/AR6_FS_timeline.pdf[https://www.ipcc.ch/site/assets/uploads/2021/07/AR6_FS_timeline.pdf].

91. Summary for policymakers, supra note 90, at 10.

92. Paris Agreement art. 2(1)(a), Apr. 22, 2016, 3156 U.N.T.S. 27.

93. Id.

94. Id.

95. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, Climate Change 2021: The Physical SCIENCE Basis (2021), https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/downloads/report/IPCC_AR6_WGI_FullReport.pdf[https://www.ipcc.ch/report/ar6/wg1/downloads/report/IPCC_AR6_WGI_FullReport.pdf].

96. United Nations, Report of the Conference of the Parties Serving on its twenty-sixth SESSION, HELD IN GLASGOW FROM 31 OCTOBER TO 13 NOVEMBER 2021 PART TWO: ACTION TAKEN BY THE Conference of the Parties at its twenty-sixth session (Mar. 8, 2022), https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/cma2021_10_add1_adv.pdf[https://unfccc.int/sites/default/files/resource/cma2021_10_add1_adv.pdf].

97. United Nations, COP26 The Glasgow Climate Pact, https://ukcop26.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/COP26-Presidency-Outcomes-The-Climate-Pact.pdf[https://ukcop26.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/COP26-Presidency-Outcomes-The-Climate-Pact.pdf].

98. United Nations, Report of the Conference of the Parties Serving as the meeting of the parties TO THE PARIS AGREEMENT ON ITS THIRD SESSION, HELD IN GLASGOW FROM 31 OCTOBER TO 13 November 2022 Part One: Proceedings (Mar. 8, 2022), https://unfccc.int/documents/460942[https://unfccc.int/documents/460942].

99. Id. at 14.

100. Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties to the Paris Agreement Decision 1/CMA.3 (March 8, 2022).

101. Id. at ¶ 21.

102. Id. at ¶ 22.

103. Id. at ¶ 36.

104. India preparing to submit new climate targets to UN in September, Straits Times (July 13, 2022), https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/south-asia/india-preparing-to-submit-new-climate-targets-to-un-in-september[https://www.straitstimes.com/asia/south-asia/india-preparing-to-submit-new-climate-targets-to-un-in-september].

105. U.S.-China Joint Glasgow Declaration on Enhancing Climate Action in the 2020s, U.S. Dep'T OF STATE (Nov. 10, 2021), https://www.state.gov/u-s-china-joint-glasgow-declaration-on-enhancing-climate-action-in-the-2020s/[https://www.state.gov/u-s-china-joint-glasgow-declaration-on-enhancing-climate-action-in-the-2020s/].

106 . Id.

107. Id.

108. Id.

109. U.S. DEP'T OF State, supra note 105.

110. Id.

111. The Glasgow climate pact, annotated, WASH. POST (Nov. 13, 2021), https://www.washingtonpost.com/climate-environment/interactive/2021/glasgow-climate-pact-full-text-cop26/[https://www.washingtonpost.com/climate-environment/interactive/2021/glasgow-climate-pact-full-text-cop26/].

112. Id.

113. Dr. Adriana Erthal Abdenur, The Glasgow Leaders' Declaration on Forests: Déja Vu or Solid Restart?, United Nations Univ., Ctr. for Pol'y Rsch. 1 (2022), https://collections.unu.edu/eserv/UNU:8669/COP26ForestGovernance.pdf[https://collections.unu.edu/eserv/UNU:8669/COP26ForestGovernance.pdf].

114. Glasgow Leaders' Declaration on Forests and Land Use, UN CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE UK 2021 (Feb. 11, 2021), https://ukcop26.org/glasgow-leaders-declaration-on-forests-and-land-use/[https://ukcop26.org/glasgow-leaders-declaration-on-forests-and-land-use/].

115. Chloé Farand, Donor nations commit $1.7bn to help indigenous people protect forests, CLIMATE HOME News (Feb. 11, 2021, 4:54 PM), https://www.climatechangenews.com/2021/11/02/donor-nations-commit1-7bn-help-indigenous-people-protect-forests/[https://www.climatechangenews.com/2021/11/02/donor-nations-commit1-7bn-help-indigenous-people-protect-forests/].

116. Global Leaders Pledge to End Deforestation by 2030, N.Y. TIMES, https://www.nytimes.com/2021/11/02/climate/cop26-deforestation.html[https://www.nytimes.com/2021/11/02/climate/cop26-deforestation.html] (last updated Nov. 10, 2021).

117. About Us, Glasgow Fin. All. for Net Zero, https://www.gfanzero.com/about/[https://www.gfanzero.com/about/].

118. Angus King-Davies et al., Summary of COP26 Deal: The Glasgow Climate Pact, TENEO (Nov. 15, 2021), https://www.teneo.com/summary-of-cop26-deal-the-glasgow-climate-pact/[https://www.teneo.com/summary-of-cop26-deal-the-glasgow-climate-pact/].

119. Id.

120. Part Two: Action taken By the Conference of the Parties at its twenty-sixth session, supra note 96, at Art. V, ¶ 47.

121. Id. at Art. V, ¶ 55.

122. Zack Colman & Karl Mathiesen, Hype or hope? The rich country strategy to pay nations to ditch coal, PoliticoPro (Jun. 15, 2022), https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/06/hype-or-hope-the-rich-countrystrategy-to-pay-nations-to-ditch-coal-00039418[https://subscriber.politicopro.com/article/2022/06/hype-or-hope-the-rich-countrystrategy-to-pay-nations-to-ditch-coal-00039418].

123. Bonn Climate Change Conference Makes Progress in Several Technical Areas, But Much Work Remains, United Nations Climate Change (Jun. 16, 2022), https://unfccc.int/news/bonn-climate-change-conference-makes-progress-in-several-technical-areas-but-much-work-remains[https://unfccc.int/news/bonn-climate-change-conference-makes-progress-in-several-technical-areas-but-much-work-remains].

124. Summary of Stockholm+50, 2-3 June 2022, INT'L INST. FOR SUSTAINABLE DEV. (June 6, 2022), https://enb.iisd.org/stockholm50-summary[https://enb.iisd.org/stockholm50-summary].

125 . Id.

126. Top 5 Solar Developments in South Africa, ENERGY Cap. & POWER, https://energycapitalpower.com/south-africa-solar-energy-2022-projects/[https://energycapitalpower.com/south-africa-solar-energy-2022-projects/].

127. Id.

128. Latin America and the Caribbean, INT'L RENEWABLE ENERGY AGENCY, https://www.irena.org/lac[https://www.irena.org/lac].

129. Leila Garcia de Fonseca, Why 2022 will be a record year for Latin American power and renewables, WOOD Mackenzie (Jan. 21, 2021), https://www.woodmac.com/news/opimon/why-2022-will-be-a-record-yearfor-latin-american-power-and-renewables-2022-outlook/[https://www.woodmac.com/news/opimon/why-2022-will-be-a-record-yearfor-latin-american-power-and-renewables-2022-outlook/].

130. Erick Hernández Gallego, Renewable Energy in Latin America Updates May 2022, Nat'L Law Rev. (May 11, 2022), https://www.natlawreview.com/article/renewable-energy-latin-america-updates-may-2022[https://www.natlawreview.com/article/renewable-energy-latin-america-updates-may-2022].

Energy Bar Association

文件 NRGLAW0020230104ei710000c


Yesterday in Brief for July 5, 2022
3401 字
2022 年 7 月 5 日 08:38 GMT
Interfax: Russia & CIS General Newswire
DANWS
英文
© 2022 Interfax-America, Inc.
Digest of headline news from July 4 to 11:35 a.m. Moscow time on July 5:

BUSINESS & FINANCE

*** RUSSIAN STOCK MARKET OPENS ON TUESDAY WITH MIXED DYNAMICS IN BLUE CHIPS

The Russian stock market has opened on Tuesday with mixed dynamics in blue chips on the back of improving sentiment on global equities markets, lower oil prices, and news on the latest sanctions from Japan against Russia; and the Moscow Exchange and RTS indices have risen 0.7% -1.1% in the first minute of trading owing to the shares of Rusal and Norilsk Nickel surging on news of negotiations on a possible merger, experts at the Interfax Center for Economic Analysis said.

The benchmark MOEX Russia stock index was up 0.2% at 2209.09 by 10:12 a.m. Moscow time; and the RTS index was up 0.46% at 1254.73. Prices for most blue chips on the Moscow Exchange have risen or declined up to 11.8%.

There have been gains among ruble-priced benchmark stocks on the Moscow Exchange for UC Rusal (+11.8%), VTB (+0.9%), Yandex (+0.6%), TCS Group Holding receipts (+0.6%), Sberbank (+0.5%), Sistema (+0.3%), Novatek (+0.3%), Magnit (+0.3%), Aeroflot (+0.2%), Sberbank prefs (+0.2%), Gazprom Neft (+0.2%), and Gazprom (+0.1%).

There have been declines for Inter RAO (-1.7%), Polymetal (-1.3%), Tatneft (-1.1%), NLMK (-1%), Alrosa (-0.6%), Severstal (-0.6%), Lukoil (-0.5%), Moscow Exchange (-0.5%), Surgutneftegas (-0.5%), Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel Works (MMK) (-0.5%), Polyus (-0.5%), Ozon receipts (-0.4%), MTS (-0.3%), Norilsk Nickel (-0.2%), Rosneft (-0.1%), and Surgutneftegas prefs (-0.1%).

*** RUBLE DECLINES AGAINST DOLLAR, EURO AT OPEN IN ANTICIPATION OF NEWS ON MEASURES TO NORMALIZE EXCHANGE RATE

The dollar and the euro have risen against the ruble on the Moscow Exchange on Tuesday, with the Russian currency having declined against the bi-currency basket in anticipation of news on the measures taken by the Russian government to normalize the exchange rate.

The dollar began trading within the range of 55.29-55.79 rubles/$1, and was up 55 kopecks from the previous closing to 55.79 rubles/$1 after the first minute of trading; the euro was up 21.75 kopecks to 57.9675 rubles/EUR1; and the bi-currency basket ($0.55 and EUR0.45) has risen 40.04 kopecks to 56.77 rubles.

*** THERE IS DECLINE IN SOME INDUSTRIES, BUT IT HASN'T REACHED CRITICAL LEVELS ANYWHERE - RUSSIAN PM

Russian industry demonstrated stability amid sanctions, there is a decline in some industries, but it has not reached critical levels anywhere, Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said at a plenary session of the Innoprom 2022 international exhibition.

"Wehave done some good work, it has largely enabled our industry to withstand and avoid the dramatic scenarios that our opponents predicted and expected. Yes, there is some decline in some industries, but we have not come close to critical levels anywhere," he said.

"On the contrary, growth is accelerating in electronics, the pharmaceutical industry, and other industries," Mishustin said.

*** KAZAKH BUSINESSES CAN REPLACE COMPANIES FROM UNFRIENDLY STATES ON RUSSIAN MARKET - RUSSIAN PM

Kazakh businesses can replace foreign companies on the Russian market from unfriendly states that left Russia, Russian Foreign Minister Mikhail Mishustin said.

"We believe that our partners from Kazakhstan have a good opportunity to replace companies from unfriendly states which stopped operating on the Russian market, because redirecting flows of goods is not a temporary trend, but a long-term process, which, I am confident, will strengthen the sustainability of our economies and help create new points of growth," Mishustin said at talks with his Kazakh counterpart Alikhan Smailov in Yekaterinburg on Monday.

*** SANCTIONS ON RUSSIAN ENERGY SECTOR REVEAL ITS HEAVY DEPENDENCE ON FOREIGN TECHNOLOGIES - RUSSIAN SECURITY COUNCIL SECRETARY

Western sanctions on the Russian energy sector have revealed its heavy dependence on foreign technologies, hardware and software, Russian Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev said, adding that independence from imports in the areas critical for the sustainable functioning of Russian fuel and energy enterprises needs to be ensured as soon as possible.

"The sanctions on Russian energy companies have revealed the heavy dependence of the Russian energy sector on foreign technologies, hardware and software," Patrushev said at a meeting on the provision of national security in the Far Eastern Federal District that took place in Khabarovsk on Tuesday.

*** GAZPROM: GOALS OF LNG ENERGY STRATEGY ARE 'RATHER AMBITIOUS'; POSSIBILITY OF IMPLEMENTING THEM IN CURRENT CONDITIONS 'RAISES QUESTIONS'

The benchmarks set in Russia's energy strategy regarding implementing the LNG projects are "rather ambitious"; and the feasibility of implementing them must be reaffirmed amid the current conditions, Kirill Polous, deputy head of the Gazprom department, said during a round table discussion of the State Duma committee on energy.

*** GAZPROM PROPOSES DEVELOPING MECHANISM TO COORDINATE RUSSIAN PIPELINE GAS, LNG EXPORTS IN LIGHT OF CURRENCY COMPETITION

Gazprom proposes developing a mechanism for coordinating exports of Russian pipeline gas and liquefied natural gas due to the currency competition that has arisen on the market, Kiril Polous, who is in charge of Gazprom's long-term development programs, said during a State Duma Energy Committee round table at which Russia's Energy Strategy for until 2050 was discussed.

"We've already proposed this initiative, but unfortunately, it hasn't materialized to date. This is a question of coordinating exports of pipeline gas and LNG. In our view, in the current conditions, with the introduction of countersanctions measures in terms of the special procedure for foreign buyers fulfilling obligations to Russian suppliers, Russian presidential decree N172, the development and introduction of this mechanism is of ever more strategic importance to the country. [...] To put it plainly, pipeline gas sales to unfriendly European counterparties are being carried out in rubles, but this measure doesn't extend to the LNG segment, and a kind of currency competition is arising among suppliers," Polous said.

*** GAZPROM PROPOSES APPOINTING CONCERN AS COORDINATOR TO DEVELOP NORTHERN FIELDS

Gazprom proposes appointing the concern as the coordinator to develop the northern deposits, with Kirill Polous, deputy head of the company's department, voicing such an initiative during a round table discussion of the State Duma committee on energy regarding Russia's Energy Strategy up to 2050.

According to Polous, the appointment of the company as coordinator of the eastern program would provide strong impetus to develop the region.

*** VENEZUELA TO CONTINUE WORKING WITH RUSSIAN COMPANIES, EXPECTS TO SETTLE SANCTION-RELATED PROBLEMS - FM

Russia and Venezuela are exploring ways to bypass the West's sanctions in the energy sector, Venezuelan Foreign Minister Carlos Faria said.

"We are working on specific projects with Russian companies, we are continuing to deepen this work, and we hope we'll be able to reach agreement on ways that would help us bypass the existing obstacles and resolve problems related to financing," Faria said at a press conference following negotiations with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Moscow on Monday.

"The conditions in which we have found ourselves because of the U.S. administration's actions have hindered the development of our country's oil producing industry" and have negatively affected the financing, lending, and purchases of equipment and spare parts, he said.

*** RUSSIA'S ENERGY MINISTRY: GROWTH IN OIL OUTPUT COULD CHANGE BECAUSE OF EXTERNAL PRESSURE, STRIVING TO MAINTAIN CURRENT LEVEL

The growth potential of Russia's oil output is likely to change strategically because of external pressure, and it is necessary to maintain at least the current level of production, Deputy Energy Minister Pavel Sorokin said during a round table discussion of the State Duma committee on energy regarding Russia's Energy Strategy up to 2050.

*** SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC SIGNS AGREEMENT TO SELL RUSSIAN ASSETS TO LOCAL MGMT

France's Schneider Electric has signed a binding agreement to sell its Russia assets to local management.

The deal is subject to approval by the local authorities, the company said in a press release.

The company recalled that it suspended new investments as well as international delivery of new project orders destined for Russia and Belarus as of February 24.

*** RUSSIA PLANS TO REMAIN AMONG LEADERS IN EXPORTING COAL, TO OCCUPY 25% OF GLOBAL MARKET BY 2050 - ENERGY MINISTRY

Russia expects to remain among the top-three coal exporters, and plans to occupy a quarter of the global market by 2050, Pyotr Bobylev, Deputy Energy Minister and director of Russia's coal industry department, said at a round table discussion of the energy committee in the State Duma.

"We have set ourselves the goal of remaining among the top-three coal exporters," Bobylev said, noting that Russia expects to occupy 25% of the global coal market by 2050.

*** JAPAN BANS RUSSIAN GOLD IMPORTS, PROVISION OF AUDIT, CONSULTING SERVICES TO RUSSIA

Tokyo has banned Russian gold imports and the provision of trust, accounting, audit, and consulting services to Russia over the Ukraine situation, the Japanese Finance Ministry said.

According to a statement on the ministry's website, it is prohibited to provide trust, accounting, audit, and management consulting services.

The importation of precious metals (gold) from Russia is also banned.

*** POTANIN AGREES TO TALKS ON NORNICKEL, RUSAL MERGER

The head of Nornickel, Vladimir Potanin has agreed to begin negotiations on the merger of the mining giant and aluminum company Rusal.

"I sent a letter today in which I confirmed our agreement to begin the process of discussing a merger with Rusal," Potanin said in an interview with TV channel RBC.

Nornickel received the merger proposal from Rusal's management, he said. Such a merger would make it possible to create a national champion and further diversify the shareholder base, Potanin said, though he still does not see any synergy between the two companies' businesses.

*** MANTUROV: THERE IS A LIST OF PARTNERS READY TO PARTICIPATE IN VARIOUS FORMATS IN RUSSIAN AUTO ENTERPRISES

A number of foreign partners are ready to participate in Russian auto enterprises in various formats, Industry and Trade Minister Denis Manturov said at the plenary session of the Innoprom 2022 exhibition.

"I cannot accurately predict the final decisions of our foreign partners. However, I can say that we do have backup plans and decisions in mind for each [automotive industry] enterprise located in our country of course. This does not mean that we intend to force someone there; however, we cannot wait indefinitely until the headquarters of our partners take decisions on whether to maintain [manufacturing] or leave our market," the minister said.

*** RUSSIAN INDUSTRY AND TRADE MINISTRY ADDS SIEMENS, BMW PRODUCTS TO LIST OF GOODS FOR PARALLEL IMPORT

The Russian Industry and Trade Ministry has expanded its list of goods for parallel import into Russia with additional products from the Siemens and BMW brands, excluding from the list the products of companies that are continuing to operate on the Russian market, Industry and Trade Minister Denis Manturov said.

"The mechanism for parallel imports is working. Not so long ago, we submitted an adjusted list to the Ministry of Justice. Companies that are continuing to supply their products to the Russian market and haven't left our market have been excluded from it. And, conversely, products of the companies Siemens and BMW, those who demonstrate their positions and don't supply goods to our market, have been added to it," Manturov told journalists on the sidelines of INNOPROM 2022.

*** VOLVO STARTS LAYING OFF EMPLOYEES IN RUSSIA

Volvo Group has begun laying off employees at its Russian divisions to adapt to the changed circumstances, the company's press service told Interfax.

The conditions on which employees will be laid off and the number of layoffs are now being determined by the management of Volvo Group's Russian office. The press service did not specify which divisions would be affected.

However, the company has not made a decision to leave the Russian market, the press service said.

*** PM MISHUSTIN SETS GOAL TO INCREASE RUSSIAN RADIOELECTRONICS' SHARE IN DOMESTIC MARKET TO 70% BY 2030

The presence of Russian radioelectronic products on the domestic market by 2030 should be increased almost sixfold from 12% to 70%, Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said.

"We have taken a careful approach to reformatting the strategy of the radioelectronic industry. I will highlight four main goals. The first is to increase production capacity in all segments. The second is to radically increase the presence in the domestic market from the current 12% to 70% by 2030," Mishustin said at a plenary session of the Innoprom 2022 international exhibition in Yekaterinburg on Monday.

POLITICS & SOCIETY

*** GENERALS LAPIN, SUROVIKIN SUBMITTED PROPOSALS ON CONTINUATION OF OPERATION IN UKRAINE - PUTIN

Central Military District Troops Commander Alexander Lapin and Aerospace Forces Commander Sergei Surovikin have submitted their proposals on the continuation of the operation in Ukraine, Russian President Vladimir Putin said.

"Col. Gen. Alexander Pavlovich Lapin and Gen. Sergei Vladimirovich Surovikin reported to me today about the fulfilment of their tasks," Putin said during a meeting with Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu.

They submitted "their proposals on the development of the offensive operation," he said.

*** KREMLIN DIRECTS QUESTION ABOUT DETENTION OF RUSSIAN-FLAGGED BULKER IN TURKEY TO RUSSIAN TRANSPORT, FOREIGN MINISTRIES

The Kremlin has no information about the detention of a Russian-flagged bulker in Turkey, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said.

"Regretfully, we in the Kremlin do not have such information. I believe you should ask the Transport Ministry or the Foreign Ministry," Peskov told reporters on Monday.

"In case of detention, the Turkish side should have provided the information via our embassy or the consulate general," he said.

*** ROSAVIATSIYA EXTENDS RESTRICTIONS ON FLIGHTS TO SOUTHERN RUSSIAN AIRPORTS UNTIL JULY 12

The Federal Air Transport Agency (Rosaviatsiya) has extended restrictions on flights to 11 airports in southern and central Russia until July 12.

"Flights to the airports of Anapa, Belgorod, Bryansk, Voronezh, Gelendzhik, Krasnodar, Kursk, Lipetsk, Rostov-on-Don, Simferopol, and Elista have been temporarily limited," the agency said.

*** NATO'S DECISION TO DESIGNATE RUSSIA AS ADVERSARY DESTABILIZES EUROPE, CONTRAVENES NATO-RUSSIA FOUNDING ACT - RUSSIAN SECURITY COUNCIL SECRETARY

NATO's decision to designate Russia as an adversary leads to an escalation of tensions, upsets security in Europe, and contravenes the NATO-Russia Founding Act, Russian Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev said.

"The United States and its allies have designated Russia, which is defending its national interests and sovereignty, as an adversary in the doctrine documents, including those adopted at the NATO summit in Madrid," Patrushev said at a meeting on the provision of national security in the Far Eastern Federal District that took place in Khabarovsk on Tuesday.

The United States and its satellites have refused to conduct a constructive dialogue with Russia in the field of strategic stability and have fully ignored Moscow's demand of security guarantees, he said.

*** RUSSIAN EMBASSY IN SOFIA ALREADY UNABLE TO OPERATE NORMALLY, RUSSIA TO RECIPROCATE - LAVROV

The Russian Embassy to Bulgaria is already unable to operate normally, Moscow will respond to Sofia's actions in the same manner, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Monday.

"Bulgaria's own leadership was surprised by the decision voiced by the acting prime minister completely not backed by the procedures established in Bulgaria for such drastic moves. As for the actual situation on the ground, so to say, the people unlawfully expelled by Bulgaria after being declared personae non gratae, the majority of them, were ensuring the vital functions of our diplomatic mission. Now, after this, in our view, completely unlawful outburst, the embassy is unable to operate normally, practically as we speak," he said at a press conference in Moscow.

*** LAVROV, MONGOLIAN FM DISCUSS TRADE, ECONOMIC COOPERATION

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and his Mongolian counterpart Battsetseg Batmunkh have discussed trade, energy affairs and bilateral and multilateral cooperation at talks in Ulaanbaatar.

The bilateral trade turnover reached $2 billion in 2021, and further growth could be achieved, Battsetseg said at a press conference after the meeting.

"Bilateral trade has been rapidly recovering; it grew by a third last year and more than 40% over the first months of this year," Lavrov said.

The two ministers exchanged views on a variety of joint projects, Battsetseg said.

*** MOSCOW MAY TAKE COUNTERMEASURES AGAINST ENTIRE EU IN RESPONSE TO EXPULSION OF RUSSIAN DIPLOMATS FROM BULGARIA - RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTRY

Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova has warned that Russia may take retaliatory measures against the European Union due to its support for the Bulgarian authorities' decision to expel 70 Russian diplomats.

"Sofia's politicized decision on the unjustified cutting of our diplomatic staff in Bulgaria, of course, will not go unanswered on a bilateral track. The European External Action Service should understand that the thoughtless support for anti-Russian actions by individual member states makes the entire European Union responsible for their consequences, including in terms of countermeasures on our part," Zakharova said in her response to a media question published on the Russian Foreign Ministry website.

*** UKRAINE LOSES ALMOST 5,500 TROOPS DURING RUSSIA'S OPERATION IN LPR - SHOIGU

The Ukrainian Armed Forces' casualties in the course of Russia's operation aimed to take control of the Luhansk People's Republic (LPR) have reached 5,469, including 2,218 irreplaceable combat losses, since June 19, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said.

"The overall casualties of the Ukrainian Armed Forces stand at 5,469 men, including 2,218 irreplaceable losses and 3,251 sanitary losses," Shoigu said at a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

*** PROTOCOL UNDER WHICH GOOGLE FACING NEW FINE OF UP TO 10% OF ANNUAL REVENUE REACHES MOSCOW COURT, HEARING SCHEDULED FOR JULY 12

A Moscow magistrates' court next week will consider the second administrative protocol filed by Russia's telecoms watchdog Roskomnadzor against Google LLC for repeated failure to delete information prohibited in Russia from YouTube, under which the company is facing a fine in an amount of 5%-10% of the company's annual revenue in Russia.

"A magistrate of Judicial District No. 422 of Moscow's Tagansky District Court has received the administrative material against Google LLC. The court hearing is scheduled for 11:15 a.m. Moscow time on July 12," court press secretary Zulfiya Guriyechuk told Interfax on Monday.

*** BRITISH MERCENARY ASLIN'S DEATH SENTENCE APPEALED IN DPR - LAWYER

British national Aiden Aslin's death sentence has been appealed in Donetsk, his lawyer Pavel Kosovan told Interfax on Monday.

"A cassation appeal against the sentence was lodged today," Kosovan said.

*** TOKAYEV NOTES TIMELINESS OF KARAKALPAKSTAN STABILITY DECISIONS IN PHONE CALL WITH MIRZIYOYEV

Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev noted the timely decisions made by the Uzbek administration to ensure stability in Karakalpakstan and wished success to the Uzbek constitutional referendum in a phone call with his Uzbek counterpart Shavkat Mirziyoyev, the Kazakh presidential press service said on Monday.

"Kassym-Jomart Tokayev noted the timely decisions made by the Uzbek administration to ensure stability in Karakalpakstan. He also wished Shavkat Mirziyoyev success in the referendum on constitutional amendments and underlined that this event will be an important moment in the implementation of the program of large-scale political and socioeconomic transformations in the fraternal Uzbekistan," the press service said, following the phone call.

*** NUKUS UNREST KILLS 18 - UZBEK PROSECUTOR GENERAL'S OFFICE

The deaths of 18 people during the July 1-2 unrest in Nukus, the capital of the Republic of Karakalpakstan in northwestern Uzbekistan, were reported by Arbor Mamatov, a prosecutor from the Uzbek Prosecutor General's Office.

"As a result of the mass unrest in Nukus, 18 persons have died of severe injuries," Mamatov said at a virtual press briefing on Monday.

According to the Uzbek National Guard, 243 people were hurt during the unrest, and 94 of them were hospitalized.

*** UK ADDS ANOTHER 6 INDIVIDUALS, NEWS WEBSITE TO RUSSIAN SANCTIONS LISTS

British authorities have added another six individuals and one news website to the Russian sanctions lists, the British Treasury said in a document on Monday.

The following individuals involved in media activities were sanctioned: Mikhail Sinelin, Aelita Mamakova, Yevgeny Glotov, Yury Fedin, Darya Dugina, and Alyona Chuguleva.

Additionally, the sanctions lists includes United World International, a website registered in Turkey, which, according to London, is disseminating disinformation favoring Russia.

Ak ar

(Our editorial staff can be reached at eng.editors@interfax.ru)

Interfax-America, Inc.

文件 DANWS00020220705ei75001md


Russian espionage in Bulgaria/ Albania faces poverty and is tired waiting for the EU]]
Alice Taylor, Evi Kiorri, Georgi Gotev
2888 字
2022 年 7 月 7 日 12:04 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
In this week’s episode of EURACTIV’s Beyond the Byline, we are talking about the worst inflation of the past decades and low-income countries like Albania being pushed into poverty. We also ask if accession to the EU remains citizens’ biggest hope and why the country’s prime minister is lashing out at the EU.

But first, we start our journey in Bulgaria, where the outgoing government decided to expel 70 Russian diplomats for espionage amidst pro and anti-government protests.

Episode Transcript

Evi: Hello, and welcome to EURACTIV’s Beyond the Byline podcast, I am Evi Kiorri and every week we provide a view on what’s beyond the news.

We are experiencing the worst inflation of the past decades and countries like Albania are pushed to poverty. We ask if the accession in the EU remains the citizen’s biggest hope and why the country’s prime minister is lashing out at the EU.

But first we start our journey from Bulgaria where the outgoing government decided to expel 70 Russian diplomats for espionage, all this in the aftermath of numerous protests against the outgoing government.

Georgi: A lot of tensions. So the most surprising was the decision of the outgoing government of Kiril Petkov to kick out 70 Russian diplomats and embassy staff. That is a record number for the post Cold War period not only for Bulgaria, but overall.

Evi: Georgi Gotev is EURACTIV’s senior editor and publisher of EURACTIV Bulgaria.

Georgi: It’s strange because Bulgaria is known as an EU and NATO country keen to preserve its traditional good relations with Russia. And now Bulgaria runs the risk of seeing Russia close its embassy in Sofia.

Evi: And why is this important? What does it mean in practice?

This is a signal that something important is happening behind the scenes. And there are many conspiracy theories. For my part, I will try to answer your question by quoting what politicians said. First and foremost the prime minister, Petkov, he named the Russian ambassador in Sofia, Eleonora Mitrofanova as  one of the people responsible for the no confidence vote that brought down his government on the 23rd of June Petkov said he was honoured to be the prime minister of a government, which was overthrown by the leaders of the political parties who voted against him and Mitrofanova. It’s quite unusual. And it’s also very significant that along with the political forces who voted against him in parliament, the Bulgarian prime minister mentions the name of the Russian ambassador.

And then Mitrofanova, I will quote her she spoke on national television and she said the following. I’m quoting to be precise: “if he at cough had changed his rhetoric and not talked the way he does, I think he would have had a very long political life and of quote Mitrofanova said. You know, the Bulgarian press wrote that this statement can be interpreted as a direct trap from Russia, suggesting that if the prime minister behaves favourably towards the Kremlin. He would have remained in Bulgarian politics for a long time. This is a scandal.

Evi: And why is Bulgaria important for Russia? What role does the country play?

Georgi: Bulgarians are grateful that tsarist Russia, uh, wage the Russia and Turkish war in 1877, 1878 liberating Bulgaria after 500 years of Ottoman rule. Many Russians gave their lives for the freedom of Bulgaria. Russians feel comfortable in Bulgaria. Some 300,000 Russians have reportedly bought homes in Bulgaria, especially at the Black sea coast. However, the economic relations are in an all time low because of the sanction. There are no air flights therefore no Russian tourists in Bulgaria.

Although Russia used to be the number one country, according to the number of tourists in Bulgaria. So Bulgaria is important to Russia and at the same time, maybe it isn’t.

Evi: On a previous episode of the podcast I had Krassen Nikolov explaining to us why the ties between Russia and Bulgaria remained strong and how Bulgarians didn’t hold Putin accountable for the war in Ukraine. Do you think that this new, let’s say, crisis among the two countries will change this belief?

Georgi: I think that this is precisely what is happening right now. While some politicians in Sofia are very vocal about the dire consequences of Bulgaria, Russia closing its embassy, others see this crisis as an opportunity. My personal opinion is that Bulgaria needs shock therapy to get rid of a relationship with Russia. And before that, with the Soviet union, which was never respectful of Bulgaria sovereignty. Moscow has always acted and communicated as if Bulgaria was its colony and Bulgarian leaders were its servants.

Evi: And what is Russia’s goal with this ultimatum and what has been the reaction of the Bulgarian government to that?

Georgi: The Russian ambassador gave a very stupid ultimatum for Bulgaria to reverse its decision to kick out the 70 Russian diplomats and embassy staff or the next day at 12 o’clock Russia would close its embassy.

The reaction of the government was very calm. The ultimatum expired and nothing happened. Russia didn’t break relations as Mitrofanova had threatened. We’re still waiting for the Russian reaction.

Evi: Another interesting aspect is the data presented by the Bulgarian secret services that Russia pays public figures to spread its propaganda. What’s your take on this and how important is this?

Georgi: I’m sure that indeed, as the Bulgarian secret services recently said, the Russian  embassy and Russian funds are paying money to Bulgarian opinion makers and Bulgarian media. To pass the message of the Kremlin to the Bulgarian public. In addition, a lot of people in Bulgaria watch Russian television channels and are exposed to this propaganda anyway. Bulgaria is probably the country most impacted by Russian propaganda.

The problem so far has been that with the weak government, in which at least one political force in the coalition, the socialists are pro Russian. There was little appetite to tackle this problem and very probably Bulgarians we will vote in early elections in September. Hopefully a different majority will be able to make good decisions for the country. Including to fight effectively the Russian disinformation. But while I’m saying this,I know that this is wishful thinking. It is very difficult to have a reformist majority in Bulgaria, a country where the mafia and the Russian agents are still very strong.

Evi: And what would the solution to the propaganda be? Are there fundamental changes in the media required?

Georgi: As everyone has noticed Bulgaria is usually ranked very, very low as a country, where the media freedom is really a big problem. And I think the media have a huge responsibility in fighting the Russian propaganda and of presenting issues in a honest manner.

But this is not going to happen overnight. I am among a group of journalists. We are trying to make things change, this is why personally I created EURACTIV Bulgaria three years ago but it’s a long way, but we will succeed.

Evi: Thank you, Georgi.

You’re listening to EURACTIV’s Beyond the Byline podcast. Subscribe, our podcast newsletter on your active.com/newsletters. And if you want to expand your knowledge and other fields, you can listen to our digital brief podcast, brief podcast. And if you have any comments or ideas, you can drop a line at podcast@euractiv.com.

There is a lot of worry in the atmosphere due to the inflation that follows the energy crisis and the Russian war in Ukraine. The first countries that feel the repercussions of this inflation are the poorest ones. Albania, who is one of the candidates to join the EU is one of these countries.

Alice: It’s rough, before this sort of situation got to the point where we were at now, Albania was a country with the third of the population living below the international poverty line. So that’s living on less than $5 a day.

Evi: Alice Taylor is EURACTIV’s editor reporting from Tirana.

Alice: It’s really tough here for people anyway. And then when you put into the equation, things like the increasing price of fuel and the cost of food going up, this becomes a significant issue because okay in Albania, we have quite a low percentage of car owners, but the price of fuel is one of the highest in Europe.

And of course, to move goods, to bring food from the ports, from the airport to make deliveries to shops, to deliver flour to bakeries that all requires fuel, petrol, diesel. And if the price of that has gone up, this is then passed onto shops.

Evi: Alice, you live there, you experienced these people’s reality first hand. How is the  situation?

Alice: There was a bakery on my road, which is closed because they were in a situation where they couldn’t sell food at a price that people could afford to buy it. Does that make sense? You know, they would’ve had to have put the price up so high that people would’ve been not able to afford bread.

And this is a big problem. Things like cooking oil it’s about five euros a litter at the moment. And if you consider the average Albanian is bringing home about 300 to 350 euros a month. It’s huge. It’s a huge amount of their money. Some food items have increased in price up to 40%.

So this is while overall inflation is maybe around 10 or 11%, some items that number is significantly higher. So people are definitely feeling the pinch. Another issue, it might seem silly, but people can’t even afford to go to the coast for the weekend or during the summer. They can’t afford to go to the beach because they can’t afford the fuel.

They can’t afford to eat when they get there. The price of coffee’s gone up, the price of an umbrella on the beach. This might sound like a luxury, but these are things which impact people’s lives. So morale is low as well. People are not able to go and enjoy themselves like they were before. They’re constantly worried about being able to afford things.

Evi: And what is the government doing about it?

Alice: They’ve been widespread protests. There were huge national protests. In fact, they were the largest nonpartisan protests since the fall of communism against the rise in the cost of living. And there have been other protests since as well because people say that the government are not doing enough.

What you have to understand is the government coffers have increased by hundreds of millions of euros because of price rises. So because costs have gone up the revenue, the government gets has increased as well, but this is not being passed back to people. There have been some relief packages and some bits of help here or there. I think it was the world  bank recently said that the government are not doing enough to help people.

The central bank of Albania, the governor who doesn’t usually speak out against the government, said the government needs to do more to help vulnerable people. Now they set up a transparency board, because when prices for everything started going up, people said that the market was being abused. Like fuel companies were putting over inflating prices, et cetera. So they created this transparency board, which supposed to meet every week and review prices together and set prices for things like fuel cooking oil, flour, sugar, essential basket items.

But the problem is this transparency board is comprised of some of the richest business owners in the entire country. So you have people who control entire markets, like you have one man who controls the entire fuel market, who sat on this board, setting the price for the cost of fuel. This is not people don’t find it effective. Obviously they’re not going to set lower prices because that would result in them losing money.

Evi: And is Albania still hoping for things to get better on a financial level with its EU accession? And how are things on that front?

Alice: Albania’s and north Macedonia’s EU integration path over the last couple of weeks has been like something out of a Turkish telenovela. I’ve just been sort glued to what’s going on. So essentially Albania is one of the most EU hopeful, positive loving countries in the region. Albanian people really want to be part of the EU since they fell from communism, this has been the sole focus of the country. But obviously the enlargement process for wanting for better phrase has gone a bit tits up and is not going to plan.

Edi Rama, our prime minister, who is, he’s a character he’s not your normal statesman. Macron is like the most boring person you’ve ever met in your entire life. Whereas we have Edi Rama who just doesn’t care. And he turned up at the Western Balkans EU summit a couple of weeks ago and he said: I “feel really sorry for the EU they’re impotent. They don’t have any power. I hope we can help them.” He really laid into them and even the other day just this week, he called them impotent again. He said the EU is outdated, the way it works is outdated, it has to be changed.

But then he made this joke and I was like you can’t go around saying things like this. He compared the EU to a bride, to a wife and he said: “we’ve been waiting for our bride to come from Brussels, but she’s never come. If she wants to come and marry us and get into bed with us and have children, that’s great. But if she doesn’t, you know, we feel bad,” and I was like, you are comparing a accession to having sex. This is so cringy. But I see his frustration because Albania is not perfect, there is a lot of work still to do. We’ve been trying and [ we deserve to be part of EU when I look at what’s going on in Bulgaria and I think we are doing a bit better than them and they’re members of the EU quite a long time.

Evi: And do you think these comments against the EU from the Albanian prime minister are a way to boost the citizens morale and maybe his voters morale?

Alice: I wrote about this now. I am not someone who praises politicians. I don’t generally like any politicians. But do you know what, and I don’t particularly like Edi Rama either and that’s been quite polite, but do you know what, when he stood on that stage in Brussels and he spoke like that, not the comments about the bride that was later, but when he got up on that stage and he spoke out and he said “you need to sort yourself out. It’s pathetic. You can’t stand up to Bulgaria. There’s no unity.” I think people look at the Western Balkans and they feel sorry for the Western Balkans they’re “oh, poor Western Balkans, they’ll never get in.”

They look down on us and I don’t think Edi Rama wanted to go to Brussels and beg or to sell his pride “oh we really want to be part of you, please let us in,” he stood on that stage and he said: “okay, fine. You get your own house sorted and we’ll be here when you are ready.” He kept the pride of the country. And as you know, Albanians are very proud people, people in the Balkans are very proud people. They’ve been through a huge amount in order to hang onto their identities, their countries, their borders and do you know what I’m quite proud of those prime ministers who stood up there and defended themselves.

I think it was something. They were defending themselves, but it was also a boost for people in the countries as well, who are feeling deflated, who are feeling hopeless. It was: “do you know what no one needs to pity us.” And I think that was a very important message that was sent. And this is one of the few times you’ll ever hear me praising a politician.

Evi: Alice, thank you for joining us!

I am Evi Kiorri and this was EURACTIV’s Beyond the Byline  podcast. Visit EURACTIV.com for the latest news. And if you haven’t subscribed to the podcast, you can do so on your favourite podcasting app. This episode was produced by me with the help of Georgi Gotev and Alice Taylor.

Thank you very much for listening!

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220707ei770005w


BBCM South Caucasus Watchlist for 8 July
752 字
2022 年 7 月 8 日 06:33 GMT
BBC Monitoring Caucasus
BBCCAU
英文
(c) 2022 The British Broadcasting Corporation. All Rights Reserved. No material may be reproduced except with the express permission of The British Broadcasting Corporation.
Stories being covered by BBC Monitoring from South Caucasus broadcast, press and social media sources

Georgia's ruling party vows to lower electoral threshold after getting EU candidate status

Georgia's ruling Georgian Dream party has said that it will lower the electoral threshold from 5% to 2% and hold all elections under a fully proportional system, if Georgia is granted the EU candidate status in December 2022.

A number of opposition parties denounced the annoucement, describing it as "absurd" and an "ultimatum" to the EU.

Georgia has to comply with the EU's 12 recommendations to receive the candidate status.

The EU-brokered deal between Georgian Dream and opposition in 2021 designed to ease the country's political crisis envisaged that "all future parliamentary elections shall be fully proportional" and the "next two parliamentary elections shall have a threshold between natural and 2%".

However, Georgian Dream later quit the deal.

Georgia raps Ukrainian speculations on billionaire founder of ruling party

A Georgian ruling party MP has denounced allegations by the pro-presidential faction leader in the Ukrainian Parliament, Davyd Arakhamiya, that Georgia's international partners are considering to sanction the billionaire founder of the ruling Georgian Dream party, Bidzina Ivanishvili, and his close circle.

A former US ambassador to Russia, Michael McFaul, who is a coordinator of the Yermak-McFaul International Working Group on Sanctions against Russia, had earlier said that the group was starting to discuss sanctions on people from Georgia and Belarus.

Arakhamiya claimed that McFaul meant Ivanishvili.

Georgian Dream leader Irakli Kobakhidze noted that if Ivanishvili is sanctioned, charity projects carried out by his foundation will stop, and that it will be an attempt to indirectly cause problems to the Georgian people.

Armenian PM, Iranian security chief discuss relations

Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan stressed the importance of continuous development of relations with Iran at a meeting with Iranian Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council Ali Shamkhani yesterday.

The sides emphasised that the strengthening of economic ties was fundamental for the development of Armenian-Iranian cooperation in various fields, including trade, infrastructure, energy, and industry.

Pashinyan and Shamkhani also exchanged thoughts on ensuring regional stability and security. The Iranian security chief said that his country supported the unblocking of regional transport communications provided that the territorial integrity and sovereignty of states were observed. Tehran "considers any attempt to change the geopolitical situation in the region unacceptable", he said.

See also: Iran security chief stresses end to foreign interference in meet with Armenia PM

Armenia, Iran discuss security in South Caucasus

Azeri energy minister attends inauguration of Greece-Bulgaria gas pipeline

Azerbaijani Energy Minister Parviz Sahbazov is to attend the official inauguration of the Interconnector Greece-Bulgaria (IGB) in Greece's Komotini today.

The interconnector is a section of the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) which, in its turn, is part of the Southern Gas Corridor transporting natural gas to Europe from Azerbaijan's Shah Deniz (Sahdaniz) field.

Bulgaria has a 25-year agreement with Azerbaijan's state-owned SOCAR for the supply of 1bn cu.m. of gas from Azerbaijan annually. While the IGB was still under construction, Azerbaijani gas was delivered to Bulgaria via the Kulata-Sidirokastro interconnection point on the border with Greece.

The Azerbaijani Energy Ministry has said that the inauguration of the IGB does not yet mean the start of its commercial operation. It is expected that the first gas deliveries will begin in September.

Azeri FM says 'little progress' in peace talks with Armenia

There is little progress in peace negotiations with Armenia, Azerbaijani Foreign Minister Ceyhun Bayramov told journalists yesterday.

According to him, "discussions" are still ongoing. The minister explained this by the presence of "revanchist sentiments" in the Armenian society.

"But they must understand that there is no alternative to long-term peace in the region," Bayramov said.

He did not express much optimism regarding the delimitation of the Azerbaijani-Armenian state border either, noting that the date for the next meeting of the joint border commission had not been set yet. On the whole, this will be a long and difficult process, Bayramov said.

Coming up:

Azerbaijani opposition activists are planning to stage a protest outside the Cabinet of Ministers on 13 July demanding that the government open the country's land borders which have remained closed since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Interior Ministry has already warned that any unauthorised gathering is "unacceptable".

Source: BBC Monitoring 8 Jul 22

The British Broadcasting Corporation

文件 BBCCAU0020220708ei7800001


Bulgaria This Week - July 15, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 7 月 15 日, 11859 字, (英文)
EC upgrades Bulgaria 2022 GDP growth forecast to 2.8%The European Commission now expects that Bulgaria’s economy will grow by 2.8% this year, mainly due to a strong recovery seen in the first quarter, it said in summer economic forecasts ...

North Macedonia This Week - July 15, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 7 月 15 日, 6245 字, (英文)
Key rate of North Macedonia’s central bank hiked further to 2.5%North Macedonia’s central bank has hiked its key rate for the fourth month in a row due to rising inflation, this time by 0.5 of a percentage point (pp) to 2.5% (chart), it ...

Briefing by Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova , Moscow, July 14, 2022
7644 字
2022 年 7 月 15 日 13:04 GMT
Russian Government News
RUSGOV
英文
Copyright © 2022 SeeNews. All rights reserved.
Update on Donbass and Ukraine

Kiev-led armed units and neo-Nazis continue staging terrorist attacks on the liberated territories of the Lugansk and Donetsk People’s Republics and the Kherson Region. On the night of July 13, 2022, Ukrainian armed units dealt a massive blow to Lugansk with nine rockets fired from US HIMARS multiple rocket launchers.

On the night of July 12, Ukrainian armed units shelled Novaya Kakhovka in the Kherson Region. They hit depots that were holding ammonium nitrate and medications adjacent to civilian facilities and heavily damaged a hospital, residential buildings and other city infrastructure. Seven people were killed and about a hundred wounded.

On July 11, Ukrainian militants attacked the DPR’s Amvrosievka regional centre at a time when volunteers from the Young Republic volunteer organisation were distributing humanitarian aid among local residents. Again, there were victims: three killed, 39 injured.

Donetsk and its suburbs continue to be targets for continuing strikes. The fire is selective; it is aimed at residential areas, shops, markets, medical institutions and other socially important facilities. The Armed Forces of Ukraine (AFU) are using US-supplied HIMARS multiple launch rocket systems in most cases. They are acting with direct assistance from the United States, which supplies Kiev with intelligence information and has tacitly sent instructors to help Kiev’s fighters to “aim correctly.” We find confirmation of this in numerous reports on Ukrainian social media and the Western press.

The marked intensification of Ukrainian artillery is linked with the supplies of this type of heavy weapons. Judging by what we see, Kiev has ordered its artillery units to use these systems against civilians without hesitation.

Unfortunately, every day, we update the list of cities and villages in the DPR, the LPR and the Kherson Region that are suffering from these barbarous attacks. The overseas sponsors of the Kiev regime feel very comfortable with this situation. There is no other explanation for Washington’s intention to supply Ukraine with another four HIMARS systems, ammunition and spare parts announced on July 8. The US allocated about $2.7 billion for these weapons in its overall aid package, which is valued at more than $40 billion, which Washington intends to spend on “strengthening the defence capability of the armed forces of Ukraine.” According to the Kiel Institute for the World Economy , these costs are already higher than Australia’s military budget of about $32 billion, and they continue to grow. The Americans demand that their allies adopt a similar approach. We understand that new horizons in equipping and arming Ukrainian neo-Nazis will be set at the fourth meeting of the Contact Group on the Defence of Ukraine led by US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin . The meeting is scheduled to take place in Rammstein via videoconference on July 20.

Recently, Defence Minister of Ukraine Alexey Reznikov spoke about Kiev’s intention to launch a counteroffensive in the south of the country soon. Alexey Danilov, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine (NSDCU), recently talked about “the goal set by President Vladimir Zelensky to liberate the entire country.” These statements are designed to persuade the West of the need to continue supplying Kiev with arms. With this objective in mind, Kiev plans to enlist about a million people, some of whom will be recruited from abroad. Diplomatic offices were instructed to mobilise Ukrainian citizens in the recruitment age range, which is from 18 to 60 years old. It would be interesting to watch how this will be done in the EU countries, for instance, in Nice. According to the Western press, about 40 percent of the refugees have chosen to live in Nice. Of course, it’s common knowledge that Nice is a place to which people without money or prospects usually go. We hope the global media, the press and journalists will not ignore these mobilisation measures.

It may be that the EU ’s failed migration policy and the behavior of the “refugees” themselves have prompted the West to encourage Kiev to start mobilising Ukrainians abroad to simply get rid of them by sending them home. It is impossible to do this legally under Western law. We would like to hope that global publications will closely follow this mobilisation campaign.

In addition, Warsaw has also volunteered to help Kiev get the army it needs by declaring its intention to deport all Ukrainian draft dodgers. This is the real attitude towards the refugees, a kind of a catharsis of humanitarian law and humanism. When the willingness to continue helping people who left their country runs low, it is better to expel them and force them to fight. These are signs of moral decline and the criminal ideology of the Western regimes. In this context, we noted a report in the Daily Mail about the start of training sessions for the first groups (about 600 people) of Ukrainian military personnel at a military base for ground troops near Manchester, Britain. Under the agreement with Kiev, they are to undergo a three-week training session to learn how to use Western arms that are being supplied to the army. This is a real hybrid war. At one time, the Kiev regime and the forces linked with it tried to ridicule our statements that they were simply being used as a tool. Now it is becoming obvious that they missed an important point in understanding what was going on. Today, the Kiev regime is being turned into a weapon not only against Russia but also against its own country because nobody is thinking about the fate of its citizens anymore. The European media report that these training sessions are already being held or will soon be hosted by other NATO countries as well.

No matter how hard the United States and its allies may be trying to build up Kiev’s combat capacity, Russia will continue its special military operation. All of our goals and objectives will be carried out.

Arria-formula meeting of the UN Security Council on neo-Nazism and radical nationalism in Ukraine

On July 11, 2022, Russia convened an informal Arria-formula meeting of the UN Security Council members on Neo-Nazism and Radical Nationalism: Exploring Root Causes of the Crisis in Ukraine. The purpose of the gathering was to discuss the origins and preconditions for the Nazi ideology taking root on the territory of Ukraine. We continue to hear and read stupid and sarcastic remarks like “Nazis in Ukraine? Give me a break,” “What kind of nationalistic logic is this?”, “Where are the stripes on their sleeves?” With this approach, we could assume that if Vladimir Zelensky does not do the Hitler salute, there can’t be any nationalism, Nazism or neo-fascism in Ukraine.

Such logic shows a grave misunderstanding of the historical realities and developments at the present stage. It feels like a high-school classroom with stupid chuckles at the back, where no one listens to the teacher or bothers to do their homework; no one aspires to self-development, but is always ready to laugh when serious problems are discussed.

We have been talking about this situation for years; for the last eight years, we spoke about it almost daily. Before 2014, we provided numerous examples of neo-Nazism spreading in Ukraine, and not only in Ukraine. Look at how Europe is “infected” with this neo-Nazi bacillus today. Europeans even admit it themselves. Read human rights organisations’ reports, listen to European parliament members and human rights activists who cite concrete examples of meetings – not some underground cells, but major public organisations; the promotion of bills, the legalisation of literature and ideology, participation in pogroms, the ethnically motivated desecration of graves and places of worship. We haven’t invented anything. All we say has factual confirmation spread by public figures in Western countries, but you can just continue to laugh.

Russia’s report, supported by archival and recent videos, thoroughly described the fusion of Nazism with militant nationalism, and how that led to the spiraling of radical views in part of Ukrainian society and provoked – with robust external support – the illegitimate coup d’état in 2014, which resulted in the persecution of Russian-speaking Ukrainians and other events.

The invited speakers, including Sergey Kozhemyakin, a human rights lawyer from Donetsk, and Kirill Revin, an investigator with the Ministry of the Interior of the Donetsk People’s Republic, provided concrete facts and first-hand evidence to illustrate the point. The video of this meeting is available on the internet. We will by all means repost it on the Russian Foreign Ministry ’s social media accounts. Head of the Foundation for the Study of Democracy Maxim Grigoryev commented on a number of his own interviews with affected residents of Donbass, while historian Alexander Dyukov , a research fellow at the Institute of History of the Russian Academy of Sciences, among other things, highlighted the anti-Semitic and racist nature of Ukrainian nationalism. A passionate presentation was made by Wilhelm Domke-Schulz, a German documentary producer whose films – including the one depicting the events in Odessa in 2014 – are prohibited in Europe.

This is a “laughing matter,” of course: barring facts from being made public and sneering at a genocide. The EU countries, including Germany, have banned documentaries made by their own filmmakers, and that’s what is making one laugh. People in the EU watch their own propaganda and news sponsored by NATO and Brussels institutions. If this is all they have, there is no way they could figure out what’s really happening. Most representatives of the Western media have never set foot in the actual intra-Ukrainian conflict area in the past eight years. Occasional reports from the sites of clashes were never widely disseminated.

The Arria-formula meeting brought together representatives of all UN Security Council member states. Our opponents from Western countries felt uncomfortable, carefully avoiding the announced topic and, as usual, focused on condemning the special military operation and using hackneyed phrases about “rampant Russian propaganda.” At the same time, many delegations showed genuine interest in the speakers’ information about the real situation with the spread of neo-Nazism and radical nationalism in Ukraine and their historical background. Parallels were drawn with the crimes of colonial regimes and the resurgence of racial supremacy ideas.

The Russian initiative has made it possible to convey an objective assessment of the events taking place in Ukraine and the social phenomena emerging there to UN Security Council members. Given the stubborn disregard for this information by the Western media, we consider it important to continue the practice of holding such informal meetings on the UN Security Council platform.

US State Department posts a report online titled “To vilify Ukraine, the Kremlin resorts to Antisemitism”

An astounding report titled, “To Vilify Ukraine, The Kremlin Resorts to Antisemitism,” was posted on the US State Department ’s website. This “masterpiece” looks very much like the fake propaganda that Secretary of State Blinken talked about when he said that Russia is forcibly keeping 1.5 million Ukrainian citizens on its territory and is handing out Russian passports to them. Those who might understand the difficulty of issuing passports to 1.5 million people will find these comments ridiculous. We regard in the same vein the Japanese officials’ statements that the venue for the G7 summit in Hiroshima was chosen for a reason that is related to a possible Russian nuclear strike. We are well aware of the fact that the United States carried out nuclear strikes on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. To date, this is the only episode of using nuclear weapons against civilians rather than as part of hostilities. Tokyo forgot this many years ago. They were told to relegate it to oblivion. Today, this kind of compilation of facts is a classic information-based mind game. Yet another report to the effect that Russia is using anti-Semitism to vilify Ukraine is part of the same paradigm. Clearly, it is no longer possible to completely hush up the story about neo-Nazism. In this regard, they are resorting to tricks to change the narrative. They leave the words where they were, but change the emphasis.

On July 11, this “immortal paper” was posted on the State Department’s official website. The document claims that Russian officials and state-run media are spreading fake stories about the atrocities and massacres committed by the nationalist battalions and the Nazi nature of the Ukrainian leadership simply to justify the “war” against Ukraine. We have been dealing with this topic and, as they say, “spreading” materials for a long time now, long before February. We call on the international community to conduct its own investigation and to pay attention to documents and to send to Ukraine, as Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has repeatedly said, their correspondents in order for them to see the problem with their own eyes and to figure things out. Here, it is presented in a way that implies that Russia has only been using this collection of facts since February.

After the February 2014 coup, the radical nationalist forces that were already present in that country reinforced their position in Ukraine. In 2014, they were heavily used during the coup. The radicals began to openly preach the ideas of ethnic intolerance, including anti-Semitism, which, however, is not all there was to it. Nationalism is a broader concept that includes intolerance towards a variety of ethnicities. “Founders” of Ukrainian nationalism such as Semyon Petlyura, Yevgeny Konovalets, Stepan Bandera, Roman Shukhevich, Yaroslav Stetsko, Andrey Melnik and other war criminals are imposed on society as moral compasses. As a reminder, nationalist battalions Azov, Aidar and others have been incorporated into the Ukrainian armed forces. Ten years ago, they were seen in Ukraine and internationally as a fringe element, a standalone force that existed separately from the government. But the coup was carried out with the direct involvement of the nationalists who had been trained specifically for that and were subsequently incorporated into Ukraine’s armed forces.

After President Zelensky’s advent to power in 2019, no improvements in fighting nationalist ideology, including anti-Semitism, have occurred. The illegal actions of right-wing radicals and nationalist groups directed against people of various ethnicities, including Jews, remain unpunished. Religious and memorial sites are being desecrated. Nobody is aware of that or what? No one in the West or the State Department has heard about this? Here are some hard documented facts.

The distribution of xenophobic pamphlets by the Galician Youth organisation in Lvov (May 2021), threats by nationalists to Hasidim on a visit to Uman to celebrate the Jewish New Year (September 2021), graffiti on an information stand outside the Jewish cemetery in Boguslav, the Kiev region, swastikas on the gates of the synagogue in Nikolayev (October 2021), and the annual music festival, Let’s Repeat Koliivshchyna (the uprising of the Haidamaks in the 17th century when about 10,000 Jews were killed) in Kiev in October are among the most obvious signs of anti-Semitism. Deputy Mayor of Shepetovka (Khmelnitsky region) Yury Vakhotsky saying in September 2021 that the tragedy of Babi Yar is “divine retribution to the Jews for the Holodomor,” and head of the Batkivshchyna party branch in Khmelnitsky, Alexander Sholovey, saying that the longer he observes the celebration of Hanukkah, “the better he understands Hitler,” were all met with a wide public outcry. Where are we all living? These things never happened? Is it all made up? Nobody ever heard the State Department say that? There are scores of examples of this.

Can anything like this happen in countries that in every possible way deny and condemn the manifestation of nationalism and xenophobia at the state level? Even if it does happen (thugs and scum who break the law can be found anywhere), an official response usually follows, since this is outlawed at the state level. Of course, officials, politicians and community leaders who are a direct part of a country’s government cannot afford to do this. In Ukraine, things are different. This is not something that comes exclusively from below or locally. These things are encouraged at different levels. Just read Ambassador of Ukraine to Germany Andrey Melnik’s revelations.

As follows from the Unified Register of Judicial Decisions of Ukraine (I hope the State Department can afford a couple of mouse clicks to get familiar with it), the local courts have not handed down a single sentence under Art. 161 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, “Violation of Equality of Citizens Depending on Their Race, Ethnicity or Religious Affiliation,” since 2014. That is, there has been no precedent at all? As a rule, cases related to discrimination, anti-Semitism and xenophobia are reclassified by the investigating authorities as domestic disorderly conduct.

Indicatively, only two UN member states, Ukraine and the United States, have been voting against the annual resolution of the UN General Assembly “On countering the glorification of Nazism, neo-Nazism and other practices that contribute to fuelling contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance.” Why do only two countries systematically vote against a resolution condemning neo-Nazism? There must be an explanation. Where are all these “devil’s advocates” who claim that neo-Nazism does not exist in Ukraine? Explain this, too.

Against this background, it is not surprising that Ukraine decided to withdraw from the Agreement on Perpetuating the Memory of the Courage and Heroism of the Peoples of the Member States of the Commonwealth of Independent States in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945. However, this does not prevent President Zelensky from claiming that he allegedly honours the memory of his grandfather, who fought in the Red Army and liberated the Soviet Union and Europe from Nazism. This is all lies and deceit. You can say anything you want in word, but you don’t do as you say. We make this clear: a false agenda and a simulation of policy aimed at supposedly racial, religious and ethnic equality. In fact, through the steps it has taken every day over the years, this political elite has done nothing but strengthen nationalism in Ukraine.

Referring to the citizens of the country against whom he imposed the sanctions, President Zelensky said that not all people are human and some are just “species.” You can talk forever about this phrase being an artistic expression. I admit that each person can make a mistake or not express themselves as clearly as they would like thereby creating some ambiguity, but this immediately becomes clear. A person can cite his other statements and, most importantly, take practical steps to justify himself. In the case of Zelensky, the opposite is true. The phrase about the “species” is in line with the policy pursued by current and previous Kiev regimes. Zelensky is endlessly trying to convince the public using this ethnic theme, that there is no anti-Semitism in Ukraine because he himself has Jewish roots. This is a case of frightening logic. It begs the question: is there homophobia in Ukraine? If the Kiev regime’s answer is “no,” is it then connected with the current president?

Developments in the Republic of Moldova

The continuing efforts of the European Union and NATO to fully integrate Moldova into their anti-Russian campaign and to develop its territory under the guise of security assistance have not gone unnoticed in Russia.

On July 8, head of the EU Delegation to Moldova, Janis Mazeiks, said on the Tema TV programme on the Primul in Moldova channel that the EU, although not requiring Moldova to impose sanctions against Russia, “would be glad” if Chisinau joined them. Moldova is not a member of the EU . The European Union and all liberal Western regimes constantly declare freedom, independence, sovereignty, and exclusively voluntary solidarity, yet here are such statements: they do not demand, but “would be glad.” Apparently, if Chisinau does not join, they “will not be glad.” Thus, they publicly reminded the Moldovan leadership of the need to respect the notorious “Euro-solidarity.” True solidarity means voluntariness, equality and freedom of expression, and not the use of pressure to create a semblance of solidarity exclusively in line with Brussels’ anti-Russian policy.

On July 11, they signed an agreement on the establishment in Chisinau of the so-called EU Support Hub for Internal Security and Border Management in the Republic of Moldova. According to publicly available information, representatives of security, defence and law enforcement departments of all the EU countries and relevant European agencies will work at this hub.

At our previous briefing, we commented on the plans to supply Western armaments and military equipment to Moldova at the Europe Peace Foundation’s expense. Unfortunately, the efforts by the European Union and NATO to militarise Moldova seem to be supported by certain forces in Chisinau. The country’s Minister of Defence, Anatolie Nosatîi, spoke about this, in particular on July 7 during the Territory of Freedom programme on RLIVE TV. At the same time, it was noted that the Moldovan authorities do not see any direct threats to the country at the moment. Here comes the question: from whom, then, should they defend themselves, and how will this contribute to the country’s security and neutrality?

We would like to once again draw the attention of Moldova to the risks of mindlessly following the advice and recommendations of Western “partners,” which does not involve analysis and one’s own interpretation of the situation. Experience shows that anti-Russian sanctions are above all affecting the people of the countries whose leadership adopted them. There is no need to prove it.

As for the military and military-technical “assistance” provided to Chisinau, its main purpose is to secure the interests of the West. It has nothing to do with Moldova’s security.

Aftermath of military operations of the United States and its European allies

Western countries continue to circulate statements about the need to collect some kind of reparations from Russia and expropriate – in other words, misappropriate – Russian public and private assets abroad. Sometimes they add “for rebuilding Ukraine.” And sometimes you just need to take everything away and rob once again. Similar statements were made, for example, at an international conference in Lugano, Switzerland, on July 4-5.

In this context, the Russian Foreign Ministry has prepared visual information materials on the consequences of the military adventures of the United States and its European allies over the past couple of decades. I understand that Western regimes removed all mirrors long ago so as not to have to face their own reflection. But we have a few left. Take a look and see how the historical record looks. Not the distant past, but the modern record. The article is posted on the website of the Russian Foreign Ministry under the corresponding banner. It clearly, with reference to authoritative sources, provides data on material damage to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Iraq, Libya, and Syria, inflicted by the United States (and others). For example, American aggression in Iraq. Yes, Washington invented and fabricated everything. The work was divided almost equally between Washington and London, but many more countries joined. Now everyone has forgotten, but Ukraine participated in the anti-Iraq campaign. An interesting fact. Do you know who took part in it on behalf of the Armed Forces of Ukraine? Now we hear statements that “Ukraine is a peaceful state,” “wants to live in peace,” “never attacked anyone,” and so on. Let me remind you that sniper Nadezhda Savchenko was part of the anti-Iraq coalition from Ukraine. The same one who later was “for peace” and “for pacifism.” At first, she was a victim of Moscow, then she returned home and became a victim there. And for real. It would be nice if Washington and its satellites read about themselves, and if everyone else read about them.

It is impossible to remain indifferent to the losses suffered by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as a result of the NATO Operation Allied Force (March 24 - June 10, 1999). Over 2,000 civilians, including 88 children, were killed by NATO countries during 78 days of barbaric bombing of civilian infrastructure. Republika Srpska of Bosnia and Herzegovina was the victim of similar international lawlessness during the Alliance’s Operation Deliberate Force (August 30 - September 21, 1995). The economy, environment, and health of the civilian population of the Balkan region suffered irreparable damage due to the use of depleted uranium munitions by the United States, the consequences of which still affect these areas today. Besides the inhabitants of these and neighbouring states that are suffering from the consequences of chemical and biological experiments, soldiers from NATO countries were also victims. They had no idea what their governments had in store for them.

The American military machine also visited untold suffering on the region of the Middle East and North Africa. Over 205,000 civilians were killed in the US-led invasion of Iraq. But no one knows the exact number to this day. No one counted, because, as President of Ukraine Vladimir Zelensky says (at the suggestion of Western regimes), not all people are people, there are “species.” Someone’s life may be invaluable and require heroisation, while someone else’s life may not be counted. In 2017, the city of Mosul was almost wiped off the face of the earth by carpet bombing and shelling, and in Syria, the city of Raqqa was completely destroyed. At the same time, the Americans not only won’t help to restore what they barbarously destroyed, they are also preventing such work from being organised at the international level in every possible way, by sponsoring “moderate” terrorists and extremists and by imposing sanctions. They sanction a country which is still in ruins, even during the pandemic, without even giving it the opportunity to recover on its own.

We do not claim to present a complete calculation of the losses incurred, but even a conservative estimate puts it around $1.5 trillion. These are speculative calculations. The scale of destruction.

We invite everyone to have a look and draw their own conclusions about Western countries’ real willingness to invest in the restoration of the territories they have destroyed, provide some compensation, and answer for what they have done. We hope that our material will become the starting point for people to look into it more deeply for themselves.

Approval of UN Security Council Resolution on international humanitarian aid for Syria, including a cross-border mechanism

On July 12, 2022, the UN Security Council approved Resolution 2642 on international humanitarian aid for Syria, extending the use of the Bab al-Hawa border crossing to deliver cross-border supplies to Idlib for six months. This decision reaffirmed the need to promptly expand internal [transport] links between Damascus and other regions of the country, to step up efforts under the projects to restore civilian infrastructure within a short timeframe, and to alleviate the unilateral anti-Syria sanctions.

This resolution is based on Russia’s draft, which several days earlier was vetoed by the United States, the UK and France. This showed yet again that these three Western countries were unwilling to seek compromise solutions in the UN Security Council and were openly urging the politicisation of purely humanitarian matters related to providing comprehensive aid to the Syrian people.

As a reminder – this is a matter of principle - international humanitarian efforts do not require a UN Security Council resolution because they are regulated by the relevant legal norms, including, primarily, the governing principles of providing humanitarian aid, which are written into UN General Assembly Resolution 46/182. The main requirements in such cases include respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country receiving aid, as well as the coordination of humanitarian efforts with the country’s government.

In this specific case, approval of the resolution was required to continue the delivery of UN cross-border supplies bypassing Damascus, which were initiated in 2014 as an extraordinary and temporary measure. Moscow has always insisted that this special mechanism must be removed in the end while aid for Syrians should be brought in line with the situation on the ground and comply with international humanitarian law, especially as other key provisions of UN Security Council Resolution 2585, which was unanimously approved on July 10, 2021, have not, in fact, been fulfilled.

We believe the world community and the UN humanitarian office will be taking effective measures in the next six months to fully and honestly fulfil all provisions of this UN Security Council decision without exception. In this connection, we attach special importance to the regular discussions between the involved parties as part of the informal interactive dialogue at the UN in New York. This will allow us to provide the needed aid without discrimination or conditions to all Syrians who need it, without exception, and effectively concentrate on how to quickly restore water and electricity distribution infrastructure, medical and education institutions, and residential housing in coordination with the Government of the Syrian Arab Republic.

Russian humanitarian aid delivered to Afghanistan

On July 13, transport aircraft of the Russian Aerospace Forces, with the assistance of the Russian Foreign Ministry , delivered 16 tonnes of medicines and essential goods to Kabul. Residents of remote provinces affected by the recent devastating earthquake in the southeast of the country will receive necessary medicines, as well as tents and blankets.

Russian Ambassador to Afghanistan Dmitry Zhirnov participated in the handover ceremony.

The Afghan authorities expressed their deep gratitude to Russia.

Suspension of Russian helicopter repairs in the Czech Republic and Bulgaria

According to the available information, a number of NATO and EU countries continue supplying weapons and military equipment to the Kiev regime, and plan to arrange for their repair at industrial facilities in Eastern European countries. As a retaliatory measure, Russia has decided to suspend the aircraft maintenance certificates previously issued to the Czech company LOM PRAHA, s.p. and the Bulgarian companies TEREM-LETETS EOOD and AVIONAMS JSC.

Design and technical support services for the major repair of Mi helicopters, subscription services for sets of maintenance and repair documentation, and supplies of spare parts and components are thereby discontinued. These enterprises have been deprived of the right to provide technical maintenance and repair Russian-made helicopter equipment.

In this connection, Russia will no longer bear any responsibility for the safe operation of helicopters repaired at these enterprises.

Online chronicles of reprisals against Russian media and journalists by Western countries and internet companies

For several years, we have been compelled to write regularly about the West’s efforts to suppress Russian and undesirable to the authorities Russian language media that were preventing the political elites of the “advanced democracies” from manipulating public opinion in their countries as they saw fit. However, it is difficult to find a name for what happened and continues to happen almost every day since February 24 of this year simply for lack of any historical analogy. The closest definition that occurs to us in an attempt to describe this notion would be “mediacide based on ethnic origin and political conviction.” In other words, this is an attempt to destroy the very notion of media pluralism through the totalitarian cleansing of one’s information space, including the digital space, from all alternative views on global events. This primarily concerns all Russian, Russian-language and Russia-affiliated media without exception. An entire arsenal of reprisals and restrictions is used against their distributors at the same time. The main enemies include Russian journalists, military correspondents, editors-in-chief and bloggers that provide not only a one-sided, Western interpretation of events but also alternative reports. The leaders of public opinion are in the same category.

In effect, the West wants to deprive its people once and for all of the opportunity to critically analyse the flow of news and replace it with monochrome propaganda coverage. In the process, they continue to talk about the intransient value of freedom of speech. This is not just the expression of model hypocrisy typical of the rhetoric from a neo-liberal political class. They are doing this under the obvious influence of self-hypnosis in their exclusiveness and permissiveness.

We do not see any point in arguing with these pseudo proponents of freedom of speech with their obvious signs of personality disorder. We will start publishing chronicles of the most striking facts of reprisal and harassment of the Russian media and journalists on the Foreign Ministry website that have occurred since the recognition of the independence of the DPR and the LPR and the start of the special military operation to defend Donbass. It is impossible to mention everything every time. This material will be accessible to all those who are not indifferent to the status of freedom of speech in the world. We want to explain in practical terms what “mediacide” as regards Russian and Russian-language media and journalists means. We will regularly update this information because we realise that there will be many reasons for doing so in the near future. This exorbitant hype in harassing the Russian media will not abate. Why? Because the Western regimes have taken a course towards the complete cleansing of the media space from everything that does not fit in into their vision of the world.

Amendments in the Anti-Fake section on the Foreign Ministry’s website

The Anti-Fake section existed on the Foreign Ministry website for a long time. We cited examples of publications demonstrating how different media publish fake reports. We also provided materials rebutting these fakes.

We launched this section in 2017. We conducted thorough research and analysed with facts many publications. The situation changed drastically after February 2022. As Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said, a hybrid war was declared on us (this happened long ago but now it has entered its active phase). This was more obvious than ever before in the information space. It looked like information terrorism. It was impossible to analyse every publication. I remember well the questions asked surreptitiously by Western journalists: What’s wrong with your anti-fake reports? No fakes at all? We didn’t update this section because there were so many fakes that we couldn’t cope with analysing them. But we heard the message and made conclusions.

Today, we will carry at 3 pm (Moscow time) a number of reviews of the foreign media publications that replicated incorrect information in our Press Service section – Publications and Denials – Examples of publications replicating incorrect information about Russia. We will publish such reviews regularly, make a digest of this information and present a global view of what countries and regions carry distorted information and how. Today, we will write about publications in the media of Germany, Greece, Belgium and Sweden.

“The order” was accepted and will be carried out.

Anniversary of the start of the Berlin (Potsdam) conference (July 17 – August 2, 1945)

The Conference of the leaders of the three allied powers – the USSR, the US and the UK – opened in Potsdam, the suburb of Berlin on July 17, 1945. They recorded the political results of World War II and adopted decisions on the world’s postwar arrangement.

It was confirmed at the Conference that supreme power in Germany would be exercised by the commanders-in-chief of the armed forces of the USSR, the US, the UK and France, each in his own occupation zone. The conferees finally harmonised the main principles for the activities of the Allied Control Council in Germany as the supreme body of power of the victors.

Proceeding from the decisions of the Yalta Conference and the proposals drafted by the European Consultative Commission, the participants decided that Germany ought to undergo de-Nazification, demilitarisation, democratisation and decentralisation. The decisions as regards Germany provided for its complete disarmament, the abolition of its armed forces, the SS, the SD and the Gestapo and the destruction or surrender of its ammunition and armaments to the allies. It was decided to punish war criminals and transfer them to the International Military Tribunal. The allies recorded this intention at the Moscow Conference in 1943.

At the Potsdam Conference, they reached agreement on reparations from Germany. It was decided that each power would receive reparations from their own zones and at the expense of German assets abroad, while the USSR would receive an additional 25 percent of the industrial equipment withdrawn from the Western zones.

The participants established a Council of Foreign Ministers of the USSR, the US, Great Britain, France and China to draft peace treaties with Italy, Romania. Hungary, Bulgaria and Finland. They also discussed a number of territorial issues, including the transfer of Konigsberg (Kaliningrad since 1946) to the USSR. The agreements reached by the leaders of the three powers were confirmed in the Conference’s Protocol of August 1, 1945.

Address by the Civic Assembly of the Krasnoyarsk Territory in connection with the demolition of the monument to Soviet soldiers in Klaipeda

On July 8 of this year, members of the chamber of national and cultural autonomies of the Krasnoyarsk Territory Civic Assembly, sent a collective address to the leaders and all residents of the Republic of Lithuania in connection with the demolition of the monument to Soviet soldiers in Klaipeda. They urged the Lithuanians to put an end to vandalism of the Combat Glory monuments to Soviet soldiers and to prevent from being consigned to oblivion the exploits of our ancestors that truly freed the world of fascism.

It was noted in the address that a monument to perished Red Army soldiers was wrecked in Klaipeda on July 5 of this year. The memorial has graves of 695 Soviet soldiers, including seven Heroes of the Soviet Union. The latter include Efim Belinsky who was born in the Krasnoyarsk Territory. The residents of this region cherish the memory of Belinsky and all those who perished on the battlefield. The authors of the address recalled that deliberate extermination on the territory of today’s Lithuania concerned 370,000 civilians, 230,000 Soviet POWs and another 200,000 citizens of other Nazi-occupied countries. Over 137,000 Soviet troops perished in the fighting for Lithuania’s liberation.

The Assembly members emphasised the following lines: “Today, over 1,200 Lithuanians live peacefully in the Krasnoyarsk Territory, their Siberian homeland. Overall, representatives of 159 ethnicities united by common history live in this region. The residents of the Krasnoyarsk Territory know how much Lithuanians respect the memory of their ancestors and how carefully they look after the graves of their compatriots in Siberia. Those who destroy monuments to the soldiers who freed Lithuania are wrecking the foundations of their own national culture and identity.”

Days of Russian Spiritual Culture in France

Against the background of the untenable, savage and barbaric attempts of the collective West to cancel Russian culture, Russia continues to show the world examples of a constructive, unifying approach to cultural issues, the consolidation of all who sincerely appreciate art, see its everlasting, all-conquering beauty and are ready for a cultural exchange on a mutually respectful and constructive basis.

The success of the Days of Spiritual Culture of Russia in France, which took place in early July at the Russian Orthodox Spiritual and Cultural Centre in Paris, is the latest example of this. The events were organised by the Russian Ministry of Culture with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

Masterpieces of world classical music performed by young Russian musicians, including outstanding works by the Russian composers Pyotr Tchaikovsky and Sergey Rachmaninoff, were presented to a wide French and foreign audience. The opening ceremony of the Days of Spiritual Culture included the concert Music is the Poetry of the Air attended by Sergey Rachmaninoff's great-granddaughter Alexandra Conus Brochard. The visitors also had a chance to see unique exhibits displayed at the Sergey Rachmaninoff: I am a Russian Composer exhibition organised by the Russian National Museum of Music.

The year 2023 will mark Rachmaninoff's 150th birthday. In the run-up to this significant date, numerous events devoted to the life and work of this outstanding composer, conductor and musician will be held in our country and abroad.

Bulamarg (Nightingale) International Literature Award

The annual Bulamarg (Nightingale) International Literature Award, organised by the Embassy of the Republic of South Ossetia in the Russian Federation and the award’s board, has begun accepting applications, including from authors writing in Russian, for its 2022 edition.

Let me remind you that the award board introduced a separate category for Russian-speaking authors in 2020, with the aim of strengthening friendly relations between South Ossetia and Russia, familiarisation with the rich historical and cultural heritage of the two peoples and its promotion, following the spirit of commitment to the Russian World.

Novels, stories, poems, collections, non-fiction and memoirs can be nominated for the award. Topics about prominent figures in Russia and Ossetia, the most important historical events and contemporary life are encouraged. Everyone from ages 14 to 41 years old is welcome to participate.

Applications for the literary competition will be accepted until October 30, 2022, with details available on the website.

Answers to media questions:

Question: Senior Policy Advisor to the US Helsinki Commission Paul Massaro said that Ukraine should be allowed to hit targets in Russia, Belarus and Crimea. Are his words direct proof that the United States is behind Ukraine armed forces’ barbaric actions? How does the Russian Foreign Ministry assess calls like this by American officials?

Maria Zakharova : It seems to me that these statements are showing that those who make them have lost all reason.

Aggressive calls for hitting targets in Russia have become increasingly more frequent in the United States and, in particular, law-makers and officials on the so-called Helsinki Commission in Congress. Not only does the senior adviser of this notorious commission say this but also a more influential person – former Commander, US European Command and former Supreme Allied Commander Europe, General Philip Breedlove – echoes him. A few days ago, he baldly recommended that the Crimea Bridge be attacked.

American officials are avoiding giving guarantees that the advanced missile systems which are being supplied to the Kiev regime will not be used by the Ukrainian armed forces to hit targets on our territory, and they also describe as legitimate the barbaric shelling by Ukrainian armed groups of cities and villages in the Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics, and of areas in Ukraine which have been liberated.

By so doing, the United Sates has become a party to the conflict with all the ensuing consequences, something that our officials, experts and statesmen have said on more than one occasion. Of course, this is a dangerous path and it is destabilising the situation in the world.

Question: Earlier, the White House said that it was working directly with the Russian authorities to secure the release of US nationals Brittney Griner and Paul Whelan who have been detained in Russia. What progress has been made on this issue? Are negotiations being held on exchanging American nationals for Russians imprisoned in the United States?

Maria Zakharova : You are well aware of the fact that real work is not accompanied by media hype, while what you are talking about is a classic information campaign. We regret that the United States has chosen this path instead of maintaining a confidential, professional dialogue. The American public, which takes such an interest in the fate of its fellow citizens, should realise this. The more people talk into a microphone in Washington to voice their opinion on the matter, the less they are involved in real effective work. If they had worked to help their citizens, they would not have had time to talk. Most importantly, they know well, just like in other situations, that sometimes this simply obstructs their work. This is another information campaign to present the aforementioned “detained persons” as everything but what they are – the victims of arbitrary treatment. I want to remind you – we said this many times – that there is significant evidence and many documents proving that Paul Whelan was duly sentenced for espionage as he was caught red-handed; as for Brittney Griner, the court is looking at her case and it is premature to discuss any options for her return home before the trial is completed.

The planted fake stories about the “horrors of Russian prisons,” which as part of the information campaign are being promoted in the United States amid emphatic demands that the “innocent US citizens” be promptly released, will not help solve anything. They should make up their minds as to what they want. Do they want to work on the matter? We are prepared to. Or are they just seeking media attention or engaging in information campaigns? This is their choice but we are not going to take part in it.

We are calling on the US authorities not to exploit this sensitive issue that affects the lives of real individuals. We recommend that they stop trying in vain to put pressure on us and urge them to concentrate on practical work via existing channels. There is no other way to achieve anything.

To be continued...

* * * * *

The information contained herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law. SeeNews does not endorse in any way, the views, opinions or recommendations expressed above. The use of the information is subject to the terms and conditions as published by the original source, which you have to read and accept in full prior to the execution of any actions taken in reliance on information contained herein.

SeeNews EOOD

文件 RUSGOV0020220715ei7f000ul


Bulgaria: Government considers stopping exports of fuel refinery Lukoil
213 字
2022 年 7 月 29 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
It is not clear how decision could be implemented without parliamentary sanction, in our view

Government allocates BGN 150mn for discount on retail fuel prices

The government considers stopping the exports of the oil refinery Lukoil, local media reported. The government in resignation created a working group between the customs agency and the tax administration with the aim to set up a mechanism for restricting the export of oil products with Russian components from Bulgaria to the EU and third countries. The Lukoil refinery is owned by Russia's Lukoil so its total output should be based on Russian oil imports. The export restriction will increase the fuel supplies to the Bulgarian market and should contribute to reducing fuel prices, outgoing PM Kiril Petkov said. We note that the final decision is likely to require a parliamentary sanction so it is not clear how it could be actually implemented in the short term.

The government also approved additional budget allocations to the finance ministry for the purpose of financing the BGN 0.25 discount to retail fuel prices. The discount to retail fuel prices was introduced with the so-called anti-inflation package in early July. Its budgetary cost has been estimated at BGN 150mn.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220729ei7t00006


Bulgaria: Tension between President Radev and BSP leader Ninova continues to rise
554 字
2022 年 8 月 4 日
EmergingMarketWatch
CEEMAR
英文
© 2022. CEEMarketWatch
Ninova accuses Radev of siding with GERB and MRF to re-establish corruption

BSP would rule again with WCC due to joint priority of fight against corruption, Ninova says

The tension between President Rumen Radev and BSP leader Kornelia Ninova continues to escalate, as Ninova accused Radev's newly appointed caretaker government of resuming the corrupt GERB-MRF way of governing, local media reported. Ninova was in particular dissatisfied with Radev's appointment of Nikola Stoyanov as new economy minister, which was her office in the past seven months in the former WCC-BSP-DB-TISP ruling coalition. Ninova had fired Stoyanov from the state-owned military plan VMZ Sopot, accusing him of being guilty for the deteriorating financial condition of the company. She said that Stoyanov participated in a scheme embezzling public funds and his appointment in the caretaker government will lead to re-appointment of dismissed corrupt people at key positions, thus resuming the influence of people around GERB and MRF in the state. She said President Radev is one of the people who stood behind the toppling down of the ex-ruling coalition and accused him of having strong ambitions and complexes for power. Ninova said that Radev enjoyed the creation of new parties with the aim to destroy governments, noting that Radev stood behind the setting-up of WCC at first, but eventually sided with GERB and MRF to destroy the WCC-led cabinet. BSP would rule again with WCC due to overlapping priorities of preventing public funds abuse and corruption, Ninova pointed out, although it continued to disagree with WCC's decisions to expel Russian diplomats and stop gas supplies from Russia. Ninova insisted that resumption of talks with Gazprom for the re-start of Russian gas supplies to Bulgaria would be the best solution to the gas supplies crisis in Bulgaria at present.

We recall that Radev appointed three BSP's national council members, known as being in opposition of Ninova within BSP - Krum Zarkov, Vesela Lecheva and Yavor Gechev, as caretaker ministers. The three members had not informed BSP's national council of their appointment and a plenum will decide whether it will sanction them on Aug 5, Ninova said. Unanimous media resources commented that if Ninova decides to expel the three members, BSP might split apart, which would be a very unfavourable development for the party before the snap general elections on Oct 2. Overall, the hostility between President Radev and BSP might have some negative impact on BSP's popularity at the upcoming elections, in our view, taking into account Radev's high rating, according to the latest polls. Nevertheless, we think that the internal fights between Ninova and its opposition in BSP, seemingly supported by the President, are unlikely to be publicly discussed or revealed, so we do not expect a critical withdrawal of electoral support for BSP in the short term. However, President Radev's support or confrontation with any of the political parties may be important for the election results in October, as illustrated from the situation of the last general elections from Nov 2021, when the newly-formed party WCC, set up by former caretaker minister Kiril Petkov and Asen Vasilev, who were supported by Radev, won the elections.

CEEMarketWatch

文件 CEEMAR0020220804ei840000a


Alexey Alchin: Bulgaria risks violating EU principles over Russia extradition request
2301 字
2022 年 8 月 12 日
Euronews
EURONEN
英文
Copyright 2022 Euronews All Rights Reserved
When he moved to Bulgaria in 2014, all Alexey Alchin wanted to do was open a dojo where he could teach his favourite martial arts to children.

After publicly burning his Russian passport in Varna in late February in protest over Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, Alchin found himself in detention amidst extradition demands from his home country. His case threatens to set a dangerous precedent that would see opponents of President Vladimir Putin's regime being extradited from the European Union.

The Balkan country of almost seven million people would be the first EU member state to hand over a Russian national since the beginning of the invasion, despite legal and human rights experts warning that Moscow is using trumped-up charges against Alchin as a way of testing the bloc's resolve in protecting Kremlin critics abroad.

After Alchin's act of defiance in Varna, it took the authorities in Moscow mere months to set up a case against him and reach out to Sofia, claiming that he defrauded the state by failing to pay outstanding VAT debts amounting to more than 282.5 million roubles (€4.5m) in late 2015.

A former entrepreneur in the field of metal exports, the 46-year-old Alchin rejected the charges, insisting he had proof that his books were in order when he left Russia for Bulgaria eight years ago. He also said he knew nothing of the court case against him, which Moscow claims goes back to 2018.

The Bulgarian Ministry of Internal Affairs reached out to him in late June, stating that there was an international warrant for his arrest and inviting him in for an interview. Alchin spent 12 days in detention and has been under house arrest since.

Meanwhile, the authorities in Varna decided to go along with Moscow's request, denying Alchin's request for political asylum in the process.

The District Court in the popular resort city, found on the Black Sea, ruled on Monday that Alchin should be extradited and has placed him in detention pending appeal.

"Alexey is doing his best to be okay in these circumstances,"his wife Olga Gyurova told Euronews.

"He was asked to help one of the newer inmates. [The new inmate] is Ukrainian, and he is terrified of being in prison, so Alexey offered to help people and care about others."

"Even in his circumstances, it is easier for him to care about others than about himself."

Dissonance between nostalgia and reality

Alchin and Gyurova met in Bulgaria and had what she describes as a comfortable environment amongst like-minded people while also benefitting from a soft spot most Bulgarians have for Russia.

The historical closeness between the two nations stems from a number of connections, such as both having an Eastern Orthodox religious majority to both countries being a part of a wider eastern European Slavic cultural space.

The two were politically close, too. After World War II, Bulgaria was a part of the Stalin-led communist bloc and remained a loyal ally to the Soviet Union until the fall of top functionary Todor Zhivkov in 1989 and the first multi-party elections in the following year.

This, coupled with Bulgaria being relatively low-cost compared to most parts of Russia, led to many Russians flocking the coast for summer holidays to places like Varna, with some eventually settling there.

"The Russian minority has grown a lot because there are many people who moved [to Varna] from Russia with a one-way ticket, to put it that way,"Gyurova said.

"10-15 years ago, Russians perceived Bulgaria as a country where you can buy an apartment and from time to time come here for a couple of weeks. It was quite cheap for Russians: cheap real estate, cheap services, cheap tickets, so it was not a problem to just buy a ticket and come here whenever you want."

However, despite Bulgarians welcoming her compatriots with open arms, Gyurova believes that there is a dissonance between the way ordinary Bulgarians perceive Russia and what the country has turned into under Putin.

Alexey Alchin and Olga Gyurova (Olga Gyurova/Personal archive)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/93/46/74/808x1325_cmsv2_4ad25506-0083-5516-b7b9-156d4f939113-6934674.jpg]

"A lot of Bulgarians, when they learn where Alexey and I are from, they express a nostalgia towards Russia,"she said.

"They immediately mention their experiences visiting Russia some 40 years ago, for example. They have no idea about what happens in Russia nowadays, and they have a traditional way of perceiving everything connected to Russia."

"And I have no opportunity to explain that nowadays, Russia has nothing in common with what they are used to thinking it is."

For these Bulgarians, it is almost impossible to comprehend that some are now fleeing the Putin regime, which continues to suffocate dissenting voices, most recently criminalising any form of criticism of the war in Ukraine — which it refuses to call an out-right war.

Arrested for one thing, put on trial for another

Merely calling Moscow's aggression against its western neighbour what it is — a war — instead of using the Kremlin-preferred term "special operation"can land you in prison for several years.

Many prominent critics of the regime, like opposition politician Vladimir Kara-Murza, have been arrested for basic infractions and then put on trial for other alleged crimes.

Kara-Murza was arrested in mid-April for "disobeying police orders". Although he relies on a cane to be able to walk -- a consequence of two failed poisoning attempts against his life — Kara-Murza was alleged to have "walked erratically and aggressively in front of police officers"in downtown Moscow.

He was charged on 22 April for "spreading false information"after he denounced the war in Ukraine in front of the Arizona House of Representatives on 15 March.

Gyurova fears that a similar fate awaits her husband, despite written assurances by Russia's Prosecutor General that Alchin will solely be tried for the alleged tax evasion and that his human rights will be respected throughout during the trial and in his sentencing.

Bulgarian authorities have no way of knowing whether this pledge will be respected, especially if Alchin ends up in the notoriously violent and abusive penitentiary system, she contended. And that in itself should be enough for the EU member state to decide against handing him over to Moscow.

"It is frightening. It is something that shouldn’t happen to anyone. I ask the Bulgarian society, the European society, the Bulgarian court as a representative of the European human rights values to protect Alexey from all of this — Alexey and all the other potential victims of this kind of treatment in Russia,"Gyurova concluded.

Police detain a demonstrator during an action against Russia's attack on Ukraine in St. Petersburg, 2 March 2022 (AP Photo/Dmitri Lovetsky)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/52/30/54/808x590_cmsv2_d443d84c-939c-54a9-9337-8d082f2727d8-6523054.jpg]

Human Rights Watch's director of advocacy for Europe and Central Asia, Philippe Dam, also believes that concerns over Alchin's safety once in the hands of the Russian legal system should be prioritised when taking his case into consideration.

According to Dam, Russian courts have an extensive legacy of using trumped-up charges at the authorities’ convenience to silence and sanction critics, something his organisation has been monitoring for years. And matters only became worse since 24 February.

"The reality is, we are increasingly seeing the courts being used as a tool of repression in Russia, since the beginning of Russia’s aggression against Ukraine,"Dam told Euronews.

"We have started to document a large number of administrative or criminal sentences being used against those who express themselves against the war, who stood out or participated in protests."

By setting his passport on fire, Alchin opened himself up to potential retaliation.

"Mr Alchin reports that he has taken a clear position while in exile, while abroad [in Bulgaria] against the conflict and against Russian authorities. This could put him at risk of very substantial, very serious human rights violations,"Dam explained.

"In a normal situation where courts would be fair and independent, we could be less worried. But the reality is that, this is not the case in Russia, and even less so since the beginning of war in Ukraine,"Dam said.

"And courts in Bulgaria — and in fact throughout the EU — should take such risks into account in similar situations."

Alchin's case a sign of thawing of relations with Bulgaria?

The extradition attempt has placed a heavy burden on Bulgarian authorities. Their decision does not only affect their own country but reflects on the union as a whole — a bloc that continues to side with Ukraine and against the government in Moscow.

Bulgaria would be within its rights to reject the extradition. In March, EU justice ministers decided that member states such as Bulgaria could ignore extradition requests made by Russia due to the Kremlin’s ongoing aggression against Ukraine.

"I don’t think there’s any mistake about this: this is a very high-level priority for Russian authorities, but it’s also a real test of Bulgaria’s commitment to the European Union,"John O'Brennan, Jean Monnet Chair of European Integration at Maynooth University, told Euronews.

"It seems extraordinary to me, with all of the evidence in the public domain now about the brutality of the Russian authorities, both domestically in Russia and the way their forces have behaved in Ukraine, that the possibility of any individual, whether they are Russian or otherwise, getting a fair trial in Russia seems absolutely impossible."

"For a European Union court — even though the Varna District Court is a relatively junior court — to concur with the request for extradition from the Russian authorities, after everything that has happened this year, it just seems to fly in the face of any notion of justice to me,"O'Brennan said.

Hesitance to protect Alchin could also signal a shift in Bulgarian politics, already divided between those championing a more critical approach to Moscow and others who have shown either sympathy or outright support for Putin.

As the country prepares for its fourth election in some 18 months following a vote of no-confidence in parliament that ousted the liberal centrist government of Kiril Petkov in June, Bulgaria has already shifted its position on Russia, thanks to the interim government appointed by Socialist President Rumen Radev.

A protester holds a poster reading in Bulgarian "Gas may bring head (President) down" during a protest rally in downtown Sofia, 10 August (AP Photo/Valentina Petrova)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/93/46/74/808x535_cmsv2_00490e21-f21a-5fe5-82f6-6675e93d275e-6934674.jpg]

On Wednesday, hundreds of Bulgarians took to the streets of the capital Sofia, expressing fears that the country might revert to closer energy ties with Russia in spite of general EU policies on the issue.

Many believe that the Petkov government was toppled over its strong stances against Russia's invasion of Ukraine and its refusal to pay its state-owned gas giant, Gazprom, in roubles — a move aimed to artificially increase the value of its currency amidst harsh western sanctions and their exclusion from the global markets.

In April, Russia cut off gas supplies to Bulgaria, the EU's poorest state, due to the previous government's positions. Now Radev's caretaker government wants to go back to the negotiating table.

"Radev had the prerogative of appointing the prime minister and the ministers and he seems to have appointed a lot of people close to him politically and ideologically. And I don’t think there’s any doubt that they have a pro-Russian bias,"O'Brennan said.

Will Bulgaria capitulate to the Russian request?

But Radev is not the only one who might be complicit in the thaw in relations with Moscow.

Bulgaria's mainstay centre-right party, GERB, and its leader and former prime minister Boyko Borissov, have been one of those within the EU — like Hungary's Viktor Orban — who maintained close relations with Moscow and Putin.

"Bulgaria represents the soft underbelly of the EU for Russia. The extent of Russian influence in Bulgaria has been very significant, even though Boyko Borissov was very good at playing ‘the European game',"O'Brennan explained.

"He was very deft at handling the Russians. Everything happened under the radar. People like Radev are much more explicitly pro-Russian, and that has reflected in the change of tenor we’ve seen in recent weeks."

Bulgarian President Rumen Radev arrives for the NATO summit in Madrid, 30 June 2022 (Manu Fernandez/Copyright 2022 The Associated Press. All rights reserved)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/93/46/74/808x539_cmsv2_5fa339a9-21c9-52ff-9e34-f531e59572d8-6934674.jpg]

Yet, the murky political waters and a brewing desire to improve relations with the Kremlin do not necessarily mean that Bulgaria will give in to Moscow's demands in Alchin's extradition case. Despite the blurring of responsibilities, the Treaty of the EU and its human rights provisions should trump all other considerations, according to O'Brennan.

"I cannot see a situation where Bulgaria will end up actually capitulating to the Russian request. It would make life horrendously difficult for Bulgaria at the EU level because there will be consternation about this in the EU,"he said.

"If it gets wider publicity around Europe it will create a debate for how right it is for any national court of the EU to agree to surrender a Russian national with the almost-sure knowledge that this person is going to face torture and barbaric treatment at the hands of Russian authorities."

"Looking at this case, it seems open-and-shut. It would be completely in violation of Bulgaria’s obligation under Article 2 and the values of the EU — the EU stands for fundamental freedoms, individual freedoms, as well as free and fair functioning of political institutions. It’s the cornerstone of the EU’s legal identity."

Alexey Alchin in martial arts training in Varna, Bulgaria (Olga Gyurova/Personal archive)[https://static.euronews.com/articles/stories/06/93/46/74/800x450_cmsv2_2efd3731-1fe5-5efc-8078-aca0f7ece354-6934674.jpg]

Euronews

文件 EURONEN020220813ei8c0000b


Bulgarian politician: Brussels does not know the truth about TurkStream]]
Georgi Gotev
1466 字
2022 年 9 月 19 日 08:16 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2022. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The TurkStream gas pipeline is a conduit for Russian interests in Southeast Europe and should be subject to sanctions, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, a former close associate of Boyko Borissov, who as prime minister ensured the construction of the Bulgarian section for a record time, told EURACTIV.

Tsvetan Tsvetanov was number two in the GERB party after its leader and former prime minister Boyko Borissov. He was very close to the party leader but left the party in 2019, after which he founded the ‘Republicans for Bulgaria’ party, a force with a clear pro-Western agenda. His party is not participating in the early parliamentary elections on 2 October.

He spoke to EURACTIV’s Senior Editor Georgi Gotev.

You left the administration of Boyko Borissov in 2019. This was a period of accelerated construction of “TurkStream” and planning of its section in Bulgaria. Tell us what you know.

It all started in 2015 when Borissov announced the construction of the “Balkan” gas hub. It was presented to the EC as the unrealised Nabucco project. It received approval, both nationally and at the highest European political level. In the middle of 2017, the so-called roadmap for TurkStream in Bulgaria was agreed upon by [the then energy minister] Temenuzhka Petkova in St. Petersburg, and the accelerated construction of “TurkStream” began.

Borissov told us that with “TurkStream”, we will have complete gas diversification. He said that we already have Azebaijani gas but failed to explain that this is done through a virtual swap deal and that we are actually buying Azerbaijani gas but getting Russian gas instead.

No one has asked why Bulgaria allowed Ukraine to be bypassed with the construction of “TurkStream” and why Bulgaria lost BGN 1.35 billion (€690 million) in transit fees along the then-existing corridor, which had a 10-year contract [until the launch of “TurkStream”, Bulgaria transited the entire amount of Russian gas imported by Turkey, which came through Ukraine and Romania).

Borissov is the ideologue for all these meetings, which were held together with Temenuzka Petkova and Tomislav Donchev [then deputy prime minister]. Following advice from Babakov and Vorobyov, they managed to very skillfully convince the representatives of the European Commission that they were compliant with the third energy package.

[Alexander Vorobyov and Alexander Babakov are Russian oligarchs under US sanctions. In an interview with Veselin Dremdzhiev in March, Tsvetanov hinted that the two were behind the concept for Bulgaria to build the TurkStream section on Bulgarian territory with its own funds.]

We know that for diversification, more than 50% of the capacity must be accessible for other contracts that can be concluded with different gas sources. When TurkStream began operations in Bulgaria, it became clear that it had only an entrance and an exit point without any diversification. This increased Bulgaria’s dependence on Russian gas by 100% by 2021. I cannot understand why there is no debate in the European Parliament in the European Commission because 90% of these quantities are reserved by the Swiss company MET, a subsidiary of Gazprom. This comes out in many reports by energy security analysts and experts.

There was even a partial recognition by Tomislav Donchev on the record on one of the national TV channels. He said that they had meetings with over 30 people when they were visiting Russia, and the persons in question [Babakov and Vorobyov] may have been there. Do you think the protocol would allow the Deputy Prime Minister, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Energy to meet with people under sanctions? It just doesn’t matter to them. Because it was vital for them to advance those Russian interests that were detrimental to national security, they served foreign interests. They did not care about the EU interest and the third energy package.

Politicians need to speak out. Regarding Nord Stream, a debate is taking place at the European level, but TurkStream is absent from the discussion.

TurkStream is very important because it increases the Russian influence in Southeast Europe. This pipe feeds Serbia and Hungary, which means that this is a conduit of the interests of Putin, which arose after the annexation of Crimea and aimed at bypassing Ukraine. But let’s also remember that before the annexation of Crimea, Ukraine extracted about 80% of its oil and gas deposits in the Black Sea. This is already impossible in these conditions.

I have heard that Borissov said in a close circle that if he did not build “TurkStream” according to the Russian wishes, he would be killed. This reportedly happened after the infamous photos came out in June 2020 – someone took a picture of him sleeping in his bedroom. This is how, in accelerated terms, the project started work at the end of the year. Does this seem credible to you?

Borissov fends off ‘kompromats’, says will sleep with a gun[https://www.euractiv.com/section/justice-home-affairs/news/borissov-fends-off-kompromats-says-will-sleep-with-a-gun/]

Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borissov called an extraordinary meeting of his GERB party (EPP-affiliated) on Wednesday (17 June) to refute a leaked recording and photos suggesting heavy-handed brinkmanship and corruption.

Between 2015 and 2016, he changed and there were huge differences between what he was saying internally and to our European partners. These differences including at the geopolitical level, are partly why I withdrew from GERB.

There was no way I could continue to work in this environment where things may have been as you described them. But I can’t vouch for their accuracy. I can say that with our actions and the construction of TurkStream, we have served foreign interests. And right here is the question – why did the EC not follow the original concept to push for the so-called Balkan Gas Hub and Balkan Stream? What are the actual goals, and what is happening?

It must be stated that Kiril Petkov’s government put all this under the spotlight and showed that the Russian side was incorrect by unilaterally stopping the gas. But we see that the current government has started to make moves that create the feeling that there is some behind-the-scenes play for the promotion and restoration of Gazprom as a supplier and that the government is seeking long-term contracts with them.

For Gazprom, it is essential to have long-term contracts with a take-or-pay clause. In the same way, we gave up the BGN 1.350 billion I mentioned, despite having a signed contract for the transit route, and whether or not deliveries were made, we would get this money. But we gave up this money and invested over 3 billion BGN (€1.5 billion) in the construction of TurkStream.

No one from the EC knows the truth about TurkStream. We lack political debates on this topic – about the geopolitics that the EU should lead, which countries are the EU Achilles’ heel and can be the playground for advancing foreign interests.

I saw a few days ago on Bloomberg comments by Manfred Weber, a centre-right politician I respect. He talked about the mistakes made about Nord Stream 1 and  so why don’t we raise the topic of how TurkStream was built?

These are the essential things, and that is precisely why populism and lies in these elections, playing with people’s fears, always contribute to a change of the objective truth and the horizon that should be in front of our country. We only hear that there is a change in Borissov’s public speaking about how pro-Euro-Atlantic he is. But Borissov did not allow military boats in the Black Sea or NATO military exercises.

As the war in Ukraine unfolds, we see increasingly ugly Russian manifestations, and sanctions against Russia are also increasing. Do you think the time has come for the EU to sanction TurkStream on European territory?

This should have been done much earlier because we could have minimised our damage.

There must be sanctions. We must separate ourselves from this Russian dependence. Putin has used oil and natural gas for geopolitics recently. And from this point of view, we see the firm and consistent actions of the EU countries.

But there must be solidarity between the EC and the EU. Bulgaria will not be able to get out of this impasse, which it will enter if such sanctions are imposed, without having the corresponding compensatory mechanisms so that we can come out stronger and united and not divide the society.

We see that Russia has invested a lot in political parties in EU countries, and it has invested in a lot of media. They have a powerful propaganda machine capable of hybrid attacks that have the potential to reverse anything that we would like to achieve in terms of fairness and objectivity.

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020220919ei9j00002


Bulgaria
Bulgaria Celebrates 114 Years of Independence
Yoanna Vodenova
419 字
2022 年 9 月 22 日 05:45 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2022 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
Bulgaria marked the 114th anniversary of the declaration of its independence on Thursday.

On September 22, 1908, following a prayer service at the historic Church of the Forty Holy Martyrs in the country's medieval capital Tarnovo (North Central Bulgaria), Prince Ferdinand I read a Manifesto proclaiming the vassal Principality of Bulgaria a kingdom independent of the Ottoman Empire.

The declaration of independence required considerable efforts by Bulgarian diplomacy to secure recognition from Great Britain, Austria-Hungary, Turkey and Russia. At the end of the 1877-1878 Russo-Turkish War, the March 3, 1878 preliminary Treaty of San Stefano ended 482 years of Ottoman rule over Bulgaria but did not make it an independent State. Article VI of that Treaty constituted Bulgaria "an autonomous tributary Principality". Article I of the July 1, 1878 Treaty of Berlin confirmed this status, defining Bulgaria as "an autonomous and tributary Principality under the suzerainty of His Imperial Majesty the Sultan".

In the course of 30 years, Bulgaria gradually repudiated its vassal dependence on Turkey, stopping to pay its annual tax, concluding international treaties, waging a war with Serbia without the Sultan's sanction and declaring a union with the Ottoman autonomous province of Eastern Rumelia on September 6, 1886.

The declaration of independence officialized the changed situation in the Balkans and the country's new status as a kingdom in its own right. It extricated Bulgaria from its dependency past and put it back on the European map of independent States.

A solemn liturgy and peeling of church bells of the Church of the Forty Holy Martyrs early on Thursday morning marked the beginning of the celebrations of the anniversary in Veliko Tarnovo.

Traditionally, after the end of the service, the Velika Tarnovo's Metropolitan Bishop Grigoriy performed a blessing of waters and sprinkled the battle flag of Vasil Levski National Military University with holy water as well as the flags of state and municipal institutions, educational institutions and non-governmental organizations. The national flag will be hoisted at the Tsarevets Fortress at 10:30 with a military ritual.

Vice President Iliana Iotova and Mayor Daniel Panov will deliver their festive speeches. Guests and residents of Veliko Tarnovo will lay wreaths and flowers at the Pyramid of Independence.

At 7:30 pm caretaker Prime Minister Galab Donev will join the celebrations with the ceremonial fireworks. A solemn celebration will also take place in front of the Independence Monument in Sofia.

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/662852/20220917_105423+%281%29.jpg]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020220922ei9m00001


Bulgaria
Media Review: September 29
Zhechka Dimitrova
2259 字
2022 年 9 月 29 日 08:23 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2022 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
OCTOBER 2 PARLIAMENTARY ELECTIONS

The looming October 2 snap elections dominate the Thursday print newspaper and online news outlets.

24 Chasa has a chart with the results of all parliamentary elections in this country since the toppling of the communist regime in 1989 and a review of voter turnout since then. A headline says that at the moment, 670,000 votes are enough to win power, while back in the 1990s the figure used to be more than two million votes. In another election report, the newspaper says that since 1989, the Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP, the former communist party) has lost the highest number of seats in voting by expatriate Bulgarians, 14, while the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (MRF) has won the highest number, 23.

* * *

In an interview to Capital.bg, prominent sociologist Zhivko Georgiev says that he does not see an optimist post-election scenario for the political crisis in this country. More likely is the prospect of fresh parliamentary elections next year.

* * *

Mediapool.bg and Dnevnik.bg have reports on a surprise appearance of Continue the Change (CC) co-leader and former prime minister Kiril Petkov in a scheduled election dispute on bTV on Wednesday evening, which prompted the GERB participants in the discussion to leave the studio.

CC's participant in the dispute had been agreed to be Venko Sabrutev but Petkov came instead and explained that Sabrutev's absence was due to "personal reasons".

At the last moment, the dispute was also unexpectedly joined by GERB Deputy Chairman Tomislav Donchev, although only Denitsa Sacheva was supposed to participate from GERB. The two GERB officials left the bTV studio arguing that the discussion had not been announced as a dispute of leaders while Petkov was asking why GERB leader Boyko Borissov was "hiding from the dispute".

Appearing in the morning show of Nova TV on Thursday, Petkov again said that he believed a government of his party, the Bulgarian Socialist Party and Democratic Bulgaria will be possible to be formed. Petkov also repeated that the ideological differences between the three formations, mostly regarding Russia, can be ironed out. In his opinion, such a coalition cabinet will be possible because the three formations (which used to be partners in the previous government) are united by the social and anti-corruption policy. Petkov repeated once again that he does not see an option for CC coalescing with GERB even if GERB leader Boyko Borissov withdraws from power. Petkov's biggest fear is a government of GERB, MRF and Vazrazhdane "hidden under the tag of expert cabinet". He also said that the inflation in Bulgaria is real but that anyone who says they are able to bring prices down is lying. "This cannot happen. The only option is for incomes to overtake inflation," Petkov said.

* * *

A splash headline in Telegraph quotes an opinion of leading election expert Mihail Konstantinov that there are 1.4 ghost voters in the electoral rolls. According to Konstantinov, ghost voters increase by 40,000 per year.

* * *

Telegraph reports that donations to parties total BGN 1.630 million a day before the end of the election campaign. The newspaper has studied data in the National Audit Office where the political entities are required to report donations. Continue the Change is the party with the highest amount of donations, BGN 850,000, followed by There Is Such a People with BGN 378,000, which is described as a surprise finding.

* * *

The print newspapers have interviews with election runners, reports on various campaign events and predictions of who is tipped to win in individual constituencies across the country while the TV morning shows had reports with the latest in ongoing police raids across the country against vote buying.

ECONOMY

The leading story in 24 Chasa runs the opinions of nine former labour and social policy ministers regarding the latest changes in the size of pensions, whether it was wise to increase pensions for all and how this impacts the system. A splash headline says that while the revisions taking effect as of October 1 "will make happy" 715,000 retirees, 1.3 million other will be left with the same pensions. The topic is continued in two inside pages.

Speaking on the Bulgarian National Television (BNT), former labour and social policy minister Hristina Hristova said that only old pensions will be increased in the latest re-calculation. In her words, "there will be no pensioners left at a disadvantage but there will be disappointed pensioners". Hristova said that although all pensions will be re-calculated, newer pensions which have been calculated on the basis of higher average contributory incomes will have no or only "symbolic" increases. She said the aim is to reduce the differences between old and new pensions so as to have a more level playing field regarding the conditions for pension insurance.

* * *

Trud too leads with an economic topic which says that people are giving up on food canning as it proves too expensive. Instead, households rely on discounted store-bought canned food. In just a year, prices of tomatoes and sugar has climbed 77%, Trud says. On an inside report, the newspaper has a table of the changes in wholesale prices of staple foods from 2021. The only foods whose prices dropped slightly are haricot beans and cabbage.

* * *

24 Chasa and other print and online media report on the issuing Wednesday of the final document necessary for the commissioning of the Bulgaria-Greece gas interconnector which is to be officially unveiled on Saturday. A headline in 24 Chasa says that the long wait is over, the gas interconnector is ready and the gas price for November is set to be 32% lower than in October. However, Trud warns that the November gas price can nevertheless increase due to the leaks in the Nord Stream pipelines.

Caretaker Economy and Industry Minister Nikola Stoyanov said during an appearance on BNT that the government will succeed in keeping the price of gas in the energy mix for the business "within the caps set by the business". In Stoyanov's words, the gas interconnector with Greece "comes in at the right time". "There will be enough gas and at a good price so that the business is competitive and survive," he said. The Minister sees no need to have a cap on the price of gas. He expects serious development in investments, "a huge interest due to the coronavirus pandemic and the war in Ukraine, along with the overall concern in Europe regarding energy issues". Stoyanov argued that Bulgaria comes forward as a stable destination investment-wise and that by the end of October he expects new investments here to the tune of nearly EUR 100 million.

* * *

Interviewed by 24 Chasa, caretaker Innovations and Growth Minister Alexander Pulev discusses a new aspect of the work of the Bulgarian Development Bank (BDB) which will be able to purchase shares and act as a creditor in start-ups via the stock exchange. The average size of newly approved loans by the bank is now BGN 350,000, which Pulev stresses is way below the cap of BGN 5 million.

Duma too has a report on the new financial instrument of BDB. A working group of experts from the bank, the Bulgarian Stock Exchange and Pulev's Ministry is to finalize the new financing mechanism.

* * *

Financial analyst Tsvetoslav Tsachev commented on the Bulgarian National Radio (BNR) the EU cap on Russian oil, saying that the idea was met by "total apathy" by the chief buyers of Russian oil in Asia. Tsachev predicted fresh supply chain problems due to the oil cap, mainly in the EU.

He further spoke about the situation with natural gas in Europe, noting that even if gas storage facilities are almost full, this hardly means the winter will be safe. Tsachev thinks that pipeline gas supplies need to continue, at least in order to reduce the price of the gas mix used in Europe. He sees a problem not in the quantities of gas but in its price, especially in Europe where gas is used for power generation. The expert warned of a serious risk of business bankruptcies and revocations of businesses outside of the EU. Bulgaria is in a better position as gas is not used in power generation. Still, Bulgaria being a small economy, it cannot become a large exporter of electricity, Tsachev said.

* * *

Capital.bg reports that the Tourism Ministry is to spend BGN 6.6 million in the next three months for promotion of Bulgaria's winter tourism in the coming season. The money comes from the state budget and is to be either spent in the next three months or returned. What is planned, according to the TravelNews website, is TV advertisements about cultural, spa and winter tourism on 12 markets. For the first time advertisements of Bulgaria as a destination for winter tourism will be aired in the United Arab Emirates.

* * *

Duma writes, quoting a loan expert, about a record-high number of mortgages taken out in the year. The average amount of a mortgage loan is BGN 140,000, and BGN 180,000 for Sofia.

* * *

The morning shows on BNT and bTV had reports on new scams in deliveries of firewood.

WAR IN UKRAINE

The latest developments in the war in Ukraine, the outcome of the sham Russian referendums in the four districts in Eastern Ukraine, and the leaking Nord Stream gas pipelines receive ample coverage in the Thursday newspapers and the TV morning shows.

Speaking on BNR, political analyst Iskren Ivanov, who is also an expert on international security and conflict management, suggested three scenarios after the referendums. The first and in Ivanov's view the best, but also the unlikeliest, scenario is for "the two sides: the United States and Russia, to find a way for dialogue and compromises, which, however, will not come". The next scenario is more scary with three sub-scenarios: Russia fabricates a major accident in the Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant which would be ten times more destructive that the 1986 Chernobyl accident; Ukraine decides to enter the annexed areas triggering Russia's use of tactical nuclear weapons. If this happens, Ukraine will be faced with either surrendering or going ahead. The more detrimental option would be if the West decides to respond, which will make the Baltic area the most vulnerable spot. If the West respond to the use of tactical nuclear weapons, Russia will treat NATO as a party in the conflict.

The referendums in Eastern Ukraine and the newest EU sanction package against Russia was the topic of a discussion on BNT. Journalist Yavor Siderov said that the "Russian leaders are in hurry to consolidate what they have achieved and render it legitimate, albeit only in their own eyes".

Su-25 CRASH

Wednesday's crash of a Su-25 of the Bulgarian Air Force shortly before landing at the Bezmer Airfield in Southern Bulgaria and the safe catapulting of the pilot is reported in detail in the Thursday newspapers and a topic of many discussions on the online and electronic media. The pilot has been taken to hospital and is reported to be in stable condition on Thursday.

The Bulgarian National Radio interviewed Col. Lyuben Lozanov who has a long experience in flight safety management in the Air Force HQs and who said that accidents happen, no matter whether the aircraft is Russian, US, or Chinese-made. The main thing is aircraft maintenance, Lozanov said, adding that in Bulgaria military aircraft maintenance is at a very good level, which is proved by opinions of this country's former and current allies alike. Lozanov confirmed that the Su-25 bomber in question had undergone overhaul in Belarus. The expert further criticized how the information about the accident was reported by the mass media which he described as "the most unacceptable way possible". In his opinion, the official statement of the Defence Ministry explained everything clearly and correctly.

Col. Hristo Tinev, the Military District Prosecutor in Sliven, Southern Bulgaria, who is in charge of the investigation into the accident as it happened in an area covered by the Sliven Military Prosecution Office, said on Nova TV that it is too early to speak of the accident as "a catastrophe". Several leads are being followed in such accidents: a technical fault, pilot's error or an emergency. Tinev said the aircraft's black box has been located and will be taken for examination later on Thursday.

In a report about the accident on the Bulgarian National Television, former defence minister Yordan Bozhilov said that the equipment [in the Armed Forces] is obsolete and that this country needs to reconsider its system of armament.

SOCIETY

SegaBG.com and Telegraph report that the European Court of Human Rights has sentenced Bulgaria to pay EUR 7,500 in compensations to a transperson who took this country to court over a refusal by the courts in Bulgaria to have the person's gender, name and personal ID number changed in their identification documents.

* * *

The print newspapers and TV morning shows had fresh reports on the outcome of the heavy rain and thunderstorm which hit Sofia on Monday evening and the precautions that need to be taken. One warning is that half of the buildings in the city do not have mandatory lighting protection. Speaking on BNT, Engineer Tsvetomir Lyubenov said that in practice, no authority exists to control the state of lighting protection systems.

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/87179/press-review.JPG]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020220929ei9t0002v


Bulgaria
Bulgaria Foreign Ministry to Say about Sanctions against Russia on Thursday
Lyubomir Gigov
439 字
2022 年 9 月 29 日 10:31 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2022 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
At a news briefing on Thursday, Bulgarian caretaker Foreign Minister Nikolay Milkov discussed the EU-planned package of sanctions against Russia, relations with North Macedonia, and the participation of his delegation at the UN General Assembly session.

Milkov declined to elaborate on the EU sanctions, saying that they are in preparation, but specified that, in principle, they are intended to increase pressure on Russia and to make sure that the adverse effects on the European economies do not exceed the benefits. "We received a proposal last night about the content of the package of sanctions. It will be assessed so as to arrive at an opinion," the Foreign Minister added. In his words, his Ministry is supposed to answer by Thursday noon, but this is a complicated process that depends on a number of other departments concerned.

Regarding the Bulgaria - North Macedonia football match, Milkov said: "I'd rather not poke the smoldering fire. We received a reaction from the Macedonian Foreign Ministry. The case should be closed."

The Foreign Minister noted that the conditional sentence that singer Lambe Alabakovski for setting on fire the Bulgarian Cultural Centre in Bitola was the most lenient penal sanction because he could have been given between six months and five years' imprisonment. Alabakovski could have been under other articles of the Criminal Code, he argued. The point is that either act constitutes a hate crime and sends a message to us. "I wouldn't say that this message is positive," Milkov pointed out.

He sees these as attempts to erode the understanding reached on the possibility to open the way for North Macedonia's EU accession negotiations.

The Foreign Minister recalled that a reading of the French proposal reveals the commitments that North Macedonia is expected to honour. Point 5 of the Negotiating Framework clearly refers to the bilateral treaty of 2017. "The attempts at interpretation and the atmosphere that has emerged does not further the process," he noted.

He also talked about the participation of the Bulgarian delegation he headed at the 77th Session of the UN General Assembly in New York. Milkov listed the meetings in which Bulgaria took part. They include a meeting on transformation of education to which President Rumen Radev sent a video message, a meeting on the Sustainable Development Goal, an informal foreign ministers' meeting on the consequences of the war in Ukraine, an emergency meeting of foreign ministers following the Russian President's statements and the declared referendums, the Bucharest Nine, and a number of bilateral meetings.

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/681511/20220929101301_V_SH4706-01.jpeg]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020220929ei9t0005r


Bulgaria
Energy Minister: Bulgaria Supports All Measures to Stabilise Fuel Prices
BTA Correspondent Nikolay Jeliazkov, Matey Todorov
377 字
2022 年 9 月 30 日 14:02 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2022 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
“Anything that stabilises fuel prices, we support, but we reserve the right to react when there are more specifics,” caretaker Energy Minister Rossen Hristov told Bulgarian journalists in Brussels on Friday after the extraordinary session of the EU Council.

The minister said this in response to a question whether Bulgaria supports the European Commission's proposal to impose a ceiling on petrol prices as part of the new sanctions against Russia over the war in Ukraine. In Hristov's words, it is very difficult to have a position on the Commission's proposal to cap prices without thorough market assessments.

The Energy Minister said that in the EU Council on Friday there were disputes whether to impose a price cap on imported gas only from Russia or on all quantities. The Bulgarian position is that if such a measure is imposed, it should be valid for all gas. Imposing a cap only on Russian gas is a sanction, not an economic measure to stabilise the market, Hristov summarised. In his words, the issue will be discussed again at a meeting in Prague on October 11-12.

“In Bulgaria, we take the incident with the Nord Stream pipeline very seriously, because TurkStream passes through our country, there is other infrastructure, and we will probably discuss certain measures to increase security and protection of the sites on our territory,” the minister said. In his words, if suspicions of deliberate damage to Nord Stream are confirmed, there is probably an interest in temporarily decommissioning such infrastructure. Hristov does not believe that there will be a shutdown of TurkStream. He said the relevant authorities are doing everything that depends on them to keep the infrastructure functioning.

According to Hristov, Bulgaria continues to send requests to Gazprom under the supply contract, but so far there have been no developments on the issue. He said this was not a problem as Bulgaria secures its gas quantities through announced tenders, but the requests are being renewed to maintain the position of a bona fide party to the contract, which helps in the conclusion of the contract and the final understandings, the minister explained.

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/640672/20220913103943_V_SH2285-01.jpeg]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020220930ei9u000b9


Bulgaria opposes potential EU price cap solely on Russian gas - minister
479 字
2022 年 9 月 30 日 15:24 GMT
SeeNews - The Corporate Wire
SEENW
英文
Copyright © 2022 SeeNews. All rights reserved.
SOFIA (Bulgaria), September 30 (SeeNews) - Bulgaria does not favour a selective approach to establishing a proposed EU-wide cap on the wholesale natural gas price, caretaker energy minister Rosen Hristov said on Friday.

A measure of this kind ought to be applied on all gas imported into the EU, Hristov said in a statement after an extraordinary meeting of EU energy ministers to discuss proposed mechanisms to tackle soaring energy prices.

"Imposing limits only for Russian gas will in reality represent a sanction rather than an economic measure to stabilise the market," Hristov noted. He added that the European Commission has taken all comments on board and will continue to work on specific measures to be discussed and put to the vote at a subsequent meeting.

The next informal meeting of EU energy ministers is scheduled for October 11-12.

"Russia is a special case and personally I believe we could impose a price cap on all imported Russian gas, including liquefied natural gas. However, some member states see this as a sanction and we do not yet have a consensus on this step, how to limit Russia's ability to finance the war in Ukraine," EU Energy Commissioner Kadri Simson said in a separate statement following the meeting.

The EU must work out a market intervention so as to bring down the cost of the gas purchased by EU customers and reduce the cost of power generation from gas, Simson added.

The 27 EU energy ministers agreed to propose an EU regulation targeting a voluntary overall reduction of 10% of gross electricity consumption and a mandatory reduction target of 5% of the electricity consumption in individually determined peak hours, for the period from December 1, 2022 to March 31, 2023, according to a press release issued by the Council.

Moreover, a cap on market revenues will be set at 180 euro ($176.43) per MWh for electricity generators, including intermediaries that use renewables, nuclear or lignite for production.

Lastly, EU member states agreed on a temporary mandatory levy on the profits of businesses active in the fossil fuels sector, namely crude oil, natural gas, coal and petroleum refining.

In Bulgaria, steps could be taken to top up the state energy security fund by taxing profits generated by private power suppliers as well, Hristov said. Compensations on power prices in Bulgaria are currently wholly-funded through the windfall profits of state-owned energy companies that are members of the Bulgarian Energy Holding (BEH).

Earlier this week, Bulgaria's caretaker government said it will provide an indicative amount of 3.594 billion levs ($1.79 billion/1.8 billion euro) to extend state compensations [https://seenews.com/news/bulgaria-to-provide-extra-18-bln-euro-in-energy-support-to-businesses-until-end-2022-799539] for soaring power prices for industrial consumers, power suppliers and grid operators until the end of 2022.

($ = 1.02031 euro)

(1 euro = 1.95583 levs)

SeeNews EOOD

文件 SEENW00020221001ei9u0030d


Former Soviet Union Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - October 7, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 10 月 7 日, 9718 字, (英文)
Gazprom cuts deliveries to Moldova by 30%, “reserves the right” to complete shutdownGazprom has notified Moldovan gas transport company Moldovagaz that “because of technical problems” it will deliver natural gas at a rate of only 5.7mn ...

Russian War Report: Wagner sends vehicles to Kherson while Iran increases military support
Digital Forensic Research Lab
2052 字
2022 年 10 月 21 日
Atlantic Council
ATLCNCL
英文
Copyright 2022. Atlantic Council of the United States, Inc.
As Russia continues its assault on Ukraine, the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab (DFRLab) is keeping a close eye on Russia’s movements across the military, cyber, and information domains. With more than seven years of experience monitoring the situation in Ukraine—as well as Russia’s use of propaganda and disinformation to undermine the United States, NATO, and the European Union—the DFRLab’s global team presents the latest installment of the Russian War Report.

Security

Wagner sends vehicles to Kherson while Iran increases military support

Russian troops arrive in Belarus as joint force announced

Belarusian Telegram channels say a flurry of increased military personnel activity is raising concerns of a possible mobilization

War crimes and human rights abuses

Putin declares martial law in annexed parts of Ukraine

Russian deputy prime minister boasts of forced deportations from Kherson

Wagner sends vehicles to Kherson while Iran increases military support

The DFRLab is continuing to monitor reports of Wagner Group activity in Ukraine, where the Kremlin-aligned private military company is assisting Russian forces in fighting and fortifying[https://www.thedefensepost.com/2022/10/19/wagner-defense-eastern-ukraine/] positions in the Donbas. A video posted on October 13 shows[https://t.me/grey_zone/15313] Russian servicemen of the 126th Coastal Defense Brigade of the Black Sea Fleet in the Kherson region complaining that they have been fighting in the area since the beginning of the war without relief or troop rotation. After the video circulated, a Wagner-affiliated Telegram channel announced[https://t.me/boris_rozhin/67270] on October 14 that Wagner fighters would transfer vehicles to the 126th Coastal Defense Battalion in support of their efforts to hold the frontline in Kherson.

There are also signs of a possible rift between the Russian military and pro-war bloggers. On October 14, Russian military blogger Semyon Pegov announced[https://t.me/wargonzo/8702] the existence of “hit lists,” reportedly[https://t.me/wargonzo/8717] originating with the Russian Defense Ministry, that target bloggers and journalists for their coverage of the war in Ukraine. Pegov, who is part of the WarGonzo Telegram channel, accused “individual generals and military commanders” from the Russian defense ministry of developing a list of bloggers who the ministry intends to prosecute for “discrediting” Russia’s handling of the war in Ukraine. One day later, he retracted[https://t.me/wargonzo/8722] the claim. At the time of writing, Pegov’s original post had garnered more than 2.8 million views. His claim was amplified[https://t.me/akashevarova/5670] by several other[https://t.me/KremlinRussian/3651] prominent[https://t.me/mig41/21420] pro-war bloggers and generated a discussion about censorship.

Further, new revelations this week indicate that Iran is playing an increasingly large role in aiding Russia’s war against Ukraine. Ukrainian and Russian Telegram channels reported[https://t.me/Bratchuk_Sergey/20806] that Russia has purchased an unknown number of Arash-2 drones, which are purportedly faster and more destructive than the Shahed-136 drones that are currently in use by Russian forces against critical infrastructure in Ukraine. Reports that the Russian army is receiving munitions from Tehran are in line with a report[https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1020] from the US Treasury Department stating that Russia is running out of microelectronics, essential to maintaining its military operations, due to the impact of sanctions. The US warned it will sanction “people, companies, or countries” that provide ammunition or support to Russia’s military. It also alleged[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukraine-curbs-power-usage-after-russian-attacks-destroy-some-energy-plants-2022-10-19/] the presence of Iranian trainers on the ground in Crimea, assisting Russia in drone operations, though this has not been independently verified. Iran, meanwhile, also promised[https://www.reuters.com/world/exclusive-iran-agrees-ship-missiles-more-drones-russia-defying-west-sources-2022-10-18/] to provide Russia with surface-to-surface missiles, in addition to more drones.

On October 19, the US Department of Justice charged[https://www.justice.gov/usao-edny/pr/five-russian-nationals-and-two-oil-traders-charged-global-sanctions-evasion-and-money] five Russians with sanctions evasion, oil smuggling, and organizing a money laundering scheme. One of the accused is Artyom Uss[https://www.forbes.ru/society/480046-krasnoarskij-gubernator-otreagiroval-na-zaderzanie-syna-v-italii-po-obvineniam-ssa] , the son of the governor[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aleksandr_Uss] of Krasnoyarsk. The other accused are Yury Orekhov, Svetlana Kuzurgasheva, Timofey Telegin, and Sergey Tulyakov. Orekhov was detained[https://www.rferl.org/a/us-blacklists-russian-national-companies-military-components/32092543.html] in Germany on October 17 and Uss in Italy, both at the request of the US, which will seek extradition. In addition to the Russians, the scheme allegedly involved two Venezuelans, Juan Fernando Serrano Ponce and Juan Carlos Soto, who reportedly helped broker[https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2022/10/20/russians-arrested-sanctions-evasion-ukraine/] the sale of oil, organizing illegal transactions with Venezuela’s state owned oil company PDVSA, in violation of sanctions. According[https://pl.usembassy.gov/russia_technology/] to the US Department of Justice, Orekhov and Uss were co-owners of the German company Nord-Deutsche Industrieanlagenbau GmbH (NDA GmbH).

In addition, a Russian citizen on his way to Svalbard was detained[https://thebarentsobserver.com/en/security/2022/10/police-detains-another-russian-drone-and-photos] by Norwegian police after taking photographs at the Tromsø and Kirkenes airports. The arrest comes only days after another Russian, found with two drones in his possession, was detained[https://thebarentsobserver.com/en/security/2022/10/russian-drone-pilot-detained-border-norway] at the Storskog border checkpoint. Norway also arrested[https://thebarentsobserver.com/en/security/2022/10/russian-dual-citizenship-detained-flying-drone-svalbard] the son of Vladimir Yakunin, a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin, for illegally flying a drone at Svalbard.

Lastly, a hack[https://www.rferl.org/a/bulgaria-cyberattack-russia/32084869.html] targeted Bulgaria in the early hours of October 15, which prosecutor general Ivan Geshev said[https://www.svobodnaevropa.bg/a/32084652.html] came from Russia. The cyber attack comes after Russia accused Sofia[https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/new-atlanticist/russian-war-report-russia-escalates-war-by-targeting-cities-across-ukraine/] of being involved in the Kerch bridge explosion. The hacker collective KillNet, which has carried out similar[https://www.politico.eu/article/meet-killnet-russias-hacking-patriots-plaguing-europe/] hacks against other European and NATO countries in the past few months, is believed to be behind the attack, which affected[https://www.dnevnik.bg/bulgaria/2022/10/15/4403469_hakerska_ataka_zatrudni_vlizaneto_v_saita_na/?ref=home_layer2] Bulgarian government websites.

—Ruslan Trad[https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/expert/ruslan-trad/] , Resident Fellow for Security Research, Sofia, Bulgaria

Russian troops arrive in Belarus as joint force announced

On October 10, Belarusian President Aleksandr Lukashenka announced[https://www.dw.com/ru/belarus-i-rossia-sozdaut-sovmestnuu-gruppirovku-vojsk/a-63393637] that Belarus had reached an agreement with Russia to deploy a joint Russian-Belarusian grouping of troops on Belarusian territory. He said the formation of this group began two days before the announcement and that more than 1,000 Russian troops would be deployed to Belarus. To justify[https://www.gazeta.ru/politics/2022/10/10/15601483.shtml] the joint military group, Lukashenka alleged that Ukraine was preparing strikes against Belarus. One week before the announcement, Lukashenka claimed[https://www.gazeta.ru/politics/2022/10/04/15573721.shtml] that Ukraine had moved 15,000 service members to the Belarusian border. According to the BBC’s Russian service[https://www.bbc.com/russian/features-63293111] , the number of the permanent Russian service members stationed in Belarus was around 1,000 people until recently.

On October 15, the first group of Russian forces arrived in Belarus, reportedly accompanied by MiG-31 fighter interceptors[https://t.me/sputnikby] . According to the independent Belarusian Hajun Project, Russian military groups arrived[https://twitter.com/MotolkoHelp/status/1581283996574834694/photo/1] at the Palonka, Zaslonava and Losvida rail stations, none of which are close to the border with Ukraine.

Valery Revenko, head of international military cooperation for the Belarusian defense ministry, said[https://twitter.com/Revenka_Valery/status/1581996840295141376] on Twitter, “The total number [of] arrived military personnel in Belarus will be up to 9,000 personnel, about 170 tanks, up to 200 armored combat vehicles and up to 100 guns and mortars with a caliber of more than 100 mm.” Belarusian journalist Tadeusz Giczan reported[https://twitter.com/TadeuszGiczan/status/1582044525853147143] that the Russian trains arriving in Belarus weren’t carrying heavy equipment – “only trucks, petrol tankers and passenger cars with soldiers.” On October 16, Gazeta.ru published a video[https://www.gazeta.ru/army/2022/10/16/15632479.shtml?updated] supporting this claim, showing the arrival of a Russian train in Belarus with only military trucks visible on the train. On September 29, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence stated[https://www.mil.gov.ua/news/2022/09/29/v-bilorusi-gotuyutsya-prijnyati-20-tisyach-mobilizovanih-z-rf-gur-mou/] that Belarus was preparing facilities to accommodate 20,000 mobilized people from Russia.

According to Meduza[https://meduza.io/feature/2022/10/13/lukashenko-ob-yavil-o-sozdanii-sovmestnoy-s-rossiey-gruppirovki-voysk-kievu-grozit-novoe-nastuplenie-so-storony-belarusi] , the motives behind the Belarus-Russia joint group include distracting Ukraine’s army away from other fronts; allowing Russia to conduct more precise aerial attacks from Belarusian territory; preparing for any provocations from the West; and allowing Russia to open new fronts in the north or west of Ukraine.

After the announcement, Poland recommended[https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/poland-advises-its-citizens-leave-belarus-2022-10-10/] its citizens leave Belarus “with available commercial and private means” as soon as possible. Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy asked[https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2022/10/15/first-russian-soldiers-arrives-in-belarus-for-joint-task-force] G7 countries to send international observers to the Belarusian border to monitor the security situation. He also stated that Ukraine is not planning military actions against Belarus.

—Givi Gigitashvili[https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/expert/givi-gigitashvili/] , Research Associate, Warsaw, Poland

Belarusian Telegram channels say a flurry of increased military personnel activity is raising concerns of a possible mobilization

On October 15, Belsat, an independent Belarusian media outlet, reported[https://belsat.eu/ru/news/15-10-2022-mnogo-lyudej-zabrali-na-sbory-svedeniya-o-skrytoj-mobilizatsii-prihodyat-so-vsej-belarusi/] that military-eligible men in Rogachev and Gomel Oblasts received letters asking them to report to military enlistment offices to verify their personal information. Some men reportedly received a call to attend “urgent gatherings” (срочные сборы); according[https://www.lrt.lt/ru/novosti/17/1800277/pavel-latushko-sleduiushchii-etap-mobilizatsiia-v-belarusi] to Pavel Latushka, a Belarus opposition activist in exile, President Lukashenka employs the phrase to avoid referring to a “mobilization.” The Telegram channels Realynaya Belarus[https://t.me/RealnaiaBelarus/42169] and Basta![https://t.me/bnkbel/98990/] also published similar information about men receiving letters from military offices in Gomel Oblast. The Realynaya Belarus channel noted that “men who previously served in interior troops and air forces” received the notes. The Basta! channel cited an anonymous source who works in the agriculture industry in Gomel, who claimed that department heads were told to send men under the age of fifty to report their personal information. “These are almost all drivers and tractor operators,” the source said.

The Motolyko Pomogi Telegram channel published[https://t.me/motolkohelp/28763] similar observations. The post noted that all of the men who served in the 5th brigade of the Belarusian special operations forces in Marina Gorka, Minsk Oblast, had received letters to gather for “retraining.” On October 17, the Realynaya Belarus channel said[https://t.me/RealnaiaBelarus/42216] seventeen special forces service members had mustered in Pinsk.

Additionally, on October 15, Motolyko Pomogi reported[https://t.me/motolkohelp/28754] that some Belarusian companies received orders to provide a list of eligible conscripts to authorities. The authorities reportedly asked one company in Brest Oblast to provide information about vehicles that the company could provide for “transportation of the mobilized.” The post also mentioned the creation of an “alert headquarters” at one unnamed Belarusian company in Brest. All mobilization notices would be sent to the headquarters, which would carry the duty of alerting conscripted employees. The involvement of state-owned companies and other types of organizations in military conscription is a legally mandated[https://www.uzda.gov.by/uploads/documents/Administrativno-pravovye/2019-Instruktsii-o-porjadke-organizatsii-i-vedenija-VU-voennoobjazannyx.pdf] procedure in Belarus.

Belarus holds an annual military record verification process. On October 19, the Belarusian Ministry of Defense claimed[https://t.me/modmilby/19027] on its Telegram channel that latest actions were part of the annual military record verification and not part of a mobilization effort. The DFRLab could not verify reports of individuals being forced to join Belarusian military. While Belarusian authorities are seemingly acting within legal bounds, questions arise when considering that Belarus recently announced it will join[https://www.themoscowtimes.com/2022/10/11/explainer-is-the-belarus-russia-joint-military-group-a-threat-to-ukraine-a79059] Russians in the war against Ukraine.

—Nika Aleksejeva[https://atlanticcouncil.org/expert/nika-aleksejeva/] , Lead Researcher, Riga, Latvia

Putin declares martial law in annexed parts of Ukraine

During a meeting of Russia’s Security Council on October 19, President Putin announced he had signed a decree implementing martial law in illegally annexed Ukrainian territory. Martial law would apply in four Ukrainian regions – Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia, and Kherson – in the wake of sham referendums[https://www.state.gov/russias-sham-referenda-in-ukraine/] held last month that have not been recognized by Ukraine or the broader international community.

According to pro-Kremlin outlet Kommersant[https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/5621157] , martial law “is introduced in the event of aggression against the Russian Federation or a direct threat of aggression.” According to the outlet, martial law provides Russia with the authority to impose curfews; compulsory screening of citizens and detention for up to thirty days; seizure of property; military censorship of postal services and the media; control of phone conversations; expulsion of foreigners; suspension of the activities of political parties, foreign and international organizations “whose propaganda undermines the security of the country”; and restriction of entry, exit, and freedom of movement. Kommersant added that Russia will suspend its obligations under international treaties regarding the rights of citizens after the introduction of martial law.

The last time Russia implemented martial law was during World War II, when the Soviet Union imposed it in 1941.

In addition to martial law, Putin declared[https://www.kommersant.ru/doc/5621194?from=spot] the Kremlin would apply security measures based on three different tiers – basic, medium, and increased. Russian regions close to the Ukraine border require a medium response level, while Moscow falls under the increased category. According to these response levels, Russia can gain control over different sectors like communications and automated systems and repurpose them for the military needs.

—Eto Buziashvili[https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/expert/eto-buziashvili/] , Research Associate, Tbilisi, Georgia

Russian deputy prime minister boasts of forced deportations from Kherson

Russia continues to conduct massive, forced deportations of Ukrainians. Russian Deputy Prime Minister Marat Khusnullin stated[https://ria.ru/20221014/deti-1824187647.html] on October 14 that “several thousand” children from the Kherson region are “already in other regions of Russia, resting in rest homes and children’s camps.” As noted by Human Rights Watch[https://www.hrw.org/reports/2003/iraq0303/Kirkuk0303-03.htm] , “deportation has been recognized as a crime against humanity in each of the major international criminal instruments.”

—Ruslan Trad , Resident Fellow for Security Research, Sofia, Bulgaria

Atlantic Council of the United States, Inc.

文件 ATLCNCL020221021eial0005l


European Court of Human Rights judgment: CASE OF DIMOV AND OTHERS v. BULGARIA
2196 字
2022 年 11 月 3 日
Baltic Legal Updates
BALLEG
英文
Copyright 2022 SIA Impact Media
Brussels: European Court of Human Rights has issued the following judgment on (08 June 2021):

FOURTH SECTION

CASE OF DIMOV AND OTHERS v. BULGARIA

(Applications nos. 45660/17 and 13 others -

see appended list)

JUDGMENT STRASBOURG

8 June 2021

This judgment is final but it may be subject to editorial revision.

In the case of Dimov and Others v. Bulgaria, The European Court of Human Rights (Fourth Section), sitting as a Committee composed of:

Iulia Antoanella Motoc, President, Gabriele Kucsko-Stadlmayer, Pere Pastor Vilanova, judges, and Ilse Freiwirth, Deputy Section Registrar, Having regard to:

the applications against the Republic of Bulgaria lodged with the Court under Article 34 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms ("the Convention") by nineteen Bulgarian nationals ("the applicants") on different dates (see the appended table for a list of the applicants, the introduction dates of their applications and the names of their representatives);

the decision to give notice to the Bulgarian Government ("the Government") of the complaint concerning the applicants' inability to vote while serving their prison sentences and to declare inadmissible the remainder of the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth applications;

the parties' observations;

Having deliberated in private on 11 May 2021, Delivers the following judgment, which was adopted on that date:

INTRODUCTION

1. The case concerns complaints under Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention that the applicants had been unable to vote while effectively serving prison sentences.

THE FACTS

2. The applicants were born on different dates between 1958 and 1990. The applicants in the first and fourteenth applications were represented by Mr K. Kanev, acting in his capacity as head of the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee. The applicants in the remaining applications were represented by Ms S. Ivanova, a lawyer practising in Sofia.

3. The Government were represented by their Agent, Ms R. Nikolova, from the Ministry of Justice.

4. The facts of the case, as submitted by the parties, may be summarised as follows.

5. The applicants in the first to tenth applications were all effectively serving different prison sentences when elections for the Bulgarian Parliament were held on 26 March 2017. As the relevant legislation excluded individuals serving prison sentences from voting, the applicants could not vote in those elections.

6. The applicants in the first application, with the exception of Mr T.P. Stamenov, as well as the applicants in the eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth applications, were effectively serving different prison sentences on 26 May 2019 when elections of Members of the European Parliament were held. As a result, in application of the relevant legislation, they could not vote in those elections. As regards in particular Mr T.P. Stamenov (who is one of the six applicants in the first application), the Government pointed out, and his representative accepted, that he had not been serving a prison sentence at the time of the elections for Members of the European Parliament on 26 May 2019.

RELEVANT LEGAL FRAMEWORK

7. The relevant legal provisions concerning prisoners' right to vote have been set out in the Court's judgment in the case of Kulinski and Sabev v. Bulgaria, no. 63849/09, §§ 10 and 15-22, 21 July 2016.

THE LAW JOINDER OF THE APPLICATIONS

8. Having regard to the similar subject matter of the applications, the Court finds it appropriate to examine them jointly in a single judgment.

PRELIMINARY ISSUE

9. The Government stated that under Rule 36(4)(a) of the Rules of Court the representative acting on behalf of the applicants had to be an advocate authorised to practice in any of the Contracting Parties and resident in the territory of one of them, or any other person approved by the President of the Chamber. They pointed out that they were not aware that those conditions were fulfilled in respect of the applicants in a number of applications and invited the Court to clarify that question.

10. The Court finds that no issue arises under Rule 36(4)(a) of the Rules of Court in respect of the representatives of any of the applicants. In particular, according to the official register maintained by the Supreme Bar Council, the representative of the applicants in the second to thirteenth applications, Ms S. Ivanova, is a lawyer authorised to practise in Bulgaria and residing on its territory. Furthermore, while Mr K. Kanev, the representative of the applicants in the first and fourteenth applications, is not an advocate authorised to practise in any of the Contracting Parties by the terms of Rule 36 § 4 (a), in view of the circumstances of the cases and in the interests of the proper administration of justice, the President of the Section granted him leave to represent the applicants in the proceedings before the Court in those two applications.

ALLEGED VIOLATION OF ARTICLE 3 OF PROTOCOL NO.1 TO THE CONVENTION

11. All applicants complained under Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention about the impossibility to vote because they were convicted prisoners, effectively serving their sentences at the time when two parliamentary elections were held. In particular, the applicants in the first to tenth applications complained in relation to the elections to the Bulgarian Parliament on 26 March 2017, and the applicants in the first and eleventh to fourteenth applications, complained in relation to the elections of Members of the European Parliament on 26 May 2019. The relevant part of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 reads as follows:

"The High Contracting Parties undertake to hold free elections at reasonable intervals by secret ballot, under conditions which will ensure the free expression of the opinion of the people in the choice of the legislature."

Admissibility

12. The Court observes that, following the communication of the applications, the Government pointed out and the representative accepted that one of the applicants in the first application, Mr T.P. Stamenov, was not serving a prison sentence at the time of the elections for Members of the European Parliament on 26 May 2019 (see paragraph 6 above). Consequently, the Court finds that he cannot claim to have been a victim of a violation of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 in respect of those elections. His complaint related to those elections is therefore incompatible ratione personae with the provisions of the Convention within the meaning of Article 35 § 3 (a) and must be rejected as inadmissible under Article 35 §§ 1 and 4 of the Convention.

13. The Court further notes that the complaint, made by the rest of the applicants (see paragraph 11 above), is not manifestly ill-founded within the meaning of Article 35 § 3 (a) of the Convention. The Court further notes that it is not inadmissible on any other grounds. It must therefore be declared admissible.

Merits

The parties' position

14. The applicants in the first and fourteenth applications emphasised that, just like in the case Kulinski and Sabev v. Bulgaria, (no. 63849/09, 21 July 2016), they had been deprived of the right to vote, in particular in relation to the elections indicated in their complaints. The prohibition on their voting rights stemmed from the Constitution and the Election Code, was of a blanket nature and did not allow for an assessment of proportionality through the establishment of a discernible and sufficient link between the sanction and the conduct of the individuals concerned.

15. The applicants in the second to the thirteenth applications stated that the Court had repeatedly found a violation of the Convention in situations such as that of the applicants. The disenfranchisement of persons effectively serving a prison sentence represented a dehumanising penal policy, impeding prisoners in their work toward resocialisation.

16. The Government stated that Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention did not provide for an absolute right. Likewise, that Convention provision contained no exhaustive list of restrictions which might accompany the right to free elections. A violation of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 could not be justified only because prisoners serving custodial sentences could not exercise their voting right, since that restriction was not arbitrary and pursued a legitimate aim related to ensuring the rule of law. That restriction did not prejudice the requirement of the Convention to ensure the free expression of the opinion of the people. Disenfranchisement had a further re-education effect on the convicted person and, in this sense, it was introduced as a punitive measure in order to achieve a legitimate aim.

17. The Government pointed out that the Bulgarian legal system provided for several mechanisms allowing early termination of the effective implementation of a prison sentence. Those were the release on parole and a reduction of sentence, as well as a possibility for release, as a result of presidential clemency or amnesty. Those mechanisms allowed for an early recovery of the right to vote and demonstrated that the Bulgarian criminal justice system had a certain degree of flexibility as it provided a legal opportunity for a differentiated approach. In view of the above, they stated, it could not be said that the Bulgarian legislation, presupposing disenfranchisement for the period of serving a prison sentence, had a common and undifferentiated application with regard to prisoners.

The Court's assessment

18. The Court observes that the facts underlying the present complaints and the arguments advanced by the Government are similar to those that have already given rise to the finding of a violation of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention in the case of Kulinski and Sabev (cited above, §§ 8-9 and 29-30). Having examined all the material submitted to it, the Court has not found any fact or argument capable of persuading it to reach a different conclusion. The Court notes in this connection that the Government have not shown or argued, that the relevant domestic legal provisions, or related practice, which had been at the origin of the Court's finding of a violation in Kulinski and Sabev (cited above, §§ 37 and 41), have been amended in any way, or that the Constitutional Court has interpreted the relevant Constitutional provision in compliance with the Convention requirement that there be no general, automatic and indiscriminate restriction to the right to vote of prisoners effectively serving their sentences (see, mutatis mutandis, Anchugov and Gladkov v. Russia, nos. 11157/04 and 15162/05, § 111, 4 July 2013).

19. The foregoing considerations are sufficient to enable the Court to conclude that there has been a violation of Article 3 of Protocol No. 1 to the Convention in respect of the applicants in the first to the tenth applications as regards the election to the Bulgarian Parliament on 26 March 2017. The Court also finds that there has been a violation of this provision in respect of the applicants in the first and eleventh to fourteenth applications as regards the election to the European Parliament on 26 May 2019, save for Mr T.P. Stamenov in the first application whose related complaint was declared inadmissible (see paragraph 12 above).

APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 41 OF THE CONVENTION

20. Article 41 of the Convention provides:

"If the Court finds that there has been a violation of the Convention or the Protocols thereto, and if the internal law of the High Contracting Party concerned allows only partial reparation to be made, the Court shall, if necessary, afford just satisfaction to the injured party."

Damage

21. The applicants claimed different amounts in respect of non‑pecuniary damage.

22. The Government stated that in case the Court found a violation of the applicants' right to free elections, the ruling in this regard and the publication of the judgment would constitute just satisfaction.

23. Having regard to the circumstances of the present case, the Court considers that the finding of a violation constitutes sufficient just satisfaction for any non-pecuniary damage sustained by the applicants (see Kulinski and Sabev, cited above, § 55 with further reference).

Costs and expenses

24. The applicants in the first and fourteenth applications claimed 2,173 euros (EUR) for the costs and expenses incurred before the Court, of which EUR 2,160 was in respect of the legal fee of their representative. They asked for this amount to be paid directly into the account of the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee.

25. The applicants in the second to thirteenth applications claimed EUR 1,920 each in respect of the legal fees of their representative.

26. The Government considered that these claims were exaggerated and unjustified.

27. According to the Court's case-law, an applicant is entitled to the reimbursement of costs and expenses only in so far as it has been shown that these have been actually and necessarily incurred and are reasonable as to quantum.

28. As regards the costs and expenses incurred before the Court, regard being had to the documents in its possession and the above criteria, the Court considers it reasonable to award EUR 2,000 to each of the two representatives and that this amount should be paid directly into the respective bank accounts of the Bulgarian Helsinki Committee and of Ms S. Ivanova.

SIA Impact Media

文件 BALLEG0020221103eib30003g


Bulgarian government permits export of Russia-originated petroleum products, diluting EU sanction implementation and creating uncertainties around compliance
Petya Barzilska
460 字
2022 年 11 月 24 日
IHS Global Insight Daily Analysis
WDAN
英文
Copyright 2022, IHS Global Insight Limited. All Rights Reserved.
On 21 November, Bulgaria’s caretaker government and Russian-owned oil refiner Lukoil Neftochim Bulgaria announced that the company could export petroleum products to the EU until December 2024. As part of the deal, Lukoil Neftochim Bulgaria, which is one of the largest oil refineries in southeast Europe, agreed to transfer all its profits from oil processing and pay taxes on them in Bulgaria from January 2023. The company has said that the refinery could close operations if the plans are not enforced. In June, the EU imposed a ban on the purchase, import or transfer of Russian seaborne crude oil and petroleum products in the EU as part of its sanctions against Russia following the latter’s invasion of Ukraine. The prohibition of crude oil purchase, import or transfer is planned to come into force on 5 December 2022 and of other refined petroleum products from 5 February 2023.

Due to its dependence on Russian oil, Bulgaria received an exemption until December 2024, being given the right to continue executing contracts that were signed before June 2022. Bulgaria’s caretaker government plans to cancel the previous government’s degree, which prohibits the export of fuels produced by the Bulgaria-based refinery after 5 December. The European Commission has clarified that EU operators and national authorities must conduct due diligence before purchasing petroleum products from Bulgaria to check that such goods are not obtained from crude oil originating or exported from Russia.

Significance: The action by the Bulgaria caretaker ministry creates legal uncertainty and additional need for checks for EU transporters and insurers of petroleum products produced in Bulgaria. There is also uncertainty around follow-up legislative changes affecting the regulatory regime for refined petroleum products and their export from Bulgaria due to multiple legislative proposals currently being debated in parliament (see Bulgaria: 4 October 2022: Bulgaria’s early parliamentary election creates fragmented parliament, impeding eurozone accession, green transition projects, and structural reforms[https://connect.ihsmarkit.com/document/show/phoenix/4541292?connectPath=RiskHeadlineAnalysis&searchSessionId=10480c3e-f493-4707-a654-e4799de00907]). Bulgaria’s action increases the likelihood of further fragmentation in the implementation of EU sanctions in the context of separate disagreements among EU countries on setting a price cap on Russian oil (see Europe - Russia: 5 October 2022: EU ambassadors reportedly agree cap on Russian oil price, allowing adoption of eighth package of sanctions[https://connect.ihsmarkit.com/document/show/phoenix/4542198?connectPath=RiskHeadlineAnalysis&searchSessionId=366a24fc-d60b-469a-8da3-626765f44ac3]). If the European Commission publishes further guidance on the transfer or transport of petroleum products from Bulgaria, clarifying whether there will be a full prohibition potentially from 5 February, this would decrease legal and regulatory uncertainty.

Risks: Regulatory burden

Sectors or assets affected: Oil and gas

© 2022, IHS Markit Inc. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited.

IHS Global Ltd

文件 WDAN000020221124eibo0002y


Bulgaria This Week - December 16, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 16 日, 17743 字, (英文)
Bulgaria’s inflation slows to 16.9% y/y in NovemberBulgaria’s consumer prices increased by 16.9% y/y in November, after rising by 17.6% y/y in October, slowing for the second consecutive month, but still remaining at the highest level since...

Bulgaria This Week - December 23, 2022
Newsbase Weekly News, 2022 年 12 月 23 日, 3986 字, (英文)
THE MITTELEUROPEAN VIEW: Western banks go back to square one in CEEThe key messages of this year's Raiffeisen Research CEE Banking Sector Report at the industry level are as follows: Geopolitically, the leading CEE banks in Eastern Europe ...

Bulgaria This Week - January 6, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 1 月 6 日, 10587 字, (英文)
Bulgaria posts current account surplus of €542.1mn to OctoberBulgaria reported a current account surplus of €542.1mn (0.7% of GDP) in the first ten months of 2022, compared with a surplus of €479.3mn reported a year earlier, preliminary ...

Bulgaria
Parliament Bans Sale of Russian Crude Oil Transported by Sea, Imported by Derogation
Matey Todorov
393 字
2023 年 1 月 13 日 13:53 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2023 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
The sale of crude oil transported by sea and of petroleum products listed in an annex to an EU regulation, originating in or exported from Russia, which have been imported into Bulgaria on the basis of a derogation authorised by the Council of Ministers, to buyers in another EU member state or in a third country is prohibited. This is what the MPs decided on Friday with the adoption on second reading of a law on control of the implementation of restrictive measures in view of Russia's actions destabilising the situation in Ukraine. It was introduced by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs.

It bans the transfer, transport, and sale to buyers in other EU or non-EU countries, of petroleum products derived from crude oil imported on the basis of a derogation authorised by the Council of Ministers. Exceptions are made for the sale, supply, transfer and export to Ukraine of petroleum products listed in an annex of an EU regulation, which are derived from crude oil, provided that they are intended for use in Ukraine only and no circumvention of the restrictive measures is intended.

Under the new law, control over the implementation of the bans and derogations is exercised by the Customs Agency and the National Revenue Agency. A person who violates the bans is to be punished with a pecuniary sanction from BGN 20,000 to 50,000, and in case of a repeated violation - from BGN 50,000 to 100,000, the National Assembly decided. For declaring incomplete, inaccurate or false data, the pecuniary sanction is from BGN 5,000 to 10,000, unless the act constitutes a crime.

Amendments to the Concessions Act were also voted, according to which no concessions for activities at strategic sites of national security importance, affecting oil and petroleum products made from crude oil, shall be awarded to persons falling under an EU regulation on restrictive measures in view of Russia's actions in Ukraine.

Concessions awarded under the Concessions Act prior to the entry into force of this Act shall be terminated within one month of receipt of a positive decision of the European Commission under this Act. The law enters into force on February 5, with certain exceptions.

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/972930/MIN_4876.jpg]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020230113ej1d0008f


Budapest sees ‘similarities’ with Meloni’s Italy
EURACTIV Network
1340 字
2023 年 2 月 2 日 07:34 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2023. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

Today’s edition is powered by NESTE

How will we power Europe’s trucks in the years to come?

To tackle climate change, we need to change the way we move and accelerate the rate of change. We need a change of course from fossil to renewable.

It is time to take charge of change.

Find out more >>[https://eurac.tv/9Wgg]

In today’s news from the Capitals:

ROME. Hungarian President Katalin Novák travelled to Italy to meet with government leaders, where she spoke of the similarities between both countries in their actions against irregular immigration, enlargement to the Western Balkans, and family values. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/budapest-sees-similarities-with-melonis-italy/].

EU INSTITUTIONS

Socialist Bullmann to take over Parliament’s human rights committee. Veteran socialist MEP Udo Bullmann will become the European Parliament’s chief spokesperson on human rights after his predecessor resigned as part of the fallout from the Qatargate scandal. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/justice-home-affairs/news/socialist-bullmann-to-take-over-parliaments-human-rights-committee/].

New US-EU Coalition calls to sanction Hollywood star. A group of politicians across the globe are urging the EU to enforce sanctions on ten individuals for supporting the Russian invasion of Ukraine – including US actor Steven Seagal. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/new-us-eu-coalition-calls-to-sanction-hollywood-star/].

Before EU summit, Ukraine carries out war-time anti-corruption crackdown. Ukraine on Wednesday expanded a corruption clampdown with coordinated searches of residences linked to a high-profile oligarch and former interior minister and tax offices in the capital, in what the authorities called a wartime anti-graft purge. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/before-eu-summit-ukraine-carries-out-war-time-anti-corruption-crackdown/].

BERLIN

Germany breathes sigh of relief at EU green industry plan. The presentation of the EU’s green industry plan on Wednesday brought cautious relief in Germany – although some of its points may lead to disputes within the country’s traffic light coalition. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/energy-environment/news/germany-breathes-sigh-of-relief-at-eu-green-industry-plan/]

VIENNA

Austrian president promises Ukraine further aid. Ukraine will receive additional aid and support of various kinds, Austrian President Alexander Van der Bellen said during a joint press conference with his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv on Wednesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/austrian-president-promises-ukraine-further-aid/].

BRUSSELS

Belgium largest energy supplier to EU neighbours in 2022. Belgium played a key role in supplying energy to its main neighbours in 2022, as it was France’s largest electricity supplier and Germany’s main transit country for natural gas. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/belgium-largest-energy-supplier-to-eu-neighbours-in-2022/].

Belgian Stalinist revealed as Russian fake news tsar in Africa. Luc Michel, a 65-year-old self-described ‘Stalinist’ whose resume includes founding a Belgian version of the National Front, has been revealed as the unlikely source of an elaborate network of fake news websites designed to spread pro-Russian propaganda across Africa. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/africa/news/belgian-stalinist-revealed-as-russian-fake-news-tsar-in-africa].

NORDICS AND BALTICS

STOCKHOLM

NATO: No compromise on freedom of speech, says Swedish FM. Sweden will not compromise on freedom of expression or the rule of law, Foreign Minister Tobias Billström said on Wednesday in response to Turkey’s Erdogan’s continuing demands and condemnations. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/nato-no-compromise-on-freedom-of-speech-says-swedish-fm/].

HELSINKI

Finland passes new transgender law. Finland has passed a new gender recognition law granting the right to legally change gender through the process of self-declaration, removing the need to go through a medical and psychiatric approval process first. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/finland-passes-new-transgender-law/].

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ATHENS

Greek Watergate: Socialists deny being ‘blackmailed’ by government. The Greek socialist party (Pasok) refuted assumptions by the main opposition Syriza party that the conservative government is blackmailing its leader Nikos Androulakis through a wiretapping scandal to influence post-election coalition talks, Pasok sources told EURACTIV.com. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/greek-watergate-socialists-deny-being-blackmailed-by-government/].

MADRID

Spanish government raises minimum wage. The government has agreed to increase the minimum wage by 8% after more than a month of negotiations with trade unions CC.OO and UGT, but without the support of the main employers’ association, CEOE. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/spanish-government-raises-minimum-wage/].

Spain, Morocco try to ‘normalise’ relations with high-level summit. A key summit was held in Rabat on Wednesday to normalise the bilateral relations between both nations, which had many shared challenges on the agenda, including how to deal with migration flows. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/spain-morocco-try-to-normalise-relations-with-high-level-summit/].

LISBON

Public opinion on striking teachers may turn negative, warns Portuguese president. President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa warned that the public’s current sympathy towards teachers on strike may turn bitter as the first day of strikes began on Wednesday and minimum services were required in impacted government-run schools.. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/public-opinion-on-striking-teachers-may-turn-negative-warns-portuguese-president/].

VISEGRAD

BUDAPEST

Former MEP: Hungary eyes post-war benefits from Russia. The Hungarian government believes that Russia will win the war against Ukraine and therefore avoids sanctions against Moscow, Hungarian politician and former MEP Benedek Jávor told EURACTIV Poland in an interview, adding that Budapest silently hopes there will be a modification of borders in the region. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/former-mep-hungary-eyes-post-war-benefits-from-russia/].

WARSAW

Biden, Zelenskyy likely to visit Poland later this month. US President Joe Biden and his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelenskyy are likely to visit Poland later this month, as Zelenskyy wants to present his 10-point peace plan, according to Polish media. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/biden-zelenskyy-likely-to-visit-poland-later-this-month/].

PRAGUE

Local communities fight against gigafactory in Czechia. The Czech Republic is finalising its application to the tender for the construction of Volkswagen’s gigafactory – a facility that produces batteries for electric vehicles on a large scale – but the government faces resistance from local communities, including surrounding villages. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/local-communities-fight-against-gigafactory-in-czechia/].

BRATISLAVA

Internationals express concern over ex-Slovak PMs foreign policy stance. At the meeting with former prime minister Robert Fico who is currently leading the disinformation scene in Slovakia, ambassadors expressed their concerns about his party´s foreign policy orientation. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/internationals-express-concern-over-ex-slovak-pms-foreign-policy-stance/].

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

LJUBLJANA

Hungary’s OTP becomes biggest player in Slovenian banking market. The Hungarian banking group OTP received clearance from the Slovenian market regulator to take over NKBM, Slovenia’s second-largest bank, making OTP the largest player in the local banking market. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/hungarys-otp-becomes-biggest-player-in-slovenian-banking-market/].

SOFIA

Bulgaria to continue exporting fuels from Russian oil to Ukraine. The export of petroleum products from Russian oil to Ukraine will continue after 5 February, when the government derogation was due to expire, the Bulgarian government said in a statement on Wednesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/bulgaria-to-continue-exporting-fuels-from-russian-oil-to-ukraine/].

TIRANA

Albania dismantles hundreds of illegal CCTV cameras amid organised crime crackdown. Hundreds of illegally placed CCTV cameras have been removed from public areas by Albanian authorities over the last two weeks, in a crackdown on organised criminal groups which placed them there to monitor police and gang movements. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/albania-dismantles-hundreds-of-illegal-cctv-cameras-amid-organised-crime-crackdown/].

PRISTINA

Kurti: A mono-ethnic association not possible in multi-ethnic country. The Prime Minister of Kosovo, Albin Kurti, spoke on Wednesday to the media about international pressure to accept the Association of Serb Municipalities, a provision signed in 2013 that the Constitutional Court has since ruled against, stating a mono-ethnic structure is not possible in a multi-ethnic country. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/kurti-a-mono-ethnic-association-not-possible-in-multi-ethnic-country/].

AGENDA

* EU: The College of Commissioners, on mission to Ukraine, meets with the government in Kyiv; Commission President Ursula von der Leyen participates;

* Vice President Dubravka Šuica on official visit in Croatia;

* Meeting of experts and officials, organised by the Swedish presidency in Stockholm, on the establishment of third-country nationals; Highlights include challenges and opportunities in housing, efforts to combat segregation, and more;

* European Parliament holds plenary session; Votes on impunity waivers regarding the Qatargate; Debate highlights include the preparation of the EU-Ukraine Summit, and more;

* President Roberta Metsola on official visit to Dublin, Ireland; Meets with Taoiseach Leo Varadkar, Ceann Comhairle Seán Ó Fearghaíl, Tánaiste Micheál Martin; Addresses the Joint Sitting of the Oireachtas;

* European Central Bank (ECB) holds press conference on eurozone monetary policy;

* European Investment Bank (EIB) holds press conference with President Werner Hoyer on annual results;

* France: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on official visit;

* Sweden: Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson hosts Finnish Prime Minister Sanna Marin;

* Saudi Arabia: French Foreign Affairs Minister Catherine Colonna on official visit;

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Daniel Eck, Zoran Radosavljevic, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson, Sofia Mandilara]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020230202ej2200002


CE Noticias Financieras English
Bulgaria to veto nuclear sanctions against Russia, says President Radev
342 字
2023 年 2 月 9 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Sofia, Feb. 9. Bulgarian President Rumen Radev said Thursday, on the occasion of the start of the European Union (EU) leaders' summit in Brussels, that his country will veto any attempt to sanction Russia's nuclear sector.

"We cannot accept sanctions on nuclear energy because it will directly affect our nuclear energy. There is no way that will happen. Where our interests are threatened, especially in nuclear energy, we are very careful. If necessary, we will impose a veto," he told the Bulgarian press in Brussels.

Bulgaria has only one nuclear power plant, in Kozloduy, of Soviet technology and running exclusively on Russian fuel, which covers little more than a third of the Balkan country's energy needs.

Sofia recently signed a fuel agreement with U.S.-based Westinghouse and France's Framatome, but remains dependent on Russian-made fuel.

Separately, Radev called on Bulgaria's interim government, appointed by him, not to allow additional provision of military aid to Ukraine.

That appeal came shortly before European leaders met in Brussels with Ukrainian President Volodymir Zelensky.

Bulgaria sent in the first months of the war large quantities of ammunition and fuel, which enabled the Ukrainian army to resist the Russian advance.

"I hope that now the government will show good sense and prudence so that this will not be allowed in the future. This is a bloody war, we hear less and less voices for peace, we hear only noises of weapons, only cries of victory, with no one being able to define at the moment what victory means," Radev said.

The ruler, a former pro-Russian general, always opposed sending military aid to Ukraine saying that if he gave Ukraine weapons, Bulgaria would end up "involved" in the war.

Radev dissolved parliament on February 3 after three failed government formations and now has virtually full control over the interim executive.

The next general elections, the fifth in two years, will be held in Bulgaria next April 2.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230209ej29009rk


Bulgaria would veto EU sanctions on Russian nuclear fuel, president says
bne IntelIiNews
401 字
2023 年 2 月 10 日 08:56 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Bulgaria’s President Rumen Radev said on February 9 that his country would veto EU sanctions on Russian nuclear fuel.

The country's sole nuclear power plant at Kozloduy has only two working reactors and they have been using only Russian fuel to date. However, at the end of 2022, Kozloduy NPP signed contracts with Westinghouse and Framatome on the delivery of fuel for its two operating reactors, securing independence from Russia.

Radev, who was representing Bulgaria at the European Council meeting in Brussels on February 9, as the country has no regular government, said that he repeated this position on possible sanctions on Russian nuclear fuel, claiming this was Bulgaria’s position as such sanctions would directly affect Bulgaria’s energy and economy.

“We cannot accept a sanction in nuclear energy and if necessary, we shall impose a veto,” Radev said as quoted in a statement.

Pro-Western Democratic Bulgaria commented that if the country should choose between nuclear dependence from Russia and lack of nuclear power production, it should choose the latter.

The president, who has taken pro-Russian positions since the start of Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine, also said he hoped that Bulgaria, which made one delivery of military aid to Ukraine, will not repeat that move in the future, claiming this would not end the war but rather prolong it.

“This is a bloody war and we hear less and less voices for peace. We only hear the sounds of the guns, we only hear calls for victory without anyone being able to define at the moment what victory means,” Radev said.

This statement sparked widespread reactions on social media varying from openly critical to humoristic.

“I was a bit of a presidential advisor,” famous cartoonist Christo Komarnitski wrote on Facebook.

“Mr. Rumen Radev, as I am worried that the President of Bulgaria has difficulties in understanding realities, I am allowing myself to assist you. Remember: for united Europe and Bulgaria a victory in the war that [Russian President Vladimir] Putin is carrying out in Ukraine means unconditional withdrawal of occupying forces and restoration of the territorial integrity of free Ukraine,” Komarnitski wrote.

His post was shared dozens of times in the first hour after being published.

There were also comments saying that Radev went on the EU summit to represent Russian interests.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230210ej2a002gx


Bulgaria This Week - February 10, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 2 月 10 日, 11709 字, (英文)
IMF: Charting globalization’s turn to 'slowbalization' after world financial crisisThe free flow of ideas, people, goods, services, and capital across national borders leads to greater economic integration. But globalization, the trend ...

CE Noticias Financieras English
US, UK sanction former Bulgarian officials for corruption, favoring Russia
274 字
2023 年 2 月 10 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
Washington, Feb. 10. The United States and the United Kingdom on Friday sanctioned several former high-ranking Bulgarian officials, oligarchs and companies for corruption and for favoring Russia's energy industry.

Washington believes they engaged in illicit business dealings, "eroded" Bulgaria's democratic institutions and "perpetuated Bulgaria's energy dependence" on Russia.

Specifically, the US Treasury Department sanctioned Rumen Ovcharov, former Bulgarian Minister of Energy; Vladislav Goranov, former Minister of Finance; Aleksandar Hristov Nikolov, former Deputy Director of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant; and Ivan Genov, former General Director of the same plant, for their involvement in illicit dealings and bribery.

As a result of these restrictions, any assets they may have in the U.S. will be frozen, while U.S. citizens and their companies will not be able to do business with them.

At the same time, the U.S. State Department banned Ovcharov, Nikolov and Goranov from entering the country.

Another of those sanctioned is Nikolay Malinov, former president of the political party "Russophiles for the Rebirth of the Fatherland" for bribing a judge to allow him to travel to Russia despite the fact that he was forbidden to do so by the courts.

This party, as well as the National Russophile Movement and two other companies also received sanctions, since they are owned or controlled by Malinov himself.

In addition, the United Kingdom sanctioned for corruption the oligarch Vassil Kroumov Bojkov, considered the richest man in the country; Delyan Slavchev Peevski, businessman and former legislator; and Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov, former national security official. EFE

ssia/er

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020230210ej2a009q1


U.S., UK sanction eight Bulgarians over alleged corruption
486 字
2023 年 2 月 10 日 18:33 GMT
Reuters News
LBA
英文
Copyright 2023 Thomson Reuters. All Rights Reserved.
WASHINGTON/LONDON (Reuters) - The United States and Britain on Friday sanctioned eight Bulgarians for alleged corruption, including the country’s wealthiest man and a former minister who allegedly profited illegally from deals involving Bulgaria's only nuclear power plant and Russian energy firms.

The coordinated actions were aimed at countering “systemic corruption... that resulted in illicit personal gain, undermined the country’s democratic institutions, and perpetuated its corrosive dependence on Russian energy sources,” the U.S. Treasury said in a statement.

Bulgaria, a member of NATO and the European Union, ranks among Europe’s most corrupt countries, according to the Transparency International advocacy group, and has been criticized for failing to root out corruption.

Washington sanctioned five former Bulgarian officials and five entities controlled by two of them. London banned the entry into Britain and imposed asset freezes on three other Bulgarians – all slapped with U.S. sanctions in 2021 – including Vasil Bozhkov, the country’s wealthiest man.

The U.S. measures freeze any property and interests the five former officials and five entities have in the United States, the statement said.

Among those sanctioned was Rumen Ovcharov, a former energy minister and lawmaker who “repeatedly engaged in corrupt energy contracts” with Russian energy firms, accepting bribes in return for fixed-price deals for Russian gas, nuclear fuel, and support for the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant (KNPP), Bulgaria’s sole nuclear facility, the statement said.

Ovcharov declined to comment.

The statement said that he and another former energy minister, Aleksandar Nikolov, coordinated contracts to buy power from KNPP that they then resold to the national electricity company even though the company had a deal to purchase power directly from the facility.

Nicholov said he did not know why he was sanctioned.

Washington also targeted Nikolay Malinov, a former Parliament member, for allegedly bribing a judge to allow him to travel to Russia to receive an award from President Vladimir Putin. Malinov had been barred from leaving Bulgaria following his arrest in 2019 on espionage charges, the statement said.

"I am flattered. If the U.S. Treasury barks against me that means I am headed in the right direction," Malinov said in response.

The Treasury said Vladislav Goranov, a former lawmaker and finance minister, was sanctioned for a scheme in which tens of millions of euros in bribes were paid to Bulgarian officials in exchange for legislation favoring the gambling industry.

Goranov said he was not acquainted with the allegations.

In addition to Bozhkov, who is a fugitive, Britain targeted former lawmaker Delyan Peevski and former national security official Ilko Zhelyazkov, a one-time board member of the country’s largest state energy company, for allegedly misusing state funds.

(Reporting by Jonathan Landay in Washington and Sachin Ravikumar in London; additional reporting by Tsvetelia Tsolova in Sofia; Editing by Leslie Adler)

Released: 2023-2-10T18:33:22.000Z

Reuters News & Media Inc.

文件 LBA0000020230210ej2a03shx


UK and US sanction high-profile Bulgarians over corruption
432 字
2023 年 2 月 10 日 19:04 GMT
Agence France Presse
AFPR
英文
Copyright Agence France-Presse, 2023 All reproduction and presentation rights reserved.
Britain and the United States on Friday slapped anti-corruption sanctions on eight Bulgarians, including two former ministers and an influential lawmaker.

The "US Treasury, in coordination with our UK partners, sanctioned today several high-profile Bulgarian individuals... for their extensive involvement in corruption in Bulgaria," US Secretary of State Antony Blinken tweeted.

"We're steadfast in the fight against systemic corruption, which undermines democratic institutions," he added.

The sanctioned Bulgarians are accused of having "undermined the country's democratic institutions, and perpetuated its corrosive dependence on Russian energy sources" through their corrupt acts, the State Department said in a statement.

Financial sanctions will be imposed on the individuals, and they, and their families, will be prohibited from entering US territory.

Bulgaria's former finance minister Vladislav Goranov, who served in Boyko Borisov's government from 2014 to 2020, is among those sanctioned.

Goranov is accused of having used his position to "facilitate bribery of Bulgarian officials and deprive the Bulgarian government of tax revenues in favour of Bulgarian oligarchs", the US Treasury said.

Former Energy Minister Rumen Ovcharov and two previous directors of Bulgaria's only nuclear power plant in Kozloduy are suspected of engaging in corrupt activities with regard to "energy contracts with Russian energy companies".

The leader of a pro-Russian lobby group, Nikolay Malinov, was also sanctioned for having bribed a judge in order to obtain a visa for Russia after having been charged with espionage and being barred from international travel.

Friday's sanctions by the Treasury constitute the second time since June 2021 that the US has applied the Magnitsky act, a law under which Washington punishes foreign government officials implicated in corruption or hfuman rights abuses.

The act is named after Russian lawyer Sergei Magnitsky, who died in pre-trial detention in 2009 amid allegations of mistreatment in a Russian prison.

Lawmaker Delyan Peevski, a former "media magnate", was hit by British sanctions, alongside Vassil Bojkov, a billionaire who made his fortune in the gambling sector.

US ambassador to Sofia, Herro Mustafa, had recently regretted that "none" of the individuals sanctioned by the Magnitsky act were the subject to legal proceedings in Bulgaria.

"We have seen that corruption has fundamentally distorted how some institutions function and who controls them and that is to the detriment of the Bulgarian people," she lamented.

Bulgaria, which is about to hold its fifth legislative elections in two years in early April, has been gripped by a political impasse unprecedented since the end of communism in 1989.

vs/anb/kym/pvh

Agence France-Presse

文件 AFPR000020230210ej2a00j25


Bulgaria
Deputy Prosecutor General: Some Magnitsky Act Designees Already Face Pre-trial Proceedings in Bulgaria
Metodi Yordanov, Lyubomir Gigov
526 字
2023 年 2 月 11 日 09:37 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2023 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
"Almost all persons on the Magnitsky list are known to the prosecution office, we are working against them [those on the list], and some of them are already facing pre-trial proceedings," Bulgarian Deputy Prosecutor General and National Investigation Service Director Borislav Sarafov said in a National Television interview ere on Saturday.

The US Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) sanctioned five current or former officials from Bulgaria: Rumen Ovcharov, Alexander Nikolov, Ivan Genov, Nikolay Malinov and Vladislav Goranov "for corrupt acts that resulted in illicit personal gain, undermined the country’s democratic institutions, and perpetuated its corrosive dependence on Russian energy sources", the US Embassy in Sofia said on Friday, quoting a statement by Secretary of State Antony Blinken. In turn, British Foreign Secretary James Cleverley announced the imposition of sanctions against three Bulgarians: Delyan Peevski, Ilko Zhelyazkov and Vassil Bojkov "for serious corruption and abuse of public institution funds".

"We welcome the support of our US and UK partners. This is in fact open support for our actions. I will remind you, in case anyone has forgotten, that Rumen Ovcharov is a defendant in a pending trial in which he has been convicted at two instances, and the sentence is being appealed again at an appellate court, respectively, the prosecution maintains the indictment against him. An indictment has been filed against Nikolay Malinov for spying for Russia. The case against him is currently being reviewed by the Sofia City Court and, respectively, the prosecution has done its job against him as well," Sarafov said.

Two other persons on the Magnitsky list are also facing pre-trial proceedings in connection with corruption, which are handled by the National Investigation Service, he said, adding that they, too, may be charged.

Sarafov sees the Magnitsky list as "a form of support for the efforts of the prosecution service".

Asked when Vladislav Goranov, former finance minister in two GERB governments, would be brought to justice, Sarafov said this would happen when enough evidence against him has been collected.

The Prosecutor General's Spokesperson, Siyka Mileva, said in a Facebook comment later in the day that even on Monday the prosecution service will ask the Directorate General for Combating Organized Crime, the National Police General Directorate, the State Agency for National Security, the National Revenue Agency, the Commission for Anti-Corruption and Illegal Assets Forfeiture, the Registry Agency and other State bodies to provide the information at their disposal regarding the persons included in the Magnitsky list.

Mileva confirmed that the prosecution service's website had been unsuccessfully attacked by hackers on Saturday.

"Notably, the hacking attack came less than 24 hours after the new sanctions under the Global Magnitsky Act were unveiled, prompted, among other things, by the malicious Russian influence," the Spokesperson commented.

"In this sense, the prosecution service sees the imposition of sanction as support by our Euro-Atlantic partners of our efforts to counter the malicious Russian influence against the Republic of Bulgaria and the region," she pointed out.

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/967975/20230111_145543.jpg]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020230211ej2b000b5


US and UK sanction top Bulgarian politicians, businessmen for corruption
803 字
2023 年 2 月 12 日 21:32 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
The US and the UK announced sanctions on several top Bulgarian politicians and businessmen and one judge for corruption on February 10, less than two months ahead of the country’s fifth general election within two years.

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement[https://www.state.gov/countering-systemic-corruption-in-defense-of-bulgarian-democratic-institutions/] that the US, in coordination with the UK, is taking action to counter systemic corruption in Bulgaria by designating five former Bulgarian government officials, including two ex-ministers, as well as five companies, “for corrupt acts that resulted in illicit personal gain, undermined the country’s democratic institutions, and perpetuated its corrosive dependence on Russian energy sources”.

The US Department of the Treasury designated under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act former energy minister Rumen Ovcharov, who is a member of the pro-Russian Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP), former finance minister Vladislav Goranov, a member of Gerb, the former MP and current leader of the Russophiles National Movement, Nikolay Mladenov, as well as two former CEOs of Kozloduy nuclear power plant (NPP) Aleksandar Nikolov and Ivan Genov.

Ovcharov, Nikolov and Genov were designated “for a series of illicit dealings and the exchange of bribes related to energy contracts that robbed the Government and people of Bulgaria of hundreds of millions of dollars”, the statement said.

The BSP issued a declaration in support of Ovcharov on February 11, while the former energy minister said as quoted by Dnevnik news outlet he was unaware of why the US is sanctioning him and rejected any involvement in corruption.

“Vladislav Goranov, a former MP and former Minister of Finance, was designated for using his position to facilitate bribery in exchange for favourable legislation, depriving the government of tax revenues,” the US said in the statement.

Although Gerb has officially distanced itself from Goranov, the party’s leader Boyko Borissov said he was sure that his former finance minister was not involved in any corruption.

However, fugitive gambling mogul Vassil Bozhkov previously said that Goranov demanded 20% of his profit and in return pushed for legislative changes that made it easier for his gambling business to operate. He also said he had given millions of euros in bribes to Borissov and Goranov. The Bulgarian prosecution has refused to investigate these claims.

Nikolay Malinov was designated for bribing a judge to permit him to travel to Russia, even though he had been indicted for spying for Russia and placed under a travel ban.

Several companies were also designated, including Goranov’s Trilemma Consulting, Malinov’s Inter Trade 2021 EOOD, MS Konsult 2016 EOOD, the Russophiles National Movement and Russophiles for the Revival of the Fatherland.

“The Department of State also imposed visa restrictions on Ovcharov, Nikolov, and Goranov for involvement in significant corruption under Section 7031(c) of the annual Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act. As a result of these actions, those individuals and their immediate family members are generally ineligible for entry into the United States,” the US statement noted.

Meanwhile, the UK said in a separate statement[https://www.gov.uk/government/news/uk-sanctions-high-profile-bulgarian-figures-involved-in-corruption] it has designated three influential Bulgarian individuals involved in offences including abuse of public institution funds. They are Bozhkov, controversial businessman and politician Delyan Peevski and Ilko Zhelyazkov, former deputy head of the unit for control of the use of special investigative devices.

The trio have already been designated under the Magnitsky act.

“Those sanctioned have deprived the people of Bulgaria of resources crucial to its economic and social development. Money that should have been used to fix roads, build hospitals and support economic growth has instead ended up in the pockets of corrupt individuals,” the UK said in the statement.

Peevski was sanctioned for involvement in “attempts to exert control over key institutions and sectors in Bulgarian society through bribery and use of his media empire”, while Zhelyazkov was designated for using his position to redirect a lucrative state contract for his own gain.

Bozhkov was included in the list for using bribery extensively to protect his business interests, the statement said.

Caretaker Justice Minister Krum Zarkov said as quoted by Dnevnik news outlet that the US sanctions are an assessment of the work of the Bulgarian prosecution.

"We still have a lot to do so that we do not fall into the position where [people] thousands of kilometres away can tell us what we are not able to see for ourselves," Zarkov said.

On the other hand, the head of the Bulgarian investigation body, Borislav Sarafov, said the sanctions are actually open support for its actions as Ovcharov has been tried and convicted, while Malinov is also charged. Sarafov also said the Bulgarian prosecution has not collected enough evidence against Goranov and that the statements from Bozhkov are not enough to open pre-trial proceedings.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230212ej2c001b9


BULGARIA: RUSSIA DEMANDS PENALTIES AFTER SUSPENSION OF PAYMENTS TO GAZPROM
513 字
2023 年 2 月 13 日
Business World Magazine
BUWMAE
英文
© 2023. Business World Agency. All Rights Reserved.
Russia has demanded penalties from Bulgaria because of the suspended payments to Gazprom. This was announced by the Acting Energy Minister Rosen Hristov. According to him, the amount of Moscow's claim is confidential.

Russia stopped the supply of natural gas to Bulgaria at the end of April last year. The reason was that Bulgaria did not pay for the blue fuel in rubles.

"Correspondence is going on, that is, claims were made from the Russian side for certain amounts, there is a response from our side," said Hristov.

According to the minister, no more information can be given on the subject because it is confidential. "The decision to suspend the contract with Gazprom - to stop the payment, not to respond to the request for changes in the payment - is entirely the former government's. Other countries have continued to pay, and if we say that we are complying with some sanctions regime, that's not true."

The minister was categorical that Bulgaria continued to buy Russian fuel, but through an intermediary.

"The gas bought from April to August-September 2022 was bought without requiring certificates of origin - that is, a large part of it was proven to be of Russian origin, and we continue to buy Russian gas, but at a higher price through traders," he added.

The prosecution's accusations against the former management of "Bulgargaz" and against the former energy minister Alexander Nikolov are related to this.

"I do not want to interfere with the accusations, interpret them and make assumptions about guilt. The judicial system must do its job. I have given evidence, all the requested information from the Ministry and "Bulgargaz" has been provided. I believe it has been processed and the charges have been brought on the basis of facts," he said.

The minister also commented on the possible ban on the delivery of Russian nuclear fuel to the European Union. Earlier President Rumen Radev announced that Bulgaria was ready to veto such a sanction from Brussels.

"The logic of the sanctions is that they must punish the one against whom they are directed, and if we have to suffer, destroy our energy or industry, to make a scratch on Russian energy - of course, we cannot allow such sanctions. It is the same logic and with Gazprom, to start buying expensive gas just because Russia would suffer insignificantly - this thing is not justified," Nikolov noted.

It is not true that Bulgaria bought the cheapest gas in summer, the minister also commented, showing data from Eurostat and EC reports for several European countries.

Supplies for 2023 are secured, Rosen Hristov emphasized again, and said that in the coming days tenders for the supply of liquefied gas for the slots in Turkey would be announced.

"We have to decide what kind of gas will flow there. We will negotiate with all the world's companies and producers, there are already interests from BP, Cheniere, the Middle East - Qatar and Egypt are also showing interest," he said. (Novinite/Business World Magazine)

Business World Agency

文件 BUWMAE0020230213ej2d0001e


Bulgaria’s governments failed to sanction Russians since 2014
491 字
2023 年 2 月 15 日 06:10 GMT
bne IntelliNews
BNEINT
英文
© 2023. bne IntelliNews. All Rights reserved.
Bulgaria has not sanctioned Russian citizens or companies included in EU sanctions lists since they were first imposed in 2014 following the annexation of Crimea, Euractiv reported on February 14 quoting information from the national tax agency.

The country is popular for Russians who are buying property located in sea or mountain resorts. 300,000 Russians acquired more than 500,000 properties by the end of 2019.

Bulgaria is obliged to apply the EU sanctions and regulations and was supposed to impose them on Russians after the start of the Russian war in Ukraine.

However, Euractiv quoted Ruslan Stefanov from the Bulgarian think tank Center for the Study of Democracy (CSD) as saying that the Bulgarian authorities do not dare, do not want, and do not have the capacity to apply the sanctions.

“A signal is awaited on this from the highest political level for any action, and such is not only not coming at the moment, but even on the contrary – the signals are that the Bulgarian government would like to soften or cancel the sanctions on Russia,” Stefanov said as quoted by Euractiv.

In the meantime, Bulgaria’s President Rumen Radev is becoming an increasingly loud critic of any initiative to help Ukraine with weapons, saying that “the parties of war” should do that once they win the snap general election. Radev was referring to reformist pro-Western Change Continues and Democratic Bulgaria, which have been insisting on sending weapons and ammunitions to Kyiv since the start of the war.

“If the parties of war win the election and form a government, then they may take on the responsibility for the decision of the Bulgarian army to provide weapons to Ukraine. Former members of parliament who do not understand anything about warfare do everything possible to involve us in processes of escalation that they cannot control at all,” Radev told reporters on February 14 as quoted in a statement.

He added that the caretaker government of Prime Minister Gulub Donev must take steps to guarantee the security and territorial integrity of the country, which, in his opinion, means not weakening the country’s defence potential, but preserving and developing it.

"I continue to believe that this conflict has no military solution and peace can only be achieved with an immediate ceasefire and dialogue," Radev also said.

His statement angered Kyiv and Mykhailo Podolyak, advisor to President Volodymir Zelenskiy commented that Radev wants the country to kneel and let Russia murder its children.

“Ukraine treats warmly Bulgaria and the Bulgarian society, which understands what Russia is doing in Ukraine. President Radev, however, proposes to Ukraine to get on its knees and accept that it will not exist. He does not offer peace, he does not propose that war ends, he proposes that we get on our knees and have our children killed,” Podolyak commented as quoted by Club Z news outlet.

EMERGING MARKETS DIRECT OU

文件 BNEINT0020230215ej2f000b8


PRESS RELEASE - EUROPEAN COMMISSION
4443 字
2023 年 2 月 15 日
Cyprus News Agency
CYPRNA
英文
Copyright © 2023 NETinfo Services Limited
February infringements package: key decisions

Overview by policy area

In its regular package of infringement decisions, the European Commission pursues legal action against Member States for failing to comply with their obligations under EU law. These decisions, covering various sectors and EU policy areas, aim to ensure the proper application of EU law for the benefit of citizens and businesses.

The key decisions taken by the Commission are presented below and grouped by policy area. The Commission is also closing 93 cases in which the issues with the Member States concerned have been solved without the Commission needing to pursue the procedure further.

For more information on the EU infringement procedure, see the full Q and A. For more detail on all decisions taken, consult the infringement decisions' register.

Marine environment: Commission calls on BULGARIA, DENMARK, ESTONIA, GREECE, CROATIA, CYPRUS, LATVIA, LITHUANIA and MALTA to protect their marine waters

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Bulgaria (INFR(2022)2172), Croatia (INFR(2022)2177), Cyprus (INFR(2022)2173), Denmark (INFR(2022)2174), Estonia (INFR(2022)2175), Greece (INFR(2022)2176), Latvia (INFR(2022)2180), Lithuania (INFR(2022)2179), and Malta (INFR(2022)2181) for failing to comply with the Marine Strategy Framework Directive (Directive 2008/56/EC). The directive aims to protect the EU's seas and oceans and ensure that their resources are managed sustainably.

Under the directive, Member States were required to review and update their 'monitoring programmes' by 15 October 2020 and their 'programmes of measures' by 31 March 2022.

The Member States concerned failed to submit reports on the review of their programmes of measures to the Commission by the required deadlines. Bulgaria and Malta also failed to send reports on the review of their monitoring programmes.

As a result, the Commission decided today to send a letter of formal notice to Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania and Malta. They now have two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Water management: Commission calls on 16 Member States to finalise review of their water plans

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Belgium (INFR(2022)2188), Bulgaria (INFR(2022)2189), Croatia (INFR(2022)2193), Cyprus (INFR(2022)2190), Denmark (INFR(2022)2184), Greece (INFR(2022)2191), Ireland (INFR(2022)2185), Lithuania (INFR(2022)2194), Luxembourg (INFR(2022)2186), Malta (INFR(2022)2195), Poland (INFR(2022)2196), Portugal (INFR(2022)2197), Romania (INFR(2022)2198), Slovakia (INFR(2022)2187), Slovenia (INFR(2022)2199) and Spain (INFR(2022)2192) for failing to finalise the revision of the river basin management plans as required under the Water Framework Directive (Directive 2000/60/EC) and/or the flood risk management plans as required under the Floods Directive (Directive 2007/60/EC). Both directives require Member States to update and report every six years their management plans on river basins and flood risk, respectively. River Basin Management Plans include a programme of measures which are key to ensure good status of all water bodies, as required by the directive. Flood risk management plans are formed on the basis of maps showing the potential adverse consequences associated with flood scenarios.

Sustainable water management is a core element of the European Green Deal. The following Member States failed to comply with their obligations under either one or both of the Directives:

Belgium (INFR(2022)2188), Bulgaria (INFR(2022)2189), Croatia (INFR(2022)2193), Cyprus (INFR(2022)2190), Greece (INFR(2022)2191), Spain (INFR(2022)2192) Lithuania (INFR(2022)2194), Malta (INFR(2022)2195), Portugal (INFR(2022)2197), Romania (INFR(2022)2198) and Slovenia (INFR(2022)2199)have failed to review, adopt and report in time all their third river basin management plans and second flood risk management plans;

Denmark (INFR(2022)2184), Ireland (INFR(2022)2185) and Poland (INFR(2022)2196) are beyond legal time limits as regards the review, adoption and reporting of the third river basin management plans;

Luxembourg (INFR(2022)2186) and Slovakia (INFR(2022)2187) are beyond legal time limits as regards the review and adoption and reporting of second flood risk management plans.

The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to these 16 Member States, which now have two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Free movement of services: Commission takes action to ensure a well-functioning single market

Today, the European Commission decided to launch and to pursue 24 cases against several Member States for various breaches of services-related legislation. These decisions are taken to ensure the correct implementation of rules aiming at the good functioning of the single market for services.

The Commission has decided to open and pursue infringement procedures relating to the EU Proportionality Test Directive. In particular, the Commission has decided to send 11 additional letters of formal notice to Bulgaria (INFR(2021)2206), Czechia (INFR(2021)2201), Greece (INFR(2021)2200), France (INFR(2021)2202), Croatia (INFR(2021)2198), Cyprus (INFR(2022)2055), Latvia (INFR(2021)2257), Hungary (INFR(2021)2192), the Netherlands (INFR(2021)2197), Austria (INFR(2021)2205), and Slovakia (INFR(2021)2204) while Estonia (INFR(2022)2169) will be receiving a letter of formal notice to ensure that the introduction of professional regulations via parliamentary amendments is covered by a prior proportionality assessment.

In addition, the Commission decided to send 5 reasoned opinions to Germany (INFR(2021)2212), Spain (INFR(2021)2256), Lithuania (INFR(2021)2207), Poland (INFR(2021)2208), and Slovenia (INFR(2021)2195) for not having properly implemented the EU Proportionality Test Directive for regulation of professions.

Concerning the enforcement of the Services Directive, the Commission has decided to open an infringement against Malta (INFR(2022)2210), Poland (INFR(2022)2211) and Slovenia(INFR(2022)2209) for having in place a total prohibition on the advertising of lawyers' activities. The Commission has also decided to open an infringement against Cyprus (INFR(2022)2170) for having in place prohibitions to team up with other professions in real estate agency companies and Slovenia (INFR(2022)4119) for fixing minimum tariffs for certain real estate intermediation services.

Moreover, the European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Belgium (INFR(2022)4120) for having in place a disproportionate guarantee scheme for certain construction services, and to Spain (INFR(2022)4121) for having failed to ensure a transparent and impartial selection procedure for the granting of concessions relating to coastal areas. All Member States concerned have two months to respond to the arguments raised by the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to take the next step in the procedure. A press release is available here.

Offshore energy: Commission calls on CYPRUS to correctly transpose EU rules on the safety of offshore oil and gas operations

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Cyprus (INFR(2022)2220) for failing to correctly transpose into national legislation certain provisions of the EU Offshore Safety Directive (Directive 2013/30/EU). This directive put in place rules to help prevent accidents at offshore energy installations and to respond promptly and efficiently should such accidents occur. Member States must ensure that companies to which they grant a licence for exploration or production have the necessary technical and financial means, and that they keep resources available to put them into operation when necessary. An independent authority needs to be in place in order to ensure that safety requirements are respected, as well as an adequate system to handle compensation claims in case of accident. Companies are fully liable for environmental damages caused to protected species and natural habitats. The deadline to transpose the directive into national law was 19 July 2015. The Commission has supported Cyprus in transposing and implementing the EU rules, but it found that a number of provisions were not correctly transposed. Cyprus now has two months to address the shortcomings identified by the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to send a reasoned opinion.

EU exclusive external competence: The European Commission decides to refer HUNGARY to the Court of Justice of the European Union for voting against the Union position

Today, the European Commission decided to refer Hungary (INFR(2020)2364) to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failure to follow the position of the EU on the World Health Organization (WHO) recommendations on scheduling cannabis and cannabis-related substances under two UN conventions, as outlined in Council Decision (EU) 2021/3. Those recommendations concern changes in the listing of substances under international control. In EU law the decisions on the international scheduling of substances under the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, as amended by the 1972 Protocol, and the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971 fall under the exclusive competence of the EU. The Council Decision determining the Union position is binding on the EU Member States, in line with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (Article 218(9)). It provides that Member States have to vote accordingly in the Commission on Narcotic Drugs. Hungary voted contrary to the EU position twice during the vote on the WHO recommendations. The Commission therefore launched the infringement procedure against Hungary with a letter of formal notice sent on 18 February 2021, followed by a reasoned opinion on 12 November 2021. As the reply to the reasoned opinion was unsatisfactory, the Commission has decided to refer Hungary to the Court of Justice of the European Union. More information can be found in the press release.

Central America and Mexico: EU reaffirms support with pound 11 million in humanitarian aid

The Commission has announced today pound 11 million in humanitarian aid for Central America and Mexico on the occasion of the 'High-level Solidarity Roundtable in support of the 2023 Northern Central America Humanitarian Response Plans', which took place in Geneva.

The funding will focus on:

pound 3.5 million will support the addressing of the humanitarian consequences of violence, including displacement, and food insecurity issues.

pound 3 million will focus on Education in Emergencies.

pound 4.5 million will support the implementation of disaster preparedness activities.

Background

Central America and Mexico are exposed to natural hazards, epidemics, social unrest, pervasive violence, chronic poverty and inequality. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and inflation are worsening people's vulnerability and affecting their coping capacity. This situation results in more displacement, food insecurity and protection risks, notably in El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala.

The sub-region is also a transit hotspot and destination area for migrants and people on the move, both from Latin America and Caribbean as well as from other continents, on their way to the US border. What is more, rural communities and ethnic minorities in the Dry Corridor, bear the humanitarian consequences of frequent climate shocks.

Since 1994, the EU has allocated pound 322 million in humanitarian aid to Central America and Mexico.

Part of the funding for Central America and Mexico has helped respond to emergencies such as floods, droughts, hurricanes, epidemics, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, internal displacement, and violence. The remaining funding helped vulnerable communities build resilience to face future disasters.

In 2022 alone, on a regional level, the EU earmarked pound 160 million to tackle the most urgent humanitarian issues in Latin America and the Caribbean.

DiscoverEU: next application round for 35,000 young people to receive a travel pass opens in March

The Commission will launch the DiscoverEU spring call, which will run from Wednesday 15 March at 12:00 CET and close on Wednesday 29 March at 12:00 CET. Thanks to DisoverEU, 35,000 young people will receive a travel pass to explore Europe, its rich cultural heritage, widen their perspective and gain an enriching experience. The call is open to 18-year old applicants from all EU Member States and third countries associated with the programme. To win a travel pass, young people need to apply on the European Youth Portal, where they will have to answer five questions as well as a tiebreaker question.

Applicants, born between 1 July 2004 and 30 June 2005 and who have successfully filled in the selection quiz, will be able to travel in Europe for up to 30 days, between 15 June 2023 and 30 September 2024. Those turning 18 in the second half of next year will be able to apply in the October 2023 round.

Commissioner for Innovation, Research, Culture, Education and Youth Mariya Gabriel said: 'We are glad to make available, for 2023, a total of 70,000 travel passes to 18-year old people who will be able to experience our Union first-hand.'

Since DiscoverEU is part of the Erasmus+ programme, participants from Iceland, Liechtenstein, North Macedonia, Norway, Serbia, and Trkiye are also eligible to apply.

As in the last round, participants will continue benefitting from a discount card with more than 40,000 discount possibilities on public transport, culture, accommodation, food, sports, and other services available in all eligible countries. They will also be able to join DiscoverEU Meet-ups with exciting cultural programmes that last between 1 and 3 days across all Erasmus+ countries. More information about the past rounds of 2022 are available here.

(For more information: Sonya Gospodinova - Tel.: +32 2 296 69 53; Flore Boutier - Tel.: +32 2 296 60 43)

Statement by President von der Leyen on the 10th package of sanctions against Russia

For almost one year now, Russia's war of aggression has been sowing death and destruction. Putin is not only waging a brutal war on the battlefield but he is also viciously targeting civilians. The perpetrator has to pay for this. Today, we are turning up the pressure with a 10th package of sanctions.

First, we propose further export bans worth more than pound 11 billion, to deprive the Russian economy of critical technology and industrial goods. For maximum impact, we are targeting many industrial goods that Russia needs, and that it cannot get from other countries like China. Vital goods such as electronics, specialised vehicles, machine and engine parts, spare parts for trucks and jet engines. And we are targeting goods for the construction sector which can be directed to Russia's military, such as antennas or cranes.

Second, we will further restrict the export of dual use goods and advanced tech goods. We propose controls on 47 new electronic components that can be used in Russian weapons systems, including drones, missiles, helicopters. And on specific rare earth materials and thermal cameras. With this, we have banned all tech products found on the battlefield. And we will make sure they don't find other ways to get there. This is why, for the first time ever, we are adding third country entities to the Russia dual use sanctions. Iran's Revolutionary Guards have been providing Russia with Shahed drones to attack civilian infrastructure in Ukraine. Therefore, we are now adding seven Iranian entities to our dual use regime. They are now under a complete ban to sell sensitive items to Russia. And we stand ready to list further Iranian and other third country entities that are providing sensitive technology to Russia. This should act as a strong deterrent to other companies and international traders.

My third point is about Russia's propaganda machine. Putin is also waging war in the public space, with an army of propagandists and disinformation networks. They are spreading toxic lies to polarise our societies. So we are proposing to list Putin's propagandists as well as additional military and political commanders. High Representative Borrell will provide you more information on the listings we are proposing today.

We now have in place the toughest sanctions ever introduced by the European Union. And we have to ensure that they are rigorously applied. Therefore, our 10th package introduces new measures to prevent circumvention. This is my fourth point. We will track oligarchs trying to hide or to sell their assets to escape sanctions. And together with Member States we will set up an overview of all frozen assets of the Russian central bank held in the EU. We need to know where these are located and how much they are worth. This is crucial in view of the possible use of public Russian assets to fund reconstruction in Ukraine.

And finally, we are working closely with Member States, operators and partner countries to tackle circumvention. Our special envoy David O'Sullivan is reaching out to third countries, to ensure strict implementation of sanctions and prevent circumvention. And next week, we will organise a Sanctions Coordinators Forum, gathering our international partners and Member States, to strengthen enforcement efforts. Together, we are tightening the screws on Russia more and more. I call on the Member States to adopt this new package of sanctions swiftly. Our aim is to have, together with our G7 partners, further significant sanctions in place by 24 February - exactly one year after Putin launched his imperial war.

Print friendly pdf

Speech by President von der Leyen at the European Parliament Plenary on one year of Russia's invasion and war of aggression against Ukraine

"Check against delivery"

Thank you, Madam President, dear Roberta,

Honourable Members,

Almost a year ago, on the night of 24 February, Russia invaded Ukraine and war was back in Europe. That night our thoughts and prayers were with our Ukrainian friends. We followed the news from the Donbas and Kyiv with unbearable tension. Would they be able to withstand the onslaught of the Russian invaders? Today we know, yes, they would. One year on, Putin's perfidious plans continue to be foiled by the brave Ukrainian nation. One year on, Russia has completely alienated itself from Europe, its most important economic relationship, and is isolated on the world stage. One year on, this Parliament welcomed the Ukrainian President, Volodymyr Zelenskyy, as the true hero he is. And one year on, Putin's imperial fantasies have woken up to a bleak reality, while Ukraine's dreams are stronger than ever. And they will prevail.

Honourable Members,

What a difference one year of unity and resolve can make. In the early hours of 24 February, when Russian tanks rolled into Ukraine, a whole continent held its breath. Some predicted that Ukraine would fall in a matter of days. But instead, the legendary bravery of the Ukrainian people stunned the world. Their fierce resistance at the gates of Kyiv. The civilians who stopped Russian tanks in the south. The counter-offensive of Ukraine's armed forces in Kharkiv and Kherson. We can never match the sacrifice and the bravery of the Ukrainian people. But we can stand firmly by their side. And that is what we did. A whole continent has mobilised. From the volunteers of Warsaw station, who welcomed Ukrainians fleeing Putin's bombs, to all citizens and companies, which have cut their electricity consumption. Together with you, Honourable Members, we have focused on three main goals.

First, to support Ukraine's resistance against the invader unwaveringly. Second, to undermine Russia's war machine. Third, to build Ukraine´s European future together. These three strands of action have guided us over the last year and will continue to guide us in the months to come.

Let me begin with our continued support for Ukraine's resistance. Since the war began, the European Union has provided Ukraine with EUR 67 billion in economic, humanitarian and military support: from budget support to aid for a rapid recovery, from energy to military capabilities, from humanitarian aid to aid for refugees. All of it a material contribution to Ukraine's war effort. Putin wanted the collapse of the Ukrainian State. We have helped Ukraine to stay operational, even during its darkest hours. Europe has galvanised Ukraine's resistance, and we will continue to do so. We will ensure a steady flow of financial aid throughout 2023. The first instalment of this EUR 18 billion package has already arrived in Ukraine. Our support will continue to be stable and predictable, every month. This is what Europe promised. And we have kept our promise.

Europe is also supporting Ukrainian firms and workers, who are still operating despite the war. To do so, we have harnessed the power of our single market. We have integrated our economies, brought our people together, twinned our towns and cities and synchronised our electricity grids. Our solidarity lanes allow Ukraine to export its goods to the whole world. This has already brought in EUR 20 billion in revenue for Ukrainian firms during the war. And we can do more.

During our visit to Kyiv, we agreed on a roadmap to further improve Ukraine's access to our single market. Putin wanted to shatter Ukraine's European dream. Today Ukraine is moving towards the European Union more quickly and more decisively than ever.

At the same time, we are weakening Russia's ability to maintain its war machine. This is my second point. With nine packages of sanctions in place, the Russian economy is going backwards. And to keep up this strong pressure, we are proposing a tenth package of measures. With new trade bans and technology export controls to Russia. This package is worth a total of EUR 11 billion. We propose, among other things export restrictions on multiple electronic components used in Russian armed systems - such as drones, missiles, helicopters. But there are also hundreds of Iranian-made drones used by Russia on the battlefields in Ukraine. These Iranian made drones kill Ukrainian civilians - this is atrocious! So for the first time we are also proposing to sanction Iranian entities including those linked to Iran's Revolutionary Guard. It is our duty to sanction them, and confront Iran about the supply of drones and the transfer of know-how to build production sites in Russia.

Putin assumed that our support for Ukraine would not last. He thought it would be easy to hold Europe to ransom, because of our dependence on Russian oil and gas. But he was wrong there too. Today, one year after the war began, he has already lost the energy war he started. We have repositioned ourselves, thanks to reliable partners, and the results can be seen. Russia's income from sales of gas to Europe has shrunk by two thirds. The oil price cap means that Russia is losing EUR 160 million in revenue every day. Gas prices in Europe are lower today than before Russia's invasion of Ukraine, and Europe is now investing in clean energies and energy independence as never before. In expanding renewable energies, we are breaking one record after another. Last year, for the first time, we generated more electricity from wind and solar than from gas. With European unity and a smart energy policy, we have withstood Russian pressure and freed ourselves from our energy dependency. Our economy today is performing significantly better than forecast and, at the beginning of the week, we were able to revise our growth predictions upwards. By contrast, the Kremlin is having to sell gold reserves in order to plug the gaps left by the lack of oil revenue. Putin's attempt to blackmail Europe using energy has been an abject failure.

Honourable Members,

President Zelenskyy has often spoken to me about what keeps the people of Ukraine going amid the horrors of war. Despite the massacres in Bucha und Irpin. What gives them hope, even after the bombing of Mariupol und Dnipro? It is the firm conviction that the future of their country and of their children lies in the European Union. And that is the third task facing us - to build a bridge of hope for the people of Ukraine, from the horrors of war, which they are experiencing today, to a better future in our midst.

Rebuilding Ukraine and its progress on the path towards our Union go hand in hand. You have heard it from President Zelenskyy in this hemicycle. I have seen it with my College in Kyiv. And colleagues at the Commission confirm it every day: Ukrainians are making tangible progress - while fighting a war. They know that accession to our Union is a merits-based process. They have passed legislative reforms that others thought would take years. They are making this progress because they are striving for Europe with all their heart and soul. Ukraine is a nation defined not only by its history and heritage. It is a nation defined by its dreams. And Europe is one of these dreams.

Distinguished Members,

Let us honour these dreams by standing up for Ukraine for as long as it takes. So that one day the representatives of the Ukrainian people will have their place in this very House.

Long live Europe.

Slava Ukraini.

Related media

Print friendly pdf

Speech by the President: One year of Russia's war in Ukraine

English (39.071 kB - PDF)

Download (39.071 kB - PDF)

Press contact

Eric MAMER

Phone

+32 2 299 40 73

Mail

eric.mamer@ec.europa.eu

Dana SPINANT

Phone

+32 2 299 01 50

Mail

dana.spinant@ec.europa.eu

Statement by Commissioner Várhelyi

I sincerely regret the misunderstanding around my remark at the plenary session of the European Parliament on 14 February 2023.

This was linked to a private and ongoing conversation in Hungarian between me and my Head of Cabinet on a completely different matter, which was taken out of context. I apologise for any possible misunderstanding around that.

I fully respect all the EU institutions, including the European Parliament and its Honourable Members.

I would like to thank to the Honourable Members of the European Parliament for the exchange of views from yesterday which was an excellent opportunity to discuss geopolitical issues of utmost importance in the Western Balkans.

I remain available also in the future to exchange with the European Parliament on the developments in my portfolio areas in full respect of my inter-institutional obligations and of the principle of sincere cooperation.

Print friendly pdf

Statement by Commissioner Várhelyi

English (26.006 kB - PDF)

Download (26.006 kB - PDF)

The European Commission is committed to personal data protection. Any personal data is processed in line with Regulation (EC) 2018/1725. All personal information processed by the Directorate-General for Communication / European Commission Representations is treated accordingly.

NETinfo Services Limited

文件 CYPRNA0020230216ej2f0000c


Bulgaria
Media Review: Feb. 16
Valentin Evstatiev
1542 字
2023 年 2 月 16 日 10:53 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2023 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
ECONOMY

Companies can receive grants of up to BGN 1 million to build photovoltaic solar power systems and solar batteries, Trud says in its main story. Applications may be submitted until May 15. The budget of the programme amounts to BGN 200 million. Beneficiaries may use the money to build photovoltaic capacities of 1 MW or less. In the first five years after a system is built, the electricity it generates may be used for the company's own purposes only. The programme, devised under the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, was launched by the Innovation and Growth Ministry.

* * *

"The Milk Paradox! Wholesale Price Falls, Retail Price Grows," runs the main headline in 24 Chasa. The daily says that the government is checking the markups on milk along the chain from farm to shelf. Earlier this week, Agriculture Minister Yavor Gechev pointed to an inconsistency: the price at which wholesalers buy milk from farms is between BGN 0.85/litre and BGN 0.90/litre, and the price customers pay in the shops for a litre of milk is BGN 3.50. The farm-to-shelf markup is 80%. Gechev suspects profiteering practices.

Bulgaria imports raw milk from Poland and Hungary at EUR 0.44/litre (BGN 0.86/litre), and powdered milk from Ukraine. This forces local farmers to sell their milk below cost, says Simeon Karakolev, Chairman of the National Sheep Breeders Union. The authorities suspect that traders get a profit margin of 50%, which is disguised by various marketing techniques.

* * *

Economy Minister Nikola Stoyanov expects food prices to go down as a result of the government's measures against profiteering. Interviewed for the morning talk show of BNT1, Nikolov said the competent institutions are starting joint checks for unfair trading practices across Bulgaria. According to him, fuel prices should remain at their current levels and inflation should decrease faster in the coming months.

* * *

With a deal for the acquisition of ambulance helicopters still down the road, a war is going on over who should operate them, SegaBG.com says. The cabinet's intention to close the Bulgaria Heli Med Service company, set up under the Kiril Petkov government (December 2021 - August 2022), is being vehemently challenged by a firm which holds that all planned regulatory changes to this end are contrary to the law. The cabinet is obviously set to continue in the chosen direction despite the absence of a National Assembly.

Meanwhile, the two public procurement procedures launched for the acquisition of ambulance helicopters are being challenged for very strange reasons, the website says. Both "the big procedure", announced by the Health Ministry for the purchase of 6 + 2 helicopters, and "the small procedure", involving Bulgaria Heli Med Service and aimed to rent one helicopter, have reached the Supreme Administrative Court.

Every delay puts the planned deal at a high risk because of a requirement that the first helicopter should be delivered by the end of this year. If not, Bulgaria will lose BGN 20 million in EU funding, the author warns.

POLITICS

The new Left alliance, proclaimed two months ago as a large amalgamation of political forces, was eventually reduced to just four entities in order to register on time for the April 2 early parliamentary elections, 24 Chasa says. Still, it was a major development, the paper notes. The new alliance includes important figures who alternated between being friends and foes in the past: Tatyana Doncheva of Movement 21, Rumen Petkov of ABV, Maya Manolova of Rise Up BG, and Spas Panchev of the Alexander Stamboliiski Agrarian Union. They form the nucleus, but the talks continue with other political players, civic organizations and Left-minded individuals, said Kostadin Paskalev, who is one of the people behind the idea of a new Left.

The daily quotes knowledgeable sources as saying that the potential partners who will join the talks include Georgi Kadiev's Normal State, the Social-Democrats, the United Labour Bloc, Alexander Paunov's Communists, Just Bulgaria, the System Is Killing Us (a group of mothers of children with disabilities), and greens.

* * *

"What's New about Elections'23 Looks Just as Old and Worn-out," caps an analysis published on SegaBG.com. The author says that the partisan crisis in Bulgaria is so deep that now, with yet another parliamentary election 48 days away, none of the political forces is conducting a clear campaign which can earn it points in the battle for parliamentary seats. None of the parties has a clear strategy about what to do in the run-up to April 2. No campaign headquarters, no brain trusts. Not to mention leaders' thinking.

GERB are running out of time as they are busy explaining that they do not know Vladislav Goranov (the finance minister in their former government) and have no idea why he has been sanctioned under the US Global Magnitsky Act, the analysis goes. The blow from the US came while GERB were dealing with an internal challenge, trying to dissociate themselves from their Plovdiv Mayor Zdravko Dimitrov.

The BSP are far from strengthening their image, they are actually ruining it. These days, their leader Kornelia Ninova has been busy expelling yet another group of members.

Strangely, Democratic Bulgaria and Continue the Change were too quiet about what was the most important event in the Right segment of the political arena in 15 years: the drawing up of a coalition agreement to run jointly in the elections, the website says. Instead of making some noise about their unity, which would help them contest the top position on April 2, they chose to hold negotiations behind the curtain and to announce their coalition with a couple of photos and a dull declaration stating that "everyone is free to fulfil their dreams".

Practically, all of the main political parties are unprepared, and will hardly get prepared, for a real election campaign, the author concludes.

FOREIGN RELATIONS

The European Commission proposes new sanctions against Russia, including a ban on the export of goods and technologies of potential dual (military and civilian) use, electronics, machinery, spare parts, antennas, cranes, rubber and asphalt, Duma reports in its main story. The Commission expects the package to be adopted by February 24, the anniversary of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. This tenth package of sanctions will be worth EUR 11 billion. Another four Russian banks may be excluded from the SWIFT system. The Commission also insists on the introduction of measures against sanction avoidance, Russian propaganda disseminators and military leaders.

* * *

The new series of sanctions under the US Global Magnitsky Act against five Bulgarian officials is another step forward in curbing the state capture with regard to the Bulgarian energy sector, which remains closely linked to the Kremlin's influence in Bulgaria and the region, MediaPool.bg says in an analysis. The author, Ruslan Stefanov of the Centre for the Study of Democracy, goes on to note that Bulgaria is one of Europe's most vulnerable countries when it comes to Russian influence-building operations. Russia has inherited the Soviet-era influence networks in Bulgaria's natural gas, oil and nuclear power industries. It has access to, and control over, the technologies, the financial flows, the expertise and the security.

After Bulgaria joined the European Union in 2007, the risks associated with the Russian influence diminished owing to considerable public investments from the EU cohesion funds, the analysis goes. The trend was abruptly interrupted by the Russian-induced energy crisis in 2021 and the start of Russia's full-blown war in Ukraine in 2022. The war showed that Moscow had been preparing for many years to use energy as a weapon in Europe and exposed the oligarchic networks employed by the Kremlin to exert influence on European governments.

The Magnitsky Act sanctions against Bulgarians can help the Bulgarian authorities to step up the country's shaking off of its energy dependence on Russia. This requires resolute political actions by the three parties affected by the sanctions (which were soon dubbed "the Magnitsky coalition") to carry out sustainable judicial and anti-corruption reforms aimed at curbing state capture practices in the energy sector, Stefanov says.

* * *

Every shock in Bulgaria's relations with North Macedonia serves Russia's interests in the Balkans, European Council on Foreign Relations Deputy Director Vessela Tcherneva said in an interview for bTV's morning talk show. She said that both Bulgaria and North Macedonia are to blame for the tensions between them. "If we care for the fate of Bulgarians in North Macedonia, we should create favourable conditions to ensure that they acquire very quickly the rights we want them to have," Tcherneva argued.

* * *

A frontpage photo in Trud shows former National Assembly Chairman Vezhdi Rashidov handling a private donation of a large number of blankets which he and his wife Snezha Baharova-Rashidova made to people in Turkiye and Syria affected by the recent devastating earthquakes. In the caption, Rashidov is quoted as saying: "The people in Turkiye and the people in Syria who lost homes and family members are equally afflicted by suffering - just great human suffering. We hope our donation will help make the days of the survivors more bearable."

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/196239/press-review1.JPG]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020230216ej2g0005w


Bulgaria This Week - February 17, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 2 月 17 日, 8616 字, (英文)
EBRD cuts 2023 GDP growth forecast for Bulgaria by 0.5pp to 1.0%The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) has cut its GDP growth forecast for Bulgaria in 2023 to 1.0% in the latest Regional Economic Prospects report ...

Bulgaria This Week - February 24, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 2 月 24 日, 10479 字, (英文)
Net FDI in Bulgaria up 86.2% y/y in 2022 to €2.25bnNet foreign direct investment (FDI) in Bulgaria was €2.25bn in 2022, up by 86.2% year on year, preliminary central bank data showed. The net investment figure is equal to 2.7% of projected ...

Bulgaria This Week - March 3, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 3 月 3 日, 12063 字, (英文)
Bulgaria’s central government debt up 23.5% y/y at end-JanuaryBulgaria’s central government debt increased by 23.5% year on year to BGN40bn (€20.5bn) at the end of January, finance ministry data showed.

Energo Monitor This Week - March 3, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 3 月 3 日, 7473 字, (英文)
Azerbaijan increased revenue from electricity exports by 75% in 2022Azerbaijan exported 1711.43 GWh of electricity in 2022 (an increase of 7.7% compared to 2021) in the amount of $121.5mn (an increase of 75.4%). Below is the detailed export...

Bulgarian Russophile teams up with Steven Seagal to set up an international movement
Krassen Nikolov
549 字
2023 年 3 月 13 日 06:17 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2023. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
An international movement of Russophiles will be established on 14 March in Moscow, following an initiative by Nikolay Malinov, head of the Bulgarian National Movement Russophiles, who is teaming up with US actor Steven Seagal, EURACTIV Bulgaria’s partner Dnevnik reports.

The Russian Foreign Ministry supports the initiative and Minister Sergey Lavrov will attend the event. Seagal, who has lived in Russia for years and is a special representative of its Foreign Ministry for Humanitarian Relations with the USA and Japan, will also attend.

New US-EU Coalition calls to sanction Hollywood star[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/new-us-eu-coalition-calls-to-sanction-hollywood-star/]

A group of politicians across the globe are urging the EU to enforce sanctions on ten individuals for supporting the Russian invasion of Ukraine – including US actor Steven Seagal.

The US-Europe Sanctions Coalition was formed in the autumn of 2022 …

Lavrov will participate in the founding congress of the International Movement of Russophiles, Maria Zakharova, a spokeswoman for the ministry, confirmed on 9 March. The Russian state, political and public figures, representatives of science, culture and foreign delegates from several dozen countries will be present, said Zakharova, as quoted by TASS[https://tass.ru/politika/17228723].

Malinov currently faces espionage charges in Bulgaria and was recently sanctioned by the US government under the International Magnitsky Act for allegedly bribing a judge, who allowed him to travel abroad and receive a Russian award personally from President Vladimir Putin. The judge was also sanctioned but not under the Magnitsky Act.

The Russophiles and Russophiles for the Revival of the Fatherland movement were also sanctioned by the US in February for being directly or indirectly controlled by Malinov.

Konstantin Malofeev, the chairman of the board of directors of the media group Tsargrad – a group dedicated to Russian Orthodox Christianity and supporting Putin – will also attend the event on 14 March.

Malinov claims that Putin already supported his idea for an International Movement of Russophiles at his meeting with the Russian president on 4 November 2019.

On 15 February, Malinov said he would meet Lavrov in Moscow to talk “with friends”. It remains unknown whether he returned to Bulgaria after that, since he appeared on Russia’s main TV channel Perviy Kanal on 27 February and published a photo of himself hugging Malofeev on his Telegram channel on 6 March.

The aim of the International Russophiles Movement is to bring together “true patriots” from different countries united by their love for Russia and its culture who strive for a multipolar world based on the traditions of the peoples, according to one of Malofeev’s publications. The organisation is also aiming to set up a European Citizen’s Initiative to lift EU sanctions against Russia and to hold events related to history and the anti-fascist struggle, Malinov said on Russian television.

Malinov is “the most Russian of the Bulgarians”, Tsargrad wrote with enthusiasm.

On 27 February, Malinov participated in “The Big Game” programme on Perviy Kanal, in which he said that those who declare Russia an aggressor are “barbarians, Russophobes and modern fascists”.

While Malinov was speaking, huge screens broadcast footage from Bulgaria and like-minded people stamping on the flag of the European Union who were posing with “Putin is our president” t-shirts.

(Krassen Nikolov | EURACTIV.bg)

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020230313ej3d0000h


Bulgaria
Media Review: March 28
Lyubomir Gigov
2132 字
2023 年 3 月 28 日 09:53 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2023 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
ELECTION CAMPAIGN

Interviewed by www.mediapool.bg[http://www.mediapool.bg], journalist Petko Georgiev says that the drives to hold referendums against gender ideology in school, against the euro and for a presidential republic abuse people's trust and all three referendums are incorporated into the campaigns for the April 2 elections. He sees the anti-euro and pro-presidential republic referendums as "two sides of the same coin: Bulgaria's Putinization, support for Putin's fascist regime and taking the country out of the family of European peoples." In his opinion, Boyko Borissov is unaware that he is long past his prime as a political leader. This hinders the formation of a stable government, and President Rumen Radev stands the most to gain from such a situation. In Georgiev's personal opinion, the forthcoming elections are already rigged because the reintroduction of the paper ballot opens the door to a massive-scale doctoring of the voting results and because of the "absolutely outrageous meddling by the caretaker cabinet and the prosecution service in the campaign." "Radev keeps campaigning against Continue the Change and Democratic Bulgaria. He has been attacking these two entities since last year, when he shared in the ouster of the Kiril Petkov government." The interviewee insists that Radev "is serving Putin's fascist regime in Bulgaria and must be denied access to the levers of the executive." "Radev's policy towards Ukraine is a disgrace for Bulgaria," Georgiev argues. "This disgrace has both emotional and purely practical dimensions. Bulgaria cannot possibly attain its political and economic objectives if it is headed by a Putinist. This is not a matter of ideology. It is a matter of a deliberate conduct of Radev and the caretaker cabinet he has appointed." According to the journalist, a coalition between GERB, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the Bulgarian Socialist Party stands the best chances of forming a cabinet after the elections.

* * *

Trud runs a full page profile of GERB leader and former prime minister Boyko Borissov titled "The Winner".

STRUMA MOTORWAY

Trud leads on "inaction" by Regional Development and Public Works Minister Ivan Shishkov during his two terms in office despite the greenlight for the project, as a result of which BGN 1.2 billion in EU financing for the construction of the Krupnik-Kresna stretch of the Struma Motorway may be lost. The daily refers to an alert submitted to Prosecutor General Ivan Geshev by the Road Safety Institute. The environmental impact assessment of the project was suspended by Environment and Water Minister Borislav Sandov in the Kiril Petkov cabinet who opposed the "Eastern Variant", envisaging two separate lanes: one along the existing route of E-79 and the other to the east of the gorge. The Supreme Administrative Court has revoked Sandov's order, but this judgment is being appealed by a non-governmental organization. Trud writes that, as rumour has it, the most ardent opponents of the Eastern Variant are paid by Swiss construction companies to lobby for an alternative route of the motorway, including a 15 km tunnel in the Kresna Gorge and broadening the existing road to motorway dimensions. Back in 2015, the Bulgarian Construction Chamber warned that this option would be more expensive, less environmentally friendly, more time consuming and inappropriate for one of the Balkans' most earthquake-prone areas, in addition to allowing a lower speed of motor traffic. Approached by the daily, Shishkov's Ministry denied a risk of forfeiting EU financing and said that the construction contracts for the Eastern Variant will be signed as soon as an analysis of the environmental impact assessment and an evaluation of the compatibility of the project with specific biodiversity objectives are completed. The story continues on two full inside pages.

BOMB HOAX

24 Chasa reports a bomb hoax that was emailed to 15 schools in Burgas, Sofia and 15 in Varna on Monday morning from an organization calling itself "Free Misanthropic Unabombers Legion (FMUL)", originating from an IP address in Russia. The text was probably machine-translated into Bulgarian. The Interior Ministry later confirmed that this was a hacker attack. The Telegram channel, created on March 25, has just 23 subscribers. FMUL said in a sort of manifesto that "we will conquer Bulgaria, Macedonia, Greece and the rest of Europe. We are setting up a new era, an era of terror, an era of cleansing the world of the human biowaste."

Telegraph and Trud also cover the story.

Interior Minister Ivan Demerdzhiev said on bTV and Nova TV Tuesday morning that the partner services in Europe and the US have been alerted and are trying to detect the source of the hoaxes because the emails containing the threats were registered in the Google network, which only the US services can investigate. "The main lead is that these are hybrid attacks linked to Russia," he specified.

NORTH MACEDONIA

In an analysis contributed to Trud, Kostadin Filipov warns that Bulgarians in North Macedonia risk finding themselves yet again abandoned by Bulgaria, now that their two cultural clubs, in Bitola and Ohrid, have been deregistered. Filipov asks why Bulgarian President Rumen Radev did not phone President Macron to tell him the news about the clubs and that his "French proposal" has not produced anything so far except hypocritical promises on the part of the authorities in Skopje. The author claims that North Macedonia's President Stevo Pendarovski is among the inspirers of the idea to adopt extraordinary legislation so that any attempt of Bulgarians in that country could be "suppressed by law".

* * *

Interviewed for 24 Chasa, Prof. Plamen Pavlov describes the closure of the Bulgarian clubs as "an exceedingly short-sighted and absurd decision of the authorities" and "an exceedingly bad sign on the part of Macedonia and in general about its EU orientation". In his opinion, Skopje's moves are so absurd that it seems that the authorities there are themselves boycotting their EU entry, waiting for Belgrade and Moscow to tell them what to do. "This policy of the powerholders, to say nothing of the so called opposition, is counterproductive for North Macedonia itself," the historian argues. He comments that, considering that the anti-Bulgarian card is essential for both government and opposition in Skopje, they use Macedonian Bulgarians as a bargaining chip in the struggle between them. Replying to a question, Pavlov says that the Bulgarian reaction to the closures is reasoned but is always belated. In his words, Bulgaria lacks a clear and consistent strategy in respect of North Macedonia, and this is a major flaw.

PUBLIC FINANCE

Interviewed for Trud, financial expert Atanas Katsarchev argued that it would be reasonable to have a single VAT rate which should be 18%. In his opinion, a proposal by a number of economists to increase the rate to 22% would prompt a further price hike instead of lowering inflation. The interviewee insists that progressive income taxation should be introduced with poverty and wealth thresholds.

EMPLOYMENT TRENDS

Adrian Nikolov of the Institute for Market Economics writes in 24 Chasa that despite the cascade of crises, the employment rate in the 15-64 age group reached 70.4% in 2022, slightly above the previous record of 70.1% in 2019. Unemployment in the same group dropped to 4.3% from the previous year but varies widely by education, from 1.7% for university graduates to 25% for people with primary and lower education. At the same time, the share of persons aged 15 to 29 who are Not in Education, Employment, or Training (NEET) remains relatively high at 15%. National Employment Agency surveys show that the jobs in the hottest demand and shortest supply are industrial workers.

WAGES

Telegraph quotes Shteryo Nozharov of the Bulgarian Industrial Association as saying that wages in Bulgaria grew by 16.5% in the last quarter of 2022, which was the largest increase in the EU. The steepest rise, 23.1%, was in the agriculture, forestry and fisheries sector (due to farm exports) and in production and distribution of electricity and heat and gaseous fuels (due to the skyrocketing prices of electricity). Next come hairdressing services and home repairs (20%). Healthcare and social services saw the lowest wage increases. According to Nozharov, a 17% growth of both wages and pensions in Bulgaria last year offset inflation. By December 2022, the average gross monthly wage in Bulgaria was BGN 1,947. Sofia had the highest average wages: BGN 2,853 in banking and insurance and BGN 4,417 in the IT sector.

* * *

Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria President Plamen Dimitrov said on Nova TV Tuesday morning that the trade unions demand from the future powerholders to offset the incomes of those which have not been offset over the last two years. "The nearly 30% inflation has been offset in some sectors but not in all," he specified. "The wage rise has not been that substantial in water and sewerage and in the textile industry," he added.

ELECTRICITY MARKET MANIPULATION

Duma frontpages the news that Bulgaria's Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC) has imposed a pecuniary sanction of BGN 165,238 on Energy Supply EOOD for wholesale electricity market manipulation. The daily writes that the company is owned by Sonya Nikolova-Kadieva, whose husband, Georgi Kadiev, a candidate for Parliament from the Left! coalition. In a separate signed comment, Alexander Simov writes that "a quasi Left husband goes round the TV studios to explain that people need to be helped and more social measures are needed. At the same time, the wife acts as an electricity market shark and piles up excess profits." "We see a paramount hypocrisy and, at the same time, insatiability, mimicking as something new, social and Left," the author argues, calling on readers "to pick the original rather than the fake on the Left side".

HEALTHCARE

Duma summarizes a page-long televised interview with Dr Desislav Taskov, MP candidate of BSP for Bulgaria, who says that Bulgaria has the most market-oriented healthcare in the Europe, which is the reason for all current disproportions. The most important thing is to ensure patients' access to professional medical care which is sufficiently adequate to their health status. Hospitals must not be business companies. Medical devices must be procured at state auctions so as to achieve an affordable and admissible price. Doctors' and nurses' work has to be valued appropriately so as to discourage young medics from emigrating, the interviewee says.

FOOD PRICES

www.dnevnik.bg[http://www.dnevnik.bg] quotes a Facebook post by economist Georgi Angelov, who comments on a food prices website that has recently been launched by the government. He found that the data contained there are "rather odd" and do not cover price fluctuations on the international markets. If these data were available, both consumers and the government would have noted that the wholesale prices on the Bulgarian exchange are unrealistic and would try to find out why, the expert writes.

Economy and Industry Minister Nikola Stoyanov said on National Television Tuesday morning that the food prices website is important because it pools in a single place the entire information from the National Revenue Agency, the National Customs Agency and the commodity and wholesale markets. In his opinion, this is just one measure in a system of measures that can push prices down. Retailers are expected to start uploading their prices on the platform that was launched last Friday. "The website makes it possible to show clearly the imbalances between wholesale and retail and between importer and producer prices. Apart from providing information, it will have an indirect regulatory function," Stoyanov pointed out.

ENERGY PRICES

Interviewed on National Radio Tuesday morning, Bulgarian Gas Association President Plamen Pavlov said that while the TTF price, which is regarded as reference, was 47% lower than the price in Bulgaria in October and 57% lower in November, the price in Bulgaria was 43% higher than the TTF price in January and 20% higher in March. "Very expensive gas is delivered on the Bulgarian market at this point, even without taking into account the quantity injected in the Chiren storage facility," Pavlov explained. In his opinion, the problem is that Bulgargaz has been left as the only trader actually capable of supplying natural gas but, being ineffective, fails to protect the local market.

DIVORCES

Telegraph has interviewed Judge Valeria Vateva of the Sofia Regional Court, who says that the number of divorces by mutual consent in Sofia has decreased from 1,400 in 2018 to 1,200 in 2022 and of divorces by petition from 850 in 2018 to 750 in 2022. The reason is the larger proportion of de facto cohabitants' couples, which approximates 50%. Vateva notes the lack of an official register of de facto cohabitants.

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/81441/press-review1.JPG]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020230328ej3s0005s


Bulgaria This Week - April 7, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 4 月 7 日, 8495 字, (英文)
Retail sales in Romania, Bulgaria still strong despite rising austerity in CEEThe retail sales index (volume terms) in Romania increased by 2.8% y/y in February, among the weakest rates over the past couple of years according to the ...

MEP: Spitzenkandidat idea slowly fading away
EURACTIV Network
1339 字
2023 年 4 月 20 日 07:38 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2023. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

Today’s edition is powered by META

Firefighters will save time with the metaverse

With the metaverse, firefighters will one day use augmented reality to navigate dark, smoke-filled buildings. The result is that crucial seconds will be saved when lives are on the line. The impact of the metaverse will be real.

Learn more about the metaverse >>[https://eurac.tv/9WnX]

In today’s news from the Capitals:

PRAGUE

The Spitzenkandidat concept – which gives the winning group in the EU elections a chance to propose their lead candidate as European Commission president – is quietly fading away, with even its initial backers becoming gradually less vocal about the idea, Czech EU lawmaker Jan Zahradil said.

“I have the feeling that the concept of the Spitzenkandidat is quietly dying, quietly fading away. No one is actually talking about it anymore,” Czech MEP Jan Zahradil (ODS, ECR), who ran as the ECR Spitzenkandidat in the 2019 European elections, told EURACTIV.cz.

EURACTIV was informed that a key element on whether such a process may be followed is if current EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen decides to re-run for the post, a decision she is yet to reveal. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/mep-spitzenkandidat-idea-slowly-fading-away/].

EU INSTITUTIONS

EU taps enlargement expert for Ukraine ambassador. The EU’s current deputy director general for the European Commission’s enlargement negotiations, Katarina Mathernová is set to become the bloc’s new ambassador to Kyiv, according to an internal note on appointments by the EU’s diplomatic service (EEAS), seen by EURACTIV. Read more.[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/eu-taps-enlargement-expert-for-ukraine-ambassador/]

BRUSSELS

Belgium troubled by Russian ‘intelligence gathering’ ships in territorial waters. A Russian vessel spotted in Belgian territorial waters in November has caused concern it was a Russian intelligence-gathering ship similar to one also seen in Dutch territorial waters, attempting to sail under the radar. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/belgium-troubled-by-russian-intelligence-gathering-ships-in-territorial-waters/].

BERLIN

German children inherit parents’ educational success: report. The academic success of German children depends more on their parents’ education and income, as the education system gives varying outcomes, a report published by the Ifo Institute for Economic Research reads. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/german-children-inherit-parents-educational-success-report/].

PARIS

French Senate urges EU to trace deported Ukrainian children, sanction those involved. French Senate has urged EU institutions and countries to gather evidence of the forcible transfer of Ukrainian children to Russia and sanction Russian officials involved in these crimes, Senator André Gattolin told EURACTIV France on Wednesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/europe-s-east/news/french-senate-urges-eu-to-trace-deported-ukrainian-children-sanction-those-involved/].

VIENNA

Austrian agriculture minister unveils five-point plan for food security. A five-point resilience plan that prioritises the safe supply of food and includes a call to reform the Food Management Act was unveiled by Agriculture Minister Norbert Totschnig on Wednesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/austrian-agriculture-minister-unveils-five-point-plan-for-food-security/].

THE HAGUE

Cracks appear in Dutch opposition over nitrogen transition fund. Opposition parties criticised the government for indecisiveness in handling the country’s ongoing nitrogen crisis while advocating for differing approaches as lawmakers in parliament debated potential financing methods for a nitrogen transition fund on Wednesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/cracks-appear-in-dutch-opposition-over-nitrogen-transition-fund/].

NORDICS AND BALTICS

NORDICS

Nordic media reveals Russian sabotage spy programme. A Russian military programme reportedly mapped out offshore wind farms, gas pipelines, and electricity and internet cables in Denmark, Norway, Finland and Sweden, according to a documentary aired on Wednesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/nordic-media-reveals-russian-sabotage-spy-programme/].

HELSINKI

Finland’s state gambling monopoly likely to be replaced by a licensing system. The current state monopoly system would not function without regulatory changes, according to a report commissioned by the Interior Ministry that looks at the future of online gambling and recommends a switch to a licensing system. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/finlands-state-gambling-monopoly-likely-to-be-replaced-by-a-licensing-system/].

Angry Birds flying to Japan. After days of speculation, the Japanese company Sega looks likely to finalise the acquisition of the Finnish company Rovio Entertainment known for its Angry Birds brand. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/angry-birds-flying-to-japan/].

STOCKHOLM

US urges Turkey, Hungary to ratify Swedish NATO application before summer. Budapest and Ankara should ratify Stockholm’s NATO application before the Alliance’s summit in Vilnius in July, US Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin said during an official visit to Sweden on Wednesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/us-urges-turkey-hungary-to-ratify-swedish-nato-application-before-summer/].

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ATHENS

Greek government admits exporting Predator to Sudan. Greece’s alternate foreign affairs minister Miltiadis Varvitsiotis admitted that the New Democracy government (EPP) granted permission to export the illegal Predator spyware to Sudan, now facing a dramatic civil war. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/greek-government-admits-exporting-predator-to-sudan/].

ROME

Italy focuses on female labour, birthrates amid labour shortages. Upping birth rates and bringing more women into the labour force are the solutions the government is proposing to plug the current labour shortage of about one million, Labour Minister Marina Elvira Calderone and Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni recently said. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/italy-focuses-on-female-labour-birthrates-amid-labour-shortages/].

MADRID

Spain’s housing problem used as political tool ahead of elections. Spain’s two main parties, the ruling centre-left PSOE (S&D) and the centre-right Popular Party (PP/EPP) are both using the housing crisis as a way to gain votes ahead of elections set for later this year. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/spains-housing-problem-used-as-political-tool-ahead-of-elections/].

LISBON

Portuguese president vetoes fourth draft euthanasia bill. The fourth parliamentary bill decriminalising medically assisted dying was vetoed by President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa on Wednesday, hours after he told a student that only legal and technical problems with the bill remained. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/portuguese-president-vetoes-fourth-draft-euthanasia-bill/].

VISEGRAD

WARSAW

German president asks for ‘forgiveness’ of World War II crimes. German President Frank Walter Steinmeier asked for forgiveness of German crimes committed during World War II as he commemorated the 80th anniversary of the ghetto uprising alongside the presidents of Poland and Israel in Warsaw on Wednesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/german-president-asks-for-forgiveness-of-world-war-ii-crimes/].

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

SOFIA

Bulgaria bans import of some Ukrainian goods. The government decided on Wednesday that Bulgaria will ban the import of nearly 20 Ukrainian goods, including grain, from 24 April to 30 June, following in the footsteps of Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/bulgaria-bans-import-of-some-ukrainian-goods/].

BELGRADE

Serbia reiterates opposition to Kosovo’s UN membership bid. Serbia will not support Kosovo’s membership to the UN, President Aleksandar Vučić said in discussions with Swedish Foreign Minister Tobias Blistrem on Wednesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/serbia-reiterates-opposition-to-kosovos-un-membership-bid/].

TIRANA

Over 24,000 Albanian local election candidates, issues with financing, transparency. With under a month until Albania heads to the polls to elect mayors and regional councillors, a total of 132 political parties are present in the country, with more than 24,000 candidates in the running. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/over-24000-albanian-local-election-candidates-issues-with-financing-transparency/].

Albanians most pessimistic in region on fall out of Russia-Ukraine war. Albanians are the most pessimistic of all Western Balkan citizens when it comes to the economic outlook following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, with almost half believing the situation will not improve. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/albanians-most-pessimistic-in-region-on-fall-out-of-russia-ukraine-war/].

AGENDA

* EU: Commission President Ursula von der Leyen participates via videoconference in the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate, hosted by President of the United States Joe Biden;

* Vice President Vĕra Jourová meets with Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court Karim Asad Ahmad Khan, and speaks at roundtable with media and NGO’s;

* Vice President Maroš Šefčovič receives First Vice-President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Jurgen Rigterink;

* Commission Vice President Valdis Dombrovskis receives President of SME United, Crafts and SMEs in Europe Petri Salminen;

* Economy Commissioner Paolo Gentiloni attends InvestEU Guarantee Agreement signature event with Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego (BGK);

* Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides participates in an exchange of views with the European Parliament subcommittee on public health;

* European Parliament Plenary votes on EU rules to regulate crypto assets;

* ECHR: Ruling in interstate case between Georgia and Russia, brought by Georgia in 2018;

* Austria: North Macedonia’s Prime Minister Dimitar Kovacevski on official visit;

* Belgium: NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg meets with Czech President Petr Pavel;

* Hungary: French Secretary of State for Europe Laurence Boone on official visit;

* Turkey: Launch event for gas deliveries starting from newly discovered Black Sea field;

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Daniel Eck, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson, Sofia Mandilara]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020230420ej4k00001


Serbia to build new oil pipeline with Hungary, new gas pipeline with Bulgaria
600 字
2023 年 5 月 11 日 14:44 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2023. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
Hungary and Serbia have reached an agreement to construct a new oil pipeline that will add to the transit of Russian oil from the Druzhba pipeline to Serbian consumers, the Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Economic Relations, Peter Szijjarto, said during a press conference in Belgrade on May 10.

"A new 128-km oil pipeline will be built between the Hungarian town of Algyo and Novi Sad, Serbia to ensure the security of supplies," Szijjarto said as cited by Tass during a joint press conference with Serbia’s Minister of Internal and Foreign Trade, Tomislav Momirovic.

At the same time, Serbian Energy Minister Dubravka Djedovic announced that the country is expecting to complete construction works on its territory for a natural gas link with Bulgaria by autumn.

Hungary’s oil major MOL will sign a construction contract with Serbia’s Transnafta during a Hungarian-Serbian summit on June 20, Szijjarto said on Facebook.

Previously, Serbia had received Russian oil via the Adriatic oil pipeline from a terminal in the Croatian port of Omisalj, located on the island of Krk. However, an EU embargo on crude imports that came into effect on December 5 halted the purchase of Russian oil, including its sea transportation, that forced the country to seek alternative means of delivery. Currently, imports into the EU via the Soviet-era Druzhba oil pipeline are exempted from sanctions.

In mid-2022, following the EU's adoption of another sanctions package against Russia, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic expressed his intent to collaborate with Hungary to establish a new route for receiving Russian oil. Vucic has refused to join the EU’s sanction regime against Russia and Serbia remains heavily dependent on imports of Russian energy.

Some reports suggest that the EU plans to impose a ban on pumping oil through the northern branch of Druzhba in an upcoming eleventh sanctions package that is being debated at the moment. However, the southern branch of the pipeline, which extends towards Hungary, Slovakia and Czechia, will remain unrestricted. Any new sanctions require the unanimous approval of all EU members, which a ban on Druzhba’s use is unlikely to muster. An exemption has previously been granted to these countries regarding the ban on using Russian oil.

Experts estimate the construction of the oil pipeline from Algyo to Novi Sad will cost around €100mn. The route may utilise the corridor of the gas pipeline from Serbia to Hungary, part of the onshore extension of the second string of the TurkStream gas pipeline, which is also still operating and remains unsanctioned, which could expedite the project's completion. Construction of the oil pipeline between the two countries is expected to take between one and a half to two years.

Serbia's is expecting to complete construction works of a new gas pipeline to Bulgaria this year. According to Serbia’s Energy Minister Djedovic, "On Serbian territory, 43% of the construction works on the Nis-Dimitrovgrad interconnection have been completed, running ahead of schedule,” the minister said May 9.

She further added: "A total of 93% of the contracted pipes have been delivered, while 80% have already been distributed along the route of the future gas pipeline."

Ground on the 170-km pipeline project was broken last year in February 2022, with Bulgaria beginning work on its part of the mooted link a year later.

Serbia, which currently depends on Russia for its natural gas supplies, started discussions with Azerbaijan last year with the goal of potentially diversifying its energy sources.

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020230511ej5b001p5


Bulgaria This Week - May 12, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 5 月 12 日, 5834 字, (英文)
Bulgaria’s industrial production fell 9% y/y in MarchBulgaria's industrial production decreased by 9% y/y in March, keeping the downward trend from the start of the year, after falling by 2.7% y/y in February, the country's statistics ...

Serbia This Week - May 12, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 5 月 12 日, 9888 字, (英文)
Bank of Serbia keeps key rate at 6%The Serbian central bank said on May 11 it decided to keep the key interest rate unchanged at 6% due to the country's resilient economic performance in the face of external challenges.

Poland to hold referendum on EU migration relocation scheme
Daniel Eck
1397 字
2023 年 7 月 4 日 07:48 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2023. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by EURACTIV’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by EURACTIV.

In today’s news from the Capitals:

WARSAW

The Polish government wants a referendum on the country’s participation in the EU’s migrant relocation scheme, with voting most likely taking place alongside this autumn’s parliamentary elections, conservative Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki confirmed on Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/poland-to-hold-referendum-on-eu-migration-relocation-scheme/].

EU INSTITUTIONS

Hungary to push for ‘family policy’ during EU Council Presidency. Hungary wants family policy featured higher on the EU agenda when it takes over the six-month EU Council presidency in the second half of next year, as plummeting population figures push member states to raise the matter on their respective agendas. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/hungary-to-push-for-family-policy-during-eu-council-presidency/].

Commission chief: To combat extremist forces, EU must deliver on policy. The European Union must deliver on its policies, and democratic, centrist groups must project a vision on how to tackle the rise of extremism, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said at a joint press briefing in Madrid with Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez on Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/commission-chief-to-combat-extremist-forces-eu-must-deliver-on-policy/].

BERLIN

Finance minister puts Germany back on austerity course. German Finance Minister Christian Lindner will stay true to his goal of reimposing Germany’s debt brake for the first time since 2019 in the budget that is to be approved by the Bundestag on Wednesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/finance-minister-puts-germany-back-on-austerity-course/].

PARIS

France must do more to cut down debt, Court of Auditors chief urges. France’s debt reduction plan must be more ambitious than what’s already been laid out, French Court of Auditors President and former European Commissioner Pierre Moscovici told EURACTIV France in an interview, warning that the country’s public finances were in a particularly poor state. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/economy-jobs/interview/france-must-do-more-to-cut-down-debt-court-of-auditors-chief-urges/].

French government assures of return to order as riots ease. Order is being restored in the country, said French Interior Minister Gérald Darmanin on Monday, after nearly a week of riots and tension sparked by a police officer killing a 17-year-old during a traffic stop. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/french-government-assures-of-return-to-order-as-riots-ease/].

VIENNA

Austrian government wants budget deficit halved. Austria’s budget deficit should be halved to well below 3% of the country’s GDP by 2024, said Finance Minister Magnus Brunner, citing the need to steer Austria onto a ‘sustainable budget path’ as the country’s deficit amounted to almost €6 billion between January and May. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/austrian-government-wants-budget-deficit-halved/].

THE HAGUE

Dutch cabinet to play larger role in domestic energy transition. The Dutch government will play a bigger role in the country’s quest for climate neutrality by 2050, Climate and Energy Minister Rob Jetten (D66/Renew) stated during a press conference on Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/dutch-cabinet-to-play-larger-role-in-domestic-energy-transition/].

UK & IRELAND

LONDON

​​UK government’s small boats bill suffers defeats in House of Lords. The government’s small boats bill had key parts of it shredded by the House of Lords on Monday, as peers voted on a series of topics, including how long children should be detained and deportation destinations. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/uk-governments-small-boats-bill-suffers-defeats-in-house-of-lords/].

NORDICS AND BALTICS

HELSINKI

Finland’s new far-right ministers distance themselves from controversial past. New ministers of the nationalist Finns Party have begun distancing themselves from previous stances, as former Economy Minister Vilhelm Junnila’s recent resignation over remarks he made at a far-right event four years ago has sparked renewed interest in the political past of ministers. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/finlands-new-far-right-ministers-distance-themselves-from-controversial-past/].

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ROME

Le Pen or liberals? Italy’s right at odds over post EU election alliances. Right-wing Forza Italia Vice-President Antonio Tajani (EPP) and far-right Lega leader Matteo Salvini (Lega/ID) differ widely on how to approach next year’s EU elections, with Tajani closing the door on French far-right leader Marine Le Pen and Germany’s far-right party AfD, while Salvini dreams of a united “centre-right” in Brussels is similar to the Italian government. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/le-pen-or-liberals-italys-right-at-odds-over-post-eu-election-alliances/].

ATHENS

Greeks mulls increasing parliament threshold after ‘far-right’ fiasco. Policymakers in Athens are considering increasing the threshold for a political party to enter the parliament as the presence of two new far-right groups in the current mandate has raised eyebrows. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/greeks-mulls-increasing-parliament-threshold-after-far-right-fiasco/].

MADRID

Spanish government slams PM-candidate Diaz’s universal inheritance proposal. The proposal for a “universal inheritance” of €20,000 for every citizen who turns 18 presented by Yolanda Díaz, Spain’s Labour Minister and candidate for Prime Minister with the progressive platform Sumar, is “irresponsible”, the government said on Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/spanish-government-slams-pm-candidate-diazs-universal-inheritance-proposal/].

LISBON

Portugal’s health minister calls for ‘prudence’ in decriminalisation of synthetic drugs. Portuguese Health Minister Manuel Pizarro called for ‘a lot of prudence’ in the process of decriminalising synthetic drugs to ensure that this ‘good idea’ does not end up disrupting the distinction between consumption and trafficking. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/portugals-health-minister-calls-for-prudence-in-decriminalisation-of-synthetic-drugs/].

VISEGRAD

BRATISLAVA

Slovak far-right with neo-Nazi origins eyes government. The Slovak Nationalist Party and Republika, both coming from a Slovak neo-Nazi movement, are now trying to sanitise their image and may have a shot at forming a government with poll leader Smer. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/slovak-far-right-with-neo-nazi-origins-eyes-government/].

PRAGUE | BUDAPEST

Hungary wants Russia sanctions exemption extended, ensure oil exports to Czechia. Hungary will ask the European Commission to extend the sanction exemption Slovak company Slovnaft – a subsidiary of Hungary’s MOL’s – currently benefits from by another year to ensure exports of refined products made from Russian crude oil arrive in Czechia, said Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó after meeting his Slovak counterpart Ludovic Ódor on Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/hungary-wants-russia-sanctions-exemption-extended-ensure-oil-exports-to-czechia/].

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

SOFIA

Bulgaria to increase its military aid to Ukraine this year. Bulgarian military aid will be increased this year, Defence Minister Todor Tagarev said on state television BNT, adding that the country will send weapons after they finish analysing the needs of the Ukrainian army and how much the Bulgarian armed forces are capable of giving. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/bulgaria-to-increase-its-military-aid-to-ukraine-this-year/].

BUCHAREST

Schengen accession may come up at October’s Justice and Home Affairs Council. Bulgaria and Romania’s access to the Schengen may be a talking point during the Justice and Home Affairs (JHA) meeting in October, the Spanish ambassador to Romania said during a press conference on Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/schengen-accession-may-come-up-at-octobers-justice-and-home-affairs-council/].

TIRANA

Bill Clinton gets Albanian public gratitude medal, wants end to Kosovo ‘nonsense’. Former US President Bill Clinton was awarded the Great Star of Public Gratitude medal, the highest honour bestowed by an Albanian Prime Minister, during a visit to Tirana on Monday, where he also called for an end to ‘nonsense’ in north Kosovo. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/bill-clinton-gets-albanian-public-gratitude-medal-wants-end-to-kosovo-nonsense/].

Uptick in cases, convictions in Albanian justice system amid EU reform. Albania’s Prosecutor General Olsian Cela presented the 2022 annual judicial activity report to parliament on Monday, noting a 162% increase in registered proceedings following the EU and US-backed justice reform, which is still ongoing. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/uptick-in-cases-convictions-in-albanian-justice-system-amid-eu-reform/].

AGENDA:

* EU: Commission President Ursula von der Leyen hosts Prime Minister of Serbia Ana Brnabić;

* Commission Vice President Frans Timmermans co-chairs high level Environment and Climate Dialogue with Chinese Vice-Premier Ding Xuexiang; Meets Executive Director of the International Energy Agency Fatih Birol;

* Equality Commissioner Helena Dalli gives keynote speech at the official launch of Accessible EULaunch Event;

* Transport Commisioner Adina Vălean hosts Union Minister of Civil Aviation of India Jyotiraditya M. Scindia;

* Neighbourhood and Enlargement Commissioner Olivér Várhelyi hosts Moldovan President of the Parliament Igor Grosu, Secretary General of the Organisation of Turkic States Kubanychbek Omuraliev; Participates in “Migratory flows and regional challenges: Türkiye’s way forward on migration” event;

* Crisis Management Commissioner Janez Lenarčič hosts Foreign Affairs Minister of the Republic of Chad Mahamat Saleh Annadif; Receives EU Special Representative for the Gulf Luigi di Maio;

* Energy Commissioner Kadri Simson receives CEOs of European gas transmission operators GRTgaz, Enagás, REN and Teréga;

* Internal Market Commissioner Thierry Breton meets with Minister for Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) of Japan Yasutoshi Nishimura;

* European Parliament President Roberta Metsola addresses the EU-UK Parliamentary Partnership Assembly; Meets with President of the Austrian National Council Wolfgang Sobotka;

* Germany: Chancellor Olaf Scholz hosts Romanian Prime Minister Ion-Marcel Ciolacu;

* India: Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) virtual leaders’ summit;

* Chile: Italian President Sergio Mattarella on official visit;

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Daniel Eck, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson, Sofia Mandilara]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020230704ej7400004


World news
Russia-Ukraine war live: six die in missile strike on Lviv – as it happened
Léonie Chao-Fong (now); Donna Ferguson, Martin Belam and Helen Sullivan (earlier)
13260 字
2023 年 7 月 6 日 22:07 GMT
The Guardian
GRDN
英文
© Copyright 2023. The Guardian. All rights reserved.
US reportedly considering sending cluster munitions banned by most of world under treaty US, Russia and Ukraine did not signUS expected to supply cluster bombs to UkraineAt a glance: what we know on day 498 of the invasion

block-time published-time 10.51pm BST

Closing summary

Here’s a recap of today’s developments.

*

At least six people were killed after a Russian missile slammed into a residential building in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv, far from the front line of the war. The youngest was 21 years old and the oldest was a 95-year-old woman, according to Lviv province governor Maksym Kozytskyi. Lviv’s mayor, Andriy Sadovyi, called the attack[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-war-live-lviv-missile-strike?page=with:block-64a71bd28f089742d825a368#block-64a71bd28f089742d825a368] the biggest of the war on civilian areas of Lviv since Russian troops invaded Ukraine last year.

*

The US is weighing whether to provide cluster munitions to Ukraine, the White House said. Two US officials told Reuters that the Biden administration will announce a new Ukraine weapons aid package on Thursday that will include cluster munitions.

*

Human Rights Watch urged the US not to supply the cluster munitions to Ukraine, and called on Moscow and Kyiv to stop using the controversial weapons. [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jul/06/what-are-cluster-bombs-biden-ukraine-russia] Transferring cluster bombs to Ukraine would inevitably cause long-term suffering for civilians, the group said[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-cluster-bombs-biden-human-rights-watch].

*

Ukraine would like a “clear signal” “in the direction of an invitation” to join Nato during the upcoming summit in Lithuania, Volodymyr Zelenskiy has said. The Ukrainian leader was speaking[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-war-live-lviv-missile-strike?page=with:block-64a72e118f081d0996a37b1f#block-64a72e118f081d0996a37b1f] at a joint press conference in Prague with his Czech counterpart Petr Pavel, who said “as soon as the war is over, [Kyiv] should start negotiations on joining Nato.”

*

Volodymyr Zelenskiy will visit Turkey on Friday for talks with president Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the Black Sea grain deal and developments in the war in Ukraine. Zelenskiy visited the Czech Republic and Bulgaria today.

*

Ukraine’s military spy chief says that the threat of a Russian attack on the vast Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant is receding. The intelligence chief, Kyrylo Budanov, warned[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-war-live-lviv-missile-strike?page=with:block-64a6f0fe8f089742d825a1b0#block-64a6f0fe8f089742d825a1b0] that it could easily return as long as the facility remained under occupation by Moscow’s forces.

*

Romania is reportedly considering opening[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-war-live-lviv-missile-strike?page=with:block-64a6fe028f089db8e057225b#block-64a6fe028f089db8e057225b] a regional training hub for F-16 fighter jet pilots which would ultimately be available to its Nato allies and partners, including Ukraine. Romania, both an EU and Nato member, is host to a US ballistic missile defence system and, as of last year, has a permanent alliance battlegroup stationed on its territory.

*

A group of former senior US national security officials have held secret talks with a number of prominent Russians, including foreign minister Sergei Lavrov, with the aim of laying the groundwork for potential negotiations to end the war in Ukraine, according to a report.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-war-live-lviv-missile-strike?page=with:block-64a721a58f089742d825a389#block-64a721a58f089742d825a389] A US state department spokesperson said the Biden administration “did not sanction those discussions”.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-war-live-lviv-missile-strike?page=with:block-64a725148f081d0996a37af4#block-64a725148f081d0996a37af4]

*

The Russian mercenary chief Yevgeny Prigozhin has returned to Russia, the Belarusian president has said, despite a peace deal with the Kremlin under which Prigozhin had agreed to move to Belarus. “As for Prigozhin, he’s in St Petersburg. He is not on the territory of Belarus,” [https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jul/06/wagner-boss-yevgeny-prigozhin-russia-alexander-lukashenko-belarus] Alexander Lukashenko said. “Where is Prigozhin this morning? Maybe he left for Moscow.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.53pm BST

block-time published-time 10.21pm BST

Zelenskiy urges Nato leaders to send 'clear signal' on membership

Ukraine would like a “clear signal” “in the direction of an invitation” to join Nato during the upcoming summit in Lithuania, Volodymyr Zelenskiy has said.

The Ukrainian leader, at a joint press conference in Prague with his Czech counterpart Petr Pavel, said:

We just need an invitation. We understand that there may be difficulties with this or that, but we need to get the united support of all the partners of the alliance.

He added:

We are talking about a clear signal, some concrete things in the direction of an invitation. We need this motivation. We need honesty in our relations.

Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy (L) and Czech President Petr Pavel address a press conference in Prague Castle. Photograph: Milan Kammermayer/AFP/Getty Images

Pavel, who has previously said that Kyiv needs support to join Nato and the EU but that joining either would be a lengthy process, said:

It should be made absolutely clear that it is in the interest of the Czech Republic that Ukraine, as soon as the war is over, should start negotiations on joining Nato, because it is also in the interest of our security, regional stability, and economic prosperity,

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.35pm BST

block-time published-time 10.01pm BST

Here are some of the latest images from the news wires of Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, meeting with his Czech counterpart, Petr Pavel, in Prague.

Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy and Czech President Petr Pavel inspect a guard of honour at Prague Castle. Photograph: Ukrainian Presidential Press Service/Reuters Czech President Petr Pavel welcomes Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy at Prague Castle. Photograph: Ukrainian Presidential Press Service/Reuters Petr Pavel and Volodymyr Zelenskiy at Prague Castle. Photograph: Reuters Volodomyr Zelenskiy meets Ukrainian boy Anton Kotsko, 14-year-old, who is undergoing treatment in the Czech Republic. Photograph: Ukrainian Presidential Press Service/Reuters

block-time published-time 9.37pm BST

The Biden administration did not sanction secret meetings that former top US national security officials held[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-war-live-lviv-missile-strike?page=with:block-64a721a58f089742d825a389#block-64a721a58f089742d825a389] with prominent Russians on potential talks to end the Ukraine war, a US state department spokesperson has said.

The spokesperson, referring to a policy of not discussing possible negotiations on ending the war without involving Ukrainian officials, told reporters:

The Biden administration did not sanction those discussions. And as we’ve said repeatedly, nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine.

The US will continue to provide weaponry to Kyiv so that Ukrainian officials “can negotiate from a position of strength when they think the time is right”, the spokesperson added.

block-time published-time 9.28pm BST

A group of former senior US national security officials have held secret talks with a number of prominent Russians, including foreign minister Sergei Lavrov, with the aim of laying the groundwork for potential negotiations to end the war in Ukraine, according to a report.

The Russian foreign minister met with members of the group for several hours in April in New York, sources told [https://www.nbcnews.com/news/world/former-us-officials-secret-ukraine-talks-russians-war-ukraine-rcna92610] NBC News.

Present at the meeting were Richard Haass, a former diplomat and the outgoing president of the council on foreign relations, and Europe expert Charles Kupchan and Russia expert Thomas Graham, the report said.

The discussions have taken place with the knowledge of the Biden administration, but not at its direction, according to sources. The White House national security council was briefed after the meeting, they said.

At least one former US official has travelled to Russia for discussions involving the war in Ukraine, according to two sources. The meetings have reportedly involved individuals perceived as having Vladimir Putin’s ear or being close to Kremlin decision-makers, they said.

Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov reportedly attended a meeting with a group of former senior US national security officials in April in New York. Photograph: Alexander Nemenov/AFP/Getty Images

block-time published-time 9.01pm BST

Death toll from missile strike on Lviv rises to six

At least six people were killed after a Russian missile slammed into a residential building in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv, far from the front line of the war, earlier today.

The roof and top floor of the building were destroyed in what the mayor of Lviv, Andriy Sadovyi, called the biggest attack of the war on civilian areas of Lviv since Russian troops invaded Ukraine last year.

Sadovyi said the body of a woman was pulled from the rubble late Thursday, bring the death toll to six. The youngest was 21 years old and the oldest was a 95-year-old woman, according to Lviv province governor Maksym Kozytskyi.

block-time published-time 8.51pm BST

The US is weighing whether to provide cluster munitions to Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-cluster-bombs-biden-human-rights-watch], the White House said on Thursday, amid calls from human rights groups for Kyiv and Moscow to stop using the controversial weapons.

What is a cluster bomb?

A cluster bomb is a weapon that breaks apart in the air and releases multiple explosive submunitions or “bomblets” across a wide area. They can be delivered by planes, artillery and missiles, according to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC).

How dangerous are they?

The bomblets are designed to detonate on hitting the ground, and anyone in that area is very likely to be killed or seriously injured. Beyond the initial damage caused by the munitions upon impact, many bomblets fail to detonate immediately. Up to 40% of bomblets have failed to explode in some recent conflicts, according to the ICRC.

As a result, cluster bombs, like landmines, pose a risk to civilians long after their use. Unexploded ordinance from cluster bombs can kill and maim people years or even decades after the munitions were fired.

Human rights groups say that the use of cluster bombs in populated areas is a violation of international humanitarian law because they cause indiscriminate destruction. Sixty per cent of cluster bomb casualties are people injured while undertaking everyday activities, according to Reuters. One third of all recorded cluster munitions casualties are children.

More than 120 countries have signed the Convention on Cluster Munitions, which prohibits the use, production, transfer and stockpiling of the weapons. Russia, Ukraine and the US have all declined to sign the treaty[https://www.clusterconvention.org/]. Since the adoption of the convention in 2008, 99% of global stockpiles have been destroyed, according to[http://www.the-monitor.org/media/3348257/Cluster-Munition-Monitor-2022-Web_HR.pdf] the Cluster Munition Coalition.

Why does Ukraine want them?

Kyiv has been pushing for cluster bombs, arguing that the weapons would help in its counteroffensive by allowing its troops to target entrenched Russian positions and to overcome its disadvantage in manpower and artillery.

Until recently, Washington had resisted Kyiv’s calls, citing concerns about the weapons’ use and saying they were not necessary. However US officials have recently signalled a shift, and a senior Pentagon official said last month that the US military believes cluster munitions “would be useful, especially against dug-in Russian positions”.

But rights groups have called on Russia and Ukraine to stop using cluster bombs, and urged the US not to supply the “inherently indiscriminate” munitions to Kyiv. “Cluster munitions used by Russia and Ukraine are killing civilians now and will continue to do so for many years,” said Mary Wareham, acting arms director at Human Rights Watch. “Both sides should immediately stop using them and not try to get more of these indiscriminate weapons.”

US officials have claimed that any munitions provided to Ukraine would have a reduced “dud rate,” meaning there will be far fewer unexploded rounds that could later result in unintended civilian deaths.

block-time published-time 8.34pm BST

The White House has declined to comment on reports that the Russian mercenary chief Yevgeny Prigozhin has returned to Russia, despite a peace deal with the Kremlin under which Prigozhin had agreed to move to Belarus.

According to the Belarusian president, Alexander Lukashenko, Prigozhin is “in St Petersburg. He is not on the territory of Belarus”.

Lukashenko added that the Wagner boss may be headed to Moscow and that Wagner fighters were stationed at their camps in Russian-occupied eastern Ukraine.

The US will “continue to monitor the Wagner group”, CNN is quoting White House deputy press secretary Andrew Bates as saying. He told reporters:

I do not have new details to provide about whereabouts or anything else concerning Prigozhin or the Wagner Group.”

block-time published-time 8.08pm BST

The Biden administration has decided to provide cluster bombs to Ukraine, AP is reporting, citing sources familiar with the decision.

The US plans to announce on Friday that the Pentagon will send thousands of cluster munitions as part of a new weapons aid package to Kyiv worth about $800m, according to US officials, speaking on condition of anonymity.

block-time published-time 7.48pm BST

Zelenskiy arrives in Prague

Volodymyr Zelenskiy has landed in the Czech capital Prague as part of a tour to drum up support for Ukraine’s fast track to Nato membership ahead of a summit of the alliance next week.

Zelenskiy landed in a Czech government plane, escorted by two air force jets, television footage showed. He was welcomed by his Czech counterpart, Petr Pavel.

Czech President Petr Pavel welcomes Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy in Prague. Photograph: Reuters

Pavel’s office said in a statement:

The visit of the Ukrainian president is intended to be an expression of appreciation for the support that the Czech Republic has provided to Ukraine since the beginning of Russian aggression, and to bring mutual assurance that this support will continue.

At the meeting, the presidents should coordinate their positions before the Nato summit in Vilnius, where it is expected to discuss, among other things, security guarantees for Ukraine.

Czech President Petr Pavel welcomes Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskiy at Prague Castle in Prague, Czech Republic. Photograph: Reuters

block-time published-time 7.38pm BST

Ukrainian commander-in-chief General Valerii Zaluzhnyi said his country’s counteroffensive is "developing according to the plan” in a phone call with the US chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, Gen Mark Milley.

In a Facebook post, Zaluzhnyi said he updated Milley on the situation at the frontline and that the pair “discussed the urgent needs of the Armed Forces of Ukraine in terms of weapon and ammunition”.

He wrote:

The Ukrainian servicemen continue to conduct active offensive actions. The situation is developing according to the plan, the initiative is in our hands.

He also thanked Milley for the continued US support for Ukraine and “congratulated the American people on the Independence Day of the United States”.

block-time published-time 7.25pm BST

Mykhailo Podolyak, a key adviser to President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, has criticised a report by Human Rights Watch[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-war-live-lviv-missile-strike?page=with:block-64a702e68f089db8e05722a0#block-64a702e68f089db8e05722a0] calling on both sides to stop using cluster bombs, accusing the rights group of “helplessness, spinelessness and absolute immorality”.

The rights group argued that transferring cluster bombs to Ukraine would inevitably cause long-term suffering for civilians, amid reports the Biden administration is poised to include the controversial weapons in a new military aid package.

Posting to Twitter, Podolyak said the HRW was “launching an aggressive lobbying campaign” to disrupt the provision of weapons to Ukraine. “Is this a joke? Is it a prank?” he wrote.

enltrHelplessness, spinelessness and absolute immorality, pettiness... @hrw[https://twitter.com/hrw?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]. Again? Or is it time? Just think about it: absolutely insane Russian thugs are invading #Ukraine[https://twitter.com/hashtag/Ukraine?src=hash&ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw], unleashing a brutal genocidal war, killing civilians, organizing public executions, raping women, abducting…

— ??????? ??????? (@Podolyak_M) July 6, 2023[https://twitter.com/Podolyak_M/status/1676995250764513295?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 7.10pm BST

Human Rights Watch has called on Russia and Ukraine to stop using cluster bombs, and urged the US not to supply the munitions to Kyiv, amid reports[https://www.theguardian.com/world/live/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-war-live-lviv-missile-strike?page=with:block-64a6e4858f081d0996a3780b#block-64a6e4858f081d0996a3780b] the Biden administration is poised to include the controversial weapons in a new military aid package.

Ukrainian and Russian forces have used cluster munitions that caused numerous civilian deaths and serious injuries, Human Rights Watch said in a report [https://www.hrw.org/news/2023/07/06/ukraine-civilian-deaths-cluster-munitions] on Thursday, calling on both sides to immediately stop using the “inherently indiscriminate” weapons.

Ukraine fired cluster munition rockets into Russian-controlled areas in and near the eastern Ukrainian city of Izium last year, causing many casualties among Ukrainian civilians, the rights group said, citing interviews with more than 100 residents, witnesses and local emergency personnel. The Ukrainian attacks killed at least eight civilians and wounded at least 15 civilians in Izium, it said.

The casing of a Russian cluster bomb rocket east of the port city of Mykolaiv, Ukraine in March. Photograph: Scott Peterson/Getty Images

The group has previously reported that Russia’s use of cluster bombs in Ukraine resulted in the deaths of scores of civilians, and the United Nations human rights council has also documented the use of such bombs by both sides.

“Cluster munitions used by Russia and Ukraine are killing civilians now and will continue to do so for many years,” said Mary Wareham, acting arms director at Human Rights Watch.

Both sides should immediately stop using them and not try to get more of these indiscriminate weapons.

Transferring cluster bombs to Ukraine would inevitably cause long-term suffering for civilians, the group said. It warned that the use of cluster munitions in areas with civilians makes an attack indiscriminate in violation of international humanitarian law, and possibly a war crime.

Read the full story here.[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-cluster-bombs-biden-human-rights-watch]

Related: US expected to provide cluster bombs to Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jul/06/russia-ukraine-cluster-bombs-biden-human-rights-watch]

block-time published-time 6.58pm BST

Summary

The time in Kyiv is coming up to 9pm. Here’s a summary of today’s events:

*

The Biden administration is set to announce a new Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] weapons aid package tomorrow – and it will include cluster munitions, two US officials have told Reuters. Speaking to the news agency on condition of anonymity, the officials said a weapons aid package that includes cluster munitions fired by a 155 millimetre Howitzer cannon is going to be announced tomorrow.

*

Human Rights Watch have called on Russia[https://www.theguardian.com/world/russia] and Ukraine to stop using cluster munitions and urged the US not to supply them. Cluster munitions, which were first used in the second world war and are banned by more than 120 countries, normally release large numbers of smaller bomblets that can kill indiscriminately over a wide area, threatening civilians.

*

Romania is considering opening a regional training hub for F-16 fighter jet pilots which would ultimately be available to its Nato allies and partners, including Ukraine. “Romanian pilots operating F-16 planes will be trained here, and the facility will later be open to pilots from allied states and Nato partners, including Ukraine,” the country’s supreme defence council said.

*

President Zelenskiy will visit the Czech Republic tomorrow, to talk about defence support and the Vilnius Nato summit, before heading to Turkey on Friday for talks with president Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the Black Sea grain deal and developments in the war.

*

Ukraine and Bulgaria have agreed on more active cooperation in the defence sector. “We discussed the military aid which Bulgaria gives to our country. We count on the continuation of the cooperation which has already saved many lives,” Zelenskiy told a press conference in Sofia, where he met Bulgarian leaders, including prime minister Nikolai Denkov.

Bulgarian Prime Minister Nikolai Denkov welcomes Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskiy at the Bulgarian government building in Sofia, Bulgaria Photograph: Bulgarian Government/Reuters

*

The Wall Street Journal also reported that Bulgaria is nearing an agreement to sell two Russian-made nuclear reactors and other critical equipment to Ukraine’s state-owned atomic energy company.

*

Ukrainian shelling killed one man on Thursday in the village of Novopetrovka in Russia’s Belgorod region, close to the border with Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine], regional governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said on his Telegram channel.

Serhiy Lysak, the governor of Dnipropetrovsk oblast, reported that overnight the Nikopol region was struck three times by Russian forces.

*

The UK government has named Martin Harris as its new ambassador to Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine]. Harris, who has worked for the British government in both Kyiv and Moscow, had most recently been the Foreign Office’s director for eastern Europe and central Asia.[https://www.gov.uk/government/people/martin-harris]

*

Five people were killed in a Russian missile attack that hit an apartment building overnight. At least 36 others were hurt and seven people had to be pulled from the rubble by emergency services. The roof and top floor of the building were destroyed in what Lviv’s mayor called the biggest attack of the war on civilian infrastructure[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jul/06/russia-cruise-missile-attack-ukraine-city-lviv]. Lviv is far from frontlines and home to thousands displaced by war.

*

Ukraine’s military spy chief has said that the threat of a Russian attack on the vast Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant is receding, but that it could easily return as long as the facility remained under occupation by Moscow’s forces. The intelligence chief, Kyrylo Budanov, made the comment in an interview with Reuters. “The threat is decreasing,” said Budanov, declining to give details of what had been done to reduce the threat or what it had consisted of. He made clear he believed the threat had only been postponed until later.

That’s it from me, Donna Ferguson[https://www.theguardian.com/profile/donna-ferguson], for now. Thanks for following along- I’ll leave you in the hands of my colleague Léonie Chao-Fong[https://www.theguardian.com/profile/leonie-chao-fong] in the US news team.

block-time published-time 6.49pm BST

Romania is considering opening a regional training hub for F-16 fighter jet pilots which would ultimately be available to its Nato allies and partners, including Ukraine, according to Reuters.

Romania, both a European Union and Nato member, has raised defence spending to 2.5% of gross domestic product this year from 2%, in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

The country, which shares a 650km (400 mile) border with Ukraine, is host to a US ballistic missile defence system and, as of last year, has a permanent alliance battlegroup stationed on its territory.

“Together with other allies and the company which builds this fighter plane, a regional hub will be created in Romania to train pilots who will fly these jets,” the country’s supreme defence council said.

“Romanian pilots operating F-16 planes will be trained here, and the facility will later be open to pilots from allied states and NATO partners, including Ukraine.”

block-time published-time 6.33pm BST

Volodymyr Zelenskiy said he was visiting Prague on Thursday, and would meet Czech President Petr Pavel, Prime Minister Petr Fiala and the heads of both parliamentary houses.

“Prague is next,” Zelenskiy tweeted.

“The focus will be on defence support, European and Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine and the Vilnius Nato Summit, the situation around the ZNPP, the implementation of the #PeaceFormula, and the rebuilding of Ukraine.”

Zelenskiy is due in the Czech capital after going to Bulgaria for talks on security and next week’s Nato summit, Reuters reports.

Ukraine is seeking a clear signal from Nato at a mid-July summit in Vilnius that it can join the military alliance when Russia’s war on his country ends.

Though Ukraine wants to join as quickly as possible, Nato members have been divided over how fast that step should be taken, with some wary of moves they fear could bring the alliance closer to an active war with Russia.

The Czech Republic has been a staunch supporter of Ukraine since the invasion in February 2022, supplying military aid and other help.

Czech President Pavel, who was Czech army chief and principal military adviser to the Nato secretary-general in 2015-2018, said in a Reuters interview in May that Ukraine needs support for Nato and European Union entry but joining either would be a lengthy process.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.33pm BST

block-time published-time 6.19pm BST

Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko has dismissed speculation that Putin is going to assassinate Yevgeny Prigozhin, the mutinous chief of Russia’s Wagner group, now that Prigozhin has returned to Russia.

Reuters reports that Lukashenko, who helped broker a deal to end last month’s mutiny, said: “If you think Putin is so malicious and vindictive that he will ‘wipe him out’ tomorrow - to say it in Russian - no, this will not happen.”

“The fighters of the Wagner group are at their camps - their permanent camps - those where they have been located since they left the front.”

Wagner’s main camp is in southern Russia, at Molkino near Krasnodar.

The 68-year-old Belarusian leader dismissed a question about whether Putin had been weakened by the crisis, but said he did not want to talk about the motivation behind the mutiny.

He said the situation had been so serious at its peak that Belarusian special forces had been ready to fly in to help defend Moscow.

“We, Putin and Lukashenko, allowed the situation to get out of hand - we thought it would all solve itself - but it didn’t,” Lukashenko said.

He said he had told Prigozhin, using the diminutive of his first name, Zhenya, that “Putin and I will defend Moscow”.

Lukashenko said Putin had known Prigozhin for 30 years, and that Wagner had been founded by Russia’s GRU military intelligence service and was Russia’s best fighting force.

The question of moving Wagner units to Belarus would depend on decisions by the Kremlin and by Wagner, he said, adding that he had spoken to Prigozhin by phone on Wednesday. “Putin is keeping his word.”

Lukashenko said Prigozhin and Wagner intended to continue to work for Russia, and suggested that the mercenaries could atone for their sins by fighting on the hardest parts of the Ukraine front.

The Kremlin has declined to discuss Prigozhin’s whereabouts.

“No, we do not follow his movements, we have neither the ability nor the desire to do so,” Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters today, nevertheless confirming that Prigozhin’s departure for Belarus was one condition of the deal.

Lukashenko said Belarus had offered Wagner some disused Soviet-era military quarters, adding: “But Wagner has a different vision for deployment, of course, I won’t tell you about this vision.”

Lukashenko also said he did not see a Wagner presence as a risk, but that his army could benefit from Wagner’s expertise.

If they came, he said, Wagner would not be used against Ukraine or any other neighbour as long as Belarus was not itself attacked.

block-time published-time 5.52pm BST

Ukraine spy chief says threat of Russian attack on Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant receding

Ukraine’s military spy chief says that the threat of a Russian attack on the vast Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant is receding, but that it could easily return as long as the facility remained under occupation by Moscow’s forces.

The intelligence chief, Kyrylo Budanov, made the comment in an interview with Reuters after days of warnings by Ukrainian and Russian officials accusing each other of plotting an attack at Europe’s largest nuclear plant.

“The threat is decreasing,” said Budanov, who is the head of Ukraine’s Main Directorate of Intelligence at the Ministry of Defence, declining to say how he was able to say.

President Zelenskiy has for days warned of the grave threat at the facility, most recently saying Russian forces had mined the roof of several reactors.

Budanov did not give details of what had been done to reduce the threat, or what it consisted of. He made clear he believed the threat had only been postponed until later.

“Sorry I can’t tell you what happened recently but the fact is that the threat is decreasing,” he said. “This means that at least we have all together with joint efforts somehow postponed a technogenic catastrophe.”

“It’s not eliminated. As long as the station is occupied this can happen again any time if they want,” he said.

He also commented on the major counteroffensive which Ukraine launched against Russian occupying forces last month.

“The counteroffensive is in progress. In general, let’s just say it’s happening. There will be success, but later,” he said.

He compared the Ukrainian operation with Russia’s months-long battle to capture the eastern city of Bakhmut in April.

“I want to remind you this famous story with Bakhmut. The Russians were attacking it for more than 10 months. Our task is a bit bigger than Bakhmut, but we have a bit less time than 10 months.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.11pm BST

block-time published-time 5.48pm BST

Reuters is reporting more detail about the Biden administration’s plans to send cluster munitions to Ukraine, a move that is strongly opposed by human rights groups.

Two US officials, speaking to the news agency on condition of anonymity, said a weapons aid package that includes cluster munitions fired by a 155 millimetre Howitzer cannon is going to be announced tomorrow.

In order to send cluster munitions to Ukraine, Biden would need to sign a waiver, one of the officials said, similar to one that was signed for exporting cluster munitions technology to South Korea in 2021.

In the aid package, which is expected to be well above $500m (£392m) in value, Ukraine will receive munitions for high mobility artillery rocket systems (HIMARS), Bradley fighting vehicles and Stryker armoured personnel carriers, one of the officials said.

The package was still being finalised and could change, the officials added. It would be funded using presidential drawdown authority (PDA), which authorises the president to transfer articles and services from US stocks without congressional approval during an emergency. The material will come from US excess inventory.

Human Rights Watch have called on Russia and Ukraine to stop using cluster munitions and urged the US not to supply them. The group said in a report that Russian and Ukrainian forces have used the weapons, which have killed Ukrainian civilians..

The US military believes cluster munitions would be useful for Ukraine, a senior Pentagon official said in June, but they had not been approved for Kyiv yet because of congressional restrictions and concerns among allies.

Ukraine has urged members of Congress to press Biden’s administration to approve sending dual-purpose conventional improved munitions (DPICM).

The cluster munitions, banned by more than 120 countries, normally release large numbers of smaller bomblets that can kill indiscriminately over a wide area, threatening civilians.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 6.03pm BST

block-time published-time 5.21pm BST

Ukraine’s foreign exchange reserves have reached a record high of nearly $39 bn (£30bn) thanks to financial support from western partners, Reuters reports.

That is the highest level the reserves have reached in more than 30 years of post-Soviet independence, said Andriy Pyshnyy, governor of the central bank, hailing it as a major success for Kyiv as it battles Russia’s large-scale invasion.

“This level of reserves strengthens the National Bank of Ukraine’s ability to continue maintaining exchange rate stability,” he wrote on Facebook[https://www.facebook.com/pyshnyy/posts/pfbid0FPeyBLjvBRJU1KC8VgKV8kNaUs62ENUaFr2rBNyvyinUJDVBRsBHFztMSrjA5g3rl].

The Ukrainian government and the central bank have been praised by western lenders and economists for policies that have allowed them to maintain macroeconomic and currency stability despite more than 16 months of war.

Finance Ministry data showed that Ukraine had already received $23.6bn in western financial support so far this year.

Pyshnyy said that in June alone the government had received £1.3bn from the EU and nearly £1bn from the US, as well as funds from the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Finnish government.

Ukraine’s foreign exchange reserves stood at $37.3bn at the start of June.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.34pm BST

block-time published-time 5.00pm BST

Biden set to announce Ukraine weapons package that includes cluster munitions

The Biden administration is expected to announce a new Ukraine weapons aid package tomorrow – and it will include cluster munitions, two US officials have told Reuters.

The weapons, which were first used during the second world war, typically release large numbers of smaller bomblets and are notorious for killing civilians.

They do not always explode, posing a future risk to civilians, and were banned by most of the world under a 2008 treaty called the Convention on Cluster Munitions[https://www.clusterconvention.org/], which the US, Russia and Ukraine did not sign.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 5.21pm BST

block-time published-time 4.36pm BST

Providing cluster munitions to Ukraine under 'active consideration' - White House

The White House has said that providing cluster munitions to Ukraine is under “active consideration” but there is no announcement to make yet, Reuters reports.

The Biden administration is weighing whether to provide cluster munitions to Ukraine, White House spokesperson Andrew Bates told reporters on Thursday.

Bates said the idea is under “active consideration” but there is no announcement to make.

Earlier today, the New York Times reported[https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/06/world/europe/ukraine-cluster-munitions.html] that the US is planning to provide Ukraine with cluster munitions, which are banned by more than 120 countries because they can kill indiscriminately over a wide area.

Human Rights Watch has called on Russia and Ukraine to stop using cluster munitions and urged the US not to supply them .

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.48pm BST

block-time published-time 4.31pm BST

Farmers in most Ukrainian regions have threshed the first million metric tons (1.1 short tons) of the 2023 grain harvest, the agriculture ministry said on Thursday.

Ukraine’s output of grain is expected to be reduced this year to about 46 million tons from 53 million in 2022 and a record 86 million in 2021, Reuters reports.

The agriculture ministry said the harvest so far included 85,800 tons of barley, 172,000 tons of wheat and 45,800 tons of peas.

Farmers have harvested 308,200 hectares of various grains and the yield averaged 3.32 tons per hectare.

block-time published-time 3.44pm BST

Ragip Soylu, Turkey bureau chief for Middle East Eye has stated that there is “lots of movement today regarding Sweden-Turkey negotiations before Nato’s Vilnius summit”.

As well as the comments of Jen Stoltenberg earlier, Reuters has been briefed that US president Joe Biden and Turkey’s president Recep Tayyip Erdogan may meet during next week’s summit. It reports that, according to US officials, a “pull aside” meeting between the leaders is possible, but had not yet been arranged.

Additionally Swedish foreign minister Tobias Billström said on Thursday after a meeting with his Turkish counterpart and Stoltenberg that Sweden still hold out hope of getting the nod from Turkey to join Nato at next week’s summit, but said the decision rested with Ankara.

“We are hoping and looking for a positive decision next week but this is, and I would like to underline this, this is of course a Turkish decision at the end of the day,” Billström told reporters in Brussels.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.50pm BST

block-time published-time 3.23pm BST

My colleague Faisal Ali has this reminder of why Turkey has been objecting to Sweden’s move to join Nato:

Finland and Sweden attempted to frame their bid to join the alliance as something of a two-for-one package deal. Turkey initially objected to both countries until its conditions were met which were mainly linked to its concerns about the activities of the PKK in both countries. The three countries signed a memorandum[https://www.nato.int/nato_static_fl2014/assets/pdf/2022/6/pdf/220628-trilat-memo.pdf] in June last year to make progress on those issues.

The PKK is a Kurdish militant organisation which has been fighting the Turkish state since the 80s and is considered as a terrorist group across the EU, in Turkey and the US. Turkey lifted its veto on Finland’s accession earlier this year, during a visit by the Finnish president to Ankara.

Turkey has not looked so kindly on Sweden, which hosts a large politically active Kurdish diaspora. In recent protests PKK symbols have been seen and in one particularly high profile case an Erdogan effigy was set alight. As a result, Erdogan has accused Sweden of being a safe haven for terrorists.

Activists of the “Alliance against NATO” network carry flags with the logo of Kurdistan Workers’ Party PKK, that is designated as a terrorist organisation among others by Turkey, during a demonstration for freedom of speech and association in June in Stockholm. Photograph: Maja Suslin/TT News Agency/AFP/Getty Images

Ankara has managed to extract several concessions from Sweden, including the lifting of an arms embargo placed on Turkey due to Turkey’s military activities in Syria and changes in Sweden’s domestic counter-terrorism laws. Turkey also wants Sweden to extradite suspected members of the PKK.

Sweden has attempted to comply and has described actors undermining ties with Turkey as “useful idiots” for Stockholm’s geopolitical foes. Nato chief Jens Stoltenberg also said Stockholm had met Ankara’s demands but Erdogan still isn’t satisfied with the measures taken. Hungary is also blocking Sweden’s bid but said it would lift its veto when Turkey does.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 4.01pm BST

block-time published-time 3.20pm BST

Sweden joining Nato is within reach, secretary general Jens Stoltenberg told reporters on Thursday following a meeting in Brussels.

Reuters reports he added that it was possible that a positive decision will follow at the alliance’s summit in Vilnius, Lithuania, next week.

Stoltenberg suggested that a court verdict on Thursday that found a man guilty of attempting to finance the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) could help end Turkey’s veto of Sweden’s application to join the Nato military alliance. He said it was beneficial in the fight against terrorism.

Sweden’s justice minister, Gunnar Strömmer, told the Aftonbladet newspaper on Thursday that the country was considering whether it could make setting the Qur’an or other holy books on fire illegal, as recent Qur’an burnings have damaged Sweden’s security.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.25pm BST

block-time published-time 3.14pm BST

The incoming UK ambassador to Ukraine, Martin Harris, has spoken about his appointment. In a message on social media he said:

I’m delighted to return to Ukraine to lead our Embassy’s vital work in supporting Ukraine’s government and people as they defend their country and our common values. Our relationship has never been stronger. UK will stand with Ukraine for as long as it takes.

Harris was previously in Kyiv from 2003 to 2008 where he was deputy head of mission and consul general.

block-time published-time 2.58pm BST

The number of people killed in the recent Russian missile strike on a block of flats in Lviv, in western Ukraine, has now reached five, Reuters reports.

They included a 60-year-old woman and her 32-year-old daughter.

Emergency services said at least 36 others had been hurt and that they had pulled seven people alive from the rubble.

The roof and top floor of the building were destroyed in what Lviv’s mayor called the biggest attack of the war on civilian infrastructure[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jul/06/russia-cruise-missile-attack-ukraine-city-lviv]. Lviv is far from frontlines and home to thousands displaced by war.

Reuters television footage showed residents calming crying neighbours while others helped rescuers sweep up shattered glass.

“They, Russians, Rashists, say that they are bombing military objects but they hit a peaceful house. People were sleeping. How could they do it?,” said Lviv resident Vira Luben, a woman in her seventies, using a derogatory term for Russians.

Holding back tears, she added: “World – save and help us, because without you we will not manage to deal with them.”

Ukraine’s air force said Russia had attacked Lviv with Kalibr missiles launched from the Black Sea. It said seven out of 10 missiles had been shot down.

The Ukraine president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, wrote on Telegram: “Unfortunately there are wounded and dead. My condolences to the relatives! There will definitely be a response to the enemy. A tangible one.”

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.11pm BST

block-time published-time 2.32pm BST

A UK Foreign Office minister has called for Russia to give International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) experts “full and unfettered access” access to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Press Association reports.

Lord Ahmad of Wimbledon said such access should be granted for the safety and security of all, including Russia, whose forces seized control of the plant last year.

He said: “We take President Zelenskiy’s concern about possible Russian threats to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant, which is currently under illegal Russian control, extremely seriously.

“We are in regular contact with the director general of the IAEA, director general [Rafael] Grossi of the International Atomic Energy Agency, regarding the situation at the nuclear power plant, as well as the highest levels of the government of Ukraine.

“Working with our international partners, we continue to call for Russia to grant the IAEA full access to the nuclear plant, as called for by director general Grossi on 5 July, and it is vital that IAEA staff have full access to the nuclear plant in order to monitor the safety and security of the site.

“The site itself, much of it in terms of its direct energy provisions, has been scaled down and there is only one, I think, current operating generator on the site, and even that has been scaled down sufficiently, specifically for that purpose.

“Of course, the risk remains very high but we have been assured by the IAEA that there is no immediate threat in this respect.”

Agreeing with another peer that the nuclear plant was not like Chornobyl, he said: “This particular plant is very much more modern, state of the art, and the fact that most of its activities and energy generation has been turned down – indeed, most of the reactors are now not operational – that it limits, even without inspections, that assessment can be made.

“However, why I add the necessary caveat, is all of us – including Russia – will get a reassurance when the IAEA can get that access and when there is an expert opinion on the table which we all recognise.

“This war will continue, but it’s in Russia’s interest – not just in Ukraine or for the rest of us – it’s in Russia’s interest as well to allow for that access.”

His comments came after the IAEA said there were no indications of mines or explosives at the power plant, but requested additional access, including to the rooftop of two reactors.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.18pm BST

block-time published-time 2.18pm BST

Volodymyr Zelenskiy to discuss Black Sea grain deal with Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Turkey on Friday

Volodymyr Zelenskiy will visit Turkey on Friday for talks with president Recep Tayyip Erdo gan on the Black Sea grain deal and developments in the war in Ukraine, the state-run Anadolu Agency reports.

The news follows reports that Russian agricultural bank Rosselkhozbank has decided not to consider setting up a subsidiary that could connect to the Swift global payments system.

Such a move had been thought to be a step that could possibly avert the collapse of the Black Sea grain deal that is due to expire on 17 July.

Turkey and the UN brokered last year’s deal, which allows for the export of grain and other agricultural products from Ukraine’s Black Sea ports despite the ongoing war.

But Russia, angry about aspects of its implementation, has threatened not to allow it further renewal beyond 17 July, Reuters reports.

Zelenskiy and Erdogan will hold face-to-face talks and also attend interdelegational meetings, Anadolu said.

Erdogan, re-elected last month for another five-year term, has sought to maintain strong ties with both Kyiv and Moscow since Russia invaded Ukraine.

Turkey, a Nato member, has not joined its western allies in imposing economic sanctions on Russia, but has also supplied arms to Ukraine and called for its sovereignty to be respected.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 3.19pm BST

block-time published-time 2.05pm BST

The Russian defence minister has announced today that 45 Russian servicemen have been returned from Ukrainian custody, the RIA news agency reports.

Russian and Ukraine periodically exchange groups of prisoners.

Yesterday, the Kremlin signalled[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jul/05/russia-wsj-reporter-evan-gershkovich-prison-swap] it would also be open to a possible prisoner exchange involving jailed Wall Street Journal[https://www.theguardian.com/media/wallstreetjournal] reporter Evan Gershkovich.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.05pm BST

block-time published-time 1.56pm BST

Bulgaria is nearing an agreement to sell two Russian-made nuclear reactors and other critical equipment to Ukraine’s state-owned atomic energy company, the Wall Street Journal reports.

Under the deal, which the paper said is still being negotiated[https://www.wsj.com/articles/ukraine-nears-nuclear-deal-with-bulgaria-in-fresh-blow-for-russian-influence-e9c083ab], Sofia’s state power company, NEK, would sell the Ukrainian state nuclear company Energoatom equipment from the unfinished Belene nuclear power plant for at least €600m (£512m).

This would mean that, for the first time since the outbreak of the war, Russian-made nuclear power would be used to help increase Ukraine’s energy output.

The paper reports:

The fact that Bulgaria, a former Soviet satellite state long friendly with Moscow, is considering the deal is a sign of how much Russian clout has eroded in the European Union’s eastern states.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 2.33pm BST

block-time published-time 1.50pm BST

Ukrainian shelling killed one man on Thursday in the village of Novopetrovka in Russia’s Belgorod region, close to the border with Ukraine, regional governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said on his Telegram channel.

Blasts and attacks on Russian regions bordering Ukraine have been occurring almost daily in recent months. Both Ukraine and Russia deny targeting civilians in the war.

block-time published-time 1.46pm BST

Human Rights Watch has called on Russia and Ukraine to stop using cluster munitions and has urged the US not to supply them.

Earlier today, The New York Times reported[https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/06/world/europe/ukraine-cluster-munitions.html] that the US is planning to provide Ukraine with cluster munitions, which are banned by more than 120 countries because they can kill indiscriminately over a wide area.

The weapons, which were first used during the second world war, typically release large numbers of smaller bomblets and are notorious for killing civilians.

A report released today by Human Rights Watch[https://www.hrw.org/news/2023/07/06/ukraine-civilian-deaths-cluster-munitions] states that “Ukrainian forces have used cluster munitions that caused deaths and serious injuries to civilians”, for example in rocket attacks on Russian-controlled areas in and around the city of Izium in eastern Ukraine, while Russian forces have “extensively used cluster munitions, causing many civilian deaths and serious injuries”.

“Cluster munitions used by Russia and Ukraine are killing civilians now and will continue to do so for many years,” said Mary Wareham, acting arms director at Human Rights Watch. “Both sides should immediately stop using them and not try to get more of these indiscriminate weapons.”

Ukraine has recently been urging members of Congress to press President Joe Biden’s administration to approve sending dual-purpose conventional improved munitions.

Transferring these weapons would inevitably cause long-term suffering for civilians and undermine the international opprobrium of their use, Human Rights Watch said.

President Volodymyr Zelenskiy has also been pushing for new western fighter planes, including F-16s, as it pursues a counteroffensive.

“F-16 or any other equipment that we do need will give us an opportunity to move faster, to save more lives, to stand our ground for a longer time,” Zelenskiy said in an ABC News interview broadcast on Thursday.

Nato members Denmark and the Netherlands are leading efforts by an international coalition to train pilots and support staff, to maintain aircraft and ultimately supply F-16s to Ukraine, Reuters reports.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.53pm BST

block-time published-time 1.25pm BST

Ukraine and Bulgaria agree on greater defence cooperation

The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, has said his country and Bulgaria have agreed on more active cooperation in the defence sector, and that he has invited Sofia to take part in Ukraine’s reconstruction, Reuters reports.

“We discussed the military aid which Bulgaria gives to our country. We count on the continuation of the cooperation which has already saved many lives,” the president told a press conference in Sofia, where he met Bulgarian leaders.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.38pm BST

block-time published-time 1.23pm BST

Ukraine had directed more than 70 drone attacks at Crimea this year, and also attacked southern Russia’s Krasnodar and Rostov regions, the secretary of Russia’s security council, Nikolai Patrushev, has said.

“The targets, as a rule, are energy and industrial infrastructure facilities, the destruction or damage of which threatens peaceful life and human health,” Patrushev was quoted telling a meeting on the security of southern Russia in Krasnodar, according to the RIA news agency. The Guardian has not verified this claim.

Russia seized and unilaterally annexed Crimea from Ukraine in 2014, and has been occupying the region ever since.

In June, Ukraine carried out missile strikes on two critical road links connecting Crimea with Russian-occupied areas in southern Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/global/video/2023/jun/22/kyiv-strikes-key-bridge-between-ukraine-and-crimea-say-russia-appointed-officials-video].

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.39pm BST

block-time published-time 1.09pm BST

The UK government has named Martin Harris as its new ambassador to Ukraine.

Harris, who was previously deputy head of mission and consul general in Kyiv between 2003 and 2008 and minister and deputy head of mission at the British Embassy in Moscow from 2014 to 2017, had most recently been the Foreign Office’s director for eastern Europe and central Asia.[https://www.gov.uk/government/people/martin-harris]

He will take up the new role in September.

The outgoing ambassador to Kyiv, Melinda Simmons, who was appointed to the role in 2019, will take another diplomatic service appointment, the government said in a statement.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.29pm BST

block-time published-time 12.52pm BST

The secretary of Russia’s security council, Nikolai Patrushev, has told the Russian news agency T ass that threats to Russia from N ato were growing.

Tass quoted Patrushev as referring to a build-up of Nato military infrastructure near Russia’s borders, the intensification of reconnaissance activities and the presence of tactical nuclear weapons in Europe.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.04pm BST

block-time published-time 12.50pm BST

The U S is expected to announce that it will provide Ukraine with cluster munitions, the New York Times has reported, citing an unidentified senior Biden administration official.

The newspaper says that the controversial decision, which was first reported by National Public Radio[https://twitter.com/TBowmanNPR/status/1676709006063091712], was confirmed by an administration official[https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/06/world/europe/ukraine-cluster-munitions.html] speaking on condition of anonymity.

Cluster munitions were first used during the second world war and include rockets, bombs and missiles. They do not always explode, posing a future risk to civilians, and were banned by most of the world under a 2008 treaty called the Convention on Cluster Munitions[https://www.clusterconvention.org/], which the US, Russia and Ukraine did not sign.

In April, Guardian research found that cluster munitions were unleashed in areas of Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2022/apr/21/russia-using-banned-weapons-to-kill-ukrainian-civilians-pictures-suggest] where there were no military personnel and no military infrastructure.

In June, a senior Pentagon official said that the US military believed that cluster munitions would be useful for Ukraine in pushing back against Russian forces, but added they had not been approved for Kyiv yet because of congressional restrictions and concerns among allies.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.07pm BST

block-time published-time 12.31pm BST

Serhiy Lysak , the governor of Dnipropetrovsk oblast, reports that overnight the Nikopol region was struck three times by Russian forces. There were no casualities reported, but he said “a private house, two outbuildings, and a power line were damaged.”

He also claimed that Ukrainian air defence had shot down a Russian drone over the region.

The claim has not been independently verified.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 1.08pm BST

block-time published-time 12.20pm BST

Ukraine plans to abandon conscription and build a professional army after the end of the war with Russia in order to bring the country closer to Nato standards, Reuters reports prime minister Denys Shmyhal said on Thursday.

After a meeting with top defence and security officials, at which reforms known as “the Ukrainian shield” were discussed, Shmyhal said the government would also continue to focus on supporting a further increase in domestic weapons production.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 12.25pm BST

block-time published-time 11.59am BST

Here are a couple more images released from Volodymyr Zelenskiy ’s visit to Bulgaria, picturing him with prime minister Nikolai Denkov and foreign minister Mariya Gabriel.

Ukraine's president Zelenskiy meets with

Bulgarian prime minister Nikolai Denkov in Sofia. Photograph: Bulgarian Government/Reuters Zelenskiy with Denkov and deputy prime minister and foreign minister Mariya Gabriel. Photograph: Bulgarian Government/Reuters

block-time published-time 11.45am BST

Lviv ’s governor has corrected the information he gave earlier about those killed in the Russian strike on the city. In a post on Telegram Maksym Kozytskyi said that the earlier information had been taken from the immediate testimony of neighbours, and apologised for the inaccuracy.

He stated that those killed were Anastasia, a 32-year-old and her 60 year-old mother Myroslava, alongside Mykhailo (35) and Iryna (63).

Earlier he had suggested a 21-year-old and a 95-year-old had been killed.

Kozytskyi finished his message by saying “Eternal memory to those we have lost. It hurts for everyone. We will have revenge!”

block-time published-time 11.30am BST

Citing the head of the local authority, Suspilne is reporting that the railway station building in Odnorobivka, in Kharkiv region, has been destroyed by Russian shelling. It reports “there was a fire, but it could not quickly be extinguished due to shelling”.

The claim has not been independently verified.

block-time published-time 11.21am BST

The Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova told reporters on Thursday that Moscow would respond with utmost harshness to any Ukrainian attack on the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Reuters reports.

Russia and Ukraine have accused each other of planning to attack Europe’s largest nuclear plant, which is located in Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia region, near the frontline of Russia’s conflict with Ukraine.

Russian forces have occupied the plant since March last year, and criticised Ukraine for shelling near it. Ukraine has criticised Russia for shelling near the plant, and accused it of mining it in preparation for blowing it up.

None of the claims have been independently verified.

Earlier today, Suspilne, Ukraine’s state broadcaster, reported that the Ukraine intelligence chief Kyrylo Budanov said that in recent days the danger of an artificial disaster at the plant had been gradually decreasing, as “we are taking certain actions in this area – both public and non-public”.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.25am BST

block-time published-time 11.15am BST

Denise Brown, head of the UN mission to Ukraine, has issued a statement about the overnight strike on the city of Lviv, which has left at least four people dead. She wrote:

Early this morning, I suddenly woke up from explosions in Lviv.

Another strike by the armed forces of the Russian Federation caused injuries and deaths as their homes were heavily damaged by shelling while they were also sleeping.

Today’s strike comes just one week after the deadly Kramatorsk shelling and recent strikes in Sumy, Kharkiv and other regions of Ukraine, which have caused loss and destruction to people who continue to live in fear of a full-scale war by the Russian Federation against Ukraine.

I repeat again: international humanitarian law clearly states that civilians and civilian infrastructure must be protected.

The United Nations and the humanitarian community will continue to support the people of Ukraine.

On behalf of the UN and the humanitarian community, I express my sincere condolences to the families of the victims and wish the victims a speedy recovery.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.24am BST

block-time published-time 11.04am BST

Here are the first pictures coming through of Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelenskiy visiting Bulgaria, where he was greeted by the Bulgarian deputy prime minister and foreign minister, Mariya Gabriel.

Ukraine’s president Volodomyr Zelenskiy is welcomed by Bulgarian deputy prime minister and foreign minister Mariya Gabriel, as he arrives at Sofia international airport. Photograph: Bulgarian Government/Reuters Police officers stand guard in front of journalists trying to film the arrival of Ukraine’s president Volodymyr Zelenskiy in Sofia. Photograph: Vassil Donev/EPA

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.22am BST

block-time published-time 11.02am BST

Summary of the day so far …

*

At least four people have been killed and 34 injured in a missile strike on Ukraine’s western city of Lviv. Emergency services said that seven people had been rescued from the rubble. The regional governor Maksym Kozytskyi, said that the air force destroyed seven cruise missiles aimed at the region. He warned that more people may yet be found dead in the rubble as rescue work continued. The city’s mayor declared a two-day mourning period.

*

The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, wrote alongside a Telegram video post showing the damaged building in Lviv: “There will definitely be a response to the enemy. A tangible one.” The US ambassador to Ukraine called the strike “vicious”, and Ukraine’s first lady, Olena Zelenska, has described it as “another night terror from Russia”.

*

Slow weapons deliveries to Ukraine delayed Kyiv’s planned counteroffensive, allowing Russia to bolster its defences in occupied areas including with mines, Zelenskiy said in a TV interview broadcast on Wednesday. In the interview with CNN, Zelenskiy said he had told US and European leaders ahead of the counteroffensive that a lack of supplies would result in more casualties. “I’m grateful to the US as the leaders of our support, but I told them as well as European leaders that we would like to start our counteroffensive earlier, and we will need all the weapons and material for that.”

*

Zelenskiy posted to social media on Thursday to say he had arrived in Sofia in Bulgaria, and would hold talks with prime minister Nikolai Denkov and president Rumen Radev. Ukraine’s president said they would discuss “defence support, Ukraine’s Euro-Atlantic integration, the Nato summit, security guarantees, and the implementation of the peace formula.”

*

The Belarusian leader, Alexander Lukashenko[https://www.theguardian.com/world/alexander-lukashenko], who last month brokered a deal to end Wagner’s armed mutiny, has said the mercenary head Yevgeny Prigozhin had returned to Russia. “As for Prigozhin, he’s in St Petersburg. He is not on the territory of Belarus,” Lukashenko said. “Where is Prigozhin this morning? Maybe he left for Moscow”. Lukashenko also said Wagner troops were stationed at their camps in Russian-occupied eastern Ukraine, adding that his offer to host them in Belarus remained. Under a deal brokered by Lukashenko, Prigozhin abandoned what he called a “march for justice” by thousands of his men on Moscow, in exchange for safe passage to exile in Belarus.

*

Tass reported on Thursday that the death toll from the destruction of the Kakhovka dam in Russian-occupied Kherson region had increased to 53, with the discovery of three more bodies.

*

Both Russian and Ukrainian forces have used cluster munitions that have killed Ukrainian civilians, Human Rights Watch said in a report on Thursday. The international advocacy group, called on Russia and Ukraine to stop using the weapons, and urged the US not to supply them.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.24am BST

block-time published-time 10.22am BST

Suspilne, Ukraine's state broadcaster, reports that Lviv ’s mayor has declared there will be a two-day mourning period for the victims of the overnight missile attack which has killed at least four people in the western Ukrainian city.

block-time published-time 10.15am BST

Zelenskiy travels to Sofia for talks with Bulgaria's prime minister and president

Volodymyr Zelenskiy has posted to social media to say that he is visiting Sofia in Bulgaria, and will hold talks with prime minister Nikolai Denkov and president Rumen Radev.

Ukraine’s president said they would discuss “defence support, Ukraine’s Euro-Atlantic integration, the Nato summit, security guarantees, and the implementation of the peace formula”.

More details soon …

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 10.18am BST

block-time published-time 9.58am BST

Wagner boss Prigozhin has returned to Russia, Lukashenko says

Here Pjotr Sauer rounds up what we know of Yevgeny Progzhin’s whereabouts:

The Belarusian president, Alexander Lukashenko[https://www.theguardian.com/world/alexander-lukashenko], who last month brokered a deal to end Wagner’s armed mutiny, has said the mercenary head Yevgeny Prigozhin had returned to Russia.

“As for Prigozhin, he’s in St Petersburg. He is not on the territory of Belarus[https://www.theguardian.com/world/belarus],” Lukashenko said. “Where is Prigozhin this morning? Maybe he left for Moscow.”

Lukashenko also said Wagner troops were stationed at their camps in Russian-occupied eastern Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine], adding that his offer to host them in Belarus remained.

Under a deal brokered by Lukashenko, Prigozhin abandoned what he called a “march for justice” by thousands of his men on Moscow, in exchange for safe passage to exile in Belarus.

There were already questions about whether Prigozhin was sticking to the terms of the deal.

The warlord has not been photographed in Belarus, and Prigozhin’s jet has flown several times back and forth from Belarus to Moscow and St Petersburg.

block-time published-time 9.57am BST

Here is a video report on the Russian missile strike on Lviv which has killed at least four people.

block-time published-time 9.32am BST

Lviv ’s governor, Maksym Kozytskyi, has warned that the death toll in the city may still rise after a Russian missile attack that has killed four people.

On Telegram he said: “As of this hour, four people have been confirmed dead. Rescuers continue to clear the debris. There may still be people under them. Work will continue until the last hope.”

Describing it as “the most destructive attack on the civilian population in the Lviv region since the beginning of the full-scale war” he said more than 30 house had been damaged, as well as 250 apartments and ten hostels. He said an electricity sub-station had been knocked out, leaving 150 people without power.

A view of the damage in Lviv. Photograph: Anadolu Agency/Getty Images

*

This block originally contained a report via Kozytskyi that the victims included a 21-year-old and a 95-year-old. He later corrected this statement as more information emerged.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 11.46am BST

block-time published-time 8.58am BST

Belta has a couple of additional quotes from Belarusian leader Aleksandr Lukashenko about Wagner and Yevgen y Pr igozhin.

Firstly, he said “I absolutely do not see any risks from the deployment of Wagner PMC” inside Belarus.

Also he suggested Prigozhin might be in Moscow instead of St Petersburg, saying “As for Yevgeny Prigozhin, he is in St Petersburg. Where is he this morning? Maybe he went to Moscow in the morning.”

There is no independent corroboration of Prigozhin’s location.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.07am BST

block-time published-time 8.49am BST

Lukashenko: Prigozhin is no longer in Belarus, is back in St Petersburg

Reuters has a quick snap that the Belarusian leader, Aleksandr Lukashenko, has said that Wagner group leader, Yevgen y Prigozhin, is no longer in Belarus but is in St Petersburg.

The Belarus news agency Belta is quoting this exchange. Asked on the whereabouts of Prigozhin and Wagner, Lukashenko told the media:

This is a Russian company. So the question is clearly not for me. As far as I am informed, the fighters are in their camps. As for Prigozhin, he is in St Petersburg. It does not exist on the territory of Belarus.

It had been believed that Prigozhin had agreed to go to Belarus as part of a deal to bring his armed insurrection attempt to a close.

More details soon …

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.06am BST

block-time published-time 8.36am BST

Pavlo Kyrylenko, Ukraine’s governor of Donetsk, one of the occupied regions of the Donbas which the Russian Federation claims to have annexed, has detailed multiple settlements being fired upon in the last 24 hours in an operational update on Telegram. Houses were destroyed, and two people were injured. The claims have not been independently verified.

block-time published-time 8.17am BST

The US ambassador to Ukraine, Bridget Brink, has described the overnight attack on Lviv as “vicious”. In a post to social media she wrote:

Vicious Russian missile attack on Lviv. Russia’s repeated attacks on civilians are absolutely horrifying. We will not stand by and will continue to strengthen Ukraine’s ability to defend itself.

At least four people have been killed and 34 people injured. Rescue services say they recovered seven people from under the rubble.

Rescue workers operate at a four-storey residential building that was struck by a missile attack on Lviv. Photograph: Global Images Ukraine/Getty Images

block-time published-time 8.14am BST

Denis Pushilin, the Russian-installed acting governor of occupied Donetsk, has claimed that Russian forces have advanced 300 metres in the Vuhledar direction. Tass quotes him saying that the advance was made despite activity from Ukraine’s armed forces, and that “this is now in one of the most difficult areas” of the front.

The claims have not been independently verified.

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 9.05am BST

block-time published-time 8.05am BST

Olena Zelenska has described the attack on Lviv as “another night terror from Russia”. In a post to social media, Ukraine’s first lady said:

Lviv. Another night terror from Russia – hundreds of kilometres from the front line. Peaceful people died, there are wounded. To those who have doubts about whom it is fighting Ukraine, the terrorist country has once again shown that its goal is that no one in Ukraine feels safe. My condolences to all those affected by this tragedy.

block-time published-time 7.31am BST

The state emergency services of Ukraine has issued some pictures from the scene of the missile strike in Lviv where at least four people have been killed and 34 people injured.

Medical workers evacuate an injured person on the site. Photograph: Mykola Tys/EPA Cars were damaged as rubble and debris littered the street. Photograph: Mykola Tys/EPA Locals react after an apartment block was damaged by a strike in Lviv. Photograph: Mykola Tys/EPA Emergency services said that seven people were rescued from the rubble. Photograph: State Emergency Service Of Ukraine/Reuters

block-time published-time 7.25am BST

Reuters reports that the emergency services in Lviv said they had managed to rescue seven people from the rubble and evacuated 64 others after a missile strike on the city overnight.

block-time published-time 7.23am BST

Tass reports that the death toll from the destruction of the Kakhovka dam in Russian-occupied Kherson region has increased to 53.

Citing emergency services, Tass reported “The bodies of three more dead were found, the total number of dead reached 53. 139 people were hospitalized.”

The claims have not been independently verified.

block-time published-time 7.13am BST

Maksym Kozytskyi, the governor of Lviv, has given an operational update after the attack on the western Ukrainian city, which has claimed at least four lives. He wrote on the Telegram messaging app:

The enemy attacked our region from the Black Sea with Kalibr missiles. The ‘west’ air command of the air forces of the armed forces of Ukraine destroyed seven missiles over Lviv region.

The death of four people was confirmed. They were all in the house at the time of the shooting. Condolences to relatives. 34 people were injured. About 30 houses and more than 50 cars were damaged.

Kozytskyi said that falling debris had also caused damages in two separate villages in the region, but without causing any injuries.

He finished his message with an appeal for the west to supply F16 fighter jets to Ukraine.

The claims have not been independently verified.

*

This is Martin Belam taking over the live blog in London. You can contact me at martin.belam@theguardian.com[mailto:martin.belam@theguardian.com]

block-time updated-timeUpdated at 7.22am BST

block-time published-time 7.00am BST

From Reuters: Both Russian and Ukrainian forces have used cluster munitions that have killed Ukrainian civilians, Human Rights Watch said in a report on Thursday as the US weighs whether to answer the Ukraine government’s call to supply it with the weapons.

Human Rights Watch, an international advocacy group, called on both Russia and Ukraine to stop using the weapons, and urged the US not to supply them.

More than 120 countries have signed on to an international treaty banning the weapons, which typically scatter a large number of smaller so-called bomblets over a large area that can kill or maim unwary civilians months or years later.

Russia, Ukraine and the US have all to declined to sign the treaty.

A senior Pentagon official said late last month that cluster munitions would be useful for Ukraine in pushing back against Russian forces, but they had not been approved for Kyiv yet because of congressional restrictions and concerns from allies.

block-time published-time 6.52am BST

On his recent visit to the US, Boris Johnson[https://www.theguardian.com/politics/boris-johnson] “reminded” Donald Trump he “actually played an important role” in supporting and arming Ukraine against its Russian invaders, the former British prime minister said, adding that British aid to Kyiv was “enabled” by Trump’s example.

Johnson made the claim about the notoriously pro-Russian former president – and brushed off mention of Trump’s impeachment for blocking military aid to Ukraine – in an interview on One Decision[https://www.onedecisionpodcast.com/], a podcast hosted by Sir Richard Dearlove, a former chief of the British intelligence service MI6, and the journalist Julia Macfarlane.

Related: Boris Johnson claims he ‘reminded’ Trump about key role in Ukraine aid[https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2023/jul/06/boris-johnson-trump-ukraine-aid-arms-russia]

block-time published-time 6.34am BST

Victoria Amelina, an award-winning novelist, essayist and poet, died on 1 July from injuries sustained in a Russian missile attack on a restaurant in eastern Ukraine. Generous, talented and funny, Victoria[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jul/03/ukrainian-writer-victoria-amelina-dies-after-being-wounded-in-kramatorsk-strike] also had an extraordinary moral clarity and commitment, underpinned by vast reserves of unshowy courage.

After the full-scale Russian invasion in February 2022, she trained as a war crimes researcher, which meant travelling to frontlines and bearing witness to extreme violence and suffering.

A Ukrainian homeland, where all citizens were free, was so important to her that she did not hesitate to give up her own home to fight for it, taking her son to safety outside Ukraine[https://www.theguardian.com/world/ukraine] then returning to follow the trail of Russian destruction.

In her travels and work she tried to counter horror with hope, documenting atrocities but also organising aid and cultural activities, which she insisted were as important to Ukraine’s fight as physical sustenance.

This is an essay she wrote reflecting on her early life in Lviv and the evolution of her Ukrainian identity:

Related: Victoria Amelina: Ukraine and the meaning of home[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jul/06/victoria-amelina-novelist-kramatorsk-russia-ukraine-war-meaning-of-home]

block-time published-time 6.29am BST

This video has not been verified, but it appears to show the damage done to the apartment blocks by this morning’s Russian missile attack:

enltrWhat did russian Kalibr missile to the residential house in Lviv. pic.twitter.com/CWtBM5lSzR[https://t.co/CWtBM5lSzR]

— Ukraine Front Lines (@EuromaidanPR) July 6, 2023[https://twitter.com/EuromaidanPR/status/1676824301461200896?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw]

block-time published-time 6.28am BST

“Consequences of the night attack by Russian terrorists,” Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky wrote alongside a Telegram video post showing a damaged building.

“There will definitely be a response to the enemy. A tangible one.”

block-time published-time 5.57am BST

Lviv death toll rises to four

The death toll in Thursday’s missile strikes on Lviv has risen to four, the mayor said, as rescuers continue to search through the debris of an apartment building for survivors and casualties, the authorities said.

Nine people were wounded and rescuers continued work at the site, the Interior Ministry said in a statement. The missile strike destroyed the top two floors of two sections of a building, it said.

Regional Governor Maksym Kozytskyi posted a 13-second video showing a wide, curving, four-storey apartment building with parts of the upper floors missing or in rubble.

block-time published-time 5.43am BST

In the interview with CNN, Zelenskiy also said he had told US and European leaders ahead of the counteroffensive that a lack of supplies would result in more casualties.

“I’m grateful to the US as the leaders of our support, but I told them as well as European leaders that we would like to start our counteroffensive earlier, and we will need all the weapons and material for that.”

“Why? Simply because if we start later, it will go slower, and we will have losses of lives, because everything is heavily mined - we will have to go through it all.”

block-time published-time 5.22am BST

Zelenskiy says slow weapons delivery delayed counteroffensive

Slow weapons deliveries to Ukraine delayed Kyiv’s planned counteroffensive, allowing Russia to bolster its defenses in occupied areas including with mines, Zelenskiy said in a TV interview broadcast Wednesday.

Speaking via a translator in the pre-taped interview in the Ukrainian port city of Odesa days earlier, Zelenskiy said that he had hoped to begin the counteroffensive against Russia “much earlier” than its actual start early June.

“Our slowed-down counteroffensive is happening due to certain difficulties in the battlefield. Everything is heavily mined there,” Zelensky said.

“I wanted our counteroffensive happening much earlier, because everyone understood that if the counteroffensive will be unfolding later, then much bigger part of our territory will be mined.”

block-time published-time 5.13am BST

A separate video posted by Lviv governor Maksym Kozytski showed a multi-storey building with part of its top floor destroyed.

“As of now, the rubble is being dismantled. Of course, there will be injured and dead.”

“We are doing everything possible to... save people.”

Eight people were wounded in the strike and “about 60 apartments” were damaged, Sadovyi said.

“Windows got blown out, many cars got damaged, around 50 cars... there may be more people under the rubble,” he said on Telegram.

Earlier, he warned that “several” missiles were “moving in the direction of the western regions,” citing Ukraine’s Air Forces Command.

block-time published-time 5.02am BST

Three killed in missile strike on Lviv apartment block

Three people were killed after a missile hit an apartment block in the western Ukrainian city of Lviv, its mayor said on Thursday.

A Russian missile made a “direct hit to a residential building” in the city of Lviv, governor Maksym Kozytski said in a video posted to Telegram.

Lviv Mayor Andriy Sadovyi wrote in a post that the strike had left “three dead already.”

The missile caused a fire which was extinguished, Kozytski said, adding that emergency services were on the scene and rescuers were “sorting through the debris.”

Sadovyi earlier said on Telegram that a “series of explosions” had been heard and warned residents to stay in shelters.

One person was in “serious” condition and had been taken to hospital, he added.

On 20 June Lviv was hit by a major Russian drone assault on Kyiv and other cities.

block-time published-time 4.52am BST

Opening summary

Welcome back to our continuing live coverage of the war in Ukraine with me, Helen Sullivan.

Our top story this morning: three people were killed in a Russian missile attack that hit an apartment building in Lviv overnight, the mayor of the western Ukrainian city said on Thursday.

And Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskiy has said that slow weapons deliveries to delayed Kyiv’s planned counteroffensive, allowing Russia to bolster its defenses in occupied areas including with mines.

Speaking to CNN’s Erin Burnett in the Ukrainian port city of Odesa days earlier, Zelensky said that he had sought to begin the counteroffensive against Russia “much earlier” than its actual start early June.

We’ll have more on these stories shortly. Elsewhere meanwhile:

*

UN observers appealed on Wednesday for greater access to Europe’s largest nuclear plant, after Moscow and Kyiv traded accusations over a possible “catastrophic” act of sabotage[https://www.theguardian.com/world/2023/jul/05/russia-has-planted-suspected-explosives-on-zaporizhzhia-nuclear-plant-roofs-says-zelenskiy] at the Russian-controlled facility in Ukraine. The International Atomic Energy Agency on Wednesday said they have yet to observe any indications of mines or explosives but called for additional access to the plant.

*

A man who detonated explosives in a court house in the Ukrainian capital Kyiv on Wednesday has died, Ukrainian interior minister Ihor Klymenko said. Police officers were wounded in the explosion.

*

US president Joe Biden told Sweden’s prime minister Ulf Kristersson on Wednesday that he is “looking forward” to the country’s stalled Nato membership bid winning final approval, as the western alliance prepares for next week’s summit. Speaking in the Oval Office, Biden said he wanted to reiterate that he “fully, fully supports Sweden’s membership in Nato”. Biden added he was “anxiously looking forward” to the bid being ratified.

*

James Cleverly, the UK foreign secretary, and Ben Wallace, the British defence secretary, joined with their Polish counterparts Zbigniew Rau and Mariusz Blaszczak at a pre-Nato summit meeting in London on Wednesday. The two countries emphasised their mutual agreement on defence and foreign policy ahead of next week’s Nato meeting.

*

The UN is making “every effort” to ensure that the Black Sea grain deal and a memorandum of understanding to facilitate access of Russian fertiliser and other products to global markets are extended, UN trade chief Rebeca Grynspan said. “We need both to continue bringing down prices and have stable markets of food and fertilisers in the world,” Grynspan told reporters in Geneva.

*

Russia’s defence ministry said on Wednesday that Russian forces had struck three Ukrainian army groups near Bakhmut, amid conflicting reports about fighting in the area. The Reuters news agency could not independently verify the battlefield situation. The ministry made no comment in its daily briefing on reports that Russian forces have retreated from the village of Klishchiivka, south-west of Bakhmut, which a Russian-installed official in eastern Ukraine has denied.

*

Vladimir Rogov, one of the prominent pro-Russian figures in occupied Zaporizhzhia region, has reported on his Telegram account that “the houses of local residents, a garage and a car were damaged” in the region due to Ukrainian fire. He said there were no casualties. The claims have not been independently verified.

*

Russian president Vladimir Putin’s former election spokesperson has been appointed to run the state news agency Tass, according to a government order published on Wednesday. The Kremlin has tightened its control over the media since the start of the Ukraine war, forcing the closure of leading independent news outlets and designating many journalists and publications as “foreign agents”.

*

Next week’s Nato summit must offer “real security guarantees” to Ukraine, the Italian prime minister, Giorgia Meloni, said on Wednesday. Speaking in Warsaw alongside the Polish prime minister, Mateusz Morawiecki, Meloni said Italy and Poland were “in perfect agreement” on the issue, Reuters reported.

*

Russia accused a small US based charity of “sabotaging” the construction of a huge gas pipeline to China and banned it as an “undesirable organisation”. Jennifer Castner, director of the Altai Project, described the accusation as absurd. The move has followed clamp-downs on many foreign NGOs in Russia, including a similar ban last month on the local arm of the WWF environmental group.

*

Russia said on Wednesday that one person was killed and another 41 injured, including two children, by Ukrainian fire in the east Ukraine town of Makiivka, which is occupied by Russian forces.

*

Residential buildings and a medical facility were damaged by a Russian rocket attack on Druzhkivka in the Donetsk region overnight.

*

Russia’s Kursk and Belgorod regions came under fire from Ukrainian forces across the border in the early hours of Wednesday, the regions’ governors said, adding that no casualties were reported.

Guardian Newspapers Limited

文件 GRDN000020230706ej76000gv


BUSINESS
EU Commission: Key decisions on July infringements package
12523 字
2023 年 7 月 14 日
Insight EU Issue Monitor Posts (IEU-P)
DPAEUM
英文
Copyright 2023. Comecon Media GmbH
Brussels, 14 July 2023

Overview by policy area

In its regular package of infringement decisions, the European Commission pursues legal action against Member States for failing to comply with their obligations under EU law. These decisions, covering various sectors and EU policy areas, aim to ensure the proper application of EU law for the benefit of citizens and businesses.

The key decisions taken by the Commission are presented below and grouped by policy area. The Commission is also closing 135 cases in which the issues with the Member States concerned have been solved without the Commission needing to pursue the procedure further.

For more information on the EU infringement procedure, see the full Q&A[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/MEMO_12_12]. For more detail on all decisions taken, consult the infringement decisions’ register[http://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/?lang_code=en].

1.1. Environment and fisheries

Letters of formal notice

Waste: Commission calls on BULGARIA to apply the pollution-pays principle in calculating the waste management fee

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Bulgaria (INFR(2023)2064)[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=bg&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2064] for failing to apply the polluter-pays principle as laid down in the Waste Framework Directive (Directive 2008/98/EC[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32008L0098]). In Bulgaria, the costs for waste management that citizens and businesses pay are based on the tax value of the property and do not take into account relevant parameters such as the quantity of household waste. Although Bulgaria amended its legislation to address the issue, the application of the provisions kept being postponed each year since 2015. According to the latest information by the Bulgarian authorities, the application of the provisions could become effective in the following two years. The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to Bulgaria, which now has two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Air quality: Commission calls on CZECHIA and SLOVAKIA to update their national law to limit air pollution from medium combustion plants

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Czechia (INFR(2023)2066[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=cs&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2066]) and Slovakia (INFR(2023)2067[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sk&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2067]) for failing to correctly incorporate into their national legislation the Directive on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from medium combustion plants (Directive (EU) 2015/2193[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32015L2193]). These plants are used for a wide variety of applications including electricity generation, domestic or residential heating and cooling, and providing heat or steam for industrial processes. They are a significant source of air pollution of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and dust.

The European Green Deal[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal_en], with its Zero Pollution ambition[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_2345], puts emphasis on cutting air pollution, which is among the key factors affecting human health. Full implementation of the air quality standards enshrined in EU legislation is key to effectively protect human health and safeguard the natural environment. Czechia and Slovakia have not correctly transposed this Directive into their national legislation, on issues such as, among others, the correct transposition of certain definitions, of some information requirements, or related to the setting of emissions limit values.

The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to both Member States, which now have two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Air quality: Commission calls on CROATIA to report under the National Emission Reduction Commitments Directive

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Croatia (INFR(2023)2044[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=hr&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2044]) for failing to comply with the EU Directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants (‘the NEC Directive’ – Directive (EU) 2016/2284[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32016L2284]) as regards reporting of emissions.

The NEC Directive sets emission reduction commitments for several air pollutants, such as nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and fine particulate matter (PM2.5), for each Member State to be attained for each year between 2020 and 2029. The Directive requires national air pollution control programmes (NAPCP) to be established to meet the reduction commitments. In addition, Member States should prepare and report national emission inventories and projections as well as informative inventory reports for all air pollutants covered by this Directive. Such information is key for the establishment and update of an NAPCP which contributes to improving air quality, as well as for reporting obligations of the EU under international law.

Poor air quality, especially in urban areas, continues to affect the health of European citizens. The European Green Deal[https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal_en] and the Zero Pollution [https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_2345] set a zero pollution ambition for the EU. Full implementation of the air quality standards enshrined in EU legislation is key to effectively protect human health and safeguard the natural environment. Croatia has not reported the emissions inventories, the emissions projections, and the informative inventory report all due before mid-March 2023. The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to Croatia, which now has two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Nature: Commission calls on AUSTRIA to correctly transpose the Habitats Directive in the Law on the High Tauern National Park in Salzburg

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Austria (INFR(2023)2045[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=de&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2045]) for failing to correctly transpose the Habitats Directive (Directive 92/43/EEC[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A31992L0043]) in the Law on the High Tauern National Park in Salzburg, the largest protected area in the Alps. Its greatest goal is the preservation of a Europe-wide unique and species-rich high mountain landscape. The Salzburger Nationalparkgesetz (Salzburg National Park Law) transposes the Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive specifically for the territory of this national park designated as a Special Area of Conservation according to the Habitats Directive. The National Park hosts priority natural habitat types in danger of disappearance. Despite well-documented evidence of a significant deterioration of natural habitats (including priority habitats) in the last years, Austria has not taken appropriate steps to address this problem and regulate accordingly the relevant economic activities. Austria has also incorrectly transposed into its national legislation the requirement of the Habitats Directive to submit any plan or project not directly connected with the management of the site to an appropriate assessment of its implications for the site in view of the site’s conservation objectives. Numerous types of projects are not subject to any assessment according to the Salzburger Nationalparkgesetz. The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to Austria, which now has two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Waste: Commission calls on SLOVAKIA to take measures to ensure that waste management is carried out without risks for human health and the environment

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Slovakia (INFR(2023)2065[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sk&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2065]) for failing to respect its obligations under the Waste Framework Directive (Directive 2008/98/EC[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32008L0098]) as regards 67 abandoned waste sites. Under this Directive, Member States must take the necessary measures to ensure that waste management is carried out without endangering human health and without harming the environment. They also need to ensure that waste undergoes safe disposal operations and that any original waste producer or other holder carries out the treatment of waste himself or has the treatment handled.

The European Green Deal[https://ec.europa.eu/info/strategy/priorities-2019-2024/european-green-deal_en], with its Zero Pollution ambition[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_2345], calls for air, water and soil pollution to be reduced to levels no longer considered harmful to human health and natural ecosystems, thereby creating a toxic-free environment and enhancing collective resilience. The Commission received several complaints and has been discussing with Slovak authorities since 2019 the necessity to comply with Waste Framework Directive as regards one of the sites, Vrakunská cesta landfill. Slovakia has designated these 67 waste sites as contaminated sites in need of remediation, but not taken effective measures to limit the risks to human health and environment.

The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to Slovakia, which now has two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

1.2. Fisheries and maritime affairs

Letters of formal notice and Reasoned opinions

Maritime spatial planning: Commission calls on CROATIA and PORTUGAL to establish and send copies of their Maritime Spatial Plans

Today, the European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Portugal (INFR(2023)2042[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/index.cfm?lang_code=EN&typeOfSearch=true&active_only=0&noncom=0&r_dossier=INFR%282021%292226&decision_date_from=&decision_date_to=&title=&submit=Search]) for failure to ensure correct implementation of Directive (EU) 2014/89[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2014/89] of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 establishing a framework for maritime spatial planning. The Commission also decided to send a reasoned opinion to Croatia (INFR(2021)2225[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/index.cfm?lang_code=EN&typeOfSearch=true&active_only=0&noncom=0&r_dossier=INFR%282022%292025&decision_date_from=&decision_date_to=&title=&submit=Search]) for failure to ensure correct implementation of the Directive (EU) 2014/89[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2014/89]. The Directive sets out a common approach for EU countries to plan their maritime areas. Maritime spatial planning seeks to organise human activities in marine areas to meet various ecological, economic and social objectives. Amongst these are the development of a sustainable blue economy, the sustainable use of marine resources, and the conservation of healthy marine ecosystems and biodiversity. Coastal EU Member States had to draw up maritime spatial plans until March 2021 and submit copies of those plans to the Commission and other Member States concerned within three months of their publication. Portugal has not yet established and sent copies to the Commission of the maritime spatial plans covering some of their marine waters. The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to Portugal, which now has two months to reply and take the necessary measures to address the shortcomings identified. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion. Croatia has not yet established and sent copies to the Commission of the maritime spatial plans covering some of their marine waters. The Commission had sent a letter of formal notice to Croatia on the matter in December 2021. The Commission did not find Croatia’s reply to the letter of formal notice completely satisfactory and has now issued a reasoned opinion. Croatia has two months to respond to the reasoned opinion and to take the necessary measures to address the shortcomings identified. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

2. Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs

Letters of formal notice and reasoned opinions

Recognition of professional qualifications: Commission asks BELGIUM, GERMANY, CYPRUS and ROMANIA to comply with EU rules

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Germany (INFR(2023)4010[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=de&r_dossier=INFR(2023)4010]) and sent a reasoned opinion to Belgium (INFR(2018)2162[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fr&r_dossier=INFR(2018)2162]), Cyprus (INFR(2018)2165[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=el&r_dossier=INFR(2018)2165]) and Romania (INFR(2018)2303[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=ro&r_dossier=INFR(2018)2303]) for incorrect transposition of the Professional Qualifications Directive 2005/36/EC[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32005L0036]. The Directive facilitates the professional mobility and recognition of qualifications across the borders. These EU rules play an essential part in addressing the shortages of skilled labour across the EU. This is especially true for healthcare which has been particularly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, by helping to better reallocate skilled professionals where needed. The German case addresses obstacles to the recognition of the professional qualifications of midwives. As regards Belgium, it concerns the imposition of excessive language requirements for teaching professionals seeking to work in the French Community, which severely limits the possibility of foreign teachers to work in Belgium. Concerning Cyprus, the infringement case addresses the obligation of residence in Cyprus for lawyers who wish to provide their services there, even though residence requirements are prohibited under EU rules. The Romanian case concerns the heavy restriction on veterinarians to provide their services on a temporary basis from another EU Member State, since Romanian law requires veterinarians to obtain a prior authorisation by the relevant professional Chamber before being allowed to provide temporary services. Belgium, Germany, Cyprus and Romania now have two months to respond to the arguments raised by the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may send a reasoned opinion to Germany or refer Belgium, Cyprus and Romania to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Services: Commission calls on CYPRUS, SPAIN and SLOVENIA to tackle restrictions to construction and real estate services

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Spain (INFR(2023)4009[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=es&r_dossier=INFR(2023)4009]) for failing to respect EU rules on services and professional qualifications as regards the construction sector. This concerns restrictions on companies carrying out gas installations, electricity or air conditioning works wishing to sub-contract certain competences. The Commission also decided to send a reasoned opinion to Cyprus (INFR(2022)2170[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=el&r_dossier=INFR(2022)2170]) for incorrect transposition of the Services Directive[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32006L0123] due to restrictions defining who can own shares in real estate intermediation companies. Finally, the Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Slovenia (INFR(2022)4119[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sl&r_dossier=INFR(2022)4119]) for failing to address issues regarding tariffs fixed by law for real estate agencies, also in breach of the Services Directive and of Treaty rules. The Commission actions follow the priorities announced in the Communication ‘Single Market at 30′[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_1668] to further improve the functioning of the EU single market. In particular, priority is set on enforcing existing single market rules and removing Member State-level barriers in industrial ecosystems with the greatest economic integration potential, including construction and business services. Cyprus, Spain, and Slovenia now have two months to respond to the arguments raised by the Commission, otherwise the Commission may decide to send a reasoned opinion to Spain or refer Cyprus and Slovenia to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Reasoned opinions

Procurement and concession contracts: Commission urges the NETHERLANDS to comply with EU rules

Today, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to the Netherlands (INFR(2022)2054[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=nl&r_dossier=INFR(2022)2054]) regarding its transposition of the rules on public procurement in the utilities sector (Directives 2014/25/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32014L0025]) and on concessions (Directive 2014/23/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex:32014L0023#:~:text=This%20Directive%20recognises%20and%20reaffirms,performing%20works%20and%20providing%20services.]) for postal services. According to the Commission, postal services should have been included in the scope of the Dutch implementing legislation. The definition of special and exclusive rights the Netherlands uses is not compatible with both Directives as it may exclude from its scope entities which are obliged to apply EU public procurement law. The Commission sent a letter to the Netherlands which now has two months to respond and take the necessary measures. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to bring the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Energy products: Commission asks HUNGARY to remove export restrictions related to energy products

Today, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Hungary (INFR(2022)4108[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=hu&r_dossier=INFR(2022)4108]), requesting the Hungarian authorities to ensure that their national measures concerning wood-based and coal-based products for the energy sector comply with EU law. The Hungarian measures introduce prior notification schemes, which allow authorities to block the export of energy carriers. The Commission considers the measures to have an equivalent effect to quantitative restrictions on exports within the internal market, in violation of Article 35[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A12012E035] of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). Hungary has also breached the standstill period under the Single Market Transparency Directive (EU) 2015/1535[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/en/TXT/?uri=CELEX:32015L1535], by adopting those measures after notification without giving other Member States and the Commission the opportunity to provide feedback. In addition, the restriction, which also applies to exports from Hungary to third countries, affects trade with these third countries. Hungary now has two months to take the necessary measures to comply with the reasoned opinion. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer Hungary to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Public procurement: Commission urges BULGARIA to comply with public procurement and concessions rules

Today, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Bulgaria (INFR(2018)2268[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=bg&r_dossier=INFR(2018)2268]) for the non-conformity of its national legislation with the rules on public procurement (Directive 2014/24/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32014L0024]). Bulgarian legislation introduces two exclusions from the application of public procurement rules, namely for certain medicinal products and for construction and maintenance of engineering facilities of an obstructive type to protect the state border. While Bulgaria addressed the majority of the non-conformity issues since the infringement was open in 2019, Bulgaria failed to do so for the above-mentioned exclusions. Bulgaria has two months to respond to the arguments raised by the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer Bulgaria to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Referrals to the Court of Justice

Recognition of professional qualifications: Commission decides to refer CYPRUS and MALTA to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failure to correctly transpose rules on recognition of professional qualifications

Today, the European Commission decided to refer Cyprus (INFR(2017)4086[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=el&r_dossier=INFR(2017)4086]) and Malta (INFR(2018)2299[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=mt&r_dossier=INFR(2018)2299]) to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failure to correctly transpose EU rules on the recognition of professional qualifications (Directive 2005/36/EC[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32005L0036] as amended by Directive 2013/55/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2013:354:0132:0170:en:PDF]). The current national rules create unjustified obstacles to the recognition of professional qualifications cross-border and thereby obstruct professional mobility. EU rules have contributed to the creation of a modern system for the recognition of professional qualifications and experience across the EU. They make it easier for professionals to provide their services in different Member States, whilst guaranteeing an improved level of protection for consumers and citizens. According to the Commission, the Cypriot legislation imposes unjustified preconditions for the recognition of professional qualifications of engineers and architects and does not fully ensure the automatic recognition for architects. Finally, the Maltese legislation imposes additional trainings and language requirements on medical and para-medical professions. In addition, it imposes excessive procedural and documentary requirements for veterinarians who wish to provide temporary services in Malta. As the Commission considers that Cyprus and Malta are still in breach of EU rules, it has decided to refer the cases to the Court of Justice of the European Union. A press release is available here[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_23_3526].

Services: Commission decides to refer POLAND to the Court of Justice of the European Union for prohibition of advertising of pharmacies and their activities

Today, the European Commission decided to refer Poland (INFR(2018)4028[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=pt&r_dossier=INFR(2018)4028]) to the Court of Justice of the European Union regarding the prohibition of advertising of pharmacies and their activities under the Polish Pharmaceutical Law. Under the Polish law, pharmacies can only provide limited information to the public concerning their location and opening hours. Consequently, they cannot use the internet or other electronic and non-electronic means for commercial communication. The Commission considers that the currently binding Polish law is in breach of the E-commerce Directive, as well as Article 49[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A12008E049] and Article 56[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:12008E056:EN:HTML] of the TFEU, as the it constitutes a total prohibition is not justified and is not proportionate in the context of the public health interest. As the Commission considers that Poland is still in breach of EU rules, it has decided to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union. A press release is available here[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_23_3528].

Building materials: Commission decides to refer HUNGARY to the Court of Justice of the European Union for violations of the freedom of establishment

Today, the Commission decided to refer Hungary (INFR(2022)4009[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=ga&r_dossier=INFR(2022)4009]) to the Court of Justice of the European Union regarding rules introducing fixed prices for building materials (sand, gravel, cement), hefty penalty payments for non-respect of these fixed prices, and production obligations for building materials and raw materials for the construction sector. The Commission considers that these national measures are neither justified nor proportionate and therefore do not comply with the freedom of establishment as provided in Article 49 TFEU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A12008E049]. In addition, the measure establishing fixed prices and penalty payments has not been notified under the EU Single Market Transparency Directive[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32015L1535] (SMTD) under which Member States have the obligation to notify draft technical regulations. As the Commission considers that Hungary is in breach of EU rules, it has decided to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union. A press release is available here[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/IP_23_3527].

3. Migration, Home Affairs and Security Union

Letters of formal notice

Migrant smuggling: Commission calls on HUNGARY to align its national legislation with the EU Facilitators Package

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Hungary (INFR(2023)2095[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=hu&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2095]) for failing to fulfil its obligations under the Council Directive 2002/90/EC[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ALL/?uri=celex%3A32002L0090] to impose effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions for the offence of facilitation of unauthorised entry, transit and residence into the EU (i.e. migrant smuggling) and under the Council Framework Decision (2002/946/JHA) that sets rules for criminal penalties regarding these offences. In April 2023, Hungary adopted a Government Decree which provides for the general conversion of custodial sentences related to smuggling offences into a “reintegration detention”. This implies that convicted persons are released even if they might have served only a minor period of their sentence. These persons are then required to leave the Hungarian territory within 72 hours to serve their “reintegration detention” in the country of their former habitual residence or of nationality. The Government Decree contains no further rules concerning the conditions and monitoring or enforcement of this “reintegration detention” outside Hungary. The Commission considers that such shortened sanctions applicable to persons sentenced for smuggling offences are neither effective nor dissuasive and without regard to the circumstances of the cases at hand. Therefore, it is issuing a letter of formal notice. Hungary has now two months to respond to the letter and address the shortcomings identified by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Fighting money laundering: Commission calls on CZECHIA, HUNGARY, POLAND, SLOVENIA and FINLAND to fully transpose EU rules on criminalising money laundering

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Czechia (INFR(2023)2068[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=cs&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2068]), Hungary (INFR(2023)2070[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=hu&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2070]), Poland (INFR(2023)2072[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=pl&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2072]), Slovenia (INFR(2023)2073[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sl&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2073]) and Finland (INFR(2023)2069[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fi&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2069]) for failing to fully transpose the Directive on combating money laundering by criminal law into their national laws (Directive (EU) 2018/1673[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2018.284.01.0022.01.ENG]). The rules, set out in this Directive, define criminal offences and sanctions in the area of money laundering to facilitate police and judicial cooperation between EU countries and prevent criminals from taking advantage of more lenient legal systems. They criminalise money laundering when committed intentionally and with the knowledge that the assets in question came from criminal activity. The Commission considers that Czechia, Hungary, Poland, Slovenia and Finland have not transposed all the measures set out in the Directive into their national laws, in particular when it comes to the provisions on money laundering offences. The five Member States have now two months to take the necessary measures to address the shortcomings identified by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Reasoned opinion and additional letter of formal notice

Fight against terrorism: Commission calls on GERMANY and SLOVENIA to ensure correct transposition of EU implementing rules on combating terrorism

Today, the European Commission decided to send an additional letter of formal notice to Germany (INFR(2021)2045[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/index.cfm?lang_code=EN&typeOfSearch=false&active_only=0&noncom=0&r_dossier=INFR%282021%292045&decision_date_from=&decision_date_to=&title=&submit=Search]) and a reasoned opinion to Slovenia (INFR(2021)2153[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sl&r_dossier=INFR(2021)2153]) for failing to fully transpose the EU rules on combating terrorism into their national laws (Directive (EU) 2017/541[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017L0541]). This Directive is a cornerstone of the EU’s Counter-Terrorism Agenda.[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_20_2326] It includes provisions that criminalise and sanction terrorist-related offences, such as traveling abroad to commit a terrorist offence, returning to or travelling within the EU for such activities, training for terrorist purposes and financing terrorism. These rules also set out special provisions for victims of terrorism to ensure they have access to reliable advice, as well as professional and specialist support services. Member States had to transpose the Directive into national law by 8 September 2018. The Commission sent letters of formal notice to Germany, in June 2021, and to Slovenia, in October 2021. Following their replies, the Commission concluded that Germany has not correctly transposed certain provision on criminalisation of terrorist offence into its national law, while Slovenia has not fully addressed all the concerns raised by the Commission in its letter of formal notice. Germany and Slovenia have now two months to take the necessary measures to address the shortcomings identified by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to send a reasoned opinion to Germany, and to refer Slovenia to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Referral to the Court of Justice

Firearms: Commission decides to refer SWEDEN to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failing to transpose EU rules

Today, the European Commission decided to refer Sweden (INFR(2020)0255[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sv&r_dossier=INFR(2020)0255]) to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failing to fully transpose EU rules on the technical specifications for alarm and signal weapons. The Commission Implementing Directive (EU) 2019/68[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.L_.2019.015.01.0018.01.ENG#:~:text=Commission%20Implementing%20Directive%20(EU)%202019,(Text%20with%20EEA%20relevance.)] establishes technical specifications for the unique marking of firearms and their essential components under the codified Firearms Directive (Directive (EU) 2021/555[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/en/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32021L0555]). Sweden failed to fully transpose the Directive by 17 January 2020, as it was required. The lack of total transposition by Sweden endangers the Directive’s objective of enhancing public security across the Union. In May 2020, the Commission launched the infringement procedure against Sweden by sending a letter of formal notice, and followed up with a reasoned opinion in February 2022. The draft law notified to the Commission by the Swedish authorities, aiming to transpose the Commission Implementing Directive, has not been adopted to this day. For this reason, the Commission decided to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union. More information can be found in our press release[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_3802].

4. Justice

Letters of formal notice

Procedural rights: Commission calls on ESTONIA, LITHUANIA and SLOVENIA to fully transpose the EU rules on procedural safeguards for children in criminal proceedings

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Estonia (INFR(2023)2076[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=et&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2076]), Lithuania (INFR(2023)2074[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=lt&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2074]) and Slovenia (INFR(2023)2075[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sl&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2075]) for failing to fully transpose into its national laws the Directive on procedural safeguards for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings (Directive (EU) 2016/800[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32016L0800]). This Directive is part of EU’s comprehensive strategy to guarantee common minimum standards for the fair trial rights of suspects and accused persons[https://ec.europa.eu/info/policies/justice-and-fundamental-rights/criminal-justice/rights-suspects-and-accused_en] across the EU. For example, it guarantees the rights for children to an individual assessment, to specific treatment in case of deprivation of liberty (such as in terms of separation from adults in detention, access to training and education) and to be accompanied by the holder of parental responsibility during the proceedings. The Commission considers that Estonia, Lithuania and Slovenia failed to transpose the Directive’s requirements with regards to children’s right to information about their rights and the inclusion of a reference to the Directive in or accompanying the adoption of transposing measures. The latter is required to ensure transparency for suspects and accused persons on how their rights under EU law are transposed in the national legal systems of the Member States. In addition, Estonia and Slovenia have failed to fully transpose several other provisions, in particular the provision guaranteeing the right to a medical examination, specific treatment during deprivation of liberty and training of the law enforcement, judicial and other stakeholders who are in contact with children in criminal proceedings. Lithuania failed to fully transpose the right to an individual assessment. Therefore, the Commission decided today to send a letter of formal notice to the three Member States. Estonia, Lithuania and Slovenia now have two months to take the necessary measures to address the shortcomings identified by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to send a reasoned opinion.

Free movement: Commission calls on BULGARIA, GREECE and PORTUGAL to comply with EU rules on identity cards and residence documents

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Bulgaria (INFR (2023)2001[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=bg&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2001]), Greece (INFR(2023)2003[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=el&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2003]) and Portugal (INFR(2023)2002[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=pt&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2002]) for failing to comply with EU rules on identity cards and residence documents issued to EU citizens and their family members (Regulation(EU)2019/1157[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32019R1157#:~:text=Regulation%20(EU)%202019%2F1157,(Text%20with%20EEA%20relevance.)]). These rules aim to facilitate free movement in the EU by reinforcing the security and format standards for identity cards and residence documents. The Commission considers that the three Member States do not issue identity cards or residence documents in a format that complies with the Regulation, which entered into application in August 2021. In the case of Bulgaria, this concerns identity cards, residence documents issued to EU citizens and residence cards issued to non-EU family members. In the case of Greece, this concerns identity cards. And in the case of Portugal, this concerns identity cards and residence documents issued to EU citizens. Bulgaria, Greece and Portugal now have two months to take the necessary measures to address the shortcomings identified by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to send a reasoned opinion.

Procedural rights: Commission calls on BELGIUM, HUNGARY, ITALY, ESTONIA, AUSTRIA, and SWEDEN to correctly apply into their national law the EU rules on the right of access to a lawyer and to communicate upon arrest

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Italy (INFR(2023)2006[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=it&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2006]), Austria (INFR(2023)2009[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=de&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2009]), and Sweden (INFR(2023)2005[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sv&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2005]) and to send a reasoned opinion to Belgium (INFR(2021)2106[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fr&r_dossier=INFR(2021)2106]), Hungary (INFR(2021)2137[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=hu&r_dossier=INFR(2021)2137]) and Estonia (INFR(2021)2135[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=et&r_dossier=INFR(2021)2135]) for failing to correctly transpose the Directive on the right of access to a lawyer and to communicate upon arrest (Directive 2013/48/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32013L0048]). This Directive aims to ensure access to a lawyer from the earliest stages of proceedings for suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings, as well as persons subjected to a European Arrest Warrant (EAW); and that those who are deprived of liberty may inform and communicate with third persons, such as their employer or family members, as well as their consular authorities. The Commission considers that certain national transposition measures notified by the six Member States fall short of the requirements of the Directive, including the effective participation of a lawyer during questioning (Belgium and Italy), possible derogations from the right of access to a lawyer based on geographical remoteness or investigative needs (Belgium, Hungary, Italy, Austria), provisions for informing a third person in cases of deprivation of liberty (Italy) and derogations from this right (Estonia and Sweden), rules for informing the holder of parental responsibility or other appropriate adult when children are deprived of liberty (Italy and Austria), waiver of the right to access a lawyer (Hungary, Austria, Sweden), and rules applicable in EAW proceedings (Estonia). Belgium, Hungary, Italy, Estonia, Austria and Sweden now have two months to take the necessary measures to address the shortcomings identified by the Commission. Should Italy, Austria or Sweden fail to provide a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to move the infringement procedure forward and send a reasoned opinion. The Commission sent letters of formal notice to Belgium, Estonia and Hungary in September 2021 and November 2021. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may refer Belgium, Estonia and Hungary to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

European Arrest Warrant: Commission urges BELGIUM, BULGARIA, POLAND, SLOVAKIA and FINLAND to comply with the requirements of the Framework Decision

Today, the European Commission decided to send an additional letter of formal notice to to Belgium (INFR(2021)2002[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/?typeOfSearch=true&r_dossier=INFR(2021)2002&lang_code=EN]), Poland (INFR(2020)2308[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/?typeOfSearch=true&r_dossier=INFR(2020)2308&lang_code=EN]), and Finland (INFR(2021)2110[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/?typeOfSearch=true&r_dossier=INFR(2021)2110&lang_code=EN]) for failing to comply with the Framework Decision on the European arrest warrant (EAW) and the surrender procedures between Member States (Council Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32002F0584]). In addition, the Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Bulgaria (INFR(2021)2262[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/?typeOfSearch=true&r_dossier=INFR(2021)2262&lang_code=EN]) and Slovakia (INFR(2021)2240[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/?typeOfSearch=true&r_dossier=INFR(2021)2240&lang_code=EN]). The Commission can decide to send an additional letter of formal notice when the measures notified by Member States in their reply are not fully implementing the provisions of the Framework Decision. The EAW is a simplified cross-border judicial procedure to surrender a requested person for the purpose of prosecution or executing a custodial sentence or detention order. Operational since 1 January 2004, the EAW has replaced the lengthy extradition procedures that used to exist between EU Member States. The Commission sent letters of formal notice to Bulgaria in February 2022 and to Slovakia in December 2021. Following their replies, the Commission concluded that Bulgaria failed to correctly transpose rules on mandatory grounds for non-execution, effective judicial review prior to the surrender, and the notion of humanitarian reasons for the postponement of the surrender. On the other hand, Slovakia failed to fully transpose the provision related to the judgements where the sentenced person was not personally present at the trial and to correctly transpose the obligation to execute an EAW, the mandatory grounds for refusal, the time limits for taking a decision on the execution of the EAW and the provision on transit. The Commission sent letters of formal notice to Belgium in June 2021, to Poland in December 2020 and to Finland in September 2021. Following their replies, the Commission concluded that all three Member States failed to correctly transpose the temporary transfer of the requested person pending the decision on surrender. In addition, Belgium and Poland incorrectly transposed the conditions for the hearing of the requested person pending the decision on surrender, and Poland the provisions related to the judgments where the sentenced person was not personally present at the trial and to competing international obligations. Belgium, Bulgaria, Poland, Slovakia and Finland now have two months to address the shortcomings identified by the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to send a reasoned opinion to Belgium, Poland and Finland, and to refer Bulgaria and Slovakia to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Reasoned opinions

Consumer protection: Commission calls on ESTONIA, IRELAND, CYPRUS, LATVIA, LUXEMBOURG and POLAND to transpose the rules on representative actions

Today, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Estonia, (INFR(2023)0011[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=et&r_dossier=INFR(2023)0011]), Ireland (INFR(2023)0021[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=ga&r_dossier=INFR(2023)0021]), Cyprus (INFR(2023)0005[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=el&r_dossier=INFR(2023)0005]), Latvia (INFR(2023)0027[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=lv&r_dossier=INFR(2023)0027]), Luxembourg (INFR(2023)0025[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fr&r_dossier=INFR(2023)0025]) and Poland (INFR(2023)0030[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=pl&r_dossier=INFR(2023)0030]) for failing to transpose the EU rules laid down by the Representative Actions Directive (Directive (EU) 2020/1828[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32020L1828]). The Directive requires Member States to allow designated consumer organisations and public bodies bring legal actions against traders’ illegal practices on behalf of consumers. Consumers that have been harmed by an illegal commercial practice may seek redress such as compensation, replacement or repair. In January 2023, the Commission sent letters of formal notice to 24 Member States for failing to notify national measures fully transposing the Directive by the deadline of 25 December 2022. After exchanges with these Member States and careful analysis of their responses, the Commission has concluded that Estonia, Ireland, Cyprus, Latvia, Luxembourg and Poland have not provided satisfactory information on the measures transposing the Directive. These six Member States now have two months to address the shortcomings identified by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to refer them to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

European Accessibility Act: Commission calls on BULGARIA, IRELAND, CYPRUS, the NETHERLANDS, and POLAND to transpose the Directive on accessibility of products and services for persons with disabilities

Today, the European Commission decided to send reasoned opinions to Bulgaria (INFR(2022)0290[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/screen/home?typeOfSearch=true&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0290&lang_code=EN]), Ireland (INFR(2022)0309[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/screen/home?typeOfSearch=true&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0309&lang_code=EN]), Cyprus (INFR(2022)0291[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/screen/home?typeOfSearch=true&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0291&lang_code=EN]), the Netherlands (INFR(2022)0315[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/screen/home?typeOfSearch=true&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0315&lang_code=EN]) and Poland (INFR(2022)0317[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/screen/home?typeOfSearch=true&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0317&lang_code=EN]) for failing to transpose the EU rules on the accessibility of products and services for persons with disabilities (Directive (EU) 2019/882[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32019L0882]) into their national law. The European Accessibility Act[https://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=1202] requires key products and services such as phones, computers, e-books, banking services and electronic communications to be accessible for persons with disabilities. This will help increase active participation in society, including in education and in employment, as well as more autonomy and mobility opportunities of people with disabilities, representing at least 87 million European citizens. Businesses and services must ensure that they comply with a set of common EU accessibility requirements by 2025. In July 2022, the Commission had sent letters of formal notice to 24 Member States and in April 2023 to another three Member States for failing to communicate measures fully transposing the Directive. Today, the Commission has decided to send reasoned opinions to Bulgaria, Ireland, Cyprus, the Netherlands and Poland for failing to notify their transposition measures. These five Member States have now two months to respond and take the necessary measures. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer them to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

5. Energy and climate

Letter of formal notice

Radiation protection: Commission calls on SWEDEN to correctly transpose the Euratom Basic Safety Standards Directive

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Sweden (INFR(2023)2085[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sv&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2085]) for failing to correctly transpose the revised Basic Safety Standards Directive (Council Directive 2013/59/Euratom[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2013/59/oj]). The Directive, which modernises and consolidates EU radiation protection legislation, lays down basic safety standards to protect members of the public, workers and patients against the dangers arising from exposure to ionising radiation. It also includes emergency preparedness and response provisions that were strengthened following the Fukushima nuclear accident. The Commission found that the Swedish transposition measures are not correctly transposing certain parts of the Directive, including provisions on the management of existing exposure situations, the estimation of radiation doses to members of the public from authorised practices, the allocation of human and financial resources to the radiation protection authority, the licensing and monitoring of transfers of high activity sealed sources and the features of the national emergency management system. Sweden now has two months to reply and address the shortcomings identified by the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to send Sweden a reasoned opinion.

Reasoned opinions

Renewable and energy efficiency targets: Commission urges CROATIA, HUNGARY and ROMANIA to submit reports on the achievement of 2020 targets

Today, the European Commission decided to send reasoned opinions to Croatia (INFR(2022)2164[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=hr&r_dossier=INFR(2022)2164]), Hungary (INFR(2022)2165[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=hu&r_dossier=INFR(2022)2165]) and Romania (INFR(2022)2166[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=ro&r_dossier=INFR(2022)2166]) for failing to comply with reporting obligations under Regulation (EU) 2018/1999[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv%3AOJ.L_.2018.328.01.0001.01.ENG] on the Governance of the Energy Union and Climate Action. In particular, the Commission is calling on Croatia to fully report on the achievement of its 2020 targets for energy efficiency and share of energy from renewable sources in the dedicated E-platform. It is also calling on Hungary and Romania to fully report on the achievement of their 2020 targets for energy efficiency. The Governance Regulation required Member States to report to the Commission by 30 April 2022 on the achievement of their 2020 energy efficiency targets established in Directive 2012/27/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex:32012L0027] on energy efficiency. The Governance Regulation also required that, by the same deadline, Member States report on their targets for the share of energy from renewable sources in 2020, as set out in Directive 2009/28/EC[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ALL/?uri=celex%3A32009L0028] on renewable energy sources.

In January 2023, the Commission sent a letter of formal notice to the three Member States. To date, despite partial progress, they have failed to submit full reports as required under the Regulation. These Member States now have two months to rectify the situation and fully comply with reporting obligations. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Internal energy market: Commission urges CROATIA, ITALY, LATVIA, LITHUANIA and SLOVAKIA to fully transpose EU rules on the internal electricity market

Today, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Croatia (INFR(2021)0051[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=hr&r_dossier=INFR(2021)0051]), Italy (INFR(2021)0059[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=it&r_dossier=INFR(2021)0059]), Latvia (INFR(2021)0072[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=lv&r_dossier=INFR(2021)0072]), Lithuania (INFR(2022)2036[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=lt&r_dossier=INFR(2022)2036]) and Slovakia (INFR(2021)0102[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sk&r_dossier=INFR(2021)0102]) for not having fully transposed EU rules for the internal electricity market set out in the Directive (EU) 2019/944[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:32019L0944], amending Directive 2012/27/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32012L0027]. This Directive lays down key rules regarding the organisation and functioning of the EU electricity sector to create truly integrated, competitive, consumer-centred, flexible, fair and transparent electricity markets across the Union. The deadline to transpose the Directive into national law was 31 December 2020. The Commission sent a letter of formal notice to Croatia, Italy, Latvia and Slovakia in February 2021 and it sent a letter of formal notice to Lithuania in May 2022, after concluding that not all the provisions of the Directive had been transposed into their national laws. Having examined the replies from the Member States concerned as well as the national transposition measures notified, the Commission considers that these Member States have still not fully transposed the Directive. The five Member States concerned now have two months to take the necessary measures and notify the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the cases to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Energy Performance of Buildings: Commission urges MALTA to fully transpose the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive

Today, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Malta (INFR(2021)2271[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=mt&r_dossier=INFR(2021)2271]) for not having fully transposed EU rules on improving the energy performance of buildings set out in Directive (EU) 2018/844[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv%3AOJ.L_.2018.156.01.0075.01.ENG] which amended Directive 2010/31/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2010:153:0013:0035:en:PDF]. The Directive introduced new elements to strengthen the existing framework and improve the energy performance of buildings, such as minimum energy performance requirements for new buildings, electromobility and recharging points, and new rules on the inspection of heating and air-conditioning systems. The deadline to transpose the Directive into national law was 10 March 2020.

In February 2022, the Commission sent a letter of formal notice to Malta after concluding that not all the provisions of the Directive had been transposed into national law. Having examined the reply from Malta as well as the national transposition measures notified, the Commission considers that Malta has still not fully transposed the Directive. Malta now has two months to take the necessary measures to ensure full transposition and notify the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Renewable energy: Commission urges CZECHIA to fully transpose the Renewable Energy Directive

Today, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Czechia (INFR(2021)0181[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=cs&r_dossier=INFR(2021)0181]) for not having fully transposed EU rules on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources set out in Directive (EU) 2018/2001[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32018L2001]. This Directive provides the legal framework for the development of renewable energy in electricity, heating and cooling, and transport in the EU. It sets an EU-level binding target for 2030 of at least 32% renewable energy and includes measures to ensure support for renewable energy to be cost-effective, and to simplify administrative procedures for renewable energy projects. It also facilitates the participation of citizens in the energy transition and sets specific targets to increase the share of renewables in the heating and cooling and transport sectors by 2030. The deadline to transpose the Directive into national law was 30 June 2021. In July 2021, the Commission sent a letter of formal notice to Czechia. To date, the Member State has still not fully transposed the Directive. Czechia now has two months to remedy the situation and notify the Commission of complete transposition of the Directive. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

6. Taxation and Customs Union

Letters of formal notice

Taxation: Commission asks SWEDEN to amend its rules on preliminary income taxation of foreign contractors

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Sweden (INFR(2023)4007[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sv&r_dossier=INFR(2023)4007]) drawing its attention to the potential incompatibility of its legislation on preliminary income taxation with EU law. Swedish clients paying for work carried out by contractors established in other EU Member States or EEA countries are obliged to withhold a preliminary income tax at a rate of 30 per cent on the relevant remunerations unless the foreign contractors have been approved by the Swedish tax authority for preliminary income tax purposes (commonly termed as ‘F-tax approval’). The Commission deems that such an obligation to withhold preliminary income tax in situations where foreign contractors have no Swedish permanent establishment – and hence no income tax liability in Sweden – could infringe the freedom to provide services (Article 56 of the TFEU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A12008E056&qid=1604480885890] and Article 36 of the EEA Agreement[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ALL/?uri=CELEX%3A21994A0103%2801%29]). Sweden has now two months to reply to the arguments raised by the Commission after which the Commission may decide to send a reasoned opinion.

Taxation: Commission calls on HUNGARY to align its corporate income tax rules with EU anti-tax avoidance rules

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Hungary (INFR(2023)2041[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=hu&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2041]) requesting it to align, on a number of points, its corporate income tax rules with the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive [https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32016L1164] (Council Directive (EU) 2016/1164[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32016L1164]). The Commission identified divergent rules on the taxation of Controlled Foreign Companies (CFCs) as well as a problematic definition of “associated enterprise” which, for the purposes of applying the Directive’s rules, should include also subsidiaries under common control. The Hungarian legislation does not guarantee that. Hungary now has two months to reply to the arguments raised by the Commission after which the Commission may decide to send a reasoned opinion.

Taxation: Commission takes further action against BELGIUM for breaching the free movement of workers

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure under Article 260 TFEU by sending a letter of formal notice to Belgium (INFR(2014)2191[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fr&r_dossier=INFR(2014)2191]) for not properly complying with the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 10 March 2022 (Case C-60/21[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/en/TXT/?uri=CELEX:62021CJ0060]). The Court found that Belgium infringed the Treaty by refusing non-resident taxpayers who earn less than 75% of their worldwide income in Belgium from deducting their alimony payments from their taxable income. Deduction is refused in Belgium even when the taxpayer has no significant taxable income in the State of residence, making it impossible to deduct the above payments from taxable income in the State of residence. This refusal penalises non-resident taxpayers, who have exercised the right of freedom of movement of workers, because the alimony payments are deducted neither from their taxable income in their State of residence nor in Belgium as the State of employment. Belgium has two months to reply to the letter of formal notice. Otherwise, the Commission may refer the case back with proposed financial sanctions to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Reasoned opinions

Taxation: Commission calls on BELGIUM to eliminate discriminatory conditions for tax exemption of remuneration received from savings deposits

Today, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Belgium (INFR(2015)4212[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fr&r_dossier=INFR(2015)4212]) for maintaining discriminatory conditions for tax exemption of remuneration received from savings deposits. The Commission considers that the Belgian tax exemption system applicable to income from savings deposits imposes discriminatory conditions for access to the Belgian banking market on service providers established in other Member States of the European Union or the European Economic Area and, therefore, is contrary to the freedom to provide services (Article 56 TFEU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A12008E056&qid=1604480885890] and Article 36 of the Agreement on the European Economic Area[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ALL/?uri=CELEX%3A21994A0103%2801%29]). Belgium has now two months to reply to the arguments put forward by the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Taxation: Commission urges BELGIUM, GREECE, SPAIN, CYPRUS, POLAND and PORTUGAL to complete the transposition of tax transparency rules into national law and closes the infringement against SLOVENIA for lacking transposition of the same Directive

Today, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Belgium INFR(2023)0003[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fr&r_dossier=INFR(2023)0003]), Greece (INFR(2023)0014[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=el&r_dossier=INFR(2023)0014]), Spain (INFR(2023)0016[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=es&r_dossier=INFR(2023)0016]), Cyprus (INFR(2023)0006[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=el&r_dossier=INFR(2023)0006]), Poland (INFR(2023)0031[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=pl&r_dossier=INFR(2023)0031]) and Portugal (INFR(2023)0033[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=pt&r_dossier=INFR(2023)0033]) for failure to communicate the national measures implementing Council Directive (EU) 2021/514[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32021L0514] of 22 March 2021 (DAC7) amending Directive 2011/16/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/en/ALL/?uri=CELEX%3A32011L0016] on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. Under DAC7, digital platforms such as websites and mobile apps, which allow taxpayers to sell goods, offer online and offline personal services, or rent out immovable property or means of transport, have to report those taxpayers and their economic activities. This information will help tax authorities prevent tax evasion or misreporting by using digital platforms. The deadline for the communication of the national transposing measures was 31 December 2022. Belgium, Greece, Spain, Cyprus, Poland and Portugal have two months to reply and take the necessary measures. In the absence of a full communication of all national implementing measures, the Commission may decide to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Referrals to the Court of Justice

Taxation: Commission decides to refer LUXEMBOURG to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failing to correctly transpose EU anti-tax avoidance rules

Today, the Commission decided to refer Luxembourg (INFR(2020)2183[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fr&r_dossier=INFR(2020)2183]) to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failing to correctly transpose provisions of the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive (ATAD1) Council Directive (EU) 2016/1164[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32016L1164]. The ATAD1 provides for a derogation from the measures limiting the deductibility of interest payments from the corporate tax base applicable to financial undertakings. The Directive contains an exhaustive list of entities considered as financial undertakings for this purpose. However, Luxembourg expands the derogation also to securitisation entities, which goes beyond what is foreseen by the provisions of ATAD1. This decision follows a letter of formal notice sent to Luxembourg in 2020 and a reasoned opinion in December 2021. As Luxembourg’s reply to the Commission’s reasoned opinion was not satisfactory, and the Member State has not taken action to legislate a correction, the Commission has now decided to refer Luxembourg to the Court of Justice of the European Union. The full press release is available online[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_3456].

7. Mobility and Transport

Letters of formal notice

Rail transport: Commission calls on the NETHERLANDS to comply with EU rules on competitive award of rail public transport contracts

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to the Netherlands (INFR(2023)4011[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=nl&r_dossier=INFR(2023)4011]) for failure to correctly apply Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32007R1370] on public passenger transport by road and rail. The Netherlands has decided to award the concession contract for passenger transport services by rail to the incumbent operator Nederlandse Spoorwegen, the Dutch railway. The contract starts on 1 January 2025 and is awarded under the provision of the Regulation that allows the unconditional direct award of public service contracts for rail services, but which ceases to apply as of 24 December 2023. After that date, the service contracts for public transport services by rail should, in principle, be competitively tendered. The direct award of such contracts is the exception, and from December 2023, can only be used in limited, well-defined circumstances. The long period between the date of award, 24 December 2023 at the latest, and when services will start after 1 January 2025, is without objective justification. In this context, the Commission considers that the decision to directly award this contract now constitutes a circumvention of the principle of competitive award. The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to The Netherlands, which now has two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Maritime transport: Commission calls on the NETHERLANDS to comply with EU rules on marine equipment

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to the Netherlands (INFR(2023)2079[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=nl&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2079]) for failing to comply with EU rules on marine equipment contained in the Marine Equipment Directive (Directive 2014/90/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32014L0090#:~:text=The%20objective%20of%20this%20Directive,such%20equipment%20within%20the%20Union.]). The Directive includes common safety rules for equipment such as life jackets, sewage cleaning systems and radars on board EU-flagged ships. The Netherlands has failed to ensure, through appropriate assessment processes, that marine equipment onboard ships under its responsibility complies with the requirements of the Directive. The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to the Netherlands, which now has two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Maritime transport: Commission calls on GERMANY to comply with EU rules on port services

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Germany (INFR(2021)2041[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=de&r_dossier=INFR(2021)2041]) for failing to fulfil its obligations under Article 16 of the Port Services Regulation 2017/352/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2017/352/oj]. The article contains an obligation to put in place an effective procedure to handle complaints arising from the application of the Regulation, avoiding conflicts of interest and in a way functionally independent of any managing body of the port, or providers of port services. The Commission considers that Germany appears (i) not to have entirely complied with its notification obligation under Article 16(7) and (ii) to have in place complaint handling procedures that do not conform to the requirements of Article 16(2) of the Regulation. The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to Germany, which now has two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Air transport: Commission calls on CZECHIA, DENMARK, GERMANY, ESTONIA, IRELAND, GREECE, CROATIA, ITALY, CYPRUS, LITHUANIA, HUNGARY, the NETHERLANDS, PORTUGAL, SLOVENIA, SLOVAKIA, FINLAND and SWEDEN to ensure compliance with the Common Project One Regulation to implement technical solutions for air traffic management

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending letters of formal notice to Czechia (INFR(2023)2047[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=cs&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2047] INFR(2023)2047), Denmark (INFR(2023)2049[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=da&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2049]), Germany (INFR(2023)2048[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=de&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2048]), Estonia (INFR(2023)2050[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=et&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2050]), Ireland (INFR(2023)2055[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=ga&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2055]), Greece (INFR(2023)2051[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=el&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2051]), Croatia INFR(2023)2053[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=hr&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2053]) , Italy (INFR(2023)2056[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=it&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2056]), Cyprus (INFR(2023)2046[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=el&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2046]), Lithuania (INFR(2023)2057[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=lt&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2057]), Hungary (INFR(2023)2054[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=hu&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2054]), the Netherlands (INFR(2023)2058[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=nl&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2058]), Portugal (INFR(2023)2059[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=pt&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2059]), Slovenia (INFR(2023)2061[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sl&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2061]), Slovakia (INFR(2023)2062[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sk&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2062]), Finland (INFR(2023)2052[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fi&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2052]), and Sweden (INFR(2023)2060[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sv&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2060]), for failing to ensure that their operational stakeholders comply with certain requirements within Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2021/116[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32021R0116] on the establishment of the ‘Common Project One’ supporting the implementation of the European Air Traffic Management Master Plan. The project ensures a synchronised implementation of different procedures and technical solutions, which is essential for good air traffic management performance across the entire Single European Sky network. Some stakeholders in these Member States have not yet implemented some of these procedures, for which the implementation date was 31 December 2022. Consequently, the Commission considers that the Member States in question have failed to ensure that their operational stakeholders comply with the requirements of the Common Project One Regulation. The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to the Member States concerned, which now have two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Civil aviation safety: Commission calls on GREECE to comply with EU rules on air operations and aerodromes

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Greece (INFR(2023)2078[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=de&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2078]) for failing to comply with EU rules on verifying the conformity of air transport operators and carrying out the oversight activities in civil aviation safety (Regulation (EU) 2018/1139[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02018R1139-20210725] and Regulation (EU) 965/2012[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02012R0965-20230614]), as well as for failing to comply with EU rules on the certification of aerodromes (Regulation (EU) 2018/1139 and Regulation (EU) 139/2014[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A02014R0139-20230312]).

For air operations, Member States’ competent authorities must verify commercial air transport operator’s compliance with certain requirements, for which they must establish and maintain a management system with a minimum number of qualified personnel. Investigations conducted by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) have shown that the competent authority in Greece (Hellenic Civil Aviation Authority, HCAA) did not conduct the necessary conformity verifications as stipulated in Commission Regulation (EU) 965/2012. In addition, 10 aerodromes have been identified by HCAA and EASA as not correctly certified in conformity with Regulation (EU) 2018/1139. Greece could also not provide evidence that in four military operated aerodromes, which are open to public use, a required level of safety and interoperability with civil systems has been achieved. The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to Greece, which now has two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Letters of formal notice and Reasoned opinions

Road transport: Commission calls on BELGIUM, BULGARIA, DENMARK, FRANCE, ITALY, HUNGARY, MALTA, POLAND, SLOVENIA and FINLAND to correctly transpose rules on posting of drivers

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Denmark (INFR(2023)2086[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=da&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2086]) and France (INFR(2023)2087[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fr&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2087]) for their failure to notify the Commission all measures transposing Directive (EU) 2020/1057[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32020L1057] into national law.

The Commission also decided to send reasoned opinions to Belgium (INFR(2022)0194[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fr&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0194]), Bulgaria (INFR(2022)0196[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=bg&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0196]), Italy (INFR(2022)0231[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=it&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0231]), Hungary (INFR(2022)0226[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=hu&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0226]), Malta (INFR(2022)0240[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=mt&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0240]), Poland (INFR(2022)0247[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=pl&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0247]), Slovenia (INFR(2022)0260[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=sl&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0260]) and Finland (INFR(2022)0217[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fi&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0217]), for their failure to notify the Commission that they have transposed all measures under Directive (EU) 2020/1057[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32020L1057] into national law. This Directive sets EU rules for the posting of drivers in the road transport sector. It guarantees a driver’s right to be paid the salary of the country to which he or she has been posted and sets a clear legal framework for operators on conducting their operations (e.g., a closed list of administrative requirements and control measures). Member States had to adopt national measures to transpose the Directive by 2 February 2022.

Denmark and France have not taken all the necessary measures to ensure the full transposition of the Directive into national law and/or have failed to notify the Commission of these measures. The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to the two Member States, which now have two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

Belgium, Bulgaria, Italy, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Slovenia and Finland have not indicated, in a sufficiently clear and precise manner, all the national measures which they consider correspond to the different obligations imposed by the Directive. Therefore, the Commission has decided to send a reasoned opinion to these Member States that now have two months to respond and take the necessary measures. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Road safety: Commission calls on BULGARIA, DENMARK, GREECE, LITHUANIA, AUSTRIA and FINLAND to correctly transpose EU rules on periodic roadworthiness tests

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending letters of formal notice to Denmark (INFR(2023)2082[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=da&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2082]), Greece (INFR(2023)2083[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=el&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2083]), Lithuania (INFR(2023)2084[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=lt&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2084]) and Austria (INFR(2023)2081[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=de&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2081]), for their incorrect transposition of Commission Delegated Directive (EU) 2021/1717[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32021L1717].

The Commission also decided to send a reasoned opinion to Bulgaria (INFR(2022)0414[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=bg&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0414]) and Finland (INFR(2022)0421[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fi&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0421]) for their incorrect transposition of the Commission Delegated Directive (EU) 2021/1717[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32021L1717]. This Directive amends Directive 2014/45/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX:32014L0045&from=EN] on the practicalities of periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers, notably by updating vehicle category designations for high-speed tractors, powered two- and three-wheelers and quadricycles. It also adds eCall, a system to send automated messages to the emergency services following a crash, to the list of items which should be subject to periodic roadworthiness tests. The deadline to transpose the Directive into national law was 27 September 2022.

Denmark, Greece, Lithuania and Austria have incorrectly transposed the Directive in different ways and concern specific requirements, including for example the requirement to test eCall. The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to the Member States concerned, which now have two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

As regards Bulgaria and Finland, the Commission sent letters of formal notice to both Member States in November 2022. The Commission found the transposition still insufficient in certain areas covered by the Directive, including for example the obligation to add eCall to the list of test items. Therefore, the Commission has decided to send a reasoned opinion to Bulgaria and Finland, which now have two months to respond and take the necessary measures. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the cases to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Road safety: Commission calls on BELGIUM, DENMARK, the NETHERLANDS and POLAND to correctly transpose EU rules on roadside inspections

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to the Netherlands (INFR(2023)2080[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions/?typeOfSearch=true&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2080&lang_code=EN]) for its incorrect transposition of the Commission Delegated Directive (EU) 2021/1716[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:32021L1716].

The Commission also decided to send a reasoned opinion to Belgium (INFR(2022)0399[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fr&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0399]), Denmark (INFR(2022)0418[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=da&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0418]) and Poland (INFR(2022)0432[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=pl&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0432]) for their incorrect transposition of the Commission Delegated Directive (EU) 2021/1716[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX:32021L1716]. This Directive updates Directive 2014/47/EU[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX:32014L0047&from=DA%22%20\t%20%22_blank] on vehicle category designations, notably for the high-speed tractor category, and aims to improve road safety by ensuring the roadworthiness of heavy commercial vehicles used on public roads. The deadline to transpose the Directive into national law was 27 September 2022. Despite the fact that the Netherlands has notified a complete transposition of the Directive, the Commission considers that some obligations under the Directive were incorrectly transposed. The Commission is therefore sending a letter of formal notice to the Netherlands, which now has two months to respond and address the shortcomings raised by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to issue a reasoned opinion.

As regards Belgium, Denmark and Poland, the Commission sent a letter of formal notice to all three Member States in November 2022. The transposition was found not to conform in certain areas covered by the Directive. The conformity issues identified by the Commission are different for each Member State and include reference to the Directive in legislation, and its official publication. The Commission has therefore decided to send a reasoned opinion to the three Member States, which now have two months to respond and take the necessary measures. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the cases to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Reasoned opinions

Road transport: Commission calls on FINLAND to correctly transpose EU rules on electronic tolling into national law

Today, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Finland (INFR(2022)2108[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=fi&r_dossier=INFR(2022)2108]) for failing to transpose all the necessary provisions of the European Electronic Tolling Service (EETS) Directive (Directive (EU) 2019/520[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2019/520/oj]) into national law. The EETS is a tolling system, for which EU road-users can pay tolls with a single subscription contract, through a single service provider and a single on-board unit that would cover all Member States, once fully implemented. The Directive has two objectives: to ensure interoperability between electronic road toll systems, and to facilitate the cross-border exchange of information on failure to pay road fees. The transposition deadline for this Directive was 19 October 2021. Failure to completely transpose these rules presents an obstacle to interoperability between electronic road toll systems in the Member States, and to cross-border enforcement of the obligation to pay road fees in the EU. Therefore, the Commission has decided to send a reasoned opinion to Finland, which now has two months to respond and take the necessary measures. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Inland navigation: Commission calls on GERMANY to transpose EU rules on professional qualifications in inland navigation as well as to transpose EU rules on transitional measures for the recognition of third-country certificates

The European Commission decided to send reasoned opinions to Germany (INFR(2022)0203[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=de&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0203] and INFR(2022)0206[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=de&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0206]) for failing to transpose the Directive (EU) 2017/2397[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017L2397] on the recognition of professional qualifications in inland navigation in its entirety, and the Commission Delegated Directive (EU) 2020/12[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/HTML/?uri=CELEX:32020L0012&from=en] supplementing that Directive. In addition, the Commission decided to also send a reasoned opinion to Germany (INFR(2022)0204[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=de&r_dossier=INFR(2022)0204]) for failing to completely transpose Directive (EU) 2021/1233[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32021L1233], amending Directive (EU) 2017/2397[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32017L2397], on transitional measures for recognising third-country certificates for inland navigation.

Directive (EU) 2017/2397 sets the conditions and procedures for certifying the qualifications of persons involved in the operation of a craft on Union inland waterways, and for the recognition of such qualifications in Member States. The certification is aimed at facilitating mobility, ensuring the safety of navigation, and protecting human life and the environment. Moreover, Directive (EU) 2017/2397 sets out transitional measures to ensure that certificates of qualification, service record books and logbooks issued before the end of the Directive’s transposition period remain valid while skilled crew members apply for a Union certificate of qualification, or another certificate recognised as equivalent.

With the exception of the Rhine navigation licences, these transitional measures do not apply to certificates of qualification, service record books and logbooks issued by third countries that are currently recognised by Member States.In order to ensure a smooth transition to the system for recognising third-country documents provided for in Directive (EU) 2017/2397, Directive (EU) 2021/1233 sets out transitional measures for third countries to align their requirements with those laid down in EU rules. According to the notifications made to the Commission, Germany has not fully transposed those transitional measures yet. Furthermore, Directive (EU) 2020/12 sets harmonised standards for competences, knowledge and skills for practical examinations, for medical fitness, and for the approval of simulators, supplementing Directive (EU) 2017/2397. The Commission has decided to send a reasoned opinion to Germany, which now has two months to respond and take the necessary measures. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

8. Financial Stability, Financial Services and Capital Markets Union

Letters of formal notice

Anti-Money Laundering: Commission calls on CYPRUS to correctly transpose the 5th Anti-Money Laundering Directive

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Cyprus INFR(2023)2063[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=el&r_dossier=INFR(2023)2063]) on the grounds of its incorrect transposition of the 5th Anti-Money Laundering Directive (5thAML[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32018L0843]) Directive (EU) 2018/843[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32018L0843]. Cyprus had notified a complete transposition of the Directive but the Commission has identified several instances of incorrect transposition, mainly related to the functioning of the national beneficial ownership register (the register that indicates who actually owns what). For instance, Cyprus suspended the application of sanctions in case incorrect information is included, has not communicated any enforcement measures that guarantee the completeness of the register and has not set up yet a beneficial ownership register on companies. Anti-money laundering rules are instrumental in the fight against money laundering and terrorism financing. Legislative gaps occurring in one Member State have an impact on the EU as a whole. In addition, as regards sanctions imposed by the EU following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine it is imperative that the beneficial owners of sanctioned firms are identified. It is of outmost importance, that EU rules are implemented and supervised efficiently in order to combat crime, protect our financial system and ensure EU sanctions enforcement. Without a satisfactory response from Cyprus within two months, the Commission may decide to send a reasoned opinion

Single Market: Commission calls on CZECHIA to bring their national law in conformity with the EU rules on the freedom to provide services of insurance undertakings

The European Commission decided to open an infringement procedure by sending a letter of formal notice to Czechia (INFR(2023)4008[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=el&r_dossier=INFR(2023)4008]) for failing to ensure the correct application of the Directive on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (Directive 2009/138/EC[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/en/ALL/?uri=CELEX%3A32009L0138]), known as “Solvency II”. This Directive sets out harmonised rules for the authorisation of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the EU. Certain amendments to Czech law adopted back in 2021 have created a temporary monopoly for a specific insurance undertaking with respect to private health insurance that is, under certain condition, compulsory for some foreigners staying in Czechia. The amended Czech law prevents citizens from choosing another insurance undertaking. In addition, it prevents insurance undertakings from pursuing the related business in Czechia. Consequently, the Commission takes the view that Czech law is contrary to the provisions of the Solvency II Directive. Concretely, the provisions of the Directive provide that an insurance policyholder can conclude a contract with any insurance undertaking duly authorised in any of the Member States. This can happen as long as that conclusion of contract does not conflict with the relevant legal provisions protecting the general good, and as long as an authorisation of an insurance undertaking is valid for the entire EU, and it covers business under the freedom to provide services. Czechia now has two months to take the necessary measures to address the shortcomings identified by the Commission. In the absence of a satisfactory response, the Commission may decide to send a reasoned opinion to Czechia.

9. Jobs and social rights

Reasoned opinions

EU labour law: Commission calls on ITALY to align its legislation on working conditions for honorary magistrates with EU law

Today, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion to Italy (INFR(2016)4081[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=it&r_dossier=INFR(2016)4081]) for failing to bring its national legislation applying to honorary magistrates fully in line with EU labour law. In the Commission’s view, the Italian legislation fails to comply with EU rules on fixed-term work, on part-time work, on working time and on pregnant workers (Framework Agreement annexed to Directive 1999/70/EC[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/ALL/?uri=celex%3A31999L0070], Framework Agreement annexed to Directive 97/81/EC[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A31997L0081], Directive 2003/88/EC[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A32003L0088], Directive 92/85/EEC[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A31992L0085], respectively). Several categories of honorary magistrates – honorary justices of the peace, honorary deputy prosecutors, and honorary court judges – do not enjoy the status of a ‘worker’ under Italian national law, and are considered volunteers providing services on an ‘honorary’ basis. Because of this, they do not enjoy protection granted to workers under EU labour law, leading for instance to a lack of allowances in case of illness, accidents and pregnancy, to differences in pay, and to tax discrimination. Honorary magistrates are also not sufficiently protected against the abuse of successive fixed-term contracts, and they do not have the possibility to obtain proper compensation for such abuse. Furthermore, Italy has not set up a system to measure the daily working time of each honorary magistrate. This reasoned opinion follows an additional letter of formal notice sent in July 2022. The Commission considers that the Italian reply of December 2022 does still not satisfactorily address its concerns and has now decided to send a reasoned opinion. Italy has two months to respond and take the necessary measures. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union.

Referrals to the Court of Justice

Labour mobility: Commission decides to refer ITALY to the Court of Justice of the European Union for maintaining discrimination of foreign lecturers

Today, the European Commission decided to refer Italy (INFR(2021)4055[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=it&r_dossier=INFR(2021)4055]) to the Court of Justice of the European Union for failing to end discrimination of foreign lecturers. Italy does not adequately enforce national law implementing EU rules on the free movement of workers (Regulation (EU) No 492/2011[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/reg/2011/492/oj] and Article 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A12008E045]). Under EU law, EU citizens who exercise their right to free movement must not be discriminated because of their nationality as regards access to employment and working conditions. Italian law provides a legal framework for the so-called reconstruction of careers of foreign lecturers (‘Lettori’) in Italian universities, which complies with EU law. This has been recognised by the Court of Justice of the European Union in case C-119/04[https://curia.europa.eu/juris/liste.jsf?language=en&num=C-119/04]. However, to date, the majority of universities in Italy did not take the steps needed for a correct reconstruction of the Lettori’s careers. As a consequence, most foreign lecturers have still not received the salary and benefits to which they are entitled. The Commission sent a reasoned opinion to Italy in January 2023 and is now referring Italy to the Court of Justice of the European Union. A press release is available online[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_3480].

10. Competition

Reasoned opinions and Referrals to the Court of Justice

Antitrust: Commission decides to refer ESTONIA to the Court of Justice of the European Union and sends a reasoned opinion to ROMANIA for failing to transpose the ECN+ Directive

Today, the Commission decided to refer Estonia (INFR(2021)0112[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=et&r_dossier=INFR(2021)0112]) to the Court of Justice of the European Union and to issue a reasoned opinion to Romania (INFR(2021)0128[https://ec.europa.eu/atwork/applying-eu-law/infringements-proceedings/infringement_decisions?lang_code=ro&r_dossier=INFR(2021)0128]) for failing to fully transpose the ECN+ Directive (Directive (EU) 2019/1[https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=CELEX%3A32019L0001]) into national legislation. The ECN+ Directive empowers national competition authorities to be more effective enforcers of EU antitrust rules by providing them with the necessary guarantees of independence, resources and the appropriate fining and enforcement tools, such as decision-making powers, effective leniency programmes and mechanisms for mutual assistance. Member States had to adopt and publish the necessary measures to ensure the full transposition of the ECN+ Directive by 4 February 2021. To date, Estonia has not communicated to the Commission any transposition measures, while Romania has communicated only partial transpositions. Therefore, the Commission has decided to refer Estonia to the Court of Justice of the EU and to send a reasoned opinion to Romania, which now has two months to respond and take the necessary measures. Otherwise, the Commission may decide to refer Romania to the Court of Justice of the European Union. A press release is available online[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_23_3454].

Source – EU Commission[https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/inf_23_3445]

Comecon

文件 DPAEUM0020230714ej7e000b7


Bulgaria
Bulgaria Will Provide Ukraine with Armoured Transport Vehicles and Armament, Parliament Decides
Metodi Yordanov; Dimitrina Solakova
822 字
2023 年 7 月 21 日 16:01 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2023 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
Parliament Friday decided, 148-52, to provide Ukraine with additional military-technical assistance. The draft resolution was tabled by MPs of GERB-UDF, Continue the Change-Democratic Bulgaria, and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, and was backed by these parliamentary groups and five MPs of There Is Such a People. The votes against came from 37 MPs of Vazrazhdane and 15 MPs of BSP for Bulgaria.

The resolution reads that Bulgaria will give Ukraine armoured transport vehicles with the available armament for them and spare parts of their servicing that the Interior Ministry no longer needs.

According to the reasoning, in the last 25 years the maintenance and storage of the vehicles in question has required significant financial costs from the budget. Also, the equipment would hardly be applicable to the implementation of the Gendarmerie's main tasks. Therefore, a large part of it has been deemed no longer necessary for the Interior Ministry's needs.

Ivaylo Mirchev from the CC-DB clarified that the proposal is to provide military equipment to Ukraine, not from the Bulgarian Army, but from the warehouses of the Ministry of Interior.

He said that he would like to dispel several myths. "The first is that if we provide armoured vehicles to Ukraine, we will reduce the Army's combat capabilities - this is not true, because this equipment has no relation to the Army, it is simply in the Interior Ministry," Mirchev said.

It is also a myth, in his words, that the assistance Bulgaria provides to Ukraine is costly. "So far we have provided aid to Ukraine once and it was worth BGN 20 million. Ukraine has so far bought arms from us worth BGN 5 billion and we have given it only BGN 20 million," Mirchev said. In his words, by the end of the year these billions that Ukraine has invested will become seven, which makes it one of the pretty big investors in the Bulgarian economy.

"The next myth is that others do not give as much as we do to Ukraine - this is not the case," Mirchev said. "Another myth was that no one would compensate us for the military equipment we provide". According to the MP, it is also a myth that by providing about 100 armoured personnel carriers Bulgaria is reducing the operational capabilities of its Interior Ministry.

The next myth, according to Mirchev, is that "instead of modernising our Army, we are thinking about other armies. This is nonsense, because we cannot modernize the Army with armored vehicles from the 1960s and 1970s. It was also a myth that if we give arms to Ukraine, we are going to war with Russia," he said.

The BSP for Bulgaria insisted that two ministers - of the Interior and of Defence - be summoned to the plenary.

Vazrazhdane proposed that the security services be invited.

According to Andrei Chorbanov of There Is Such a People, it is clear that these armoured personnel carriers cannot be used by the Army. He said he would ask the disasters and emergencies commission and the civil protection if the armoured personnel carriers would do the job as heavy-duty machines.

Hristo Gadzhev of GERB-UDF explained that the Council of Ministers should conclude an agreement with the Government of Ukraine. The same agreement, with the specific numbers, etc., must come to Parliament for ratification, so nothing would be sent without parliamentary sanction, he said.

Socialist leader Korneliya Ninova said that she had filed lawsuits over allegations that weapons were exported to Ukraine while she was minister of economy, and read out a first instance court ruling in her favour. She also called on the MPs who claim that this happened during her term in office to waive their immunities so that the dispute could be resolved in court.

Nikolay Drenchev of Vazrazhdane said that these are not old, unusable or not needed machines. He believes that the police, the firefighting and civil protection service and the Army need them. His party proposed that the draft resolution be changed, so that Bulgaria does not provide Ukraine armoured transport equipment. Parliament rejected it.

BSP for Bulgaria MP Kristian Vigenin said the reason he is included in the list posted on the Myrotvorets Ukrainian website is a statement he had mande in Parliament. Vigenin said he has always held the principled position regarding Ukraine, which has always been based on international law and Bulgaria’s strategic interest. According to Vigenin, this strategic interest is for the war to end, for just and lasting peace, a democratic and free Ukraine that is a member of the EU, as well as a democratic Russia that is part of the international community and a constructive partner of Bulgaria and the EU, as well as for all economic sanctions to be lifted

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/1836430/20230721092000_V_SH9934-01.jpeg]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020230721ej7l000dy


Bulgaria This Week - August 25, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 8 月 25 日, 6346 字, (英文)
Growth of Bulgaria’s M3 slows to 9.9% in JuneThe annual rise of M3 money supply and loans to the non-government sector remained robust in June, although rising at a slower pace, central bank data showed. The annual growth of domestic credit...

Global LNG Monitor This Week - August 25, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 8 月 25 日, 6616 字, (英文)
Completion of Serbia-Bulgaria gas pipeline expected in OctoberThe completion of the Serbia-Bulgaria gas pipeline is anticipated in October of this year, as stated by Serbia’s Minister of Mining and Energy Dubravka Djedovic on August 23.

Former Soviet Union Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - September 15, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 9 月 15 日, 14954 字, (英文)
Azerbaijan increased gas exports from Shah Deniz by 8% in January-AugustExports of Azerbaijani gas from the Shah Deniz field in January-August amounted to 14.59 bcm, which is 8.4% higher than the figure for the first 8 months of 2022, the ...

Bulgaria
Bulgaria Celebrates Its Independence Day
Lyubomir Gigov
565 字
2023 年 9 月 22 日 04:00 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2023 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
On Friday, Bulgaria celebrates the 115th anniversary of the declaration of its independence.

On September 22, 1908, Bulgaria joined the family of independent states. After a prayer service at Tarnovo's historic Church of the Forty Holy Martyrs, in the presence of the Cabinet members, MPs and other officials, Prince Ferdinand I read a Manifesto which proclaimed the vassal Principality of Bulgaria an independent kingdom.

In the course of 30 years, Bulgaria gradually repudiated its vassal dependence on the Ottoman Empire, stopping to pay its annual tax, ignoring the capitulations regime, concluding international treaties and waging a war with Serbia without the Sultan's sanction and, most important of all, declaring a union with the Ottoman autonomous province of Eastern Rumelia on September 6, 1886.

The right international circumstances to match the de facto independence by a de jure act emerged in the summer of 1908, after the July 11 coup d'etat staged by the Young Turks.

On September 10 in Budapest, Prince Ferdinand and Austrian Emperor Francis Joseph secretly coordinated the proclamation of Bulgaria's independence, as a pretext for Austria-Hungary itself to repudiate the Treaty of Berlin and annex the provinces of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the 30-year time limit for their occupation was to expire in September 1908.

The Bulgarian Government adopted a decision on immediate proclamation of independence on September 16, but the act was postponed on Ferdinand's orders. On board the train by which the Prince and the ministers travelled to the medieval Bulgarian capital of Tarnovo, Prime Minister Alexander Malinov wrote the Manifesto on the proclamation of independence at the railway station of Dve Mogili on the evening of September 21. On the next morning, Ferdinand arrived at the station of Trapezitsa and from there went on foot to the historic church of Forty Holy Martyrs. After a solemn prayer service in the presence of the Cabinet members, MPs and other officials, at 12:00 noon on September 22 (New Style October 5), 2008, the Prince read the Manifesto to the Bulgarian People.

Thereafter, National Assembly Chairman Hristo Slaveikov turned to the Prince, saying: "Your Majesty, on behalf of the national representatives, I beg you to assume the title of first Bulgarian Tsar." Ferdinand accepted "with pride and gratitude".

Turkey reacted strongly to the proclamation of Bulgaria's independence, but was not prepared to go to war. Two days later, on September 24, Austria-Hungary formally annexed Bosnia and Herzegovina.

In the spring of 1909, Turkey claimed 650 million gold francs from Bulgaria in compensation for the loss of territory. A settlement was arranged with the mediation of Russia, which wrote off a 125 million gold franc debt of Turkey in exchange for a withdrawal of the latter's claim to Bulgaria. For its part, Bulgaria undertook to pay Russia 82 million gold francs.

Bulgaria's independence was recognized by Russia (February 5, 1909), Turkey (April 6, 1909), Serbia and Montenegro (April 7, 1909), Britain, France and Italy (April 10, 1909), Germany and Austria-Hungary (April 16, 1909), and the United States (March 24, 1910).

The proclamation of independence upgraded Bulgaria's international standing and created prerequisites for the ensuing irredentist wars.

The Bulgarian Constitution was brought into conformity with the proclaimed independence by the Fifth Grand National Assembly (June 9 - July 9, 1911).

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/661963/570476.jpg]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020230922ej9m00002


Bulgaria
Media Review: October 2
Dimitrina Solakova
2087 字
2023 年 10 月 2 日 09:49 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2023 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
The topic of the ongoing protests of miners and trade unions over the future of coal-fired plants in Bulgaria dominates Monday’s news media.

POLITICS

In an interview on Bulgarian National Radio, Bulgarian Industrial Capital Association head Vasil Velev said that the future of coal-fired plants should be a controllable transition on which public agreement has been reached. “It is important to have dialogue through which good decisions are achieved. We too requested a meeting at the Council of Ministers, because members of ours expressed disagreement and concern over the indicative list of companies that would be financed under the Territorial Just Transition Plans. There will be such a meeting with the Prime Minister and the Energy Minister on Tuesday afternoon. We insist that this process of presenting enterprises’ proposals [for investments in the coal regions of Bulgaria] be restarted, renewed and, correspondingly, that the list of companies be expanded, so that we can have a richer choice, an honest, competitive procedure that is not pre-determined by indicative lists. If that is one of the pros of the protest, then it was obviously worth the difficulties,” he added.

On bTV’s morning show, economist Krassen Stanchev, Pernik heating utility director Chavdar Stoynev, and Podkrepa Conferedation of Labour President Dimitar Manolov commented on the protests. Stanchev argued that the problems in the energy sector date back to 2006, when during Bulgaria’s EU membership negotiations the national specifics – lignite coal – were not taken into view. The Green Deal is like central planning; the economy is not a ventilator that you can switch on and off, he added. According to him, alternative solutions to coal-fired plants should be sought – a problem that has been swept under the rug, and there can be no central planning when looking for alternatives. Stoynev explained that the protesting miners and trade unions are for a clear vision for the coming years that is not described in the Territorial Just Transition Plans. In his words, reducing emissions by 80% as of 2030 does not mean to immediately close down the plants, but they cannot possibly work in a normal regime, and re-qualifying workers who have worked for 30 or more years in this field is very difficult. According to him, money should be invested in natural gas installations. Podkrepa President Manolov said that no one knows what is written in the Territorial Just Transition Plans that Finance Minister Assen Vassilev claims to have submitted to Brussels on Friday, September 29. “It turned out that if he has sent them, he did it on Saturday. After he sent them, he invited the protesters to a meeting on Sunday. For what – to bathe them in lukewarm water?” Manolov asked. He said he sees no way out of the situation but hopes that as usual, the politicians have an ace up their sleeve. “There was a schedule for the reduction of capacities [of coal-fired plants] that would be fatal for them. I want to see the ace up the sleeve. I want to, first of all, learn what they have sent to Brussels. They might have sent something different than what they claim,” he added.

On Nova TV’s morning show, four experts commented on the future of coal-fired plants in Bulgaria. Environment and resource management expert Boyan Rashev said that these plants cannot possible survive in the long term because of the market reality in the EU. Poland solved its problems with these plants by creating a capacity mechanism where the plants are paid to work when needed, but Bulgaria did not do that and missed the chance to save its thermal power plants, which are necessary for the electricity system. Podkrepa Confederation of Labour representative Alexander Zagorov argued that the trade unions have noted the need of just transition long ago, but that transition was conceived in an unfair situation called European Union Emissions Trading System; that is where a large part of the reasons for today’s problems lie. “Rising against the System is impossible but we can request that it be regulated in an admissible manner,” he said. Economist Yulian Voykov argued that renegotiating the quota mechanism is impossible. This is happening all over Europe, thermal power plants are ineffective, he said. Simeon Gorov of the For the Earth Association said that the EU introduces these quotas for emissions not to impede the functioning of Bulgaria’s thermal power plants but to minimize the negative impact of climate change.

On Bulgarian National Television’s morning show, Center for the Study of Democracy (CSD) energy expert Kostantsa Rangelova commented that the CSD’s economic studies show that after 2030, regardless of what date is set for the coal-fired plants’ closure, they will leave the energy mix for economic reasons without creating a risk for a sharp increase in prices and for energy security. Vladimir Topalov, head of the Podkrepa Federation of Miners, said: “We have been hearing about these studies and these models for three years. Had these been done then, the idea was for natural gas, now we would be in another situation.” Former Environment Minister Emil Dimitrov commented that the protesting people will be lied to. “They will set them against part of society – we are suffering, you are winning. These people are heading down the path of the workers in Kremikovtski [a metallurgy company closed down in 2009] and BGA Balkan [Bulgaria’s national air carrier that went bankrupt in 2002],” he argued.

***

In an interview for Trud, Assoc Prof Stoycho Stoychev, a political expert, comments on the election campaign that began officially on September 29. According to him, the battle for the position of Sofia Mayor between the 22 candidates will be generational: those born after 1980 are the most active voters, and three of the popular candidates are exactly in that age group. The election results will not shake the government and the parliamentary majority, he argues. It is the European Parliament elections that could have an impact, because they will show who has what influence on the national level. Until then, the biggest obstacle facing the incumbent is the constitutional reform.

An analysis on Segabg.com reads that the local elections in October will be important historically, because for the first time they will be held in an environment where the Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP) is not among the top two political forces in the country. The situation is that of a body with two right legs, as the top forces are the Right-wing GERB and Continue the Change-Democratic Bulgaria. One could even say that the two legs are actually one, because for the first time the two leading forces are competitors as well as allies within the government, the analysis reads.

On bTV’s morning show, media expert Georgi Lozanov and journalist Konstantin Vulkov commented on the start of the election campaign. According to Lozanov, in Sofia the main clash will be between the Euro-Atlantic majority and pro-Russia candidates. According to Vulkov, the parties are not yet relying on party candidates; they are looking for external figures.

***

24 Chasa has an interview on the topic of Schengen and the problems in agriculture with Meglena Plougchieva, former deputy prime minister for EU funds (2008-2009) and former ambassador to Germany, Switzerland, and Montenegro; she currently works at the Institute for Economics and International Relations. According to her, it is for political reasons that Bulgaria is still out of Schengen, and that costs money given that heavy duty trucks cross borders for 10 minutes in the Schengen area and for days in Bulgaria. She is skeptical about Bulgaria being accepted in Schengen in December 2023 because of the bad migration situation in Europe. She calls on the power holders to advertise Bulgaria’s strong sides and achievements and to firmly uphold the position that the country should join Schengen no later than this year. Otherwise, Bulgarians and Romanians look like second-class EU citizens and the EU skepticism grows.

On Bulgarian National Television’s morning show, the head of Border Police, Chief Commissioner Anton Zlatanov, said that the migrant pressure has doubled. In January-September 2023, it grew by 50% year on year. The record-high of 1,500 people prevented from entering the country illegally in 24 hours was registered in the summer. The tighter control and good coordination with the Turkish colleagues has reduced the number to some 500 people in 24 hours, he added. Technically and professionally, Bulgaria has met all Schengen entry criteria, and the accession decision is purely political, the Border Police head noted.

24 Chasa reports that MP Delyan Peevski of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms calls on Bulgaria to ban the entry of vehicles with Russian registration in Bulgaria so as to implement the EU-wide sanction imposed by the European Commission in early September. Observing the EU border security rules is of key importance for Bulgaria’s entry in Schengen, he argued. According to Euroactiv, there are over 300,000 Russian nationals with real estate in Bulgaria. The ban would prevent them from coming here by car.

***

Telegraf quotes Der Spiegel as reporting that the five Bulgarians arrested in the UK for spying for Russia have been active in Germany as well. The three men and two women living in London and Norfolk were arrested in February and accused of being part of an organised network which carried out surveillance on named targets for the benefit of Russia.

***

On bTV’s morning show, Health Minister Hristo Hinkov said that there is strong interest in the vaccines against COVID-19; over 4,000 people have gotten the jab thus far. Bulgaria can order additional quantities if needed. There are enough anti-flu vaccines, he added. The Health Ministry will table draft revisions to the Medicinal Products Act amending the existing formula for re-exporting medicine and the percentage of compulsory market availability to 100% from the current 65% so as to solve the problem with the shortage of medicinal products in the country. A report of the State Agency for National Security on the matter does not make clear all the reasons for the shortage; they are complex and are not linked only to re-export, Hinkov explained.

ECONOMY

24 Chasa’s front-page story reads that a report of the European Parliament’s Committee on Transport and Tourism is proposing the introduction of a category B+ driver’s license for vehicles heavier than 1,800 kg. That covers SUVs as well as electric cars, because their batteries make them as heavy as an SUV.

***

Capital.bg reports that while in some European countries the governments are directly taxing banks’ excess profits, Bulgaria’s Finance Ministry is trying to achieve a similar goal in a roundabout way. The idea is to no longer recognize as tax costs certain bank expenditures, which would basically increase the tax banks have to pay. The effect will not be significant: around BGN 40 to 50 million for the Exchequer. High-ranking manages in several banks, including such that are part of international groups, unofficially spoke negatively about the idea. They explained that such an approach has not been used in any EU Member State or country in Central and Eastern Europe, and it demonstrates complete lack of understanding of the banking business.

***

Trud’s front-page article reads that in the last month, the government has stopped displaying the prices of basic food products in Austria, Germany, Croatia, Greece, Romania, Czechia, Slovenia, and France on the website www.foodprice.bg[http://www.foodprice.bg], launched by the caretaker cabinet back in March with promises to fight speculators. The website was supposed to display the prices of certain food products in Bulgaria and eight European countries with weekly updates, so that consumers could have an idea who and where is inflating the prices. Now, the website only shows whether the food products are appreciating or depreciating, which in no way helps Bulgarian consumers get an idea of whether they are paying more or less for a given product than European consumers. Traders told the daily that food is much cheaper in Spain, Italy, Greece, Turkiye, and Romania, despite their citizens’ incomes being two- to three-fold higher than Bulgarians’.

***

Telegraf’s headline reads that the central heating bills are becoming similarly high to electricity ones in homes where the most energy-consuming heating appliances are used.

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/170187/press-review.JPG]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020231002eja20005s


Bulgaria
Media Review: October 9
Lyubomir Gigov
2971 字
2023 年 10 月 9 日 10:37 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2023 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
Israel in State of War

Trud covers the Hamas attacks against Israel on two full inside pages. The stories include the evacuation of 92 Bulgarians from Tel Aviv by the government Airbus and a backgrounder on the Palestinian group and the Gaza Strip.

In its two-page coverage, Telegraph quotes Bulgarians who witnessed the attacks in Israel and were evacuated to Sofia. A signed analysis is headlined "Hamas and Israel Bogged Down in New War."

24 Chasa also devotes two whole inside pages to the subject under the blanket headline "Israel Is in War! Disaster for Mosad: Hundreds Dead, Thousands Injured after Hamas Attack". Journalist Georgi Milkov writes in an analysis that "in recent decades the Israeli political elite seems to have succeeded to make the world forget about the Palestinian problem. It did it so well that the Israeli political elite itself forgot about the Palestinians and focused on its own navel, i.e. on its infighting for struggle, the corruption scandals, the series of unprincipled coalitions, the series of judicial reforms not for the sake of justice and the rule of law but for the sake of ad hoc politics and partisanship. Israel should become a textbook example of how the erosion of political morality in a civilized state is the worst threat to its national security - more so than even the world's most sinister terrorist group."

In a front-page comment in Duma, headlined "The Promised Land", Tanya Gluhcheva writes that "strangely, most countries proved to be empathic with Tel Aviv. Even more strangely, the countries in question (with minor exceptions) are pro-American-minded. The Palestinians are 'the bad guys', Hamas are terrorists, murderers and what not. Do they not sustain casualties, too? Are their people not dying, too? The US immediately offered military aid to Netanyahu, and the US is always eager to shed blood rather than settle the issue peacefully. This is precisely what lead to believe that there is something rotten. Again, we are witnessing unheard-of cruelty, death of innocent and massive destruction. Will we ever learn a lesson? The latest example is the war between Russia and Ukraine where, too, there is talk of occupied territories, there are daily missile strikes, hundreds of thousands are forced to leave their homes, to ditch their lives and look for a new place for a fresh beginning or hide in bomb shelters..." "Ultimately, the Jews may have to seek a new Promised Land. History repeats itself, first as a tragedy, second as a farce. At this point, is it the tragedy or the farce? What matters is that at least for the time being we will forget about Zelenskyy. Even though he reminded of himself by his latest statement but probably he has realized that the military aid that had been promised to him will already be redirected elsewhere."

In an exclusive interview for Nova TV on Monday morning, Israel's Ambassador in Sofia Yosef Levi Sfari said that the Hamas militants "are not human beings but brutes committing things that democratic societies cannot imagine." The diplomat was adamant that Israel does not plan to capture Gaza. In his opinion, such an attack cannot be carried out without the support of a third party. Levi Sfari thanked Bulgaria for the assistance it has rendered to the Israeli people. "The US supports us by what we need: information, military aid. We coordinate with the Americans, they are out best allies," the ambassador stressed.

On the same show Miroslav Zafirov, a UN diplomat who was involved in the Israel-Palestine negotiations, said that Hamas has declared a full-scale war on Israel, which is neither an escalation nor a local conflict. In his words, it is crucial to prevent an expansion of the conflict northward, towards Lebanon.

Former deputy foreign minister Lyubomir Kyuchukov said in a Bulgarian National Radio interview on Monday morning that he expects the war to escalate in the short term and a massive Israeli retaliation, which is already underway. As yet another effect, the negotiations between Israel and Saudi Arabia on the restoration of diplomatic relations may come under "a huge question mark". The geopolitical context is complicated as a level of confrontation and a number of regional and global factors engaged in the Middle East processes. The expert sees a connection between the timing of the attacks and the global leadership struggle between the US and China, in this particular case over the Middle East which is strategically important as a source of energy resources and logistical routes. "While the Palestinian leadership in the West Bank is trying to find a way to stand up for the Palestinian cause within the framework of the US - Israel - Saudi Arabia, Hamas has obviously decided to torpedo this thaw between Saudi Arabia and Israel, which could erode Saudi support for the Palestinian cause and backtrack the recognition of the Palestinian State."

Interviewed on National Television on Monday morning, Prof. Vladimir Chukov said that Hamas decided to attack Israel back in the summer. "The thaw of Saudi-Israeli relations will result in a completely new status quo in the whole region. An indisputable leader like Saudi Arabia will serve as a role model for a number of other Muslim World countries," Assoc. Prof. Mira Mayer commented in the same show. She said that there are no facts implicating Russia in the terrorist attack.

On Monday's morning show of bTV, journalist Asen Agov said that the purpose of this conflict and of the Russia-North Korea-Iran "sanction axis" was to push up the oil price, which is already the case even today. "We are all interested in Israel strengthening and preventing any such attacks despite having such excellent services. The link is obvious and it exists in some way. Whether it was planned jointly with Moscow or no, the result benefits Russia. Hence we conclude that intervention in the preparation and implementation is highly probable," said former defence minister Nikolay Svinarov. "We should congratulate the Government on the speed and adequacy with which it managed to extract our fellow Bulgarians from Israel," said Borislav Tzekov. He is surprised by the silence of President Rumen Radev and hopes that he will convene the Consultative Council for National Security. Tzekov sees the initiative for a transport corridor between India and Europe as an important reason for the terrorist war because this corridor represents economic and geopolitical competition and alternative to the link and corridor of Iran and Russia for the export of Indian goods.

Constitutional Amendments

In Trud, constitutional law expert Borislav Tzekov argues that the proposed constitutional amendment making dual nationals eligible for top jobs in the land (president, vice president, prime minister, cabinet member, member of Parliament) is "yet another attempt to dismantle bulwarks of the nation state. Tzekov admits that 16 EU Member States do not impose such a ban but insists that another 11 Member States do for specific national, historical, political and socio-cultural reasons. The author points out that dual nationality may give rise to a conflict of loyalties and that such a ban has always existed in Bulgaria since 1878.

Constitutional law lecturer Nataliya Kiselova said on Bulgarian National Television on Saturday that the planned abolition of the caretaker cabinet will not go through and the presidential powers will not be limited to the extent intended. "They will rather scrap the second term of office of the prosecutor general and, probably, of the supreme court presidents," she noted. The associate professor also expects the change of the national day to be dropped, too. In her opinion, the setting up of a common body to control the prosecutors' and the judges' council will trigger the most heated debate.

Parties in Present Political Situation

Interviewed for Trud, Prof. Antoaneta Hristova points out that, much to her regret, the establishment parties are giving up ideology. GERB is leaning leftward and is being engulfed by neoliberalism. There is room for new parties to fill a huge empty space, especially in the patriotic spectrum. "Parties that should be really independent of sundry embassies rather than such that are apparently bound to one diplomatic mission or another," the expert specifies. "Their leaders should be able to convince Bulgarians that they will defend our interests rather than the interests of external factors." Hristova describes the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (MRF) as "a stable liberal party which does not stand a chance of being toppled, despite its rather odd current role which is even negative in Bulgarian politics."

Borissov Warns of Power-Sharers' BGN 266 Mln Scam

Trud frontpages a report, quoting GERB leader Boyko Borissov as saying that on Friday evening the Nikolay Denkov Cabinet had launched a grant scheme for photovoltaics with batteries under which BGN 266 million under the Recovery and Resilience Plan will be shared among companies close to Continue the Change. Borissov argued that this violates a ban imposed by the National Assembly. GERB MP Delyan Dobrev specified in a Facebook post that only companies with assets exceeding EUR 60 million for 2022 are eligible to apply.

Healthcare

Bulgarian Medical Association President Ivan Madzharov says in a two-page interview for Telegraph that, unlike Europe, where entire groups of medicines are sometimes unavailable, in Bulgaria the shortage affects a particular original medicinal product that cannot be replaced by a generic equivalent. The Association opposes the sale of medicines by vending machines even for over-the-counter medicines. Dr Madzharov notes the lack of a promotion campaign for preventive checkups. At this point, 38% of physicians in Bulgaria are aged over 60, and 63% are over 50. In ten years' time, all doctors will be 63% of the present number. A long-term programme is needed to address the shortage of personnel. The interviewee believes that the number of hospitals in the country needs to be reduced. In his opinion, the planned National General Pediatric Hospital should focus on the really serious and complicated cases.

In an interview for 24 Chasa, Prof. Dimitar Bulanov, Dean of the Sofia University Faculty of Medicine, says that Bulgarian medical school graduates tend to leave for Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Britain and other medically advanced countries because they can work there far more intensively, the conditions there enable them to work more but also to earn more and have a far higher standard of living than at home. They can become fine specialists earlier, get public respect, decent pay and predictable living - these conditions are insufficiently secure in Bulgaria, Bulanov says. Abroad, Bulgarian doctors have the opportunity to practise in modern, high-tech and stable hospitals in terms of both financing and infrastructure, organization and staff. The interviewee notes that the lack of nurses in both quantity and quality is a huge problem at hospitals. He argues that, contrary to the existing regulation, the number of nurses should be bound to the number of beds rather than to the number of doctors.

Miners' and Energy Workers' Protest

Interviewed on Bulgarian National Radio on Saturday morning, financial expert Evgenii Kanev said that it is completely untrue that the country's entire energy sector would collapse because of state-owned enterprises that maintain a huge workforce. "The problem is not what all these people will do but that they do not want to be anything else except miners, even though they pollute the air and cost too much to our society, regardless of whether they are needed or not, they insist on doing this and nothing else." "How many citizens are aware that these power plants cost us EUR 2.5 billion in medicines, medical treatment and absences from work?" the interviewee asks. In his opinion, the statement of a trade union leader that electricity production would have been fine if it were not for the EU trade in emission allowances is "a wonderful example of exploiting people's ignorance." Nor is it true that electricity would not be cheaper without the allowances because renewable electricity is cheaper now. People imagine that, just as 12-13 years ago, renewable electricity is still subsidized and is therefore very expensive. In reality, it is not subsidized and is therefore cheap because there is demand for it and the equipment prices have fallen steeply." "Miners must be helped, but this does not mean that they should keep exactly these jobs that expose the environment and the nation's health to a risk. These miners have been used for political purposes for a long time now. The power plants have been deeply involved in politics, including by financing political parties. All political interests are used very crassly when such protests are staged, including when an "enemy" government has to be shaken. All opponents to the present Government and supporters of the protest are actually working for Bulgaria destabilization. We know whose interests are served by a destabilization in the conditions of a war. What are our national interests according to those people [the miners and the grain farmers]? To leave the EU and become a grey area like Belarus or to serve Russian interests?" According to Kanev, the dozen or so families behind the protesters were created by the two parties that have been running agriculture and the energy sector over the years: GERB and the MRF. In actual fact, they insist that want to carry out some reform but only if their people manage these reforms. The anti-government attacks of GERB and the MRF are always about persons, not about policies, the expert says.

Agriculture

In an interview for www.capital.bg[http://www.capital.bg], Atidzhe Alieva-Veli MEP of the MRF/Renew Europe Group says that adequate financing of small farmers is exceedingly important for the EU, targeting guaranteed food security, high value added, high competitiveness, modernization and innovations in the context of the Green Pact, acquisition of skills and knowledge, and attracting young people to agriculture. Member States' strategic plans will be modified to respond to the consequences of the war in Ukraine, the interviewee says. She insists on the need to ease the administrative burden due to the complicated measures and numerous requirements under the Rural Development Programme, which may result in inefficient budget allocation. Measures have been taken at the national level to reduce the concentration of direct payments on a small number of agricultural producers. The EUR 100,000 ceiling on direct payments for the current programming period is a third of the level for the previous period. "Bulgarian farmers are disadvantaged by getting the lowest direct payment subsidies in the EU. This makes them less competitive compared to their European counterparts, especially regionwide," Alieva-Veli points out. She is adamant that there should be full convergence of direct payments despite the fierce resistance from the "old" Member States.

Green Transition

Expert Kristiyan Dimitrov of Greenpeace said in a National Radio interview on Monday morning that energy community enable people to get actively involved in the energy transition. "They can share the costs of an investment and allocate the electricity they produce. They are also able to share up a profit if they produce excess power." Dimitrov says that despite enabling legislation that has been enacted, no mechanism has been set up, the procedure is complicated by unnecessary document requirement, which explains why there is just one energy community in Bulgaria. He notes that the law does not provide for financial concessions by the State even though this is provided for in the Renewable Energy Directive.

European Investment Bank

24 Chasa has a page-long interview with European Investment Bank (EIB) Vice-President Lilyana Pavlova, who discusses Bulgaria's chances of getting EIB financing, the bank's investments in climate action and energy transformation, and her experience of the four-year term in office

Plovdiv Fair

24 Chasa runs a page-long analysis of the present and future of the Plovdiv Fair, whose fate has been the subject of controversy and debate for years now. Economy and Industry Minister Bogdan Bogdanov has launched a new attempt to revive the company. He is trying to regain state control over the fair because the company is being managed ineffectively, the daily writes. When it began in 1892, the Plovdiv Fair occupied 82,000 sq m, had exhibitors from 24 countries and drew 161,000 visitors. Now the Bulgarian fair has a total space of 352,000 sq m, double the 182,000 sq m of the Thessaloniki Fair. On the other hand, 200 exhibitors came to Plovdiv in 2022 and 1,500 to Thesaloniki. The visitors to the venue in Bulgaria were 15,000, compares to 210,000 in Greece. A new strategy for the development of the Plovdiv Fair has been developed by a team of the Ministry of Economy and Industry, targeting the attraction of key industries like the circular economy, renewable energy sources etc. The Plovdiv Fair should turn into a platform for the presentation of new technologies and innovations and should support start-ups by reduced fees.

Demographic Crisis

In a page-long item contributed to Trud, Socialist MEP Elena Yoncheva writes that Bulgarian society is ready to welcome some 300,000 ethnic Bulgarians resident abroad, mainly in Ukraine and Moldova, given that 167 settlements in Bulgaria are now completely depopulated and 592 have a population of 1 or 2. "The State is unable to attract expatriate Bulgarians because it is not an orderly place to live. Corruption puts off investments and drives people to despair. Thefts rule out proper roads, motorways, well paid doctors and affordable health services. The conditions for raising children are inadequate. There are working poor, and pensioners are in dire straits. Security and prospects are lacking. That is why we should pool our efforts to overcome inequalities," the author concludes.

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/67805/press-review.JPG]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020231009eja90005l


European Commission says Bulgaria independently raised tariff for gas transit from Russia
369 字
2023 年 10 月 30 日 14:40 GMT
World Service Wire
TASS
英文
(c) 2011. ITAR-TASS. All rights reserved
The Bulgarian authorities independently decided to raise the tariff for transit of Russian gas, representative of the European Commission (EC) Tim McPhie told a briefing on Monday.

"This is a national measure," he said. According to him this measure has noting to do with the EU sanctions against Russia.

McPhie mistakenly mentioned that the EU has "12 packages in place" although the 12th package is still to be approved by the EU member states.

"Those [sanctions] considering energy cover both oil and coal embargos but there is no sanction can be placed on gas imports. But, of course, in the context of our Repower EU plan we are committed to reduce imports of all Russian fossil fuels as soon as possible," the EC official said.

McPhie said that the European Commission "takes note of this recently enacted measure from Bulgaria concerning its gas imports"

"We are in close contact with Bulgaria and other affected countries to assess and to discuss the possible effects of this measure," he added. The EC official stressed that the use of revenues from the new tariff is "really a question to Bulgarian authorities."

On October 13, the Bulgarian parliament introduced an additional tariff of 20 levs (about 10 euros) per MWh for the transit of Russian gas flowing through the TurkStream pipeline and its branches to Serbia and then to Hungary.

On October 17, Serbia and Hungary prepared a joint statement indicating that Bulgaria's decision to increase the rate for gas transit from Russia is a hostile move towards them and also "threatens the security of energy supply" of the two countries.

On October 26, Bulgarian President Rumen Radev appealed to the Constitutional Court in connection with the introduction of additional payment for the transit of Russian gas, noting that the adopted law violates a number of provisions of the constitution, the principles of guarantees of property rights and free economic initiative. According to the president, the introduction of an additional payment does not comply with the principle of the legality of taxes and fees, since the legal status of the "contribution" is unclear, whether it is a tax, fee or duty.

ITAR-TASS Information Telegraph Agency of Russia

文件 TASS000020231030ejau00165

跳到主要资讯内容
Dow Jones Factiva
Dow Jones
CE Noticias Financieras English
The General Court of the European Union annuls the sanction imposed on a gas industry group that was accused of abusing its dominant position in the market.
526 字
2023 年 10 月 31 日
CE NoticiasFinancieras
NFINCE
英文
Copyright © Content Engine LLC
The General Court of the European Union (CJEU) annulled the European Commission's decision sanctioning a Bulgarian business group for abusing its dominant position in the gas market by denying other companies access to strategic gas infrastructures in Bulgaria. The evidence was insufficient and due process guarantees were not respected during the procedure.

Bulgarian Energy Holding (BEH), a corporate company in which the Bulgarian state had a stake, owned several subsidiaries in the energy sector, including Bulgargaz and Bulgartransgaz. The first of these was the country's public gas supplier and therefore managed and operated the gas transport network used for gas distribution in Bulgaria. It also controlled the country's only natural gas storage facility.

Bulgaria's supply depended for a long time almost entirely on imports of Russian gas, transported through Romania, mainly via the Romanian transit pipeline No. 1. In 2005, the two countries signed an agreement granting Bulgargaz exclusive use of that pipeline until the end of 2011, an agreement that was extended until 2016.

In 2010, Overgas, a Bulgarian gas company, filed a complaint with the European Commission against BEH and its two subsidiaries for infringement of EU competition rules. Following an investigation, the Commission found that the behavior of these companies constituted an abuse of a dominant position in Bulgaria. According to the Commission, BEH's actions prevented Bulgargaz's competitors from developing their offer on Bulgarian territory, for which it imposed a fine of approximately 77 million euros.

The sanctioned companies appealed the decision before the EUAT, requesting the annulment of the Commission's decision or, alternatively, a reduction of the fine.

In its substantive analysis, the Court notes that, "(...) the Romanian pipeline 1 was an indispensable infrastructure for transporting Russian gas to Bulgaria due to the lack of any alternative. Although Bulgargaz was not the owner, this pipeline was reserved for its exclusive use, which resulted in a situation of control and, consequently, in the dominant position of Bulgargaz on the relevant market".

It points out that "(...) the Commission did not demonstrate that the behavior of Bulgargaz, as regards access to the Romanian pipeline 1, was the trigger for the difficulties faced by third parties requesting access to that pipeline to transport gas from Russia to Bulgaria.

It adds that "(...) any irregularity that Bulgargaz could hypothetically have committed with regard to the gas transport network and the storage facility could not constitute an infringement of the EU competition rules, since no undertaking could have penetrated the Bulgarian gas market without having access to the Romanian pipeline 1".

The Court concludes that "(...) the Commission did not give the appellant the opportunity to fully defend its position on the alleged infringement, thereby infringing its rights of defense. In these circumstances, the Commission did not properly demonstrate that the appellant company had abused its dominant position on the gas supply market in Bulgaria".

In the light of the above, the Court annulled the European Commission's decision to impose penalties.

Content Engine LLC

文件 NFINCE0020231031ejav0052s


News
EC to investigate Bulgaria for exploiting Russian oil sanctions loopholes that earned the Kremlin €1bn
697 字
2023 年 11 月 10 日 06:25 GMT
Newsbase Daily News
NBDAL
英文
© 2023. Newsbase OU. All Rights reserved.
The European Commission will investigate Bulgaria for exploiting loopholes in the oil sanctions regime against Russia that have earned the Kremlin $1bn, Politico reported on November 10.

It has emerged that a Russian oil firm exploited a loophole in the sanction’s regime, earning €1bn of profits that can contribute to Russia's war efforts.

Bulgaria is one of the EU countries that has an exemption from the embargo on imports of Russian oil, thanks to the heavy dependence of the economy on the import of oil from Russia as a legacy from the Warsaw Pact days. It is allowed to import millions of barrels of Russian oil a year that supply a Moscow-owned refinery on its territory, which then exports refined fuels, including to EU countries, Politico reports.

A senior Commission official told Politico: "We're paying attention to it, and we've asked the Bulgarians to explain themselves." Bucharest has acknowledged the challenges posed by such derogations and exceptions.

Enforcing the oil sanctions has turned into a game of whack-a-mole that the West is failing to win; as bne IntelliNews reported, oil sanctions are increasingly a spent cannon[https://www.intellinews.com/oil-sanctions-are-a-spent-canon-297256].

The Bulgarian trade in oil products has generated about €983mn in production and export levies for Russia and nearly €500mn in refinery profits since the exemption began on February 5, according to a classified analysis.

While privately-owned Russian oil major, Lukoil, the owner of the refinery via its EU subsidiary Litasco, did not breach sanctions, it shipped nearly 3mn barrels of Russian-origin refined products to EU countries like Malta. This equated to around one-fifth of crude oil processed at Bulgaria’s leading port of Burgas where the refinery is located.

The revelations have stirred political controversy in Bulgaria, with Prime Minister Nikolay Denkov expressing surprise at the scale of the sanctions-avoidance scheme. He pledged to strengthen sanctions laws and redirect funds from Lukoil's profits to the Bulgarian budget.

Russian oil companies own several refineries in the EU and have been selling their own Russian oil to their own EU-based refineries at low prices, which is then refined and sold legally to EU customers. The profits generated then accumulate at the level of the EU-based subsidiaries and are not sanctioned. Thanks to these schemes Russia has built up an opaque slush fund[https://intellinews.com/russian-companies-build-up-200bn-secret-slush-fund-despite-the-oil-sanctions-290911/?source=russia] controlled by Russian oil companies of legally earnt and spendable foreign exchange that is worth somewhere between €80bn and €200bn, according to various estimates. While the Kremlin has no direct access to this money, or indeed doesn’t know where it is, it does know roughly how much each company has thanks to production volumes and customs data on exports and so in theory can lean on the companies and use these funds to finance sanctions-busting trade.

The EU is also aware of these scams and is slowly starting to crack down on them. Compared to Russia’s energy giants Gazprom and Rosneft, Lukoil’s assets in Europe have been relatively unaffected by the fallout from the conflict in Ukraine, but the noose is starting to tighten around Lukoil’s neck. Lukoil has already been forced to sell its ISAB refinery in Sicily[https://newsbase.com/story/lukoil-closes-sale-of-sicilian-refinery-278076] and on July 21 Bulgaria’s parliament voted to take control of the Burgas oil terminal controlled by Lukoil[https://intellinews.com/bulgarian-lawmakers-to-take-control-of-lukoil-oil-terminal-285340/]. Lukoil could also sell its refinery in Romania, local media reported in January, as well as its retail fuel operations in Moldova.

Bulgaria is slowly moving to join the EU embargo on the import of Russian oil. After heated debates, parliament decided last month to end its exemption on the import of Russian oil two months earlier than planned, in October next year. However, the EC investigation has spurred calls to end the exemptions even earlier.

Bulgarian lawmaker Delyan Dobrev, the chair of parliament’s energy committee says he will introduce a new motion to end the exemption immediately, stating that: "Everyone is shocked, including the government,” Politico reports.

Photo: Miroslav.Nikolov[https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index.php?title=User:Miroslav.Nikolov&action=edit&redlink=1].

This photo was cropped to fit. Creative commons lisc: CC BY-SA 4.0 DEED[https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/deed.en]

Newsbase OU

文件 NBDAL00020231110ejba000m9


EC to ask Bulgaria to explain Russian sanction loophole
BNN
409 字
2023 年 11 月 10 日 08:02 GMT
Baltic News Network (BNN)
BNNEN
英文
© 2023. BNN. All Rights Reserved
The European Commission (EC) will open an investigation against Bulgaria for allowing a Russian oil company to exploit a loophole in European Union (EU) sanctions that allowed it to earn one billion euros for Kremlin war funds, on Thursday, the 9th of November, reports Politico.

An exemption granted to Bulgaria last year from the EU ban on Russian oil allowed millions of barrels of Moscow oil to flow into a Russian-owned refinery on Bulgarian territory, subsequently exporting refined fuel abroad, including the EU, in violation of sanctions.

“We have asked Bulgaria to explain themselves,”

a senior EC official said, speaking on condition of anonymity, noting that such exemptions can cause problems and that work is underway to phase them out, adding that there are still loopholes in the system.

In addition to the estimated 983 million euros that Russia raised from production and export levies, Politico reports that a secret analysis has revealed that the loophole has also brought nearly 500 million euros in profits to refinery owner Lukoil since the exception began on the 5th of February.

Although Lukoil has not breached the sanctions, according to shipping data, it transported almost three million barrels of Russian refined products by sea between March and July this year, Politico writes.

The revelation of this loophole has sparked political outrage in Bulgaria.

Prime Minister Nikolai Denkov on Thursday expressed shock at the scale of the sanctions-avoidance scheme and pledged to strengthen sanctions in areas where they have proved ineffective.

Prime Minister Denkov also claimed that the government was taxing Lukoil in order to reduce the funds going to Russia, while increasing the contributions to the Bulgarian budget.

According to Politico, last month Bulgaria agreed to end the exemption in October next year, two months earlier than planned. However, recent revelations have prompted them to lift it even sooner.

Bulgarian legislator Delyan Dobrev, head of the Energy Committee, was shocked by the situation and plans to file a new proposal to immediately lift the exemption. Dobrev said that previous attempts did not gain enough support, but Dobrev, determined to succeed this time, expects that there will be no obstacles this time.

Read also: Russian artist who staged anti-war protest in supermarket faces eight years in prison

Follow us on Facebook and X!

The post EC to ask Bulgaria to explain Russian sanction loophole appeared first on Baltic News Network.

SIA Media Support

文件 BNNEN00020231110ejba0002u


Europe Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - November 10, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 11 月 10 日, 6664 字, (英文)
EC to investigate Bulgaria for exploiting Russian oil sanctions loopholes that earned the Kremlin €1bnThe European Commission will investigate Bulgaria for exploiting loopholes in the oil sanctions regime against Russia that have earned the...

Russia This Week - November 10, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 11 月 10 日, 34809 字, (英文)
RIDDLE: Russian trade with China as a Matryoshka dollAlexey Chigadaev explores the specifics of Russian-Chinese trade turnover in 2023A Matryoshka doll or nesting dolls is the best metaphor to describe the economic-political relationship ...

Former Soviet Union Oil & Gas Monitor This Week - November 10, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 11 月 10 日, 10461 字, (英文)
Kazakhstan reportedly faces liquefied petroleum gas shortage due to growing demandKazakhstan is reportedly grappling with a severe liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) shortage. According to Energy Minister Almasadam Satkaliyev, the issue is ...

Bulgaria
Media Review: November 16
2966 字
2023 年 11 月 16 日 11:00 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2023 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
NO-CONFIDENCE DEBATE

The debate on the motion for a vote of no confidence in the Nikolay Denkov Cabinet is widely covered across the Thursday press, online media outlets and the national televisions and radio. The motion is backed by BSP for Bulgaria, Vazrazhdane and There Is Such a People and is due to be put to the vote later on Thursday.

Duma leads with a story titled “Korneliya Ninova: Resignation of the Cabinet and Programmatic Government”. That was the highlight of Ninova’s address during the parliamentary debate. Duma has a total of three pieces on the debate: one with the position of party leader Ninova, one with the statement of Atanas Zafirov of the party leadership and one with the address by Kristian Vigenin, who presented the reasoning of the vote motion in the plenary chamber. The paper does not mention what any of the other parties – or the government – said in the debating chamber.

Mediapool reports the matter under the headline “The Doomed Vote of No-confidence: Some Hybrid Talking Points, Some Anecdotes and the Usual Talk”. The subheading reads “BSP wants programmatic government, Vazrazhdane wants prison for ‘Tagarenko’ and Borissov – a new budget”. “Borissov” is GERB leader Boyko Borissov and “Tagarenko” is the disparaging name that Vazrazhdane used for Defence Minister Todor Tagarev to mock his strong pro-Ukrainian position.

Trud says in a front-page story on the debate that “Tagarev’s wife has won a contract for drones”. “Questions about procurement contracts awarded to relatives and friends of the Defence Minister remain unanswered,” says the story.

The Telegraf headline for the debate story is “Opposition Calls for Programmatic Government”, Tagarev is quoted as saying in another headline “We are protecting the national interests”

In the morning show of Bulgarian National Television, political scientists Stoycho Stoev, Daniel Smilov and Yuri Aslanov commented the no-confidence debate on Wednesday, the 2024 draft budget and the recent local elections with the failed election of a chair of the Sofia Municipal Council.

Smilov expects the no-confidence motion to fail and said it was planned in the context of the local election campaign and now it does not make much sense. Aslanov said that the whole concept for the no-confidence vote is to give the opposition a chance to make itself heard. He does not expect the vote to succeed either. Aslanov believes that the big test of the ruling majority is going to come with the discussion of next year's state budget. Stoychev touched upon the contradictions in the ruling majority, between GERB and CC-DB, and says that Vazrazhdane “more or less dominates this opposition, it formulates some clear messages against this majority”.

POLITICS

Citing knowledgeable sources in Parliament, Mediapool.bg writes that CC-DB, GERB and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (MRF) have agreed to take up the issue of bringing party funding to light, which could lead to an increase in party subsidies, but also to the introduction of additional restrictions on donations from individuals. The issue is expected to be tabled for discussion in parliament after the New Year. CC-DB is pushing for a reduction of private interests in party funding, and the formation's co-chairman Hristo Ivanov calls this "nationalization of parties". "At the moment there is too great a risk that parties will become dependent on private interests, for which there is no regulation. In a view of that, we need to ensure that they are national parties, not private ones," Ivanov told Mediapool.

***

Mediapool reports that the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office “has found no grounds for petitioning the court to dissolve the populist pro-Russian party Vazrazhdane". The dissolution of the party was sought by a group of citizens earlier this year on grounds which they found in the party platform, actions and positions during the pandemic, attacks on media outlets, positions on Russia's war against Ukraine, positions against refugees and ethnic minorities, and people with different sexual orientation, among others. The prosecutors based their refusal entirely on the European Court of Human Rights' long-standing Strasbourg case law on freedom of association and freedom of expression.

***

Telegraph quotes Prime Minister Nikolay Denkov as saying that the differences between the parties supporting the government are not that big and those concerning the 2024 state budget won’t bring it down. There is, however, significant tension in the majority over the Lukoil exemption from the EU ban on Russian oil and over what GERB fears to be a deal between Continue the Change – Democratic Bulgaria, the Socialists and Vazrazhdane in the Sofia Municipal Council. That transpired from comments by GERB leader Boyko Borissov, Prime Minister Nikolay Denkov and Movement for Rights and Freedoms floor leader Delyan Peevski.

Dnevnik.bg has a commentary titled “When [Delyan] Peevski and [Ahmed] Dogan Come to Light”. Delyan Peevski is the MRF floor leader and most prominent representative of late and Ahmed Dogan is the party’s founder and honorary chairman. The commentary says: “When MRF announces a course towards modernization and the process is spearheaded by MRF Honorary Chairman Ahmed Dogan and floor leader Delyan Peevski, what kind of modernity should one expect? Dystopian. Their political biographies of association with the Multigroup group, of enrichment through odd and obscure schemes and connections with the former State Security, and for Peevski - with sanctions under the Global Magnitsky Act, do not give one a chance to think of anything else.”In the bTV morning show, three political analysts speculated on what would be the distribution of powers after the rotation of the Prime Ministers in February, as agreed between GERB and Continue the Change – Democratic Bulgaria (CC-DB).Political analyst Ruzha Smilova said: “It seems to me that GERB and MRF have forgotten that the campaign for the local elections is over and they continue to exacerbate tensions, paving the way to a crisis. One contentious topic is the Lukoil exemption from the EU ban on Russian oil. The local elections measured the weight of the political forces and that would be the reason for the shifting balances in the cabinet after the rotation. Some of the partners [supporting the government] are not happy [after the elections]. One of the main aims of the ongoing attacks is to make sure the current finance minister be removed after GERB gets the prime-ministerial office in the February rotation. Much is at stake here for GERB and MRF.”

Social analyst Dimiter Ganev, Trend Agency: “The question in the coalition is who will prevail in the next few months. The issues of contention are the Lukoil derogation, the budget and the constitutional changes. The internal balances are of great importance as the new cabinet will be discussed in February. It is during these months that a campaign will be on to determine who will be in a better position when the new cabinet is formed. It will indeed be new. Many of the ministers may keep their seats in the next cabinet, but the question is who will be in a stronger negotiating position.”

Social analyst Kolyo Kolev, Mediana Agency: “The election campaign was about the voters. Now all this noise is about threatening the ‘partner’ in the government arrangement: ‘if you don't listen to us, we will teach you a lesson’. This is rocking the boat in order to gain some or other position of power. GERB and MRF are not satisfied with the current government format as it isolates them from power. It is clear that a redistribution is aimed at.”

bTV had a report in its morning show about the re-count of votes for the Haskovo, southern Bulgaria, municipal council. The counting is done by experts and the only ones allowed to observe the process are candidates who have contested the election results. The problem is that a day before the re-counting started, one of the two experts met with representatives of the parties contesting the election results: BSP, Continue the Change, VMRO and Vazrazhdane. The meeting lasted 11 minutes and was caught on camera. All of the participants denied any fowl play but the journalist question the admissibility of such a meeting.

DEFENCE

The Bulgarian National Radio (BNR) reports that because of the war in Ukraine, military warehouses and facilities for storage of weapons and ammunition have beefed up the security measures. Projects have been launched for building fire safety and surveillance systems. That transpires in a written answer by Defence Minister Todor Tagarev to a question by MP Ivaylo Mirchev from CC-DB. The control of handling explosives, firearms and ammunition has been tightened, as has the security at such facilities. The Minister’s order is not published on the Ministry’s website, BNR points out.

ECONOMY

Former economy and transport minister Nikola Yankov, who has also served on the Supervisory Board of the Lukoil Neftochim Burgas oil refinery, said in a BNR interview that “the intelligence service has been tasked to write something to justify the current position of the prime minister and the government in favour of keeping the exemption for Lukoil”. In his words, the Prime Minister's interest is to keep the exemption and the goal is to protect Russian interests. He expects that the exemption will be lifted around the New Year under pressure of the US and EU partners. "The big problem for Bulgaria and the risk for national security is if Neftochim is sanctioned as a company violating the EU sanction by smuggling to other countries fuel produced from Russian oil, which is forbidden under the terms of the Bulgarian derogation and the EU sanctions package.” Yankov was adamant that there was no risk of supply shortage on the Bulgarian fuel market. He argued that Neftochim has stopped production before - for planned repairs - but no one on the market has felt it. “Bulgaria has a 120-day oil and fuel safety stock and this quantity are sufficient to meet demand for months to come,” said Yankov.

Telegraph reports that people were queuing for cheap bread and cooking oil on the first day of a government-backed campaign for affordable foods in the supermarkets. The campaign uses “Affordable for you” tags that are put on low-priced items in supermarkets.Trud leads with a story titled “Minister Conspires with Supermarket Chains” the subheading writes about “new developments in the lies of Economy Minister Bogdan Bogdanov”. The story says that Bogdanov has conspired with the supermarket chains against the interests of consumers – through the “Affordable for you” campaign. Cabbage costs BGN 0.49/kg in the campaign and BGN 0.39/kg in another supermarket without the campaign. The story goes on and on with examples where “Affordable for you” tags are put on items from the supermarkets’ brochures with deals, which would have sold cheaper anyway. On the same spread, Trud has stories about Bulgaria being the countries with the highest inflation; about the rising prices of rice and milk; about the price of bread staying the same despite the drop in wheat prices and the 45% decline in the price of fertilizers. Also here is a story warning that shops use the Black Friday to get rid of old stock.

There was more on the Affordable for You campaign in the morning show of Nova TV. Economist Mihail Krastev commented that the initiative will have an effect but not the one sought by the government. “It is not an anti-inflationary measure. Prices and inflation are contained by lowering consumption. When the State stimulates consumption, we cannot expect a reduction in inflationary pressures. With higher consumption, producers of goods will benefit from maintaining higher prices. To reduce prices, consumption has to be reduced,” he said.

***

Trud publishes the position of the Fiscal Council on the draft 2024 national budget unveiled by the Finance Ministry last week, and the forecast until 2026. It warns that the proposed budget will raise inflation and act as a stumbling block on the way to eurozone entry. It also warns that the expected budget revenues are unrealistic. The main function of the Fiscal Council is to monitor compliance with the fiscal rules set out in the Public Finance Act and relating to the General Government Sector and the state budget. It issues opinions on the Finance Minister's spring and autumn macroeconomic forecasts, the medium-term budget forecast, the draft state budget and the budgets of the State Social Insurance and the National Health Insurance Fund.Duma reproduces a Fakti.bg interview with Plamen Pavlov, the head of the Bulgarian Gas Association, who says that the 36% increase of the price of natural gas that the regulator approved for November is caused by the BGN 20/KWh fee that Bulgaria introduced for Russian piped gas import. The headline says: “We raised our own gas price because we are run by guileful people”.

In a Duma interview, Vassil Velev, who heads the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, criticizes the draft state budget and says that the revenues will remain on paper only while the costs will be very real. “If all flawed calculations of the government remain as they are, there is a financial crisis is store for us in the foreseeable future,” he says.

PROTEST OF FOOTBALL FANS

All press and online media outlets write about the protests of football fans against the current leadership of the Bulgarian Football Union (BFU). The protest will be held in central Sofia on Thursday while the national team is playing a European qualifier with Hungary – to empty stands, as per a decision by BFU.

ENVIRONMENT

BNR has an interview with Vassil Todev MP (CC-DB) in his capacity as member of the parliamentary agriculture committee which supported on November 15 a current ban on building on woodland that has been acquired from the State in swap deals that were popular in the early 2000s. He said: “One would expect that forest swaps is an issue that belongs to the past, but it is not. We are yet to understand the magnitude of the consequences. He recalled that in the years between 2007 and 2009, a lot of lucrative land was exchanged between the State and private buyers. The state has lost millions from these swaps, even reportedly over a billion.” He also said that Bulgaria has failed to fulfil its obligation to the European Commission to recover the unlawful state aid that was provided to beneficiaries through these land swaps, Vasil Todev further commented.

BNR reports that the Bulgarian environmental organization For the Nature and farmers have written to the Prime Minister and the Agriculture Minister to urge them to make sure Bulgaria votes against extending the period of use of the controversial chemical herbicide glyphosate in the European Union for 10 more years. Speaking to BNR, Dr Svetla Nikolova of Agrolink explained that what made them write the letter is new studies which show that glyphosate causes leukemia in young rats.

In a development following the interview, it transpired that the European Commission will continue the use glyphosate in the European Union after the 27 member countries again failed to find a common position.

SOCIETY

24 Chasa leads with a story about the Bulgarian connection in the presidential elections in Madagaskar on November 16: one contender, Siteny Randrianasoloniaiko, has been married to a Bulgarian woman since 2001, and another contender and former president Marc Ravalomanana, has a son who is married to a Bulgarian woman. Both women are from the Black Sea city of Burgas.

***

Dnevnik has four rules about fighting trolls on Internet by marketing and PR consultant Zornitsa Georgieva. Her four rules are: 1. Analyze trolls and study their strengths and weaknesses; 2. Extract useful information from trolls and their talking points; 3. Know the strengths and weaknesses in the algorithms of the social networks where the trolls inhabit; 4. Identify "opinion leaders" and give them free rein.

***

In a Trud interview, Academician Lachezar Traykov, the Rector of the Sofia Medical University and President of the Board of Rectors of Bulgarian higher schools, argues that the model of the state subsidies for universities is “morally obsolete”. The interview is prompted by the 30th anniversary of the Board of Rectors and focuses on how higher schools in Bulgaria develop, their funding, faculty wages. Quote: “Our aim is to make our higher education more attractive for foreign students because the domestic resources are almost completely used up.”

***

In a 24 Chasa interview with a strong-worded headline, Constitutional Court Justice Atanas Semov slams the education system. The headline quotes him as saying that “schools produce illiterate sociopaths and schoolbooks get butchered” [by frequent changes] as if it were the Middle Ages. He calls for urgent measures for stopping what he calls “the de-bulgaricization of Bulgarian education”.

A Nova TV report showed how “controlled” explosions during the construction of the Botevgrad-Mezdra road caused severe damage on some 20 houses and many vehicles in the northern village of Rebarkovo on Wednesday. The village people were notified 10 minutes before the explosions. The mayor told Nova: “Ten minutes before the explosion I had a call from the company informing me that the region has been secured. Shortly after the blasts terrified local people started calling me. The next day representatives of the company came and we drew up protocols, describing all damage. There will be another 4-5 explosions until December 20. I hope they don’t do it the same way.” The report showed a local man whose house was hit by a rock. “A rock came through the roof and landed on my bed. Fortunately I wasn’t there. A commission came and they will pay us for the damage.”

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/44774/press-review.JPG]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020231116ejbg0005v


World
Russia's €1B revenue halted as Bulgaria closes oil loophole
Daria Shekina
243 字
2023 年 11 月 21 日 14:42 GMT
RBC-Ukraine
RBCUK
英文
© 2023. LLC «UBT MEDIA». All rights reserved
The government of Bulgaria has made a decision that will prevent Russia from circumventing sanctions against its oil sector and earning money for conducting war, according to the Ministry of Energy of Ukraine.

The government of the country made this decision to prevent Russia from bypassing Western sanctions after it became known that this loophole allowed the Kremlin to raise an additional 1 billion euros for its military actions against Ukraine.

Refusal of Russian oil will occur in two stages. It's noted that the refusal will happen in two stages. Starting January 1 of the following year, the country will suspend export quotas, and from March 1, it will completely stop importing and processing oil from Russia.

Bulgarian Finance Minister Assen Vassilev emphasized that this decision was beneficial as it stopped exports and money going to Russia, ensuring stability in the domestic fuel market.

Russian oil in Bulgaria

At the end of September, it was reported that the Bulgarian parliament had approved the gradual cessation of Russian oil imports, putting the country in line with other European Union members.

However, in early November, Politico reported that the Kremlin had earned an extra 1 billion euros that year. This was attributed to Russia's largest private oil company utilizing loopholes in EU sanction rules, reportedly with the assistance of Bulgaria.

Minister of Finance of Bulgaria Assen Vassilev (Photo: Getty Images)[https://newsukraine.rbc.ua/static/img/_/v/_vasilev_gettyimages_1240881693_51b23fce42a7d42467a9953c8bd36af0_1300x820_635bff05dcdc7788dab64a2c10eacb83_1300x820.jpg]

RBC-Ukraine LLC

文件 RBCUK00020231121ejbl000e2


Czech Republic This Week - November 24, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 11 月 24 日, 6329 字, (英文)
Czech economy unlikely to return to pre-pandemic trend until 2028, says IMFThe International Monetary Fund (IMF) says Czech GDP is unlikely to return to the trajectory where it would have been without the COVID-19 pandemic until 2028.

EC to investigate Bulgaria for exploiting Russian oil sanctions loopholes that earned the Kremlin €1bn
bne Magazine, 2023 年 12 月 1 日, 677 字, (英文)
The European Commission will investigate Bulgaria for exploiting loopholes in the oil sanctions regime against Russia that have earned the Kremlin $1bn, Politico reported on November 10.

Bulgaria This Week - December 15, 2023
Newsbase Weekly News, 2023 年 12 月 15 日, 13806 字, (英文)
Bulgaria’s foreign trade deficit down 39.4% y/y until end of OctoberBulgaria reported a foreign trade deficit of €7.44bn (BGN3.8bn) in the first ten months of 2023, down 39.4% year on year with both imports and exports falling, statistics ...

Bulgaria This Week - January 5, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 1 月 5 日, 8602 字, (英文)
Bulgaria posts current account surplus of €972.7mn to OctoberBulgaria reported a current account surplus of €972.7mn (1% of GDP) in January-October, compared with a deficit of €779.1mn reported a year earlier, preliminary central bank data ...

Romania This Week - January 5, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 1 月 5 日, 7049 字, (英文)
World Bank estimates remittances to Europe and Central Asia region fell 1.4% to $78bn in 2023Remittance flows to the Europe and Central Asia region are estimated to have declined by 1.4% to $78bn in 2023, according to the World Bank.

Russia This Week - January 5, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 1 月 5 日, 33476 字, (英文)
Egypt and Russia-led Eurasian Economic Union are on verge of signing free trade agreementDiscussions for Egypt to join the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), comprising Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and led by Russia, have reached ...

Wider Europe Briefing: Why Are The EU's Latest Russia Sanctions So Weak?
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 2024 年 1 月 8 日 09:59 GMT, 2214 字, (英文)

Bulgaria asked EU to speed up use of frozen Russian assets
Krassen Nikolov
375 字
2024 年 1 月 18 日 07:19 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2024. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The situation in Ukraine is becoming critical, and the EU must respond quickly, said Bulgarian Finance Minister Asen Vassilev as he urged his colleagues in the EU Economic and Financial Affairs Council (ECOFIN) to speed up the use of frozen Russian assets.

“The situation in Ukraine is becoming critical. That is why the EU must act quickly,” said Vassilev, as quoted by his press centre.

During the ECOFIN meeting, the EU Commission presented up-to-date information on the economic and budgetary situation in Ukraine.

Bulgaria’s position is that the EU could reach an agreement on the Assistance Mechanism for Ukraine in early February after Hungary blocked €50 billion aid to Kyiv in December. According to Vassilev, the EU cannot afford to tie support for Ukraine to internal or other EU problems.

After the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the USA, the EU, and other Western partners froze Russian bank assets worth about $300 billion. EU sanctions against Russia were extended against hundreds of Russian citizens and companies, but Bulgaria continues to stubbornly do nothing about it.

The country is the only one in the EU that has not imposed sanctions on any Russian citizens or Russian companies on the EU’s sanctions list.

The only sanction measure taken in Bulgaria so far is the refusal in May 2022 of the Registration Agency to allow former Bulgarian Finance Minister Milen Velchev and his partners to acquire the business of the Russian bank VTB in Bulgaria.

After the start of the war, Russia declared Bulgaria an enemy state and unilaterally stopped the supply of natural gas in violation of the current contract.

Last September, the ruling majority in the parliament began discussing a draft law on the implementation of international sanctions, the main target of which was Russia.

At the moment, Bulgaria has no internal instruments for implementing sanctions imposed by a decision of the UN Security Council or the EU.

The most complicated issue remains the legal application of the sanctions against Russia because there is no term in Bulgarian legislation for “freezing” of property, as it is applied by other EU countries concerning Russian assets.

(Krassen Nikolov | Euractiv.bg)

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020240124ek1i0005a


Bulgaria
Media Review: February 1
Dimitrina Solakova
1557 字
2024 年 2 月 1 日 10:50 GMT
Bulgarian News Agency
BTA
英文
(c) 2024 Bulgarian News Agency BTA. All rights reserved.
The topic of the rising tension between the ruling majority and the President dominates Thursday’s news media.

POLITICS

Trud’s front-page article is about the tension between Movement for Rights and Freedoms (MRF) floor leader Delyan Peevski and President Rumen Radev. Political experts and analysts commented for the daily that Peevski is clearly easing off on the gas pedal in his attack against Radev, and that GERB leader Boyko Borissov successfully takes on the role of a peacemaker. After Borissov’s much more balanced statement on Wednesday that it is absurd to talk about impeachment, Peevksi was not as curt in his verbal clashes with the President as in the previous days. According to analysts, that is a sign of a joint exit from the fight with the head of State.

24 Chasa has an interview with Nikola Minchev, Deputy Chair of the National Assembly of Continue the Change-Democratic Bulgaria, who comments on his decision to run for MEP, the recent election of two constitutional judges on Parliament’s quota, the upcoming rotation in the Cabinet involving GERB-UDF, and the possibility of President Rumen Radev forming a party. Minchev says that his formation does not fear the appearance of a new political player; parties should be focused on winning their voters’ trust, and not on the possibility of another coming and replacing them. Also, history shows that the transition from the Presidency to the Legislature is not an easy process. Georgi Purvanov had two terms in office as president, was extremely popular in the Bulgarian Socialist Party’s circles, but once he launched the ABV party, he failed to win many votes in the elections. ABV barely made it into Parliament and was part of the second government of GERB leader Boyko Borissov for a little while, and that was the end of its significant presence in politics, Minchev recalls.

Telegraf writes in an inside-page story that the ruling majority denies having made an offer to President Rumen Radev to be part of their assemblage [the word used to describe the ruling majority of GERB-UDF and Continue the Change-Democratic Bulgaria, since these formations refuse to call themselves a coalition]. Vice President Iliana Iotova recently claimed that such an offer had been made.

Duma quotes Socialist MP Ivan Ivanov as saying on Bulgaria ON AIR on Wednesday that the Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP) is not participating in the smear war between Peevski and the Presidency. The BSP recently reported suspicions of corruption in four ministries of President Radev's caretaker cabinets, because the BSP adheres to its principles: it always fights corruption. Ivanov expressed surprise at Iotova’s claim that Radev had been invited to participate in the assemblage between GER-UDF and Continue the Change-Democratic Bulgaria. “Some talks have obviously been held. The three sides are the ones who must reveal what the talks were about, but each side leaves the ball in the other’s court,” Ivanov said. The President hinting at the establishment of a political party is disturbing; he owes the public an explanation on how Continue the Change came to be and how they entered politics, Ivanov argued.

An analysis on Segabg.com reads that the smear campaign between politicians never ends, but sometimes it looks as if something serious is happening. That is the present case where MRF leader Peevski and President Radev are exchanging accusations of corruption. A battle is clearly beginning between the MRF circles and the Presidency, and the explanation lies in the upcoming European Parliament elections. In Bulgaria, those elections are usually met with indifference, but this time around politicians are worried that the votes for MEPs will indicate the voters’ trust in the power holders. Hence the current theatre performance, which will only manage to further repulse the disheartened voters, the analysis reads.

On Bulgarian National Radio, Dimitar Ganev of the Trend polling agency commented that there is growing apathy in people; ever more voters distance themselves from the election process. If the President sets up a party, it will target exactly those voters, whose number is much higher than that of the people who voted for GERB-UDF in the current National Assembly. According to Ganev, more than one new formation might appear, driven by the existing potential, and Radev’s potential party will be one of them, if not the key one. However, he will have to act directly, and not through avatars like when he legitimized Continue the Change through his caretaker cabinet. The levels of support for the Government are around 20%, Ganev noted.

On Nova TV’s morning show, Ganev commented on the verbal shootouts between Radev and Peevski: “Peevski became very active from the very beginning of the assemblage. The MRF acquired a new role. He tried to position himself as a spokesperson, a leader of society. Ganev presented the results of Trend’s latest nationally representative survey on adult Bulgarians’ political attitudes. Early general elections are not likely to be held soon. The data has not changed much in the last several months, and that is not due to lack of dynamics in the political process but due to reality failing to meet expectations. Voters are pulling away from the election process and if elections were held today, the voter turnout would be even lower than in the April 2023 elections, Ganev noted.

Bulgarian National Television’s morning show was themed, “The War between Institutions: Who Wins and Who Loses from the Tension between the Ruling Majority and the President?” Commenting on the matter, Bulgarian MEP Petar Vitanov (BSP/S&D Group) said that the attack against the Presidency is highly unflattering for most Bulgarians; it is aimed at discrediting the President as the only political alternative. There are several reasons for the tensing rising now, of all times. Firstly, the Presidency is the only institution left standing between the assemblage and absolute power. Secondly, many people view the Presidency as an alternative, including a political one, and a source of hope. Thirdly, changes in the government are planned in March, and the Presidency has a role to play because of the government-forming mandate required. Finally, the assemblage is torn by internal scandals, so a common enemy is needed to mobilize the shocked voters, Vitanov argued.

On bTV’s morning show, President’s Secretary on Security and Defence Dimitar Stoyanov commented that it is unclear whether a new political formation will appear and, if yes, whether it will be established by the President. “I am yet to see such a project on the horizon, perhaps we should discuss it after it appears,” Stoyanov said, adding that he is yet to see a pro-Russia party in Bulgaria. He also said that the ruling majority has not sent an offer to President Radev to participate in the assemblage. “Delyan Peevski presents his theses only so he can protect his coalition partners. Standing on [Continue the Change co-leader] Kiril Petkov’s left-hand side is Boyko Borissov, who Petkov arrested for corruption [in 2022], and on his right-hand side is Peevski, who Petkov himself has accused of corruption,” Stoyanov argued.

ECONOMY

Trud has an interview with financial expert Lyubomir Karimanski about the chances of Bulgaria introducing the euro as of January 1, 2025 and the changes required for that to happen. According to him, the chances for eurozone entry in a year are pretty slim and would depend not so much on the implementation of actual criteria as on political deals, which very often cost Bulgaria dearly. The entry in the euro area will have a positive effect on the economic process and citizens, provided the fiscal and monetary policies are managed with the goal to reduce inflation and are headed in the same direction. However, judging from what has been happening thus far, it is hard to remain calm because the State’s fiscal policy is not at all moving in the same direction as the European Central Bank’s monetary policy targeting inflation, he argues.

Mediapool.bg quotes Association of Modern Trade CEO Nikolay Valkanov as saying that the potential introduction of the euro next year will not result in higher prices in the hypermarkets. However, the Association expects quite a lot of clarifications from the State on the BGN-EUR transition process. For example, it is unclear how shops should change their software to reflect the prices both in BGN in EUR during the transition period. What happens when a given product has a promotional price – should both the regular and the promotional price be presented in both BGN and EUR, resulting in four prices being written on the price tag and the receipt?

***

24 Chasa’s front-page article is about draft amendments put forward by Continue the Change-Democratic Bulgaria whereby the National Revenue Agency (NRA) will no longer bother tax payers over fines already paid. The bill introduces a fine of BGN 1,000 for an employee of a municipality or Traffic Police who fails to inform the NRA that the fines have been paid.

***

Telegraf has an interview with Consumer Protection Commission Chair Stoil Alipiev, who argues that the sanction for unfair commercial practices should be a percentage of the offender’s turnover.

Click to view image[https://www.bta.bg/upload/4330443/Newspapers.jpg]

Bulgarian News Agency BTA

文件 BTA0000020240201ek210005p


Bulgaria This Week - February 16, 2024
Newsbase Weekly News, 2024 年 2 月 16 日, 10814 字, (英文)
Croatia and Bulgaria have Emerging Europe’s highest old-age dependency ratiosCroatia and Bulgaria had the highest old-age dependency ratios across Emerging Europe as of 2023, according to data compiled by Eurostat.

Bulgarian far-right visit Moscow at invitation of Putin’s party
Euractiv Network
1304 字
2024 年 2 月 21 日 07:57 GMT
EurActiv.com
EURACOM
英文
Copyright 2024. EurActiv.com All Rights Reserved.
The Capitals brings you the latest news from across Europe, through on-the-ground reporting by Euractiv’s media network. You can subscribe to the newsletter here[https://www.euractiv.com/the-capitals/].

The European news you deserve to read. Welcome to The Capitals[https://www.euractiv.com/sections/the-capitals] by Euractiv.

Today’s edition is powered by the European Round Table for Industry (ERT)

A message from ERT & European Movement International

Step into the DeLors-ean with ERT & EMI: This Thursday, join us and Enrico Letta, EVP Margrethe Vestager, ERT Chair-Jean-François van Boxmeer, Dr Ilham Kadri, Guy Verhofstadt, Stefano Grassi & other special guests for a series of discussions about renewing the dynamic of European economic integration.

Find out more →[https://eurac.tv/9WRa]

In today’s news from The Capitals:

SOFIA

Bulgarian far-right visit Moscow at invitation of Putin’s party. Bulgaria’s pro-Russian far-right Vazrazhdane (Revival) party sent a delegation to Moscow at the invitation of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s United Russia party, according to an announcement by the Diplomatic Academy of the Russian Foreign Ministry. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/bulgarian-far-right-visit-moscow-at-invitation-of-putins-party/].

BERLIN

Leading liberal breaks ranks with government, sides with opposition over Taurus missile delivery delay. Dissatisfied with Chancellor Olaf Scholz’s reluctance to deliver Taurus missiles to Ukraine, the EU lead candidate for the German liberals will side with the conservative opposition party in an upcoming motion, putting another strain on the coalition’s fragile bond. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/leading-liberal-breaks-ranks-with-government-sides-with-opposition-over-taurus-missile-delivery-delay/].

PARIS

French right opposes von der Leyen’s re-run for EU Commission. France’s conservative party Les Républicains (LR, EPP) will not support Ursula von der Leyen’s bid to get a second term as European Commission president, François Xavier-Bellamy, head of the LR list for the EU elections, told France Inter radio on Tuesday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/elections/news/french-right-opposes-von-der-leyens-re-run-for-eu-commission/].

Beware – far right still wants out of the EU, Brexit negotiator Barnier warns. Leaving the EU remains the far right’s ultimate goal, even if they stay quiet about it ahead of election time, former Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier told Euractiv in an interview on Tuesday, warning that the far right has not learned the lessons of Brexit. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/uk-europe/interview/beware-far-right-still-wants-out-of-the-eu-brexit-negotiator-barnier-warns/].

NORDICS & BALTICS

STOCKHOLM

Sweden’s PM Kristersson to visit Hungary with NATO bid ratification expected next week. Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson will travel to Budapest on Friday to meet his Hungarian counterpart Viktor Orbán before Hungary’s parliament takes a long-delayed vote on Sweden’s bid for NATO membership next Monday. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/defence-and-security/news/update-2-swedish-pm-to-visit-hungary-before-ratification-of-nato-bid/].

COPENHAGEN

State aid should be ‘stopped’, Danish industry minister warns. The current loosening of EU state aid rules should not be prolonged further, Danish Industry Minister Morten Bødskov warned on Tuesday while in Berlin to meet his German counterpart, Robert Habeck, a fierce proponent of relaxation of the EU framework. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/economy-jobs/news/state-aid-should-be-stopped-danish-industry-minister-said/].

EUROPE’S SOUTH

ROME

Salvini under pressure to show cancelled deal with Putin’s party after Navalny remarks. Liberal Action party (Renew Europe) leader Carlo Calenda slammed far-right Lega party leader Matteo Salvini on social media on Tuesday, demanding an account of the 2017 agreement with Putin’s United Russia party and evidence that the deal between both parties has been cancelled. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/salvini-under-pressure-to-show-cancelled-deal-with-putins-party-after-navalny-remarks/].

MADRID

Madrid braces as farmers extend protests. Madrid is bracing for traffic chaos on Wednesday as thousands of farmers are expected to protest against the latest government proposals, which they say are insufficient to maintain the economic viability of their farms and reduce the bureaucratic burden of Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) processing aid, among other demands. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/madrid-braces-as-farmers-extend-protests/].

Russian emigres in Spain call for protection after pilot defector shot dead. Russian emigres in Spain critical of the Kremlin called on the Spanish authorities on Tuesday (20 February) to better protect them, after a Russian pilot who had defected to Ukraine was found shot dead in a garage in a town on Spain’s Mediterranean coast. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/global-europe/news/russian-emigres-in-spain-call-for-protection-after-pilot-defector-shot-dead/].

LISBON

EU not prepared to include country at war in EU, says former Commission chief Barroso. The European Union is not ready to accept the inclusion of a country at war, Former EU Commission President and former Portuguese Prime Minister José Manuel Durão Barroso warned on Tuesday, calling instead for an eventual understanding that would prevent the conflict in Ukraine from spreading. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/eu-not-prepared-to-include-country-at-war-in-eu-says-former-commission-chief-barroso/].

EASTERN EUROPE

WARSAW

Poland takes first step to withdraw Article 7 procedure. Polish Justice Minister Adam Bodnar presented EU ministers with an action plan to restore the country’s rule of law, which EU Commissioner Věra Jourová described as a first step for the Commission to withdraw the Article 7 procedure against Warsaw. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/poland-takes-first-step-to-withdraw-article-7-procedure/].

PRAGUE

Special EU fund for coal regions looks good but is costly, warns Czech study. Creating a new European fund to support coal regions – the Just Transition Fund – may look like a positive step for disadvantaged areas, but its administration is complex, costly and threatens its effective use, warns a new Czech study based on interviews with officials. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/special-eu-fund-for-coal-regions-looks-good-but-is-costly-warns-czech-study/].

NEWS FROM THE BALKANS

BUCHAREST | CHISINAU

Romanian far-right party leader wants to destabilise Chişinău, warns Moldovan PM. AUR party leader George Simion is involved in “destabilising efforts in Moldova”, accused Moldovan Prime Minister Dorin Recean, which resulted in Moldovan authorities extending the party leader’s ban from entering the country. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/romanian-far-right-party-leader-wants-to-destabilise-chisinau-warns-moldovan-pm/].

ZAGREB

Croatia working to limit foreign labour, may result in higher imports, warns analyst. The Croatian Interior Ministry (MUP) is working on changes to the laws that should limit the import of labour into Croatia, a move that could result in a significantly larger import of labour ‘in the grey zone’ than now, independent labour market analyst Predrag Bejaković warned Euractiv. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/croatia-working-to-limit-foreign-labour-may-result-in-higher-imports-warns-analyst/]. Croatian president slams PM Plenkovic as ‘liar and faker’. Croatian President Zoran Milanović launched his strongest invective to date against conservative Prime Minister Andrej Plenković on Tuesday, calling him a “liar and a political faker who deceives Croatian citizens”. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/croatian-president-slams-pm-plenkovic-as-liar-and-faker/].

BELGRADE

Vučić reiterates refusal to sanction Russia: ‘A friend in need is a friend indeed’. Serbian President Aleksandar Vučić will continue to refrain from imposing sanctions on Russia despite pressure from the West, he told the TASS agency, adding that when it comes to relations between Serbian and Russian citizens, a friend in need is a friend indeed. Read more[https://www.euractiv.com/section/politics/news/vucic-reiterates-refusal-to-sanction-russia-a-friend-in-need-is-a-friend-indeed/].

AGENDA:

* EU: Commission President Ursula von der Leyen chairs College of Commissioners meeting;

* Commission Vice President Dubravka Suica delivers keynote speech for World Economic Forum workshop “Longevity Economy: Principles and Actions to Define the Next Era in an Aging World”; Delivers keynote speech at EPP Group Conference panel “A social market economy that cares”;

* Vice President Maroš Šefčovič delivers keynote speech at Solar Impulse Foundation event on “Europe 3.0 – Modernise to Thrive”;

* Vice President Valdis Dombrovskis participates in fireside chat organised by DigitalEurope on “Trans-Atlantic digital cooperation and challenges for the period of 2024 – 2029”;

* Justice Commissioner Didier Reynders hosts Norwegian State Secretary in charge of consumer policy Trine Fagervik;

* Jobs and Social Rights Commissioner Nicolas Schmit gives keynote speech at Official opening of Skills Summit 2024; Meets with Deputy Minister of Employment and Social Development of Canada Paul Thompson;

* Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides receives US Commissioner of Food and Drugs Robert M. Califf;

* Neighbourhood and Enlargement Commissioner hosts Deputy Prime Minister for European Integration of Moldova Cristina Gherasimov, Ambassador of Israel Haim Regev,Egyptian Ambassador to the EU Badr Abdelatty;

* Financial services, financial stability and Capital Markets Union Commissioner Mairead McGuinness participates in fireside chat at World Economic Forum workshop “Longevity Economy: Principles and Actions to Define the Next Era in an Aging World”;

* Innovation, Research, Culture, Education and Youth Commissioner Iliana Ivanova delivers keynote speech at “Europe 2030: A Digital Powerhouse”;

* Parliament President Roberta Metsola meets Prime Minister of Georgia Irakli Kobakhidze;

***

[Edited by Sarantis Michalopoulos, Daniel Eck, Alice Taylor, Sofia Stuart Leeson, Sofia Mandilara]

EurActiv PLC

文件 EURACOM020240221ek2l00002


搜索摘要
所有单字	sanction
至少其中一个单字	Russia
不包括这些单字	
这确切的词句	
日期	21/02/2022 至 29/02/2024
资讯来源	所有资讯来源
作者	所有作者
公司	所有公司
新闻主题	所有新闻主题
行业	所有行业
地区	保加利亚
语言	英文
搜索结果已找到	130
时间戳记	2024 年 3 月 10 日 13:07 GMT
© 2024 Factiva, Inc. 版权所有。	
 

Translate
